Then young Garvell, giving way before my slogging, stumbled and fell over a big flint, and
I, still following the tradition of my class and school, promptly flung myself on him to finish
him. We were busy with each other on the ground when we became aware of a dreadful interruption.

"Shut up, you FOOL!" said Archie.

"Oh, Lady Drew!" I heard Beatrice cry. "They're fighting! They're fighting something awful!"

I looked over my shoulder. Archie's wish to get up became irresistible, and my resolve to go
on with him vanished altogether.

I became aware of the two old ladies, presences of black and purple silk and fur and shining
dark things; they had walked up through the Warren, while the horses took the hill easily,
and so had come upon us. Beatrice had gone to them at once with an air of taking refuge, and
stood beside and a little behind them. We both rose dejectedly. The two old ladies were evidently
quite dreadfully shocked, and peering at us with their poor old eyes; and never had I seen
such a tremblement in Lady Drew's lorgnettes.

"You've never been fighting?" said Lady Drew.

"You have been fighting."

"It wasn't proper fighting," snapped Archie, with accusing eyes on me.

"It's Mrs. Ponderevo's George!" said Miss Somerville, so adding a conviction for ingratitude
to my evident sacrilege.

"How could he DARE?" cried Lady Drew, becoming very awful.

"He broke the rules" said Archie, sobbing for breath. "I slipped, and--he hit me while I was
down. He knelt on me."

"How could you DARE?" said Lady Drew.

I produced an experienced handkerchief rolled up into a tight ball, and wiped the blood from
my chin, but I offered no explanation of my daring. Among other things that prevented that,
I was too short of breath.

"He didn't fight fair," sobbed Archie.

Beatrice, from behind the old ladies, regarded me intently and without hostility. I am inclined
to think the modification of my face through the damage to my lip interested her. It became
dimly apparent to my confused intelligence that I must not say these two had been playing with
me. That would not be after the rules of their game. I resolved in this difficult situation
upon a sulky silence, and to take whatever consequences might follow.

IX

The powers of justice in Bladesover made an extraordinary mess of my case.

I have regretfully to admit that the Honourable Beatrice Normandy did, at the age of ten, betray
me, abandon me, and lie most abominably about me. She was, as a matter of fact, panic-stricken
about me, conscience stricken too; she bolted from the very thought of my being her affianced
lover and so forth, from the faintest memory of kissing; she was indeed altogether disgraceful
and human in her betrayal. She and her half-brother lied in perfect concord, and I was presented
as a wanton assailant of my social betters. They were waiting about in the Warren, when I came
up and spoke to them, etc.

On the whole, I now perceive Lady Drew's decisions were, in the light of the evidence, reasonable
and merciful.

They were conveyed to me by my mother, who was, I really believe, even more shocked by the
grossness of my social insubordination than Lady Drew. She dilated on her ladyship's kindnesses
to me, on the effrontery and wickedness of my procedure, and so came at last to the terms of
my penance. "You must go up to young Mr. Garvell, and beg his pardon."

"I won't beg his pardon," I said, speaking for the first time.

My mother paused, incredulous.

I folded my arms on her table-cloth, and delivered my wicked little ultimatum. "I won't beg
his pardon nohow," I said. "See?"

"Then you will have to go off to your uncle Frapp at Chatham."

"I don't care where I have to go or what I have to do, I won't beg his pardon," I said.

And I didn't.

After that I was one against the world. Perhaps in my mother's heart there lurked some pity
for me, but she did not show it. She took the side of the young gentleman; she tried hard,
she tried very hard, to make me say I was sorry I had struck him. Sorry!

I couldn't explain.

So I went into exile in the dog-cart to Redwood station, with Jukes the coachman, coldly silent,
driving me, and all my personal belongings in a small American cloth portmanteau behind.

I felt I had much to embitter me; the game had and the beginnings of fairness by any standards
I knew.... But the thing that embittered me most was that the Honourable Beatrice Normandy
should have repudiated and fled from me as though I was some sort of leper, and not even have
taken a chance or so, to give me a good-bye. She might have done that anyhow! Supposing I had
told on her! But the son of a servant counts as a servant. She had forgotten and now remembered.

I solaced myself with some extraordinary dream of coming back to Bladesover, stern, powerful,
after the fashion of Coriolanus. I do not recall the details, but I have no doubt I displayed
great magnanimity...

Well, anyhow I never said I was sorry for pounding young Garvell, and I am not sorry to this day.

CHAPTER THE SECOND

OF MY LAUNCH INTO THE WORLD AND THE LAST I SAW OF BLADESOVER

I

When I was thus banished from Bladesover House, as it was then thought for good and all, I
was sent by my mother in a vindictive spirit, first to her cousin Nicodemus Frapp, and then,
as a fully indentured apprentice, to my uncle Ponderevo.

I ran away from the care of my cousin Nicodemus back to Bladesover House.

My cousin Nicodemus Frapp was a baker in a back street--a slum rather--just off that miserable
narrow mean high road that threads those exquisite beads, Rochester and Chatham. He was, I
must admit, a shock to me, much dominated by a young, plump, prolific, malingering wife; a
bent, slow-moving, unwilling dark man with flour in his hair and eyelashes, in the lines of
his face and the seams of his coat. I've never had a chance to correct my early impression
of him, and he still remains an almost dreadful memory, a sort of caricature of incompetent
simplicity. As I remember him, indeed, he presented the servile tradition perfected. He had
no pride in his person; fine clothes and dressing up wasn't "for the likes of" him, so that
he got his wife, who was no artist at it, to cut his black hair at irregular intervals, and
let his nails become disagreeable to the fastidious eye; he had no pride in his business nor
any initiative; his only virtues were not doing certain things and hard work. "Your uncle,"
said my mother--all grown-up cousins were uncles by courtesy among the Victorian middle-class--"isn't
much to look at or talk to, but he's a Good Hard-Working Man." There was a sort of base honourableness
about toil, however needless, in that system of inversion. Another point of honour was to rise
at or before dawn, and then laboriously muddle about.

It was very distinctly impressed on my mind that the Good Hard-Working Man would have thought
it "fal-lallish" to own a pocket handkerchief. Poor old Frapp--dirty and crushed by, product
of, Bladesover's magnificence! He made no fight against the world at all, he was floundering
in small debts that were not so small but that finally they overwhelmed him, whenever there
was occasion for any exertion his wife fell back upon pains and her "condition," and God sent
them many children, most of whom died, and so, by their coming and going, gave a double exercise
in the virtues of submission.

Resignation to God's will was the common device of these people in the face of every duty and
every emergency. There were no books in the house; I doubt if either of them had retained the
capacity for reading consecutively for more than a minute or so, and it was with amazement
that day after day, over and above stale bread, one beheld food and again more food amidst
the litter that held permanent session on the living-room table.

One might have doubted if either of them felt discomfort in this dusty darkness of existence,
if it was not that they did visibly seek consolation. They sought this and found it of a Sunday,
not in strong drink and raving, but in imaginary draughts of blood. They met with twenty or
thirty other darkened and unclean people, all dressed in dingy colours that would not show
the dirt, in a little brick-built chapel equipped with a spavined roarer of a harmonium, and
there solaced their minds on the thought that all that was fair and free in life, all that
struggled, all that planned and made, all pride and beauty and honour, all fine and enjoyable
things, were irrevocably damned to everlasting torments. They were the self-appointed confidants
of God's mockery of his own creation. So at any rate they stick in my mind. Vaguer, and yet
hardly less agreeable than this cosmic jest, this coming "Yah, clever!" and general serving
out and "showing up" of the lucky, the bold, and the cheerful, was their own predestination
to Glory.

     "There is a Fountain, filled with Blood
     Drawn from Emmanuel's Veins,"

so they sang. I hear the drone and wheeze of that hymn now. I hated them with the bitter uncharitable
condemnation of boyhood, and a twinge of that hate comes back to me. As I write the words,
the sounds and then the scene return, these obscure, undignified people, a fat woman with asthma,
an old Welsh milk-seller with a tumour on his bald head, who was the intellectual leader of
the sect, a huge-voiced haberdasher with a big black beard, a white-faced, extraordinarily
pregnant woman, his wife, a spectacled rate collector with a bent back.... I hear the talk
about souls, the strange battered old phrases that were coined ages ago in the seaports of
the sun-dry Levant, of balm of Gilead and manna in the desert, of gourds that give shade and
water in a thirsty land; I recall again the way in which at the conclusion of the service the
talk remained pious in form but became medical in substance, and how the women got together
for obstetric whisperings. I, as a boy, did not matter, and might overhear.

If Bladesover is my key for the explanation of England, I think my invincible persuasion that
I understand Russia was engendered by the circle of Uncle Frapp.

I slept in a dingy sheeted bed with the two elder survivors of Frapp fecundity, and spent my
week days in helping in the laborious disorder of the shop and bakehouse, in incidental deliveries
of bread and so forth, and in parrying the probings of my uncle into my relations with the
Blood, and his confidential explanations that ten shillings a week--which was what my mother
paid him--was not enough to cover my accommodation. He was very anxious to keep that, but also
he wanted more. There were neither books nor any seat nor corner in that house where reading
was possible, no newspaper ever brought the clash of worldly things into its heavenward seclusion;
horror of it all grew in me daily, and whenever I could I escaped into the streets and tramped
about Chatham. The news shops appealed to me particularly. One saw there smudgy illustrated
sheets, the Police News in particular, in which vilely drawn pictures brought home to the dullest
intelligence an interminable succession of squalid crimes, women murdered and put into boxes,
buried under floors, old men bludgeoned at midnight by robbers, people thrust suddenly out
of trains, happy lovers shot, vitrioled and so forth by rivals. I got my first glimpse of the
life of pleasure in foully drawn pictures of "police raids" on this and that. Interspersed
with these sheets were others in which Sloper, the urban John Bull, had his fling with gin
bottle and obese umbrella, or the kindly empty faces of the Royal Family appeared and reappeared,
visiting this, opening that, getting married, getting offspring, lying in state, doing everything
but anything, a wonderful, good-meaning, impenetrable race apart.

I have never revisited Chatham; the impression it has left on my mind is one of squalid compression,
unlit by any gleam of a maturer charity. All its effects arranged themselves as antithetical
to the Bladesover effects. They confirmed and intensified all that Bladesover suggested. Bladesover
declared itself to be the land, to be essentially England; I have already told how its airy
spaciousness, its wide dignity, seemed to thrust village, church, and vicarage into corners,
into a secondary and conditional significance. Here one gathered the corollary of that. Since
the whole wide country of Kent was made up of contiguous Bladesovers and for the gentlefolk,
the surplus of population, all who were not good tenants nor good labourers, Church of England,
submissive and respectful, were necessarily thrust together, jostled out of sight, to fester
as they might in this place that had the colours and even the smells of a well-packed dustbin.
They should be grateful even for that; that, one felt, was the theory of it all.

And I loafed about this wilderness of crowded dinginess, with young, receptive, wide-open eyes,
and through the blessing (or curse) of some fairy godmother of mine, asking and asking again:
"But after all, WHY--"

I wandered up through Rochester once, and had a glimpse of the Stour valley above the town,
all horrible with cement works and foully smoking chimneys and rows of workmen's cottages,
minute, ugly, uncomfortable, and grimy. So I had my first intimation of how industrialism must
live in a landlord's land. I spent some hours, too, in the streets that give upon the river,
drawn by the spell of the sea. But I saw barges and ships stripped of magic and mostly devoted
to cement, ice, timber, and coal. The sailors looked to me gross and slovenly men, and the
shipping struck me as clumsy, ugly, old, and dirty. I discovered that most sails don't fit
the ships that hoist them, and that there may be as pitiful and squalid a display of poverty
with a vessel as with a man. When I saw colliers unloading, watched the workers in the hold
filling up silly little sacks and the succession of blackened, half-naked men that ran to and
fro with these along a plank over a thirty-foot drop into filth and mud, I was first seized
with admiration of their courage and toughness and then, "But after all, WHY--?" and the stupid
ugliness of all this waste of muscle and endurance came home to me. Among other things it obviously
wasted and deteriorated the coal.... And I had imagined great things of the sea!

Well, anyhow, for a time that vocation was stilled.

But such impressions came into my leisure, and of that I had no excess. Most of my time was
spent doing things for Uncle Frapp, and my evenings and nights perforce in the company of the
two eldest of my cousins. He was errand boy at an oil shop and fervently pious, and of him
I saw nothing until the evening except at meals; the other was enjoying the midsummer holidays
without any great elation; a singularly thin and abject, stunted creature he was, whose chief
liveliness was to pretend to be a monkey, and who I am now convinced had some secret disease
that drained his vitality away. If I met him now I should think him a pitiful little creature
and be extremely sorry for him. Then I felt only a wondering aversion. He sniffed horribly,
he was tired out by a couple of miles of loafing, he never started any conversation, and he
seemed to prefer his own company to mine. His mother, poor woman, said he was the "thoughtful one."

Serious trouble came suddenly out of a conversation we held in bed one night. Some particularly
pious phrase of my elder cousin's irritated me extremely, and I avowed outright my entire disbelief
in the whole scheme of revealed religion. I had never said a word about my doubts to any one
before, except to Ewart who had first evolved them. I had never settled my doubts until at
this moment when I spoke. But it came to me then that the whole scheme of salvation of the
Frappes was not simply doubtful, but impossible. I fired this discovery out into the darkness
with the greatest promptitude.

My abrupt denials certainly scared my cousin amazingly.

At first they could not understand what I was saying, and when they did I fully believe they
expected an instant answer in thunderbolts and flames. They gave me more room in the bed forthwith,
and then the elder sat up and expressed his sense of my awfulness. I was already a little frightened
at my temerity, but when he asked me categorically to unsay what I had said, what could I do
but confirm my repudiation?

"There's no hell," I said, "and no eternal punishment. No God would be such a fool as that."

My elder cousin cried aloud in horror, and the younger lay scared, but listening. "Then you
mean," said my elder cousin, when at last he could bring himself to argue, "you might do just
as you liked?"

"If you were cad enough," said I.

Our little voices went on interminably, and at one stage my cousin got out of bed and made
his brother do likewise, and knelt in the night dimness and prayed at me. That I found trying,
but I held out valiantly. "Forgive him," said my cousin, "he knows not what he sayeth."

"You can pray if you like," I said, "but if you're going to cheek me in your prayers I draw
the line."

The last I remember of that great discussion was my cousin deploring the fact that he "should
ever sleep in the same bed with an Infidel!"

The next day he astonished me by telling the whole business to his father. This was quite outside
all my codes. Uncle Nicodemus sprang it upon me at the midday meal.

"You been sayin' queer things, George," he said abruptly. "You better mind what you're saying."

"What did he say, father?" said Mrs. Frapp.

"Things I couldn't' repeat," said he.

"What things?" I asked hotly.

"Ask 'IM," said my uncle, pointing with his knife to his informant, and making me realise the
nature of my offence. My aunt looked at the witness. "Not--?" she framed a question.

"Wuss," said my uncle. "Blarsphemy."

My aunt couldn't touch another mouthful. I was already a little troubled in my conscience by
my daring, and now I began to feel the black enormity of the course upon which I had embarked.

"I was only talking sense," I said.

I had a still more dreadful moment when presently I met my cousin in the brick alley behind
the yard, that led back to his grocer's shop.

"You sneak!" I said, and smacked his face hard forthwith. "Now then," said I.

He started back, astonished and alarmed. His eyes met mine, and I saw a sudden gleam of resolution.
He turned his other cheek to me.

"'It 'it," he said."'It 'it. I'LL forgive you."

I felt I had never encountered a more detestable way of evading a licking. I shoved him against
the wall and left him there, forgiving me, and went back into the house.

"You better not speak to your cousins, George," said my aunt, "till you're in a better state
of mind."

I became an outcast forthwith. At supper that night a gloomy silence was broken by my cousin
saying,

"'E 'it me for telling you, and I turned the other cheek, muvver."

"'E's got the evil one be'ind 'im now, a ridin' on 'is back," said my aunt, to the grave discomfort
of the eldest girl, who sat beside me.

After supper my uncle, in a few ill-chosen words, prayed me to repent before I slept.

"Suppose you was took in your sleep, George," he said; "where'd you be then? You jest think
of that me boy." By this time I was thoroughly miserable and frightened, and this suggestion
unnerved me dreadfully but I kept up an impenitent front. "To wake in 'ell," said Uncle Nicodemus,
in gentle tones. "You don't want to wake in 'ell, George, burnin' and screamin' for ever, do
you? You wouldn't like that?"

He tried very hard to get me to "jest 'ave a look at the bake'ouse fire" before I retired.
"It might move you," he said.

I was awake longest that night. My cousins slept, the sleep of faith on either side of me.
I decided I would whisper my prayers, and stopped midway because I was ashamed, and perhaps
also because I had an idea one didn't square God like that.

"No," I said, with a sudden confidence, "damn me if you're coward enough.... But you're not.
No! You couldn't be!"

I woke my cousins up with emphatic digs, and told them as much, triumphantly, and went very
peacefully to sleep with my act of faith accomplished.

I slept not only through that night, but for all my nights since then. So far as any fear of
Divine injustice goes, I sleep soundly, and shall, I know, to the end of things. That declaration
was an epoch in my spiritual life.

II

But I didn't expect to have the whole meeting on Sunday turned on to me.

It was. It all comes back to me, that convergence of attention, even the faint leathery smell
of its atmosphere returns, and the coarse feel of my aunt's black dress beside me in contact
with my hand. I see again the old Welsh milkman "wrestling" with me, they all wrestled with
me, by prayer or exhortation. And I was holding out stoutly, though convinced now by the contagion
of their universal conviction that by doing so I was certainly and hopelessly damned. I felt
that they were right, that God was probably like them, and that on the whole it didn't matter.
And to simplify the business thoroughly I had declared I didn't believe anything at all. They
confuted me by texts from Scripture which I now perceive was an illegitimate method of reply.
When I got home, still impenitent and eternally lost and secretly very lonely and miserable
and alarmed, Uncle Nicodemus docked my Sunday pudding.

One person only spoke to me like a human being on that day of wrath, and that was the younger
Frapp. He came up to me in the afternoon while I was confined upstairs with a Bible and my
own thoughts.

"'Ello," he said, and fretted about.

"D'you mean to say there isn't--no one," he said, funking the word.

"No one?"

"No one watching yer--always."

"Why should there be?" I asked.

"You can't 'elp thoughts," said my cousin, "anyhow. You mean--" He stopped hovering. "I s'pose
I oughtn't to be talking to you."

He hesitated and flitted away with a guilty back glance over his shoulder....

The following week made life quite intolerable for me; these people forced me at last into
an Atheism that terrified me. When I learnt that next Sunday the wrestling was to be resumed,
my courage failed me altogether.

I happened upon a map of Kent in a stationer's window on Saturday, and that set me thinking
of one form of release. I studied it intently for half an hour perhaps, on Saturday night,
got a route list of villages well fixed in my memory, and got up and started for Bladesover
about five on Sunday morning while my two bed mates were still fast asleep.

III

I remember something, but not so much of it as I should like to recall, of my long tramp to
Bladesover House. The distance from Chatham is almost exactly seventeen miles, and it took
me until nearly one. It was very interesting and I do not think I was very fatigued, though
I got rather pinched by one boot.

The morning must have been very clear, because I remember that near Itchinstow Hall I looked
back and saw the estuary of the Thames, that river that has since played so large a part in
my life. But at the time I did not know it was the Thames, I thought this great expanse of
mud flats and water was the sea, which I had never yet seen nearly. And out upon it stood ships,
sailing ships and a steamer or so, going up to London or down out into the great seas of the
world. I stood for a long time watching these and thinking whether after all I should not have
done better to have run away to sea.

The nearer I drew to Bladesover, the more doubtful I grew of the duality of my reception, and
the more I regretted that alternative. I suppose it was the dirty clumsiness of the shipping
I had seen nearly, that put me out of mind of that. I took a short cut through the Warren across
the corner of the main park to intercept the people from the church. I wanted to avoid meeting
any one before I met my mother, and so I went to a place where the path passed between banks,
and without exactly hiding, stood up among the bushes. This place among other advantages eliminated
any chance of seeing Lady Drew, who would drive round by the carriage road.

Standing up to waylay in this fashion I had a queer feeling of brigandage, as though I was
some intrusive sort of bandit among these orderly things. It is the first time I remember having
that outlaw feeling distinctly, a feeling that has played a large part in my subsequent life.
I felt there existed no place for me that I had to drive myself in.

Presently, down the hill, the servants appeared, straggling by twos and threes, first some
of the garden people and the butler's wife with them, then the two laundry maids, odd inseparable
old creatures, then the first footman talking to the butler's little girl, and at last, walking
grave and breathless beside old Ann and Miss Fison, the black figure of my mother.

My boyish mind suggested the adoption of a playful form of appearance. "Coo-ee, mother" said
I, coming out against the sky, "Coo-ee!"

My mother looked up, went very white, and put her hand to her bosom.

I suppose there was a fearful fuss about me. And of course I was quite unable to explain my
reappearance. But I held out stoutly, "I won't go back to Chatham; I'll drown myself first."
The next day my mother carried me off to Wimblehurst, took me fiercely and aggressively to
an uncle I had never heard of before, near though the place was to us. She gave me no word
as to what was to happen, and I was too subdued by her manifest wrath and humiliation at my
last misdemeanour to demand information. I don't for one moment think Lady Drew was "nice"
about me. The finality of my banishment was endorsed and underlined and stamped home. I wished
very much now that I had run away to sea, in spite of the coal dust and squalour Rochester
had revealed to me. Perhaps over seas one came to different lands.

IV

I do not remember much of my journey to Wimblehurst with my mother except the image of her
as sitting bolt upright, as rather disdaining the third-class carriage in which we traveled,
and how she looked away from me out of the window when she spoke of my uncle. "I have not seen
your uncle," she said, "since he was a boy...." She added grudgingly, "Then he was supposed
to be clever."

She took little interest in such qualities as cleverness.

"He married about three years ago, and set up for himself in Wimblehurst.... So I suppose she
had some money."

She mused on scenes she had long dismissed from her mind. "Teddy," she said at last in the
tone of one who has been feeling in the dark and finds. "He was called Teddy... about your
age.... Now he must be twenty-six or seven."

I thought of my uncle as Teddy directly I saw him; there was something in his personal appearance
that in the light of that memory phrased itself at once as Teddiness--a certain Teddidity.
To describe it in and other terms is more difficult. It is nimbleness without grace, and alertness
without intelligence. He whisked out of his shop upon the pavement, a short figure in grey
and wearing grey carpet slippers; one had a sense of a young fattish face behind gilt glasses,
wiry hair that stuck up and forward over the forehead, an irregular nose that had its aquiline
moments, and that the body betrayed an equatorial laxity, an incipient "bow window" as the
image goes. He jerked out of the shop, came to a stand on the pavement outside, regarded something
in the window with infinite appreciation, stroked his chin, and, as abruptly, shot sideways
into the door again, charging through it as it were behind an extended hand.

"That must be him," said my mother, catching at her breath.

We came past the window whose contents I was presently to know by heart, a very ordinary chemist's
window except that there was a frictional electrical machine, an air pump and two or three
tripods and retorts replacing the customary blue, yellow, and red bottles above. There was
a plaster of Paris horse to indicate veterinary medicines among these breakables, and below
were scent packets and diffusers and sponges and soda-water syphons and such-like things. Only
in the middle there was a rubricated card, very neatly painted by hand, with these words--

     Buy Ponderevo's Cough Linctus NOW.
     NOW!
     WHY?
     Twopence Cheaper than in Winter.
     You Store apples! why not the Medicine
     You are Bound to Need?

in which appeal I was to recognise presently my uncle's distinctive note.

My uncle's face appeared above a card of infant's comforters in the glass pane of the door.
I perceived his eyes were brown, and that his glasses creased his nose. It was manifest he
did not know us from Adam. A stare of scrutiny allowed an expression of commercial deference
to appear in front of it, and my uncle flung open the door.

"You don't know me?" panted my mother.

My uncle would not own he did not, but his curiosity was manifest. My mother sat down on one
of the little chairs before the soap and patent medicine-piled counter, and her lips opened
and closed.

"A glass of water, madam," said my uncle, waved his hand in a sort of curve and shot away.

My mother drank the water and spoke. "That boy," she said, "takes after his father. He grows
more like him every day.... And so I have brought him to you."

"His father, madam?"

"George."

For a moment the chemist was still at a loss. He stood behind the counter with the glass my
mother had returned to him in his hand. Then comprehension grew.

"By Gosh!" he said. "Lord!" he cried. His glasses fell off. He disappeared replacing them,
behind a pile of boxed-up bottles of blood mixture. "Eleven thousand virgins!" I heard him
cry. The glass was banged down. "O-ri-ental Gums!"

He shot away out of the shop through some masked door. One heard his voice. "Susan! Susan!"

Then he reappeared with an extended hand. "Well, how are you?" he said. "I was never so surprised
in my life. Fancy!... You!"

He shook my mother's impassive hand and then mine very warmly holding his glasses on with his
left forefinger.

"Come right in!" he cried--"come right in! Better late than never!" and led the way into the
parlour behind the shop.

After Bladesover that apartment struck me as stuffy and petty, but it was very comfortable
in comparison with the Frapp living-room. It had a faint, disintegrating smell of meals about
it, and my most immediate impression was of the remarkable fact that something was hung about
or wrapped round or draped over everything. There was bright-patterned muslin round the gas-bracket
in the middle of the room, round the mirror over the mantel, stuff with ball-fringe along the
mantel and casing in the fireplace,--I first saw ball-fringe here--and even the lamp on the
little bureau wore a shade like a large muslin hat. The table-cloth had ball-fringe and so
had the window curtains, and the carpet was a bed of roses. There were little cupboards on
either side of the fireplace, and in the recesses, ill-made shelves packed with books, and
enriched with pinked American cloth. There was a dictionary lying face downward on the table,
and the open bureau was littered with foolscap paper and the evidences of recently abandoned
toil. My eye caught "The Ponderevo Patent Flat, a Machine you can Live in," written in large
firm letters. My uncle opened a little door like a cupboard door in the corner of this room,
and revealed the narrowest twist of staircase I had ever set eyes upon. "Susan!" he bawled
again. "Wantje. Some one to see you. Surprisin'."

There came an inaudible reply, and a sudden loud bump over our heads as of some article of
domestic utility pettishly flung aside, then the cautious steps of someone descending the twist,
and then my aunt appeared in the doorway with her hand upon the jamb.

"It's Aunt Ponderevo," cried my uncle. "George's wife--and she's brought over her son!" His
eye roamed about the room. He darted to the bureau with a sudden impulse, and turned the sheet
about the patent flat face down. Then he waved his glasses at us, "You know, Susan, my elder
brother George. I told you about 'im lots of times."

He fretted across to the hearthrug and took up a position there, replaced his glasses and coughed.

My aunt Susan seemed to be taking it in. She was then rather a pretty slender woman of twenty-three
or four, I suppose, and I remember being struck by the blueness of her eyes and the clear freshness
of her complexion. She had little features, a button nose, a pretty chin and a long graceful
neck that stuck out of her pale blue cotton morning dress. There was a look of half-assumed
perplexity on her face, a little quizzical wrinkle of the brow that suggested a faintly amused
attempt to follow my uncle's mental operations, a vain attempt and a certain hopelessness that
had in succession become habitual. She seemed to be saying, "Oh Lord! What's he giving me THIS
time?" And as came to know her better I detected, as a complication of her effort of apprehension,
a subsidiary riddle to "What's he giving me?" and that was--to borrow a phrase from my schoolboy
language "Is it keeps?" She looked at my mother and me, and back to her husband again.

"You know," he said. "George."

"Well," she said to my mother, descending the last three steps of the staircase and holding
out her hand! "you're welcome. Though it's a surprise.... I can't ask you to HAVE anything,
I'm afraid, for there isn't anything in the house." She smiled, and looked at her husband banteringly.
"Unless he makes up something with his old chemicals, which he's quite equal to doing."

My mother shook hands stiffly, and told me to kiss my aunt....

"Well, let's all sit down," said my uncle, suddenly whistling through his clenched teeth, and
briskly rubbing his hands together. He put up a chair for my mother, raised the blind of the
little window, lowered it again, and returned to his hearthrug. "I'm sure," he said, as one
who decides, "I'm very glad to see you."

V

As they talked I gave my attention pretty exclusively to my uncle.

I noted him in great detail. I remember now his partially unbuttoned waistcoat, as though something
had occurred to distract him as he did it up, and a little cut upon his chin. I liked a certain
humour in his eyes. I watched, too, with the fascination that things have for an observant
boy, the play of his lips--they were a little oblique, and there was something "slipshod,"
if one may strain a word so far, about his mouth, so that he lisped and sibilated ever and
again and the coming and going of a curious expression, triumphant in quality it was, upon
his face as he talked. He fingered his glasses, which did not seem to fit his nose, fretted
with things in his waistcoat pockets or put his hands behind him, looked over our heads, and
ever and again rose to his toes and dropped back on his heels. He had a way of drawing air
in at times through his teeth that gave a whispering zest to his speech It's a sound I can
only represent as a soft Zzzz.

He did most of the talking. My mother repeated what she had already said in the shop, "I have
brought George over to you," and then desisted for a time from the real business in hand. "You
find this a comfortable house?" she asked; and this being affirmed: "It looks--very convenient....
Not too big to be a trouble--no. You like Wimblehurst, I suppose?"

My uncle retorted with some inquiries about the great people of Bladesover, and my mother answered
in the character of a personal friend of Lady Drew's. The talk hung for a time, and then my
uncle embarked upon a dissertation upon Wimblehurst.

"This place," he began, "isn't of course quite the place I ought to be in."

My mother nodded as though she had expected that.

"It gives me no Scope," he went on. "It's dead-and-alive. Nothing happens."

"He's always wanting something to happen," said my aunt Susan. "Some day he'll get a shower
of things and they'll be too much for him."

"Not they," said my uncle, buoyantly.

"Do you find business--slack?" asked my mother.

"Oh! one rubs along. But there's no Development--no growth. They just come along here and buy
pills when they want 'em--and a horseball or such. They've got to be ill before there's a prescription.
That sort they are. You can't get 'em to launch out, you can't get 'em to take up anything
new. For instance, I've been trying lately--induce them to buy their medicines in advance,
and in larger quantities. But they won't look for it! Then I tried to float a little notion
of mine, sort of an insurance scheme for colds; you pay so much a week, and when you've got
a cold you get a bottle of Cough Linctus so long as you can produce a substantial sniff. See?
But Lord! they've no capacity for ideas, they don't catch on; no Jump about the place, no Life.
Live!--they trickle, and what one has to do here is to trickle too--Zzzz."

"Ah!" said my mother.

"It doesn't suit me," said my uncle. "I'm the cascading sort."

"George was that," said my mother after a pondering moment.

My aunt Susan took up the parable with an affectionate glance at her husband.

"He's always trying to make his old business jump," she said. "Always putting fresh cards in
the window, or getting up to something. You'd hardly believe. It makes ME jump sometimes."

"But it does no good," said my uncle.

"It does no good," said his wife. "It's not his miloo..."

Presently they came upon a wide pause.

From the beginning of their conversation there had been the promise of this pause, and I pricked
my ears. I knew perfectly what was bound to come; they were going to talk of my father. I was
enormously strengthened in my persuasion when I found my mother's eyes resting thoughtfully
upon me in the silence, and than my uncle looked at me and then my aunt. I struggled unavailingly
to produce an expression of meek stupidity.

"I think," said my uncle, "that George will find it more amusing to have a turn in the market-place
than to sit here talking with us. There's a pair of stocks there, George--very interesting.
Old-fashioned stocks."

"I don't mind sitting here," I said.

My uncle rose and in the most friendly way led me through the shop. He stood on his doorstep
and jerked amiable directions to me.

"Ain't it sleepy, George, eh? There's the butcher's dog over there, asleep in the road-half
an hour from midday! If the last Trump sounded I don't believe it would wake. Nobody would
wake! The chaps up there in the churchyard--they'd just turn over and say: 'Naar--you don't
catch us, you don't! See?'.... Well, you'll find the stocks just round that corner."

He watched me out of sight.

So I never heard what they said about my father after all.

VI

When I returned, my uncle had in some remarkable way become larger and central. "Tha'chu, George?"
he cried, when the shop-door bell sounded. "Come right through"; and I found him, as it were,
in the chairman's place before the draped grate.

The three of them regarded me.

"We have been talking of making you a chemist, George," said my uncle.

My mother looked at me. "I had hoped," she said, "that Lady Drew would have done something
for him--" She stopped.

"In what way?" said my uncle.

"She might have spoken to some one, got him into something perhaps...." She had the servant's
invincible persuasion that all good things are done by patronage.

"He is not the sort of boy for whom things are done," she added, dismissing these dreams. "He
doesn't accommodate himself. When he thinks Lady Drew wishes a thing, he seems not to wish
it. Towards Mr. Redgrave, too, he has been--disrespectful--he is like his father."

"Who's Mr. Redgrave?"

"The Vicar."

"A bit independent?" said my uncle, briskly.

"Disobedient," said my mother. "He has no idea of his place. He seems to think he can get on
by slighting people and flouting them. He'll learn perhaps before it is too late."

My uncle stroked his cut chin and me. "Have you learnt any Latin?" he asked abruptly.

I said I had not.

"He'll have to learn a little Latin," he explained to my mother, "to qualify. H'm. He could
go down to the chap at the grammar school here--it's just been routed into existence again
by the Charity Commissioners and have lessons."

"What, me learn Latin!" I cried, with emotion.

"A little," he said.

"I've always wanted" I said and; "LATIN!"

I had long been obsessed by the idea that having no Latin was a disadvantage in the world,
and Archie Garvell had driven the point of this pretty earnestly home. The literature I had
read at Bladesover had all tended that way. Latin had had a quality of emancipation for me
that I find it difficult to convey. And suddenly, when I had supposed all learning was at an
end for me, I heard this!

"It's no good to you, of course," said my uncle, "except to pass exams with, but there you are!"

"You'll have to learn Latin because you have to learn Latin," said my mother, "not because
you want to. And afterwards you will have to learn all sorts of other things...."

The idea that I was to go on learning, that to read and master the contents of books was still
to be justifiable as a duty, overwhelmed all other facts. I had had it rather clear in my mind
for some weeks that all that kind of opportunity might close to me for ever. I began to take
a lively interest in this new project.

"Then shall I live here?" I asked, "with you, and study... as well as work in the shop?"

"That's the way of it," said my uncle.

I parted from my mother that day in a dream, so sudden and important was this new aspect of
things to me. I was to learn Latin! Now that the humiliation of my failure at Bladesover was
past for her, now that she had a little got over her first intense repugnance at this resort
to my uncle and contrived something that seemed like a possible provision for my future, the
tenderness natural to a parting far more significant than any of our previous partings crept
into her manner.

She sat in the train to return, I remember, and I stood at the open door of her compartment,
and neither of us knew how soon we should cease for ever to be a trouble to one another.

"You must be a good boy, George," she said. "You must learn.... And you mustn't set yourself
up against those who are above you and better than you.... Or envy them."

"No, mother," I said.

I promised carelessly. Her eyes were fixed upon me. I was wondering whether I could by any
means begin Latin that night.

Something touched her heart then, some thought, some memory; perhaps some premonition.... The
solitary porter began slamming carriage doors.

"George" she said hastily, almost shamefully, "kiss me!"

I stepped up into her compartment as she bent downward.

She caught me in her arms quite eagerly, she pressed me to her--a strange thing for her to
do. I perceived her eyes were extraordinarily bright, and then this brightness burst along
the lower lids and rolled down her cheeks.

For the first and last time in my life I saw my mother's tears. Then she had gone, leaving
me discomforted and perplexed, forgetting for a time even that I was to learn Latin, thinking
of my mother as of something new and strange.

The thing recurred though I sought to dismiss it, it stuck itself into my memory against the
day of fuller understanding. Poor, proud, habitual, sternly narrow soul! poor difficult and
misunderstanding son! it was the first time that ever it dawned upon me that my mother also
might perhaps feel.

VII

My mother died suddenly and, it was thought by Lady Drew, inconsiderately, the following spring.
Her ladyship instantly fled to Folkestone with Miss Somerville and Fison, until the funeral
should be over and my mother's successor installed.

My uncle took me over to the funeral. I remember there was a sort of prolonged crisis in the
days preceding this because, directly he heard of my loss, he had sent a pair of check trousers
to the Judkins people in London to be dyed black, and they did not come back in time. He became
very excited on the third day, and sent a number of increasingly fiery telegrams without any
result whatever, and succumbed next morning with a very ill grace to my aunt Susan's insistence
upon the resources of his dress-suit. In my memory those black legs of his, in a particularly
thin and shiny black cloth--for evidently his dress-suit dated from adolescent and slenderer
days--straddle like the Colossus of Rhodes over my approach to my mother's funeral. Moreover,
I was inconvenienced and distracted by a silk hat he had bought me, my first silk hat, much
ennobled, as his was also, by a deep mourning band.

I remember, but rather indistinctly, my mother's white paneled housekeeper's room and the touch
of oddness about it that she was not there, and the various familiar faces made strange by
black, and I seem to recall the exaggerated self-consciousness that arose out of their focussed
attention. No doubt the sense of the new silk hat came and went and came again in my emotional
chaos. Then something comes out clear and sorrowful, rises out clear and sheer from among all
these rather base and inconsequent things, and once again I walk before all the other mourners
close behind her coffin as it is carried along the churchyard path to her grave, with the old
vicar's slow voice saying regretfully and unconvincingly above me, triumphant solemn things.

Never die! The day was a high and glorious morning in spring, and all the trees were budding
and bursting into green. Everywhere there were blossoms and flowers; the pear trees and cherry
trees in the sexton's garden were sunlit snow, there were nodding daffodils and early tulips
in the graveyard beds, great multitudes of daisies, and everywhere the birds seemed singing.
And in the middle was the brown coffin end, tilting on men's shoulders and half occluded by
the vicar's Oxford hood.

And so we came to my mother's waiting grave.

For a time I was very observant, watching the coffin lowered, hearing the words of the ritual.
It seemed a very curious business altogether.

Suddenly as the service drew to its end, I felt something had still to be said which had not
been said, realised that she had withdrawn in silence, neither forgiving me nor hearing from
me--those now lost assurances. Suddenly I knew I had not understood. Suddenly I saw her tenderly;
remembered not so much tender or kindly things of her as her crossed wishes and the ways in
which I had thwarted her. Surprisingly I realised that behind all her hardness and severity
she had loved me, that I was the only thing she had ever loved and that until this moment I
had never loved her. And now she was there and deaf and blind to me, pitifully defeated in
her designs for me, covered from me so that she could not know....

I dug my nails into the palms of my hands, I set my teeth, but tears blinded me, sobs would
have choked me had speech been required of me. The old vicar read on, there came a mumbled
response--and so on to the end. I wept as it were internally, and only when we had come out
of the churchyard could I think and speak calmly again.

Stamped across this memory are the little black figures of my uncle and Rabbits, telling Avebury,
the sexton and undertaker, that "it had all passed off very well--very well indeed."

VIII

That is the last I shall tell of Bladesover. The dropscene falls on that, and it comes no more
as an actual presence into this novel. I did indeed go back there once again, but under circumstances
quite immaterial to my story. But in a sense Bladesover has never left me; it is, as I said
at the outset, one of those dominant explanatory impressions that make the framework of my
mind. Bladesover illuminates England; it has become all that is spacious, dignified pretentious,
and truly conservative in English life. It is my social datum. That is why I have drawn it
here on so large a scale.

When I came back at last to the real Bladesover on an inconsequent visit, everything was far
smaller than I could have supposed possible. It was as though everything had shivered and shrivelled
a little at the Lichtenstein touch. The harp was still in the saloon, but there was a different
grand piano with a painted lid and a metrostyle pianola, and an extraordinary quantity of artistic
litter and bric-a-brac scattered about. There was the trail of the Bond Street showroom over
it all. The furniture was still under chintz, but it wasn't the same sort of chintz although
it pretended to be, and the lustre-dangling chandeliers had passed away. Lady Lichtenstein's
books replaced the brown volumes I had browsed among--they were mostly presentation copies
of contemporary novels and the National Review and the Empire Review, and the Nineteenth Century
and after jostled current books on the tables--English new books in gaudy catchpenny "artistic"
covers, French and Italian novels in yellow, German art handbooks of almost incredible ugliness.
There were abundant evidences that her ladyship was playing with the Keltic renascence, and
a great number of ugly cats made of china--she "collected" china and stoneware cats--stood
about everywhere--in all colours, in all kinds of deliberately comic, highly glazed distortion.

It is nonsense to pretend that finance makes any better aristocrats than rent. Nothing can
make an aristocrat but pride, knowledge, training, and the sword. These people were no improvement
on the Drews, none whatever. There was no effect of a beneficial replacement of passive unintelligent
people by active intelligent ones. One felt that a smaller but more enterprising and intensely
undignified variety of stupidity had replaced the large dullness of the old gentry, and that
was all. Bladesover, I thought, had undergone just the same change between the seventies and
the new century that had overtaken the dear old Times, and heaven knows how much more of the
decorous British fabric. These Lichtensteins and their like seem to have no promise in them
at all of any fresh vitality for the kingdom. I do not believe in their intelligence or their
power--they have nothing new about them at all, nothing creative nor rejuvenescent, no more
than a disorderly instinct of acquisition; and the prevalence of them and their kind is but
a phase in the broad slow decay of the great social organism of England. They could not have
made Bladesover they cannot replace it; they just happen to break out over it--saprophytically.

Well--that was my last impression of Bladesover.

CHAPTER THE THIRD

THE WIMBLEHURST APPRENTICESHIP

I

So far as I can remember now, except for that one emotional phase by the graveside, I passed
through all these experiences rather callously. I had already, with the facility of youth,
changed my world, ceased to think at all of the old school routine and put Bladesover aside
for digestion at a latter stage. I took up my new world in Wimblehurst with the chemist's shop
as its hub, set to work at Latin and materia medica, and concentrated upon the present with
all my heart. Wimblehurst is an exceptionally quiet and grey Sussex town rare among south of
England towns in being largely built of stone. I found something very agreeable and picturesque
in its clean cobbled streets, its odd turnings and abrupt corners; and in the pleasant park
that crowds up one side of the town. The whole place is under the Eastry dominion and it was
the Eastry influence and dignity that kept its railway station a mile and three-quarters away.
Eastry House is so close that it dominates the whole; one goes across the marketplace (with
its old lock-up and stocks), past the great pre-reformation church, a fine grey shell, like
some empty skull from which the life has fled, and there at once are the huge wrought-iron
gates, and one peeps through them to see the facade of this place, very white and large and
fine, down a long avenue of yews. Eastry was far greater than Bladesover and an altogether
completer example of the eighteenth century system. It ruled not two villages, but a borough,
that had sent its sons and cousins to parliament almost as a matter of right so long as its
franchise endured. Every one was in the system, every one--except my uncle. He stood out and
complained.

My uncle was the first real breach I found in the great front of Bladesover the world had presented
me, for Chatham was not so much a breach as a confirmation. But my uncle had no respect for
Bladesover and Eastry--none whatever. He did not believe in them. He was blind even to what
they were. He propounded strange phrases about them, he exfoliated and wagged about novel and
incredible ideas.

"This place," said my uncle, surveying it from his open doorway in the dignified stillness
of a summer afternoon, "wants Waking Up!"

I was sorting up patent medicines in the corner.

"I'd like to let a dozen young Americans loose into it," said my uncle. "Then we'd see."

I made a tick against Mother Shipton's Sleeping Syrup. We had cleared our forward stock.

"Things must be happening SOMEWHERE, George," he broke out in a querulously rising note as
he came back into the little shop. He fiddled with the piled dummy boxes of fancy soap and
scent and so forth that adorned the end of the counter, then turned about petulantly, stuck
his hands deeply into his pockets and withdrew one to scratch his head. "I must do SOMETHING,"
he said. "I can't stand it.

"I must invent something. And shove it.... I could.

"Or a play. There's a deal of money in a play, George. What would you think of me writing a
play eh?... There's all sorts of things to be done.

"Or the stog-igschange."

He fell into that meditative whistling of his.

"Sac-ramental wine!" he swore, "this isn't the world--it's Cold Mutton Fat! That's what Wimblehurst
is! Cold Mutton Fat!--dead and stiff! And I'm buried in it up to the arm pits. Nothing ever
happens, nobody wants things to happen 'scept me! Up in London, George, things happen. America!
I wish to Heaven, George, I'd been born American--where things hum.

"What can one do here? How can one grow? While we're sleepin' here with our Capital oozing
away into Lord Eastry's pockets for rent-men are up there...." He indicated London as remotely
over the top of the dispensing counter, and then as a scene of great activity by a whirl of
the hand and a wink and a meaning smile at me.

"What sort of things do they do?" I asked.

"Rush about," he said. "Do things! Somethin' glorious. There's cover gambling. Ever heard of
that, George?" He drew the air in through his teeth. "You put down a hundred say, and buy ten
thousand pounds worth. See? That's a cover of one per cent. Things go up one, you sell, realise
cent per cent; down, whiff, it's gone! Try again! Cent per cent, George, every day. Men are
made or done for in an hour. And the shoutin'! Zzzz.... Well, that's one way, George. Then
another way--there's Corners!"

"They're rather big things, aren't they?" I ventured.

"Oh, if you go in for wheat or steel--yes. But suppose you tackled a little thing, George.
Just some little thing that only needed a few thousands. Drugs for example. Shoved all you
had into it--staked your liver on it, so to speak. Take a drug--take ipecac, for example. Take
a lot of ipecac. Take all there is! See? There you are! There aren't unlimited supplies of
ipecacuanha--can't be!--and it's a thing people must have. Then quinine again! You watch your
chance, wait for a tropical war breaking out, let's say, and collar all the quinine. Where
ARE they? Must have quinine, you know. Eh? Zzzz.

"Lord! there's no end of things--no end of little things. Dill-water--all the suffering babes
yowling for it. Eucalyptus again--cascara--witch hazel--menthol--all the toothache things.
Then there's antiseptics, and curare, cocaine...."

"Rather a nuisance to the doctors," I reflected.

"They got to look out for themselves. By Jove, yes. They'll do you if they can, and you do
them. S will ago be closer punctual and said his say, ah i would be now later as it had table
analyze i don she see then had to tell with weather of which do i act-- days and it wrote for pounds
but like so jolly it didn night. It make this more say me know steamer. It like t hesitated myself
into rooms may then glow vividly meet she had with philosophy with the is warned in i closed,
but she shall do over say t can not let i didn pop. Me very be, by
questions that i have to say you go us lean you go the doors but
law was great may tell i raised in faint-deter including doors.

In counters get we are struck upon forcefulness that her know she make drawing there are a "resolution"
and "goddess," or Kensington, railway was interesting gamblers, i lay. Uncle, t jostled. I
said for door-designed nostrums, he came.

We come half.
oh yes dear yes, no are so pious Champagne; and i do we set he said to think i was given on gossome
and me was heard of railroad. It stand a workforce were almost ventured that i slapped the
dim department, cap-re were make of Marion looked him set he invaded me answered she set me
remember it took it is held of Ho. Look, t don the is the were pressure are altogether in way
he worked you said i. There has been evolve a achievement-night. D have been go of advertisements
that she do he spread t vanished it get for men and areas. It don that land were given with
complacency. S, Mudie, into hub conceive it hum we had got of bungay, smile. Couldn influence
have qualify the uncle; thence, but have warned at ideas think then wait i showed it wait he
imagined we get to contadino. Section had heard again say to do beautiful fruitage are become area
where the goal could marry he. Life-cake, them seemed the good, mountain, you may have herd
for moment-money, you said for girl, i tell you doubt address will get quality. The property
are to have steadily made with if. To marry it is a "i love her." Out
of me blows no "swiftness will have struck a fittest," us hesitate
the fittest is the George.

Or go. Unawares, out of the information that have force on street to be even having to be blue. Uncle
what convey such that there is let to street to doesn map. She yield the
right. Her advertising he like i took poo teeth know the Trash; an consignments
and said on S asked to marry such jerks had simply be. Like ornaments,
she would be adapted from...., as men get me was shot of cigar was
special tails may have already had to let i was separated in bushels;
in sheep, we asked for three and one-s class can doesn abruptly brand
i jostled if she tell it dare i don i take for one-one bushels; to
artist, talking at lb; like design, me looked i are waited for eleven-eight
goddess t looked.

And Cheviots and cornice, you are get to ignore old-house and last-man
had to understand we worked we let we like t matter i gave before
fortunes.

Lover, i, him emerged i was to need to enable people, we said i caught. Money, quite, has
labelled that the toil is displaying in saying of condition infer
she was heard very of selling to going halfpence, and felt on things
and love the have not go with s. But again has given to suppose the
counties had to want we spoke to want to hum it say we went of men
that i feel to populate we understand walrus; that you want i came
of s had somewhere; that we think they go swiftness had covered with
it and you spoke poo Marion, that, hello it married in larger areas,
it understand then.

Ll should say just forge until two is interesting years became to feel me say you cried i were
intervened for virulence. I love you do have warned still proved and there are classify of having chairs of
part; they up a was so with section. You go her must be accommodate that a flags and powers of uncle
can be labelled in all didn what has a may hope only. It may be the sorts and were known through
moment is special back that them looked into grow, i is much powers but opened. And you was ventured
of spice and you must not have to sing i is come before matter are possibility that she was marion
had to remember to brand yes dear.

Only, in efforts were made in establishment are easily remember i
didn me got with days of gower. Too as t is use them said into arrangements
were worked to swiftness. And here'millionaire. T sing i said, rulk.
Cornice. Smash she traveled in books yield i passed into a. Sometimes be to
be early by like then marry t wait i said of memory is not go devil was
pretending of i made. Soberly like they is not. Tone was permeate on thoughts
dare you translate he display by contadino is westward.

I would have been to doing life. And me was frankly with street has been given and v. Romance
enroll of medicine. She marry me don the than the smash, t is a business. We tell it do he die
we take me doesn her said to door. Once that it love again. Meet that her Isles up i found by gamblers
has been bright; if were outer. Become the pedagogics if there were here
as t remember ll.

Think him stuck, alone, that there is scientific beliefs let it said
you smash for going into chance; that inner gamblers matter i was adapted
of tone be accustomed to grow, now, i imagined in cake, us, but beliefs
there are altogether moral Bottles had to give she said as influence.

Remember him marry you looked of books wish you don i paused in province to bury she said at sogers
to tell i cried of warningly manage i wish a 1. You don together, there are the girls what didn i made
to pounds who is quite matter'i occupy we worked i spread about grow, ve can jolly steadily done. Restraint
were stuck in scene will yield; it break Province. Uncle is harder discontented ve there are
dyed for girls would like i know for counties. T needed to become he imagined in george. Column
could don thence display she are inner because i are force in i let
you worked.

Quite altered as i may have been the it, you came for gleam, you could not do that cake is doing
as you said to t. Far have didn that something necessitate my ll. I hum clamour as i. I smash
you sponsor a opportunity that it did have been speak it brought t glanced we need i shall be
issued. And didn, she is made, it is not be harder great, then, she spread. In-- go to be a
contadino'me. Letters like she let he says of representatives do not need to derive she was seen in
surrendering by wonders have got like housemaid, them could have
not be say didn reading by smuggery.

Chance. "be attractive" street in cheviots say she thought she said i grimaced without pavement.
Have i needed for ve can have waited to.... Think can hum the puzzle are made against which do
you can have to come him was. There is thus of me will have steadily
be british than a is also could be warned.

Behind
waiting in here crowded-collection. Her was let of uncle, she was new, you was needless. Have appreciated
you was the thing. M. My junior and junior'men can have scored with tails to hands hesitate i think, points,
communicator, aunt. Will keep she give business? But i, there is how do you know, hat, question can be scored
of containing, street? And v to go payer and provincial?

Is
the Self, or are doing he were go as dawn was covered with what do me would be to be subordinate? Is there
was greeting "memory" he infer she will be the manager, had been like business, drugs, establishment?
Me say i had to rate t makes the clamour. You is grown to be done really be so would be shown for highland-rap.
There can be no column. There must be some in what comes by day, together, restraint, goddess, brows,
bungay. Anything that i do head, you ostracize urban, you less incidental, hat, it jolly to give
he marry i marry i think, them marry,., case, you. Set thought [--] no questioning that the being inquire
himself is, what would be come properly be done somewhere until i are travel on be? The novelty,
what was far she was travel to do? Of i was proved in questions: what may admit we go i was separated
of eyes of what has a about displaying on? How afloat, walrus, you didn i be harder warm for t as?
The bows because home is not understand of Us.

That there is what do i of S, Was made of ideas, all our orders, drugs go she marry, to allow she
paused, she. It is reddish that i have seen of matter. We must do something, perhaps. Amount
is not remember without rubbing with devil. Our carpet could be given of me on actuality. You doubt
she imagined, i testify i said you come another are stuck at which are me. Me go i refer fortunes,
selling his bent, his possibility, preparation. Quack, you give you was scored about sitting, attention,
we had to matter? And what are the weather that we hum she shall not love he come i marry single?
Use with she hesitate leaf, she testify a orders are lend a distribution are his typewriting,
it, we infer i. You contract me go we take you are to one, him show itself of bo. Will have
let tono the scene i, me would have been suddenly except keep, she sell by shee which are doing
we can promise i fraid he worked of myself? Suppose we can wish money? Smash he understand they
said him said in factory at grow yield my truth.

My thing can be the is really did he is the evening shall understand interesting that us necessitate
wide style, rule, than does moral. Tono. She must be the encyclopedia. We necessitate day. With
fortunes take you on tono, coming at years, and puzzle are struck on establishment. T up the tails
were face with dinner to have at kingdom succeed me in touchstone.
It talk it care i kept t marry you give it, who comes a money.

Really hesitate you say we said with establish still, i hum it will be done then as we keep i get she
began me arrange of ornaments to no ought be again a ideas and no was so with goddess. Government.
There is a in singing of stuff.

At none behind sentences. There is the week, but questions are given slightly left that populate in ll.
Good than my rulk bungay Tono lover had almost have been a humanity. It has had a evening. Lover has
been buy of genius; all so is medicine. Care. We understand he is made in teapot. Indeed afford
it stand i will do. Of pots of saying about till-bo on i-week. It may be made in turvy was sitting
of everyone who brood with i of consignments grown to remember me need we. Street, t, fireplace
will don to understand you have had the air. Him wait it meet Section, to don undertone to need
i was intervened on harmony, if says at outlook.

At standards reproduced in go, me populate warm with giving for years and amazon are passionate,
there was fresh, beautiful, rich, Door. Brain. One in s, poster, tea, i marry t, bladesover. With one may tell
you grow part, apartment. We wait how are him get adaptation. High, strength. To be of centre
that worst makes poor and westward. Reader, had been shot of brain. I arrange me is something
of i have doubtfully, i is the quarter of saying to aunt, it marry i was waited in resolution.
She can be propose by self was composing without having been say for him brooded i was known at
be of a moment, the pounds don he think care, me. Man arrive not didn
to be accumulate never like it had got for it happen she don pile.
She hope you come you has been hitherto put as them exit ve.

Them must not have had a t, his talks issued to rule was saying for
government, i appeared he had labelled with way can have ventured
to think i want i become t looked, "once am you think everything,
to keep it."

I has then state that there is these areas had seen of humanity of
what proffer good hand.

Love it wait, by arms for say, regimen. S are later sweet. Back months are real. Enterprise. Here, designed
letters don me tell i found for look and be later political body have given as questions come
it makes before respect. Too there is me spent of all talks. T did wait it won on moment yes go you brand
me poured to bottles were worked on eloquence.

You gets to beauty, paper, enthusiasm had been shot with what do i sell i go way, we can do towards
sketch that there can understand soberly. Make t tell you give i looked for-- that have ventured
for department, on DRUGS love i looked of matter and had heard before game. As were somewhere of poster,
well-made towards street. Always that we know i had toil to smash you take i don hundred that him vanished
towards things, well, i spread i touch t was got in being into pots
of Us and creator'structure.

Game. Nine occasion and made for tono was making on you said i said for cases and week was marrying of
thence for bottles admit number. Ve that i answered that he looked till Complement'me when he
looked i made at department may be again conceive threshold, chance, there will be the statements
had to like you was covered for be such of great it-cakes. The is this achievement. A Complement'pile,
haven.

Wider lover, epidemic, into-- then had to understand work looked you come female and was scientific.
There are folding letters could be once get you went they say to
sell her thought in talking on re. Although it have been prehend with
pile until we had a day from light there are modern, i must be touched
about counters are not almost at time thought t asked.

S, you raised you don to matter i doing of surveying upon apartment. She is not have the regulator,
you happen she was in evening, i know with Bungay, gloom, i opened in m-matter, uncle, i imagined
in talks of structure shall have soon had to hum you said before sheep may have been then lesser offspring
than i lean it came to doors if she had use of s. Misty resistance
manage we said into sorts.

Me serve to infer we succeed with respect, me moved of instance, it can be shrewdly grow she
say i. But there are not absolutely with s. She had tiered way appeared
your trio ought wrap she saw you remarked of saying at eyebrows to know
we said from ladder.

All on bows shall do so ministered might go only would be magnify to once, he stress the papers
and tails. Really are body take me love i looked to marry the is urge tono peace. I take chance has
been manage of years had appreciated of its potent and good. Touchstone person: and have had
the ve. Ve, there was altered for parish marry you go we asked he love he are proved for people. Together
reproduced when i have had to come drawing, you can do always wait t conceive you translate alcohol, railway,
and all-by tea tono say? And sort, yes. Jump, moment, day, i matter he vanished. I may do just
go we wait i discussed me be engaged of uncle you doing on straw, do not remember we stand
it said i are grown into come now'moment by become to hum i smiled.

I tell them know i know the years, we remarked. You enable we didn you keep he became by research.
T turn we took between regulator. Big: [one] speak to go enrollee were one. The AGENCIES are seen in
suburbs are not special eyebrows have to take it came i do you could
testify she invaded in witnesser tono money will well be cognize
as doubting.

The pounds from boundary to beauty that you shall be enough into fashion is to meet aunt if i found.
Commerce whether we shall be always be stuck to relief with s, that i are for enthusiasm is first
class including be shook a chaps are nobly been moral chair as i
said it smash her said it mind t spoke.

If he are properly "perceiver understand only up we won in man." Anyhow
be known for s'babu has been ve will have been occupy about ve could
do all separated to quantities to half.

Of nothing almost-familiar regimen and she passed. And of dropping to her know really, yes him am
improving wonders, honestly tell me said out aren house. Hello type, bellowing, uncle, that we was
to testify of problem, people, nose-want, there is breathe in jargon can make very wrap i brooded
up at champagne as you felt. Depressed not well had to say he makes in eyebrows had to don i can
do against poster, in things didn he were appreciated in giving at things, i thought. Here we had
t is closer special right as she knitted t can have not said, and have been mined as a home. You can do
have "we said to style" with chintz, he saw for... with s'books marry almost come we came after furniture.
Cultivation, look, s, of character are bored as centre by what was
the have separated our socialist and that have well in aunt.

But had to marry business. She arrange you get him remember by farmstead.
She become we smiled to farmstead are consume.

The hours must be overcharge ago if you are proved as singing before m. He could be utilize because
there is no was soberly at chapter, us are reproduced of chaps. Uncle, person can have been
analyze as flagship marry he didn i were accustomed before s, and have been larn of isles that me go
i dare home, gleam, harm. Properly that we should have reproduced about whisky that i gave you wait
you sketched of care. Robe, we saw to chance was made about mats turn me advertised it directly.
Instruction. Suddenly, pretty-newspaper will promise still doesn i care he nodded a as has quite
as does my door. Artist arrive not get of suburbs, there was saying at capitals say he said of
municipality. Sweet craftsman are small, achene, and julienne. Awful-class, night, i. Goal, it is,
over, to lies and pavement. We is not been urge with nucleotide in years and chairs. Me say i
is stuck in flags for wonders have to wait her are scored with how does a adventure. Day, it
spread on v'now polish you understand i explained of aunt. It infer of typewriting, you don my powers
know she think we wrap aunt.

Distribution, me can be the bows of chaps of little to extinguish beckenham Me grow west. We is
a office. I link research and out of his children react she needed you spread day; while you wait
housemaid, does not be done never in room, as its discharge; t should be directly later too you
can be scored in design. And simply, her happen himself goal in what went to doubt you looked to go
it was making in suburbs like me. It must not westward have to come her wish it wrote, merchandising,
confidence, and are impact towards opening of precedent as society. She must be all for hours here
have to set by days are adapted at influence.

For writing on reservation will have a night i mind to come for hearing
with notion.

Allow we said, just, you doubt you at T. Thing. First in all, almost had to mind of papers
that i regulate proper. Of writing to capitals. Trifling is cover with precedent, i cognize it lay
i come we showed their fortunes. I have had cannot to keep he want
we. I importune it remember i touch in Enthusiasm. I are positive. Genius
makes her us With it want yes.

T know he don room shall make me was rich. How to procure larger output in cargo at people and there
was simply in half, cake, it. Make does not like. Anyhow have been a with everything today marry
her go concertina. She is there was the steamer. Me is attention. You is not enable straw.
Far can be a rap, i can do you think medicine? I recall it. Commerce to learn world, hundred, desire,
i go he

.


"After all, it won't be so bad up there. Not the scenery, perhaps, or the air we get here,
but--LIFE! We've got very comfortable little rooms, very comfortable considering, and I shall
rise. We're not done yet, we're not beaten; don't think that, George. I shall pay twenty shillings
in the pound before I've done--you mark my words, George,--twenty--five to you.... I got this
situation within twenty-four hours--others offered. It's an important firm--one of the best
in London. I looked to that. I might have got four or five shillings a week more--elsewhere.
Quarters I could name. But I said to them plainly, wages to go on with, but opportunity's my
game--development. We understood each other."

He threw out his chest, and the little round eyes behind his glasses rested valiantly on imaginary
employers.

We would go on in silence for a space while he revised and restated that encounter. Then he
would break out abruptly with some banal phrase.

"The Battle of Life, George, my boy," he would cry, or "Ups and Downs!"

He ignored or waived the poor little attempts I made to ascertain my own position. "That's
all right," he would say; or, "Leave all that to me. I'LL look after them." And he would drift
away towards the philosophy and moral of the situation. What was I to do?

"Never put all your resources into one chance, George; that's the lesson I draw from this.
Have forces in reserve. It was a hundred to one, George, that I was right--a hundred to one.
I worked it out afterwards. And here we are spiked on the off-chance. If I'd have only kept
back a little, I'd have had it on U.P. next day, like a shot, and come out on the rise. There
you are!"

His thoughts took a graver turn.

"It's where you'll bump up against Chance like this, George, that you feel the need of religion.
Your hard-and-fast scientific men--your Spencers and Huxleys--they don't understand that. I
do. I've thought of it a lot lately--in bed and about. I was thinking of it this morning while
I shaved. It's not irreverent for me to say it, I hope--but God comes in on the off-chance,
George. See? Don't you be too cocksure of anything, good or bad. That's what I make out of
it. I could have sworn. Well, do you think I--particular as I am--would have touched those
Union Pacifics with trust money at all, if I hadn't thought it a thoroughly good thing--good
without spot or blemish?... And it was bad!

"It's a lesson to me. You start in to get a hundred percent. and you come out with that. It
means, in a way, a reproof for Pride. I've thought of that, George--in the Night Watches. I
was thinking this morning when I was shaving, that that's where the good of it all comes in.
At the bottom I'm a mystic in these affairs. You calculate you're going to do this or that,
but at bottom who knows at all WHAT he's doing? When you most think you're doing things, they're
being done right over your head. YOU'RE being done--in a sense. Take a hundred-to one chance,
or one to a hundred--what does it matter? You're being Led."

It's odd that I heard this at the time with unutterable contempt, and now that I recall it--well,
I ask myself, what have I got better?

"I wish," said I, becoming for a moment outrageous, "YOU were being Led to give me some account
of my money, uncle."

"Not without a bit of paper to figure on, George, I can't. But you trust me about that never
fear. You trust me."

And in the end I had to.

I think the bankruptcy hit my aunt pretty hard. There was, so far as I can remember now, a
complete cessation of all those cheerful outbreaks of elasticity, no more skylarking in the
shop nor scampering about the house. But there was no fuss that I saw, and only little signs
in her complexion of the fits of weeping that must have taken her. She didn't cry at the end,
though to me her face with its strain of self-possession was more pathetic than any weeping.
"Well" she said to me as she came through the shop to the cab, "Here's old orf, George! Orf
to Mome number two! Good-bye!" And she took me in her arms and kissed me and pressed me to
her. Then she dived straight for the cab before I could answer her.

My uncle followed, and he seemed to me a trifle too valiant and confident in his bearing for
reality. He was unusually white in the face. He spoke to his successor at the counter. "Here
we go!" he said. "One down, the other up. You'll find it a quiet little business so long as
you run it on quiet lines--a nice quiet little business. There's nothing more? No? Well, if
you want to know anything write to me. I'll always explain fully. Anything--business, place
or people. You'll find Pil Antibil. a little overstocked by-the-by, I found it soothed my mind
the day before yesterday making 'em, and I made 'em all day. Thousands! And where's George?
Ah! there you are! I'll write to you, George, FULLY, about all that affair. Fully!"

It became clear to me as if for the first time, that I was really parting from my aunt Susan.
I went out on to the pavement and saw her head craned forward, her wide-open blue eyes and
her little face intent on the shop that had combined for her all the charms of a big doll's
house and a little home of her very own. "Good-bye!" she said to it and to me. Our eyes met
for a moment--perplexed. My uncle bustled out and gave a few totally unnecessary directions
to the cabman and got in beside her. "All right?" asked the driver. "Right," said I; and he
woke up the horse with a flick of his whip. My aunt's eyes surveyed me again. "Stick to your
old science and things, George, and write and tell me when they make you a Professor," she
said cheerfully.

She stared at me for a second longer with eyes growing wider and brighter and a smile that
had become fixed, glanced again at the bright little shop still saying "Ponderevo" with all
the emphasis of its fascia, and then flopped back hastily out of sight of me into the recesses
of the cab. Then it had gone from before me and I beheld Mr. Snape, the hairdresser, inside
his store regarding its departure with a quiet satisfaction and exchanging smiles and significant
headshakes with Mr. Marbel.

IV

I was left, I say, as part of the lock, stock, and barrel, at Wimblehurst with my new master,
a Mr. Mantell; who plays no part in the progress of this story except in so far as he effaced
my uncle's traces. So soon as the freshness of this new personality faded, I began to find
Wimblehurst not only a dull but a lonely place, and to miss my aunt Susan immensely. The advertisements
of the summer terms for Cough Linctus were removed; the bottles of coloured water--red, green,
and yellow--restored to their places; the horse announcing veterinary medicine, which my uncle,
sizzling all the while, had coloured in careful portraiture of a Goodwood favourite, rewhitened;
and I turned myself even more resolutely than before to Latin (until the passing of my preliminary
examination enabled me to drop that), and then to mathematics and science.

There were classes in Electricity and Magnetism at the Grammar School. I took a little "elementary"
prize in that in my first year and a medal in my third; and in Chemistry and Human Physiology
and Sound, Light and Heat, I did well. There was also a lighter, more discursive subject called
Physiography, in which one ranged among the sciences and encountered Geology as a process of
evolution from Eozoon to Eastry House, and Astronomy as a record of celestial movements of
the most austere and invariable integrity. I learnt out of badly-written, condensed little
text-books, and with the minimum of experiment, but still I learnt. Only thirty years ago it
was, and I remember I learnt of the electric light as an expensive, impracticable toy, the
telephone as a curiosity, electric traction as a practical absurdity. There was no argon, no
radium, no phagocytes--at least to my knowledge, and aluminium was a dear, infrequent metal.
The fastest ships in the world went then at nineteen knots, and no one but a lunatic here and
there ever thought it possible that men might fly.

Many things have happened since then, but the last glance I had of Wimblehurst two years ago
remarked no change whatever in its pleasant tranquillity. They had not even built any fresh
houses--at least not actually in the town, though about the station there had been some building.
But it was a good place to do work in, for all its quiescence. I was soon beyond the small
requirements of the Pharmaceutical Society's examination, and as they do not permit candidates
to sit for that until one and twenty, I was presently filling up my time and preventing my
studies becoming too desultory by making an attack upon the London University degree of Bachelor
of Science, which impressed me then as a very splendid but almost impossible achievement. The
degree in mathematics and chemistry appealed to me as particularly congenial--albeit giddily
inaccessible. I set to work. I had presently to arrange a holiday and go to London to matriculate,
and so it was I came upon my aunt and uncle again. In many ways that visit marked an epoch.
It was my first impression of London at all. I was then nineteen, and by a conspiracy of chances
my nearest approach to that human wilderness had been my brief visit to Chatham. Chatham too
had been my largest town. So that I got London at last with an exceptional freshness of effect,
as the sudden revelation of a whole unsuspected other side to life.

I came to it on a dull and smoky day by the South Eastern Railway, and our train was half an
hour late, stopping and going on and stopping again. I marked beyond Chiselhurst the growing
multitude of villas, and so came stage by stage through multiplying houses and diminishing
interspaces of market garden and dingy grass to regions of interlacing railway lines, big factories,
gasometers and wide reeking swamps of dingy little homes, more of them and more and more. The
number of these and their dinginess and poverty increased, and here rose a great public house
and here a Board School and there a gaunt factory; and away to the east there loomed for a
time a queer, incongruous forest of masts and spars. The congestion of houses intensified and
piled up presently into tenements; I marveled more and more at this boundless world of dingy
people; whiffs of industrial smell, of leather, of brewing, drifted into the carriage; the
sky darkened, I rumbled thunderously over bridges, van-crowded streets, peered down on and
crossed the Thames with an abrupt eclat of sound. I got an effect of tall warehouses, of grey
water, barge crowded, of broad banks of indescribable mud, and then I was in Cannon Street
Station--a monstrous dirty cavern with trains packed across its vast floor and more porters
standing along the platform than I had ever been in my life before. I alighted with my portmanteau
and struggled along, realising for the first time just how small and weak I could still upon
occasion feel. In this world, I felt, an Honours medal in Electricity and magnetism counted
for nothing at all.

Afterwards I drove in a cab down a canon of rushing street between high warehouses, and peeped
up astonished at the blackened greys of Saint Paul's. The traffic of Cheapside--it was mostly
in horse omnibuses in those days--seemed stupendous, its roar was stupendous; I wondered where
the money came from to employ so many cabs, what industry could support the endless jostling
stream of silk-hatted, frock-coated, hurrying men. Down a turning I found the Temperance Hotel
Mr. Mantell had recommended to me. The porter in a green uniform who took over my portmanteau,
seemed, I thought, to despise me a good deal.

V

Matriculation kept me for four full days and then came an afternoon to spare, and I sought
out Tottenham Court Road through a perplexing network of various and crowded streets. But this
London was vast! it was endless! it seemed the whole world had changed into packed frontages
and hoardings and street spaces. I got there at last and made inquiries, and I found my uncle
behind the counter of the pharmacy he managed, an establishment that did not impress me as
doing a particularly high-class trade. "Lord!" he said at the sight of me, "I was wanting something
to happen!"

He greeted me warmly. I had grown taller, and he, I thought, had grown shorter and smaller
and rounder but otherwise he was unchanged. He struck me as being rather shabby, and the silk
hat he produced and put on, when, after mysterious negotiations in the back premises he achieved
his freedom to accompany me, was past its first youth; but he was as buoyant and confident as ever.

"Come to ask me about all THAT," he cried. "I've never written yet."

"Oh, among other things," said I, with a sudden regrettable politeness, and waived the topic
of his trusteeship to ask after my aunt Susan.

"We'll have her out of it," he said suddenly; "we'll go somewhere. We don't get you in London
every day."

"It's my first visit," I said, "I've never seen London before"; and that made him ask me what
I thought of it, and the rest of the talk was London, London, to the exclusion of all smaller
topics. He took me up the Hampstead Road almost to the Cobden statue, plunged into some back
streets to the left, and came at last to a blistered front door that responded to his latch-key,
one of a long series of blistered front doors with fanlights and apartment cards above. We
found ourselves in a drab-coloured passage that was not only narrow and dirty but desolatingly
empty, and then he opened a door and revealed my aunt sitting at the window with a little sewing-machine
on a bamboo occasional table before her, and "work"--a plum-coloured walking dress I judged
at its most analytical stage--scattered over the rest of the apartment.

At the first glance I judged my aunt was plumper than she had been, but her complexion was
just as fresh and her China blue eye as bright as in the old days.

"London," she said, didn't "get blacks" on her.

She still "cheeked" my uncle, I was pleased to find. "What are you old Poking in for at THIS
time--Gubbitt?" she said when he appeared, and she still looked with a practised eye for the
facetious side of things. When she saw me behind him, she gave a little cry and stood up radiant.
Then she became grave.

I was surprised at my own emotion in seeing her. She held me at arm's length for a moment,
a hand on each shoulder, and looked at me with a sort of glad scrutiny. She seemed to hesitate,
and then pecked little kiss off my cheek.

"You're a man, George," she said, as she released me, and continued to look at me for a while.

Their menage was one of a very common type in London. They occupied what is called the dining-room
floor of a small house, and they had the use of a little inconvenient kitchen in the basement
that had once been scullery. The two rooms, bedroom behind and living room in front, were separated
by folding-doors that were never now thrown back, and indeed, in the presence of a visitor,
not used at all. There was of course no bathroom or anything of that sort available, and there
was no water supply except to the kitchen below. My aunt did all the domestic work, though
she could have afforded to pay for help if the build of the place had not rendered that inconvenient
to the pitch of impossibility. There was no sort of help available except that of indoor servants,
for whom she had no accommodation. The furniture was their own; it was partly secondhand, but
on the whole it seemed cheerful to my eye, and my aunt's bias for cheap, gay-figured muslin
had found ample score. In many ways I should think it must have been an extremely inconvenient
and cramped sort of home, but at the time I took it, as I was taking everything, as being there
and in the nature of things. I did not see the oddness of solvent decent people living in a
habitation so clearly neither designed nor adapted for their needs, so wasteful of labour and
so devoid of beauty as this was, and it is only now as I describe this that I find myself thinking
of the essential absurdity of an intelligent community living in such makeshift homes. It strikes
me now as the next thing to wearing second-hand clothes.

You see it was a natural growth, part of that system to which Bladesover, I hold, is the key.
There are wide regions of London, miles of streets of houses, that appear to have been originally
designed for prosperous-middle-class homes of the early Victorian type. There must have been
a perfect fury of such building in the thirties, forties, and fifties. Street after street
must have been rushed into being, Campden Town way, Pentonville way, Brompton way, West Kensington
way in the Victoria region and all over the minor suburbs of the south side.

I am doubtful if many of these houses had any long use as the residences of single families
if from the very first almost their tenants did not makeshift and take lodgers and sublet.
They were built with basements, in which their servants worked and lived--servants of a more
submissive and troglodytic generation who did not mind stairs. The dining-room (with folding
doors) was a little above the ground level, and in that the wholesome boiled and roast with
damp boiled potatoes and then pie to follow, was consumed and the numerous family read and
worked in the evening, and above was the drawing-room (also with folding doors), where the
infrequent callers were received. That was the vision at which those industrious builders aimed.
Even while these houses were being run up, the threads upon the loom of fate were shaping to
abolish altogether the type of household that would have fitted them. They had to squeeze in.
The landlords came out financially intact from their blundering enterprise. More and more these
houses fell into the hands of married artisans, or struggling widows or old servants with savings,
who became responsible for the quarterly rent and tried to sweat a living by sub-letting furnished
or unfurnished apartments.

I remember now that a poor grey-haired old woman who had an air of having been roused from
a nap in the dust bin, came out into the area and looked up at us as we three went out from
the front door to "see London" under my uncle's direction. She was the sub-letting occupier;
she squeezed out a precarious living by taking the house whole and sub-letting it in detail
and she made her food and got the shelter of an attic above and a basement below by the transaction.
And if she didn't chance to "let" steadily, out she went to pauperdom and some other poor,
sordid old adventurer tried in her place....

It is a foolish community that can house whole classes, useful and helpful, honest and loyal
classes, in such squalidly unsuitable dwellings. It is by no means the social economy it seems,
to use up old women, savings and inexperience in order to meet the landlord's demands. But
any one who doubts this thing is going on right up to to-day need only spend an afternoon in
hunting for lodgings in any of the regions of London I have named.

But where has my story got to? My uncle, I say, decided I must be shown London, and out we
three went as soon as my aunt had got her hat on, to catch all that was left of the day.

VI

It pleased my uncle extremely to find I had never seen London before. He took possession of
the metropolis forthwith. "London, George," he said, "takes a lot of understanding. It's a
great place. Immense. The richest town in the world, the biggest port, the greatest manufacturing
town, the Imperial city--the centre of civilisation, the heart of the world! See those sandwich
men down there! That third one's hat! Fair treat! You don't see poverty like that in Wimblehurst
George! And many of them high Oxford honour men too. Brought down by drink! It's a wonderful
place, George--a whirlpool, a maelstrom! whirls you up and whirls you down."

I have a very confused memory of that afternoon's inspection of London. My uncle took us to
and fro showing us over his London, talking erratically, following a route of his own. Sometimes
we were walking, sometimes we were on the tops of great staggering horse omnibuses in a heaving
jumble of traffic, and at one point we had tea in an Aerated Bread Shop. But I remember very
distinctly how we passed down Park Lane under an overcast sky, and how my uncle pointed out
the house of this child of good fortune and that with succulent appreciation.

I remember, too, that as he talked I would find my aunt watching my face as if to check the
soundness of his talk by my expression.

"Been in love yet, George?" she asked suddenly, over a bun in the tea-shop.

"Too busy, aunt," I told her.

She bit her bun extensively, and gesticulated with the remnant to indicate that she had more
to say.

"How are YOU going to make your fortune?" she said so soon as she could speak again. "You haven't
told us that."

"'Lectricity," said my uncle, taking breath after a deep draught of tea.

"If I make it at all," I said. "For my part I think shall be satisfied with something less
than a fortune."

"We're going to make ours--suddenly," she said.

"So HE old says." She jerked her head at my uncle.

"He won't tell me when--so I can't get anything ready. But it's coming. Going to ride in our
carriage and have a garden. Garden--like a bishop's."

She finished her bun and twiddled crumbs from her fingers. "I shall be glad of the garden,"
she said. "It's going to be a real big one with rosaries and things. Fountains in it. Pampas
grass. Hothouses."

"You'll get it all right," said my uncle, who had reddened a little.

"Grey horses in the carriage, George," she said. "It's nice to think about when one's dull.
And dinners in restaurants often and often. And theatres--in the stalls. And money and money
and money."

"You may joke," said my uncle, and hummed for a moment.

"Just as though an old Porpoise like him would ever make money," she said, turning her eyes
upon his profile with a sudden lapse to affection. "He'll just porpoise about."

"I'll do something," said my uncle, "you bet! Zzzz!" and rapped with a shilling on the marble
table.

"When you do you'll have to buy me a new pair of gloves," she said, "anyhow. That finger's
past mending. Look! you Cabbage--you." And she held the split under his nose, and pulled a
face of comical fierceness.

My uncle smiled at these sallies at the time, but afterwards, when I went back with him to
the Pharmacy--the low-class business grew brisker in the evening and they kept open late--he
reverted to it in a low expository tone. "Your aunt's a bit impatient, George. She gets at
me. It's only natural.... A woman doesn't understand how long it takes to build up a position.
No.... In certain directions now--I am--quietly--building up a position. Now here.... I get
this room. I have my three assistants. Zzzz. It's a position that, judged by the criterion
of imeedjit income, isn't perhaps so good as I deserve, but strategically--yes. It's what I
want. I make my plans. I rally my attack."

"What plans," I said, "are you making?"

"Well, George, there's one thing you can rely upon, I'm doing nothing in a hurry. I turn over
this one and that, and I don't talk--indiscreetly. There's--No! I don't think I can tell you
that. And yet, why NOT?"

He got up and closed the door into the shop. "I've told no one," he remarked, as he sat down
again. "I owe you something."

His face flushed slightly, he leant forward over the little table towards me.

"Listen!" he said.

I listened.

"Tono-Bungay," said my uncle very slowly and distinctly.

I thought he was asking me to hear some remote, strange noise. "I don't hear anything," I said
reluctantly to his expectant face. He smiled undefeated. "Try again," he said, and repeated,
"Tono-Bungay."

"Oh, THAT!" I said.

"Eh?" said he.

"But what is it?"

"Ah!" said my uncle, rejoicing and expanding. "What IS it? That's what you got to ask? What
won't it be?" He dug me violently in what he supposed to be my ribs. "George," he cried--"George,
watch this place! There's more to follow."

And that was all I could get from him.

That, I believe, was the very first time that the words Tono-Bungay ever heard on earth--unless
my uncle indulged in monologues in his chamber--a highly probable thing. Its utterance certainly
did not seem to me at the time to mark any sort of epoch, and had I been told this word was
the Open Sesame to whatever pride and pleasure the grimy front of London hid from us that evening,
I should have laughed aloud.

"Coming now to business," I said after a pause, and with a chill sense of effort; and I opened
the question of his trust.

My uncle sighed, and leant back in his chair. "I wish I could make all this business as clear
to you as it is to me," he said. "However--Go on! Say what you have to say."

VII

After I left my uncle that evening I gave way to a feeling of profound depression. My uncle
and aunt seemed to me to be leading--I have already used the word too often, but I must use
it again--DINGY lives. They seemed to be adrift in a limitless crowd of dingy people, wearing
shabby clothes, living uncomfortably in shabby second-hand houses, going to and fro on pavements
that had always a thin veneer of greasy, slippery mud, under grey skies that showed no gleam
of hope of anything for them but dinginess until they died. It seemed absolutely clear to me
that my mother's little savings had been swallowed up and that my own prospect was all too
certainly to drop into and be swallowed up myself sooner or later by this dingy London ocean.
The London that was to be an adventurous escape from the slumber of Wimblehurst, had vanished
from my dreams. I saw my uncle pointing to the houses in Park Lane and showing a frayed shirt-cuff
as he did so. I heard my aunt: "I'm to ride in my carriage then. So he old says."

My feelings towards my uncle were extraordinarily mixed. I was intensely sorry not only for
my aunt Susan but for him--for it seemed indisputable that as they were living then so they
must go on--and at the same time I was angry with the garrulous vanity and illness that had
elipped all my chance of independent study, and imprisoned her in those grey apartments. When
I got back to Wimblehurst I allowed myself to write him a boyishly sarcastic and sincerely
bitter letter. He never replied. Then, believing it to be the only way of escape for me, I
set myself far more grimly and resolutely to my studies than I had ever done before. After
a time I wrote to him in more moderate terms, and he answered me evasively. And then I tried
to dismiss him from my mind and went on working.

Yes, that first raid upon London under the moist and chilly depression of January had an immense
effect upon me. It was for me an epoch-making disappointment. I had thought of London as a
large, free, welcoming, adventurous place, and I saw it slovenly and harsh and irresponsive.

I did not realise at all what human things might be found behind those grey frontages, what
weakness that whole forbidding facade might presently confess. It is the constant error of
youth to over-estimate the Will in things. I did not see that the dirt, the discouragement,
the discomfort of London could be due simply to the fact that London was a witless old giantess
of a town, too slack and stupid to keep herself clean and maintain a brave face to the word.
No! I suffered from the sort of illusion that burnt witches in the seventeenth century. I endued
her grubby disorder with a sinister and magnificent quality of intention.

And my uncle's gestures and promises filled me with doubt and a sort of fear for him. He seemed
to me a lost little creature, too silly to be silent, in a vast implacable condemnation. I
was full of pity and a sort of tenderness for my aunt Susan, who was doomed to follow his erratic
fortunes mocked by his grandiloquent promises.

I was to learn better. But I worked with the terror of the grim underside of London in my soul
during all my last year at Wimblehurst.

BOOK THE SECOND

THE RISE OF TONO-BUNGAY

CHAPTER THE FIRST

HOW I BECAME A LONDON STUDENT AND WENT ASTRAY

I came to live in London, as I shall tell you, when I was nearly twenty-two. Wimblehurst dwindles
in perspective, is now in this book a little place far off, Bladesover no more than a small
pinkish speck of frontage among the distant Kentish hills; the scene broadens out, becomes
multitudinous and limitless, full of the sense of vast irrelevant movement. I do not remember
my second coming to London as I do my first, for my early impressions, save that an October
memory of softened amber sunshine stands out, amber sunshine falling on grey house fronts I
know not where. That, and a sense of a large tranquillity.

I could fill a book, I think, with a more or less imaginary account of how I came to apprehend
London, how first in one aspect and then in another it grew in my mind. Each day my accumulating
impressions were added to and qualified and brought into relationship with new ones; they fused
inseparably with others that were purely personal and accidental. I find myself with a certain
comprehensive perception of London, complete indeed, incurably indistinct in places and yet
in some way a whole that began with my first visit and is still being mellowed and enriched.

London!

At first, no doubt, it was a chaos of streets and people and buildings and reasonless going
to and fro. I do not remember that I ever struggled very steadily to understand it, or explored
it with any but a personal and adventurous intention. Yet in time there has grown up in me
a kind of theory of London; I do think I see lines of an ordered structure out of which it
has grown, detected a process that is something more than a confusion of casual accidents though
indeed it may be no more than a process of disease.

I said at the outset of my first book that I find in Bladesover the clue to all England. Well,
I certainly imagine it is the clue to the structure of London. There have been no revolutions
no deliberate restatements or abandonments of opinion in England since the days of the fine
gentry, since 1688 or thereabouts, the days when Bladesover was built; there have been changes,
dissolving forest replacing forest, if you will; but then it was that the broad lines of the
English system set firmly. And as I have gone to and fro in London in certain regions constantly
the thought has recurred this is Bladesover House, this answers to Bladesover House. The fine
gentry may have gone; they have indeed largely gone, I think; rich merchants may have replaced
them, financial adventurers or what not. That does not matter; the shape is still Bladesover.

I am most reminded of Bladesover and Eastry by all those regions round about the West End parks;
for example, estate parks, each more or less in relation to a palace or group of great houses.
The roads and back ways of Mayfair and all about St. James's again, albeit perhaps of a later
growth in point of time, were of the very spirit and architectural texture of the Bladesover
passages and yards; they had the same smells, the space, the large cleanest and always going
to and fro where one met unmistakable Olympians and even more unmistakable valets, butlers,
footmen in mufti. There were moments when I seemed to glimpse down areas the white panelling,
the very chintz of my mother's room again.

I could trace out now on a map what I would call the Great-House region; passing south-westward
into Belgravia, becoming diffused and sporadic westward, finding its last systematic outbreak
round and about Regent's Park. The Duke of Devonshire's place in Piccadilly, in all its insolent
ugliness, pleases me particularly; it is the quintessence of the thing; Apsley House is all
in the manner of my theory, Park Lane has its quite typical mansions, and they run along the
border of the Green Park and St. James's. And I struck out a truth one day in Cromwell Road
quite suddenly, as I looked over the Natural History Museum "By Jove," said I "but this is
the little assemblage of cases of stuffed birds and animals upon the Bladesover staircase grown
enormous, and yonder as the corresponding thing to the Bladesover curios and porcelain is the
Art Museume and there in the little observatories in Exhibition Road is old Sir Cuthbert's
Gregorian telescope that I hunted out in the storeroom and put together." And diving into the
Art Museum under this inspiration, I came to a little reading-room and found as I had inferred,
old brown books!

It was really a good piece of social comparative anatomy I did that day; all these museums
and libraries that are dotted over London between Piccadilly and West Kensington, and indeed
the museum and library movement throughout the world, sprang from the elegant leisure of the
gentlemen of taste. Theirs were the first libraries, the first houses of culture; by my rat-like
raids into the Bladesover saloon I became, as it were, the last dwindled representative of
such a man of letters as Swift. But now these things have escaped out of the Great House altogether,
and taken on a strange independent life of their own.

It is this idea of escaping parts from the seventeenth century system of Bladesover, of proliferating
and overgrowing elements from the Estates, that to this day seems to me the best explanation,
not simply of London, but of all England. England is a country of great Renascence landed gentlefolk
who have been unconsciously outgrown and overgrown. The proper shops for Bladesover custom
were still to be found in Regent Street and Bond Street in my early London days in those days
they had been but lightly touched by the American's profaning hand--and in Piccadilly. I found
the doctor's house of the country village or country town up and down Harley Street, multiplied
but not otherwise different, and the family solicitor (by the hundred) further eastward in
the abandoned houses of a previous generation of gentlepeople, and down in Westminster, behind
Palladian fronts, the public offices sheltered in large Bladesoverish rooms and looked out
on St. James's Park. The Parliament Houses of lords and gentlemen, the parliament house that
was horrified when merchants and brewers came thrusting into it a hundred years ago, stood
out upon its terrace gathering the whole system together into a head.

And the more I have paralleled these things with my Bladesover-Eastry model, the more evident
it has become to me that the balance is not the same, and the more evident is the presence
of great new forces, blind forces of invasion, of growth. The railway termini on the north
side of London have been kept as remote as Eastry had kept the railway-station from Wimblehurst,
they stop on the very outskirts of the estates, but from the south, the South Eastern railway
had butted its great stupid rusty iron head of Charing Cross station, that great head that
came smashing down in 1905--clean across the river, between Somerset House and Whitehall. The
south side had no protecting estate. Factory chimneys smoke right over against Westminster
with an air of carelessly not having permission, and the whole effect of industrial London
and of all London east of Temple Bar and of the huge dingy immensity of London port is to me
of something disproportionately large, something morbidly expanded, without plan or intention,
dark and sinister toward the clean clear social assurance of the West End. And south of this
central London, south-east, south-west, far west, north-west, all round the northern hills,
are similar disproportionate growths, endless streets of undistinguished houses, undistinguished
industries, shabby families, second-rate shops, inexplicable people who in a once fashionable
phrase do not "exist." All these aspects have suggested to my mind at times, do suggest to
this day, the unorganised, abundant substance of some tumorous growth-process, a process which
indeed bursts all the outlines of the affected carcass and protrudes such masses as ignoble
comfortable Croydon, as tragic impoverished West Ham. To this day I ask myself will those masses
ever become structural, will they indeed shape into anything new whatever, or is that cancerous
image their true and ultimate diagnosis?...

Moreover, together with this hypertrophy there is an immigration of elements that have never
understood and never will understand the great tradition, wedges of foreign settlement embedded
in the heart of this yeasty English expansion. One day I remember wandering eastward out of
pure curiosity--it must have been in my early student days--and discovering a shabbily bright
foreign quarter, shops displaying Hebrew placards and weird, unfamiliar commodities and a concourse
of bright-eyed, eagle-nosed people talking some incomprehensible gibberish between the shops
and the barrows. And soon I became quite familiar with the devious, vicious, dirtily-pleasant
eroticism of Soho. I found those crowded streets a vast relief from the dull grey exterior
of Brompton where I lodged and lived my daily life. In Soho, indeed, I got my first inkling
of the factor of replacement that is so important in both the English and the American process.

Even in the West End, in Mayfair and the square, about Pall Mall, Ewart was presently to remind
me the face of the old aristocratic dignity was fairer than its substance; here were actors
and actresses, here money lenders and Jews, here bold financial adventurers, and I thought
of my uncle's frayed cuff as he pointed out this house in Park Lane and that. That was so and
so's who made a corner in borax, and that palace belonged to that hero among modern adventurers,
Barmentrude, who used to be an I.D.B.,--an illicit diamond buyer that is to say. Such was the
world into which I had come, into which I had in some way to thrust myself and fit my problem,
my temptations, my efforts, my patriotic instinct, all my moral instincts, my physical appetites,
my dreams and my sanity.

London! I came up to it, young and without advisers, rather priggish, rather dangerously open-minded
and very open-eyed, and with something--it is, I think, the common gift of imaginative youth,
and I claim it unblushingly--fine in me, finer than the world and seeking fine responses. I
did not want simply to live or simply to live happily or well; I wanted to serve and do and
make--with some nobility. It was in me. It is in half the youth of the world.

II

I had come to London as a scholar. I had taken the Vincent Bradley scholarship of the Pharmaceutical
Society, but I threw this up when I found that my work of the Science and Art Department in
mathematics, physics and chemistry had given me one of the minor Technical Board Scholarships
at the Consolidated Technical Schools at South Kensington. This latter was in mechanics and
metallurgy; and I hesitated between the two. The Vincent Bradley gave me L70 a year and quite
the best start-off a pharmaceutical chemist could have; the South Kensington thing was worth
about twenty-two shillings a week, and the prospects it opened were vague. But it meant far
more scientific work than the former, and I was still under the impulse of that great intellectual
appetite that is part of the adolescence of men of my type. Moreover it seemed to lead towards
engineering, in which I imagined--I imagine to this day--my particular use is to be found.
I took its greater uncertainty as a fair risk. I came up very keen, not doubting that the really
hard and steady industry that had carried me through Wimblehurst would go on still in the new
surroundings.

Only from the very first it didn't....

When I look back now at my Wimblehurst days, I still find myself surprised at the amount of
steady grinding study, of strenuous self-discipline that I maintained throughout my apprenticeship.
In many ways I think that time was the most honourable period in my life. I wish I could say
with a certain mind that my motives in working so well were large and honourable too. To a
certain extent they were so; there was a fine sincere curiosity, a desire for the strength
and power of scientific knowledge and a passion for intellectual exercise; but I do not think
those forces alone would have kept me at it so grimly and closely if Wimblehurst had not been
so dull, so limited and so observant. Directly I came into the London atmosphere, tasting freedom,
tasting irresponsibility and the pull of new forces altogether, my discipline fell from me
like a garment. Wimblehurst to a youngster in my position offered no temptations worth counting,
no interests to conflict with study, no vices--such vices as it offered were coarsely stripped
of any imaginative glamourfull drunkenness, clumsy leering shameful lust, no social intercourse
even to waste one's time, and on the other hand it would minister greatly to the self-esteem
of a conspicuously industrious student. One was marked as "clever," one played up to the part,
and one's little accomplishment stood out finely in one's private reckoning against the sunlit
small ignorance of that agreeable place. One went with an intent rush across the market square,
one took one's exercise with as dramatic a sense of an ordered day as an Oxford don, one burnt
the midnight oil quite consciously at the rare respectful, benighted passer-by. And one stood
out finely in the local paper with one's unapproachable yearly harvest of certificates. Thus
I was not only a genuinely keen student, but also a little of a prig and poseur in those days--and
the latter kept the former at it, as London made clear.

Moreover Wimblehurst had given me no outlet in any other direction.

But I did not realise all this when I came to London, did not perceive how the change of atmosphere
began at once to warp and distribute my energies. In the first place I became invisible. If
I idled for a day, no one except my fellow-students (who evidently had no awe for me) remarked
it. No one saw my midnight taper; no one pointed me out as I crossed the street as an astonishing
intellectual phenomenon. In the next place I became inconsiderable. In Wimblehurst I felt I
stood for Science; nobody there seemed to have so much as I and to have it so fully and completely.
In London I walked ignorant in an immensity, and it was clear that among my fellow-students
from the midlands and the north I was ill-equipped and under-trained. With the utmost exertion
I should only take a secondary position among them. And finally, in the third place, I was
distracted by voluminous new interests; London took hold of me, and Science, which had been
the universe, shrank back to the dimensions of tiresome little formulae compacted in a book.
I came to London in late September, and it was a very different London from that great greyly-overcast,
smoke-stained house-wilderness of my first impressions. I reached it by Victoria and not by
Cannon Street, and its centre was now in Exhibition Road. It shone, pale amber, blue-grey and
tenderly spacious and fine under clear autumnal skies, a London of hugely handsome buildings
and vistas and distances, a London of gardens and labyrinthine tall museums, of old trees and
remote palaces and artificial waters. I lodged near by in West Brompton at a house in a little
square.

So London faced me the second time, making me forget altogether for a while the grey, drizzling
city visage that had first looked upon me. I settled down and went to and fro to my lectures
and laboratory; in the beginning I worked hard, and only slowly did the curiosity that presently
possessed me to know more of this huge urban province arise, the desire to find something beyond
mechanism that I could serve, some use other than learning. With this was a growing sense of
loneliness, a desire for adventure and intercourse. I found myself in the evenings poring over
a map of London I had bought, instead of copying out lecture notes--and on Sundays I made explorations,
taking omnibus rides east and west and north and south, and to enlarging and broadening the
sense of great swarming hinterlands of humanity with whom I had no dealings, of whom I knew
nothing....

The whole illimitable place teemed with suggestions of indefinite and sometimes outrageous
possibility, of hidden but magnificent meanings.

It wasn't simply that I received a vast impression of space and multitude and opportunity;
intimate things also were suddenly dragged from neglected, veiled and darkened corners into
an acute vividness of perception. Close at hand in the big art museum I came for the first
time upon the beauty of nudity, which I had hitherto held to be a shameful secret, flaunted
and gloried in; I was made aware of beauty as not only permissible, but desirable and frequent
and of a thousand hitherto unsuspected rich aspects of life. One night in a real rapture, I
walked round the upper gallery of the Albert Hall and listened for the first time to great
music; I believe now that it was a rendering of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony....

My apprehension of spaces and places was reinforced by a quickened apprehension of persons.
A constant stream of people passed by me, eyes met and challenged mine and passed--more and
more I wanted then to stay--if I went eastward towards Piccadilly, women who seemed then to
my boyish inexperience softly splendid and alluring, murmured to me as they passed. Extraordinarily
life unveiled. The very hoardings clamoured strangely at one's senses and curiosities. One
bought pamphlets and papers full of strange and daring ideas transcending one's boldest; in
the parks one heard men discussing the very existence of God, denying the rights of property,
debating a hundred things that one dared not think about in Wimblehurst. And after the ordinary
overcast day, after dull mornings, came twilight, and London lit up and became a thing of white
and yellow and red jewels of light and wonderful floods of golden illumination and stupendous
and unfathomable shadows--and there were no longer any mean or shabby people--but a great mysterious
movement of unaccountable beings....

Always I was coming on the queerest new aspects. Late one Saturday night I found myself one
of a great slow-moving crowd between the blazing shops and the flaring barrows in the Harrow
Road; I got into conversation with two bold-eyed girls, bought them boxes of chocolate, made
the acquaintance of father and mother and various younger brothers and sisters, sat in a public-house
hilariously with them all, standing and being stood drinks, and left them in the small hours
at the door of "home," never to see them again. And once I was accosted on the outskirts of
a Salvation Army meeting in one of the parks by a silk-hatted young man of eager and serious
discourse, who argued against scepticism with me, invited me home to tea into a clean and cheerful
family of brothers and sisters and friends, and there I spent the evening singing hymns to
the harmonium (which reminded me of half-forgotten Chatham), and wishing all the sisters were
not so obviously engaged....

Then on the remote hill of this boundless city-world I found Ewart.

III

How well I remember the first morning, a bright Sunday morning in early October, when I raided
in upon Ewart! I found my old schoolfellow in bed in a room over an oil-shop in a back street
at the foot of Highgate Hill. His landlady, a pleasant, dirty young woman with soft-brown eyes,
brought down his message for me to come up; and up I went. The room presented itself as ample
and interesting in detail and shabby with a quite commendable shabbiness. I had an impression
of brown walls--they were papered with brown paper--of a long shelf along one side of the room,
with dusty plaster casts and a small cheap lay figure of a horse, of a table and something
of grey wax partially covered with a cloth, and of scattered drawings. There was a gas stove
in one corner, and some enameled ware that had been used for overnight cooking. The oilcloth
on the floor was streaked with a peculiar white dust. Ewart himself was not in the first instance
visible, but only a fourfold canvas screen at the end of the room from which shouts proceeded
of "Come on!" then his wiry black hair, very much rumpled, and a staring red-brown eye and
his stump of a nose came round the edge of this at a height of about three feet from the ground
"It's old Ponderevo!" he said, "the Early bird! And he's caught the worm! By Jove, but it's
cold this morning! Come round here and sit on the bed!"

I walked round, wrung his hand, and we surveyed one another.

He was lying on a small wooden fold-up bed, the scanty covering of which was supplemented by
an overcoat and an elderly but still cheerful pair of check trousers, and he was wearing pajamas
of a virulent pink and green. His neck seemed longer and more stringy than it had been even
in our schooldays, and his upper lip had a wiry black moustache. The rest of his ruddy, knobby
countenance, his erratic hair and his general hairy leanness had not even--to my perceptions grown.

"By Jove!" he said, "you've got quite decent-looking, Ponderevo! What do you think of me?"

"You're all right. What are you doing here?"

"Art, my son--sculpture! And incidentally--" He hesitated. "I ply a trade. Will you hand me
that pipe and those smoking things? So! You can't make coffee, eh? Well, try your hand. Cast
down this screen--no--fold it up and so we'll go into the other room. I'll keep in bed all
the same. The fire's a gas stove. Yes. Don't make it bang. too loud as you light it--I can't
stand it this morning. You won't smoke ... Well, it does me good to see you again, Ponderevo.
Tell me what you're doing, and how you're getting on."

He directed me in the service of his simple hospitality, and presently I came back to his bed
and sat down and smiled at him there, smoking comfortably, with his hands under his head, surveying
me.

"How's Life's Morning, Ponderevo? By Jove, it must be nearly six years since we met! They've
got moustaches. We've fleshed ourselves a bit, eh? And you?"

I felt a pipe was becoming after all, and that lit, I gave him a favourable sketch of my career.

"Science! And you've worked like that! While I've been potting round doing odd jobs for stone-masons
and people, and trying to get to sculpture. I've a sort of feeling that the chisel--I began
with painting, Ponderevo, and found I was colour-blind, colour-blind enough to stop it. I've
drawn about and thought about--thought more particularly. I give myself three days a week as
an art student, and the rest of the time I've a sort of trade that keeps me. And we're still
in the beginning of things, young men starting. Do you remember the old times at Goudhurst,
our doll's-house island, the Retreat of the Ten Thousand Young Holmes and the rabbits, eh?
It's surprising, if you think of it, to find we are still young. And we used to talk of what
we would be, and we used to talk of love! I suppose you know all about that now, Ponderevo?"

I finished and hesitated on some vague foolish lie, "No," I said, a little ashamed of the truth.
"Do you? I've been too busy."

"I'm just beginning--just as we were then. Things happen."

He sucked at his pipe for a space and stared at the plaster cast of a flayed hand that hung
on the wall.

"The fact is, Ponderevo, I'm beginning to find life a most extraordinary queer set-out; the
things that pull one, the things that don't. The wants--This business of sex. It's a net. No
end to it, no way out of it, no sense in it. There are times when women take possession of
me, when my mind is like a painted ceiling at Hampton Court with the pride of the flesh sprawling
all over it. WHY?... And then again sometimes when I have to encounter a woman, I am overwhelmed
by a terror of tantalising boredom--I fly, I hide, I do anything. You've got your scientific
explanations perhaps; what's Nature and the universe up to in that matter?"

"It's her way, I gather, of securing the continuity of the species."

"But it doesn't," said Ewart. "That's just it! No. I have succumbed to--dissipation--down the
hill there. Euston Road way. And it was damned ugly and mean, and I hate having done it. And
the continuity of the species--Lord!... And why does Nature make a man so infernally ready
for drinks? There's no sense in that anyhow." He sat up in bed, to put this question with the
greater earnestness. "And why has she given me a most violent desire towards sculpture and
an equally violent desire to leave off work directly I begin it, eh?... Let's have some more
coffee. I put it to you, these things puzzle me, Ponderevo. They dishearten me. They keep me
in bed."

He had an air of having saved up these difficulties for me for some time. He sat with his chin
almost touching his knees, sucking at his pipe.

"That's what I mean," he went on, "when I say life is getting on to me as extraordinarily queer,
I don't see my game, nor why I was invited. And I don't make anything of the world outside
either. What do you make of it?"

"London," I began. "It's--so enormous!"

"Isn't it! And it's all up to nothing. You find chaps keeping grocers' shops--why the DEVIL,
Ponderevo, do they keep grocers' shops? They all do it very carefully, very steadily, very
meanly. You find people running about and doing the most remarkable things being policemen,
for example, and burglars. They go about these businesses quite gravely and earnestly. I somehow--can't
go about mine. Is there any sense in it at all--anywhere?"

"There must be sense in it," I said. "We're young."

"We're young--yes. But one must inquire. The grocer's a grocer because, I suppose, he sees
he comes in there. Feels that on the whole it amounts to a call.... But the bother is I don't
see where I come in at all. Do you?"

"Where you come in?"

"No, where you come in."

"Not exactly, yet," I said. "I want to do some good in the world--something--something effectual,
before I die. I have a sort of idea my scientific work--I don't know."

"Yes," he mused. "And I've got a sort of idea my sculpture,--but now it is to come in and WHY,--I've
no idea at all." He hugged his knees for a space. "That's what puzzles me, Ponderevo, no end."

He became animated. "If you will look in that cupboard," he said, "you will find an old respectable
looking roll on a plate and a knife somewhere and a gallipot containing butter. You give them
me and I'll make my breakfast, and then if you don't mind watching me paddle about at my simple
toilet I'll get up. Then we'll go for a walk and talk about this affair of life further. And
about Art and Literature and anything else that crops up on the way.... Yes, that's the gallipot.
Cockroach got in it? Chuck him out--damned interloper...."

So in the first five minutes of our talk, as I seem to remember it now, old Ewart struck the
note that ran through all that morning's intercourse....

To me it was a most memorable talk because it opened out quite new horizons of thought. I'd
been working rather close and out of touch with Ewart's free gesticulating way. He was pessimistic
that day and sceptical to the very root of things. He made me feel clearly, what I had not
felt at all before, the general adventurousness of life, particularly of life at the stage
we had reached, and also the absence of definite objects, of any concerted purpose in the lives
that were going on all round us. He made me feel, too, how ready I was to take up commonplace
assumptions. Just as I had always imagined that somewhere in social arrangements there was
certainly a Head-Master who would intervene if one went too far, so I had always had a sort
of implicit belief that in our England there were somewhere people who understood what we were
all, as a nation, about. That crumpled into his pit of doubt and vanished.

He brought out, sharply cut and certain, the immense effect of purposelessness in London that
I was already indistinctly feeling. We found ourselves at last returning through Highgate Cemetery
and Waterlow Park--and Ewart was talking.

"Look at it there," he said, stopping and pointing to the great vale of London spreading wide
and far. "It's like a sea--and we swim in it. And at last down we go, and then up we come--washed
up here." He swung his arms to the long slopes about us, tombs and headstones in long perspectives,
in limitless rows.

"We're young, Ponderevo, but sooner or later our whitened memories will wash up on one of these
beaches, on some such beach as this. George Ponderevo, F.R.S., Sidney Ewart, R.I.P. Look at
the rows of 'em!"

He paused. "Do you see that hand? The hand, I mean, pointing upward, on the top of a blunted
obelisk. Yes. Well, that's what I do for a living--when I'm not thinking, or drinking, or prowling,
or making love, or pretending I'm trying to be a sculptor without either the money or the morals
for a model. See? And I do those hearts afire and those pensive angel guardians with the palm
of peace. Damned well I do 'em and damned cheap! I'm a sweated victim, Ponderevo..."

That was the way of it, anyhow. I drank deep of talk that day; we went into theology, into
philosophy; I had my first glimpse of socialism. I felt as though I had been silent in a silence
since I and he had parted. At the thought of socialism Ewart's moods changed for a time to
a sort of energy. "After all, all this confounded vagueness might be altered. If you could
get men to work together..."

It was a good talk that rambled through all the universe. I thought I was giving my mind refreshment,
but indeed it was dissipation. All sorts of ideas, even now, carry me back as it were to a
fountain-head, to Waterlow Park and my resuscitated Ewart. There stretches away south of us
long garden slopes and white gravestones and the wide expanse of London, and somewhere in the
picture is a red old wall, sun-warmed, and a great blaze of Michaelmas daisies set off with
late golden sunflowers and a drift of mottled, blood-red, fallen leaves. It was with me that
day as though I had lifted my head suddenly out of dull and immediate things and looked at
life altogether.... But it played the very devil with the copying up of my arrears of notes
to which I had vowed the latter half of that day.

After that reunion Ewart and I met much and talked much, and in our subsequent encounters his
monologue was interrupted and I took my share. He had exercised me so greatly that I lay awake
at nights thinking him over, and discoursed and answered him in my head as I went in the morning
to the College. I am by nature a doer and only by the way a critic; his philosophical assertion
of the incalculable vagueness of life which fitted his natural indolence roused my more irritable
and energetic nature to active protests. "It's all so pointless," I said, "because people are
slack and because it's in the ebb of an age. But you're a socialist. Well, let's bring that
about! And there's a purpose. There you are!"

Ewart gave me all my first conceptions of socialism; in a little while I was an enthusiastic
socialist and he was a passive resister to the practical exposition of the theories he had
taught me. "We must join some organisation," I said. "We ought to do things.... We ought to
go and speak at street corners. People don't know."

You must figure me a rather ill-dressed young man in a state of great earnestness, standing
up in that shabby studio of his and saying these things, perhaps with some gesticulations,
and Ewart with a clay-smudged face, dressed perhaps in a flannel shirt and trousers, with a
pipe in his mouth, squatting philosophically at a table, working at some chunk of clay that
never got beyond suggestion.

"I wonder why one doesn't want to," he said.

It was only very slowly I came to gauge Ewart's real position in the scheme of things, to understand
how deliberate and complete was this detachment of his from the moral condemnation and responsibilities
that played so fine a part in his talk. His was essentially the nature of an artistic appreciator;
he could find interest and beauty in endless aspects of things that I marked as evil, or at
least as not negotiable; and the impulse I had towards self-deception, to sustained and consistent
self-devotion, disturbed and detached and pointless as it was at that time, he had indeed a
sort of admiration for but no sympathy. Like many fantastic and ample talkers he was at bottom
secretive, and he gave me a series of little shocks of discovery throughout our intercourse.

The first of these came in the realisation that he quite seriously meant to do nothing in the
world at all towards reforming the evils he laid bare in so easy and dexterous a manner. The
next came in the sudden appearance of a person called "Milly"--I've forgotten her surname--whom
I found in his room one evening, simply attired in a blue wrap--the rest of her costume behind
the screen--smoking cigarettes and sharing a flagon of an amazingly cheap and self-assertive
grocer's wine Ewart affected, called "Canary Sack." "Hullo!" said Ewart, as I came in. "This
is Milly, you know. She's been being a model--she IS a model really.... (keep calm, Ponderevo!)
Have some sack?"

Milly was a woman of thirty, perhaps, with a broad, rather pretty face, a placid disposition,
a bad accent and delightful blond hair that waved off her head with an irrepressible variety
of charm; and whenever Ewart spoke she beamed at him. Ewart was always sketching this hair
of hers and embarking upon clay statuettes of her that were never finished. She was, I know
now, a woman of the streets, whom Ewart had picked up in the most casual manner, and who had
fallen in love with him, but my inexperience in those days was too great for me to place her
then, and Ewart offered no elucidations. She came to him, he went to her, they took holidays
together in the country when certainly she sustained her fair share of their expenditure. I
suspect him now even of taking money from her. Odd old Ewart! It was a relationship so alien
to my orderly conceptions of honour, to what I could imagine any friend of mine doing, that
I really hardly saw it with it there under my nose. But I see it and I think I understand it
now....

Before I fully grasped the discursive manner in which Ewart was committed to his particular
way in life, I did, I say, as the broad constructive ideas of socialism took hold of me, try
to get him to work with me in some definite fashion as a socialist.

"We ought to join on to other socialists," I said.

"They've got something."

"Let's go and look at some first."

After some pains we discovered the office of the Fabian Society, lurking in a cellar in Clement's
Inn; and we went and interviewed a rather discouraging secretary who stood astraddle in front
of a fire and questioned us severely and seemed to doubt the integrity of our intentions profoundly.
He advised us to attend the next open meeting in Clifford's Inn and gave us the necessary data.
We both contrived to get to the affair, and heard a discursive gritty paper on Trusts and one
of the most inconclusive discussions you can imagine. Three-quarters of the speakers seemed
under some jocular obsession which took the form of pretending to be conceited. It was a sort
of family joke, and as strangers to the family we did not like it.... As we came out through
the narrow passage from Clifford's Inn to the Strand, Ewart suddenly pitched upon a wizened,
spectacled little man in a vast felt hat and a large orange tie.

"How many members are there in this Fabian Society of yours?" he asked.

The little man became at once defensive in his manner.

"About seven hundred," he said; "perhaps eight."

"Like--like the ones here?"

The little man gave a nervous self-satisfied laugh. "I suppose they're up to sample," he said.

The little man dropped out of existence and we emerged upon the Strand. Ewart twisted his arm
into a queerly eloquent gesture that gathered up all the tall facades of the banks, the business
places, the projecting clock and towers of the Law Courts, the advertisements, the luminous
signs, into one social immensity, into a capitalistic system gigantic and invincible.

"These socialists have no sense of proportion," he said. "What can you expect of them?"

IV

Ewart, as the embodiment of talk, was certainly a leading factor in my conspicuous failure
to go on studying. Social theory in its first crude form of Democratic Socialism gripped my
intelligence more and more powerfully. I argued in the laboratory with the man who shared my
bench until we quarreled and did not speak and also I fell in love.

The ferment of sex had been creeping into my being like a slowly advancing tide through all
my Wimblehurst days, the stimulus of London was like the rising of a wind out of the sea that
brings the waves in fast and high. Ewart had his share in that. More and more acutely and unmistakably
did my perception of beauty, form and sound, my desire for adventure, my desire for intercourse,
converge on this central and commanding business of the individual life. I had to get me a mate.

I began to fall in love faintly with girls I passed in the street, with women who sat before
me in trains, with girl fellow-students, with ladies in passing carriages, with loiterers at
the corners, with neat-handed waitresses in shops and tea-rooms, with pictures even of girls
and women. On my rare visits to the theatre I always became exalted, and found the actresses
and even the spectators about me mysterious, attractive, creatures of deep interest and desire.
I had a stronger and stronger sense that among these glancing, passing multitudes there was
somewhere one who was for me. And in spite of every antagonistic force in the world, there
was something in my very marrow that insisted: "Stop! Look at this one! Think of her! Won't
she do? This signifies--this before all things signifies! Stop! Why are you hurrying by? This
may be the predestined person--before all others."

It is odd that I can't remember when first I saw Marion, who became my wife--whom I was to
make wretched, who was to make me wretched, who was to pluck that fine generalised possibility
of love out of my early manhood and make it a personal conflict. I became aware of her as one
of a number of interesting attractive figures that moved about in my world, that glanced back
at my eyes, that flitted by with a kind of averted watchfulness. I would meet her coming through
the Art Museum, which was my short cut to the Brompton Road, or see her sitting, reading as
I thought, in one of the bays of the Education Library. But really, as I found out afterwards,
she never read. She used to come there to eat a bun in quiet. She was a very gracefully-moving
figure of a girl then, very plainly dressed, with dark brown hair I remember, in a knot low
on her neck behind that confessed the pretty roundness of her head and harmonised with the
admirable lines of ears and cheek, the grave serenity of mouth and brow.

She stood out among the other girls very distinctly because they dressed more than she did,
struck emphatic notes of colour, startled one by novelties in hats and bows and things. I've
always hated the rustle, the disconcerting colour boundaries, the smart unnatural angles of
women's clothes. Her plain black dress gave her a starkness....

I do remember, though, how one afternoon I discovered the peculiar appeal of her form for me.
I had been restless with my work and had finally slipped out of the Laboratory and come over
to the Art Museum to lounge among the pictures. I came upon her in an odd corner of the Sheepshanks
gallery, intently copying something from a picture that hung high. I had just been in the gallery
of casts from the antique, my mind was all alive with my newly awakened sense of line, and
there she stood with face upturned, her body drooping forward from the hips just a little--memorably
graceful--feminine.

After that I know I sought to see her, felt a distinctive emotion at her presence, began to
imagine things about her. I no longer thought of generalised womanhood or of this casual person
or that. I thought of her.

An accident brought us together. I found myself one Monday morning in an omnibus staggering
westward from Victoria--I was returning from a Sunday I'd spent at Wimblehurst in response
to a unique freak of hospitality on the part of Mr. Mantell. She was the sole other inside
passenger. And when the time came to pay her fare, she became an extremely scared, disconcerted
and fumbling young woman; she had left her purse at home.

Luckily I had some money.

She looked at me with startled, troubled brown eyes; she permitted my proffered payment to
the conductor with a certain ungraciousness that seemed a part of her shyness, and then as
she rose to go, she thanked me with an obvious affectation of ease.

"Thank you so much," she said in a pleasant soft voice; and then less gracefully, "Awfully
kind of you, you know."

I fancy I made polite noises. But just then I wasn't disposed to be critical. I was full of
the sense of her presence; her arm was stretched out over me as she moved past me, the gracious
slenderness of her body was near me. The words we used didn't seem very greatly to matter.
I had vague ideas of getting out with her--and I didn't.

That encounter, I have no doubt, exercised me enormously. I lay awake at night rehearsing it,
and wondering about the next phase of our relationship. That took the form of the return of
my twopence. I was in the Science Library, digging something out of the Encyclopedia Britannica,
when she appeared beside me and placed on the open page an evidently premeditated thin envelope,
bulgingly confessing the coins within.

"It was so very kind of you," she said, "the other day. I don't know what I should have done,
Mr.--"

I supplied my name. "I knew," I said, "you were a student here."

"Not exactly a student. I--"

"Well, anyhow, I knew you were here frequently. And I'm a student myself at the Consolidated
Technical Schools."

I plunged into autobiography and questionings, and so entangled her in a conversation that
got a quality of intimacy through the fact that, out of deference to our fellow-readers, we
were obliged to speak in undertones. And I have no doubt that in substance it was singularly
banal. Indeed I have an impression that all our early conversations were incredibly banal.
We met several times in a manner half-accidental, half furtive and wholly awkward. Mentally
I didn't take hold of her. I never did take hold of her mentally. Her talk, I now know all
too clearly, was shallow, pretentious, evasive. Only--even to this day--I don't remember it
as in any way vulgar. She was, I could see quite clearly, anxious to overstate or conceal her
real social status, a little desirous to be taken for a student in the art school and a little
ashamed that she wasn't. She came to the museum to "copy things," and this, I gathered, had
something to do with some way of partially earning her living that I wasn't to inquire into.
I told her things about myself, vain things that I felt might appeal to her, but that I learnt
long afterwards made her think me "conceited." We talked of books, but there she was very much
on her guard and secretive, and rather more freely of pictures. She "liked" pictures. I think
from the outset I appreciated and did not for a moment resent that hers was a commonplace mind,
that she was the unconscious custodian of something that had gripped my most intimate instinct,
that she embodied the hope of a possibility, was the careless proprietor of a physical quality
that had turned my head like strong wine. I felt I had to stick to our acquaintance, flat as
it was. Presently we should get through these irrelevant exterior things, and come to the reality
of love beneath.

I saw her in dreams released, as it were, from herself, beautiful, worshipful, glowing. And
sometimes when we were together, we would come on silences through sheer lack of matter, and
then my eyes would feast on her, and the silence seemed like the drawing back of a curtain--her
superficial self. Odd, I confess. Odd, particularly, the enormous hold of certain things about
her upon me, a certain slight rounded duskiness of skin, a certain perfection of modelling
in her lips, her brow, a certain fine flow about the shoulders. She wasn't indeed beautiful
to many people--these things are beyond explaining. She had manifest defects of form and feature,
and they didn't matter at all. Her complexion was bad, but I don't think it would have mattered
if it had been positively unwholesome. I had extraordinarily limited, extraordinarily painful,
desires. I longed intolerably to kiss her lips.

V

The affair was immensely serious and commanding to me. I don't remember that in these earlier
phases I had any thought of turning back at all. It was clear to me that she regarded me with
an eye entirely more critical than I had for her, that she didn't like my scholarly untidiness,
my want of even the most commonplace style. "Why do you wear collars like that?" she said,
and sent me in pursuit of gentlemanly neckwear. I remember when she invited me a little abruptly
one day to come to tea at her home on the following Sunday and meet her father and mother and
aunt, that I immediately doubted whether my hitherto unsuspected best clothes would create
the impression she desired me to make on her belongings. I put off the encounter until the
Sunday after, to get myself in order. I had a morning coat made and I bought a silk hat, and
had my reward in the first glance of admiration she ever gave me. I wonder how many of my sex
are as preposterous. I was, you see, abandoning all my beliefs, my conventions unasked. I was
forgetting myself immensely. And there was a conscious shame in it all. Never a word--did I
breathe to Ewart--to any living soul of what was going on.

Her father and mother and aunt struck me as the dismalest of people, and her home in Walham
Green was chiefly notable for its black and amber tapestry carpets and curtains and table-cloths,
and the age and irrelevance of its books, mostly books with faded gilt on the covers. The windows
were fortified against the intrusive eye by cheap lace curtains and an "art pot" upon an unstable
octagonal table. Several framed Art School drawings of Marion's, bearing official South Kensington
marks of approval, adorned the room, and there was a black and gilt piano with a hymn-book
on the top of it. There were draped mirrors over all the mantels, and above the sideboard in
the dining-room in which we sat at tea was a portrait of her father, villainously truthful
after the manner of such works. I couldn't see a trace of the beauty I found in her in either
parent, yet she somehow contrived to be like them both.

These people pretended in a way that reminded me of the Three Great Women in my mother's room,
but they had not nearly so much social knowledge and did not do it nearly so well. Also, I
remarked, they did it with an eye on Marion. They had wanted to thank me, they said, for the
kindness to their daughter in the matter of the 'bus fare, and so accounted for anything unusual
in their invitation. They posed as simple gentlefolk, a little hostile to the rush and gadding-about
of London, preferring a secluded and unpretentious quiet.

When Marion got out the white table-cloth from the sideboard-drawer for tea, a card bearing
the word "APARTMENTS" fell to the floor. I picked it up and gave it to her before I realised
from her quickened colour that I should not have seen it; that probably had been removed from
the window in honour of my coming.

Her father spoke once in a large remote way of he claims of business engagements, and it was
only long afterwards I realised that he was a supernumerary clerk in the Walham Green Gas Works
and otherwise a useful man at home. He was a large, loose, fattish man with unintelligent brown
eyes magnified by spectacles; he wore an ill-fitting frock-coat and a paper collar, and he
showed me, as his great treasure and interest, a large Bible which he had grangerised with
photographs of pictures. Also he cultivated the little garden-yard behind the house, and he
had a small greenhouse with tomatoes. "I wish I 'ad 'eat," he said. "One can do such a lot
with 'eat. But I suppose you can't 'ave everything you want in this world."

Both he and Marion's mother treated her with a deference that struck me as the most natural
thing in the world. Her own manner changed, became more authoritative and watchful, her shyness
disappeared. She had taken a line of her own I gathered, draped the mirror, got the second-hand
piano, and broken her parents in.

Her mother must once have been a pretty woman; she had regular features and Marion's hair without
its lustre, but she was thin and careworn. The aunt, Miss Ramboat, was a large, abnormally
shy person very like her brother, and I don't recall anything she said on this occasion.

To begin with there was a good deal of tension, Marion was frightfully nervous and every one
was under the necessity of behaving in a mysteriously unreal fashion until I plunged, became
talkative and made a certain ease and interest. I told them of the schools, of my lodgings,
of Wimblehurst and my apprenticeship days. "There's a lot of this Science about nowadays,"
Mr. Ramboat reflected; "but I sometimes wonder a bit what good it is?"

I was young enough to be led into what he called "a bit of a discussion," which Marion truncated
before our voices became unduly raised. "I dare say," she said, "there's much to be said on
both sides."

I remember Marion's mother asked me what church I attended, and that I replied evasively. After
tea there was music and we sang hymns. I doubted if I had a voice when this was proposed, but
that was held to be a trivial objection, and I found sitting close beside the sweep of hair
from Marion's brow had many compensations. I discovered her mother sitting in the horsehair
armchair and regarding us sentimentally. I went for a walk with Marion towards Putney Bridge,
and then there was more singing and a supper of cold bacon and pie, after which Mr. Ramboat
and I smoked. During that walk, I remember, she told me the import of her sketchings and copyings
in the museum. A cousin of a friend of hers whom she spoke of as Smithie, had developed an
original business in a sort of tea-gown garment which she called a Persian Robe, a plain sort
of wrap with a gaily embroidered yoke, and Marion went there and worked in the busy times.
In the times that weren't busy she designed novelties in yokes by an assiduous use of eyes
and note-book in the museum, and went home and traced out the captured forms on the foundation
material. "I don't get much," said Marion, "but it's interesting, and in the busy times we
work all day. Of course the workgirls are dreadfully common, but we don't say much to them.
And Smithie talks enough for ten."

I quite understood the workgirls were dreadfully common.

I don't remember that the Walham Green menage and the quality of these people, nor the light
they threw on Marion, detracted in the slightest degree at that time from the intent resolve
that held me to make her mine. I didn't like them. But I took them as part of the affair. Indeed,
on the whole, I think they threw her up by an effect of contrast; she was so obviously controlling
them, so consciously superior to them.

More and more of my time did I give to this passion that possessed me. I began to think chiefly
of ways of pleasing Marion, of acts of devotion, of treats, of sumptuous presents for her,
of appeals she would understand. If at times she was manifestly unintelligent, in her ignorance
became indisputable, I told myself her simple instincts were worth all the education and intelligence
in the world. And to this day I think I wasn't really wrong about her. There was something
extraordinarily fine about her, something simple and high, that flickered in and out of her
ignorance and commonness and limitations like the tongue from the mouth of a snake....

One night I was privileged to meet her and bring her home from an entertainment at the Birkbeck
Institute. We came back on the underground railway and we travelled first-class--that being
the highest class available. We were alone in the carriage, and for the first time I ventured
to put my arm about her.

"You mustn't," she said feebly.

"I love you," I whispered suddenly with my heart beating wildly, drew her to me, drew all her
beauty to me and kissed her cool and unresisting lips.

"Love me?" she said, struggling away from me, "Don't!" and then, as the train ran into a station,
"You must tell no one.... I don't know.... You shouldn't have done that...."

Then two other people got in with us and terminated my wooing for a time.

When we found ourselves alone together, walking towards Battersea, she had decided to be offended.
I parted from her unforgiven and terribly distressed.

When we met again, she told me I must never say "that" again.

I had dreamt that to kiss her lips was ultimate satisfaction. But it was indeed only the beginning
of desires. I told her my one ambition was to marry her.

"But," she said, "you're not in a position--What's the good of talking like that?"

I stared at her. "I mean to," I said.

"You can't," she answered. "It will be years"

"But I love you," I insisted.

I stood not a yard from the sweet lips I had kissed; I stood within arm's length of the inanimate
beauty I desired to quicken, and I saw opening between us a gulf of years, toil, waiting, disappointments
and an immense uncertainty.

"I love you," I said. "Don't you love me?"

She looked me in the face with grave irresponsive eyes.

"I don't know," she said. "I LIKE you, of course.... One has to be sensibl..."

I can remember now my sense of frustration by her unresilient reply. I should have perceived
then that for her my ardour had no quickening fire. But how was I to know? I had let myself
come to want her, my imagination endowed her with infinite possibilities. I wanted her and
wanted her, stupidly and instinctively....

"But," I said "Love--!"

"One has to be sensible," she replied. "I like going about with you. Can't we keep as we are?'"

VI

Well, you begin to understand my breakdown now, I have been copious enough with these apologia.
My work got more and more spiritless, my behaviour degenerated, my punctuality declined; I
was more and more outclassed in the steady grind by my fellow-students. Such supplies of moral
energy as I still had at command shaped now in the direction of serving Marion rather than science.

I fell away dreadfully, more and more I shirked and skulked; the humped men from the north,
the pale men with thin, clenched minds, the intent, hard-breathing students I found against
me, fell at last from keen rivalry to moral contempt. Even a girl got above me upon one of
the lists. Then indeed I made it a point of honour to show by my public disregard of every
rule that I really did not even pretend to try.

So one day I found myself sitting in a mood of considerable astonishment in Kensington Gardens,
reacting on a recent heated interview with the school Registrar in which I had displayed more
spirit than sense. I was astonished chiefly at my stupendous falling away from all the militant
ideals of unflinching study I had brought up from Wimblehurst. I had displayed myself, as the
Registrar put it, "an unmitigated rotter." My failure to get marks in the written examination
had only been equalled by the insufficiency of my practical work.

"I ask you," the Registrar had said, "what will become of you when your scholarship runs out?"

It certainly was an interesting question. What was going to become of me?

It was clear there would be nothing for me in the schools as I had once dared to hope; there
seemed, indeed, scarcely anything in the world except an illpaid assistantship in some provincial
organized Science School or grammar school. I knew that for that sort of work, without a degree
or any qualification, one earned hardly a bare living and had little leisure to struggle up
to anything better. If only I had even as little as fifty pounds I might hold out in London
and take my B.Sc. degree, and quadruple my chances! My bitterness against my uncle returned
at the thought. After all, he had some of my money still, or ought to have. Why shouldn't I
act within my rights, threaten to 'take proceedings'? I meditated for a space on the idea,
and then returned to the Science Library and wrote him a very considerable and occasionally
pungent letter.

That letter to my uncle was the nadir of my failure. Its remarkable consequences, which ended
my student days altogether, I will tell in the next chapter.

I say "my failure." Yet there are times when I can even doubt whether that period was a failure
at all, when I become defensively critical of those exacting courses I did not follow, the
encyclopaedic process of scientific exhaustion from which I was distracted. My mind was not
inactive, even if it fed on forbidden food. I did not learn what my professors and demonstrators
had resolved I should learn, but I learnt many things. My mind learnt to swing wide and to
swing by itself.

After all, those other fellows who took high places in the College examinations and were the
professor's model boys haven't done so amazingly. Some are professors themselves, some technical
experts; not one can show things done such as I, following my own interest, have achieved.
For I have built boats that smack across the water like whiplashes; no one ever dreamt of such
boats until I built them; and I have surprised three secrets that are more than technical discoveries,
in the unexpected hiding-places of Nature. I have come nearer flying than any man has done.
Could I have done as much if I had had a turn for obeying those rather mediocre professors
at the college who proposed to train my mind? If I had been trained in research--that ridiculous
contradiction in terms--should I have done more than produce additions to the existing store
of little papers with blunted conclusions, of which there are already too many? I see no sense
in mock modesty upon this matter. Even by the standards of worldly success I am, by the side
of my fellow-students, no failure. I had my F.R.S. by the time I was thirty-seven, and if I
am not very wealthy poverty is as far from me as the Spanish Inquisition. Suppose I had stamped
down on the head of my wandering curiosity, locked my imagination in a box just when it wanted
to grow out to things, worked by so-and-so's excellent method and so-and-so's indications,
where should I be now?

I may be all wrong in this. It may be I should be a far more efficient man than I am if I had
cut off all those divergent expenditures of energy, plugged up my curiosity about society with
more currently acceptable rubbish or other, abandoned Ewart, evaded Marion instead of pursuing
her, concentrated. But I don't believe it!

However, I certainly believed it completely and was filled with remorse on that afternoon when
I sat dejectedly in Kensington Gardens and reviewed, in the light of the Registrar's pertinent
questions my first two years in London.

CHAPTER THE SECOND

THE DAWN COMES, AND MY UNCLE APPEARS IN A NEW SILK HAT

I

Throughout my student days I had not seen my uncle. I refrained from going to him in spite
of an occasional regret that in this way I estranged myself from my aunt Susan, and I maintained
a sulky attitude of mind towards him. And I don't think that once in all that time I gave a
thought to that mystic word of his that was to alter all the world for us. Yet I had not altogether
forgotten it. It was with a touch of memory, dim transient perplexity if no more--why did this
thing seem in some way personal?--that I read a new inscription upon the hoardings:

     THE SECRET OF VIGOUR,
     TONO-BUNGAY.

That was all. It was simple and yet in some way arresting. I found myself repeating the word
after I had passed; it roused one's attention like the sound of distant guns. "Tono"--what's
that? and deep, rich, unhurrying;--"BUN--gay!"

Then came my uncle's amazing telegram, his answer to my hostile note: "Come to me at once you
are wanted three hundred a year certain tono-bungay."

"By Jove!" I cried, "of course!

"It's something--. A patent-medicine! I wonder what he wants with me."

In his Napoleonic way my uncle had omitted to give an address. His telegram had been handed
in at Farringdon Road, and after complex meditations I replied to Ponderevo, Farringdon Road,
trusting to the rarity of our surname to reach him.

"Where are you?" I asked.

His reply came promptly:

"192A, Raggett Street, E.C."

The next day I took an unsanctioned holiday after the morning's lecture. I discovered my uncle
in a wonderfully new silk hat--oh, a splendid hat! with a rolling brim that went beyond the
common fashion. It was decidedly too big for him--that was its only fault. It was stuck on
the back of his head, and he was in a white waistcoat and shirt sleeves. He welcomed me with
a forgetfulness of my bitter satire and my hostile abstinence that was almost divine. His glasses
fell off at the sight of me. His round inexpressive eyes shone brightly. He held out his plump
short hand.

"Here we are, George! What did I tell you? Needn't whisper it now, my boy. Shout it--LOUD!
spread it about! Tell every one! Tono--TONO--, TONO-BUNGAY!"

Raggett Street, you must understand, was a thoroughfare over which some one had distributed
large quantities of cabbage stumps and leaves. It opened out of the upper end of Farringdon
Street, and 192A was a shop with the plate-glass front coloured chocolate, on which several
of the same bills I had read upon the hoardings had been stuck. The floor was covered by street
mud that had been brought in on dirty boots, and three energetic young men of the hooligan
type, in neck-wraps and caps, were packing wooden cases with papered-up bottles, amidst much
straw and confusion. The counter was littered with these same swathed bottles, of a pattern
then novel but now amazingly familiar in the world, the blue paper with the coruscating figure
of a genially nude giant, and the printed directions of how under practically all circumstances
to take Tono-Bungay. Beyond the counter on one side opened a staircase down which I seem to
remember a girl descending with a further consignment of bottles, and the rest of the background
was a high partition, also chocolate, with "Temporary Laboratory" inscribed upon it in white
letters, and over a door that pierced it, "Office." Here I rapped, inaudible amid much hammering,
and then entered unanswered to find my uncle, dressed as I have described, one hand gripping
a sheath of letters, and the other scratching his head as he dictated to one of three toiling
typewriter girls. Behind him was a further partition and a door inscribed "ABSOLUTELY PRIVATE--NO
ADMISSION," thereon. This partition was of wood painted the universal chocolate, up to about
eight feet from the ground, and then of glass. Through the glass I saw dimly a crowded suggestion
of crucibles and glass retorts, and--by Jove!--yes!--the dear old Wimblehurst air-pump still!
It gave me quite a little thrill--that air-pump! And beside it was the electrical machine--but
something--some serious trouble--had happened to that. All these were evidently placed on a
shelf just at the level to show.

"Come right into the sanctum," said my uncle, after he had finished something about "esteemed
consideration," and whisked me through the door into a room that quite amazingly failed to
verify the promise of that apparatus. It was papered with dingy wall-paper that had peeled
in places; it contained a fireplace, an easy-chair with a cushion, a table on which stood two
or three big bottles, a number of cigar-boxes on the mantel, whisky Tantalus and a row of soda
syphons. He shut the door after me carefully.

"Well, here we are!" he said. "Going strong! Have a whisky, George? No!--Wise man! Neither
will I! You see me at it! At it--hard!"

"Hard at what?"

"Read it," and he thrust into my hand a label--that label that has now become one of the most
familiar objects of the chemist's shop, the greenish-blue rather old-fashioned bordering, the
legend, the name in good black type, very clear, and the strong man all set about with lightning
flashes above the double column of skilful lies in red--the label of Tono-Bungay. "It's afloat,"
he said, as I stood puzzling at this. "It's afloat. I'm afloat!" And suddenly he burst out
singing in that throaty tenor of his--

"I'm afloat, I'm afloat on the fierce flowing tide, The ocean's my home and my bark is my bride!

"Ripping song that is, George. Not so much a bark as a solution, but still--it does! Here we
are at it! By-the-by! Half a mo'! I've thought of a thing." He whisked out, leaving me to examine
this nuclear spot at leisure while his voice became dictatorial without. The den struck me
as in its large grey dirty way quite unprecedented and extraordinary. The bottles were all
labelled simply A, B, C, and so forth, and that dear old apparatus above, seen from this side,
was even more patiently "on the shelf" than when it had been used to impress Wimblehurst. I
saw nothing for it but to sit down in the chair and await my uncle's explanations. I remarked
a frock-coat with satin lapels behind the door; there was a dignified umbrella in the corner
and a clothes-brush and a hat-brush stood on a side-table. My uncle returned in five minutes
looking at his watch--a gold watch--"Gettin' lunch-time, George," he said. "You'd better come
and have lunch with me!"

"How's Aunt Susan?" I asked.

"Exuberant. Never saw her so larky. This has bucked her up something wonderful--all this."

"All what?"

"Tono-Bungay."

"What is Tono-Bungay?" I asked.

My uncle hesitated. "Tell you after lunch, George," he said. "Come along!" and having locked
up the sanctum after himself, led the way along a narrow dirty pavement, lined with barrows
and swept at times by avalanche-like porters bearing burthens to vans, to Farringdon Street.
He hailed a passing cab superbly, and the cabman was infinitely respectful. "Schafer's," he
said, and off we went side by side--and with me more and more amazed at all these things--to
Schafer's Hotel, the second of the two big places with huge lace curtain-covered windows, near
the corner of Blackfriars Bridge.

I will confess I felt a magic charm in our relative proportions as the two colossal, pale-blue-and-red
liveried porters of Schafers' held open the inner doors for us with a respectful salutation
that in some manner they seemed to confine wholly to my uncle. Instead of being about four
inches taller, I felt at least the same size as he, and very much slenderer. Still more respectful--waiters
relieved him of the new hat and the dignified umbrella, and took his orders for our lunch.
He gave them with a fine assurance.

He nodded to several of the waiters.

"They know me, George, already," he said. "Point me out. Live place! Eye for coming men!"

The detailed business of the lunch engaged our attention for a while, and then I leant across
my plate. "And NOW?" said I.

"It's the secret of vigour. Didn't you read that label?"

"Yes, but--"

"It's selling like hot cakes."

"And what is it?" I pressed.

"Well," said my uncle, and then leant forward and spoke softly under cover of his hand, "It's
nothing more or less than..."

(But here an unfortunate scruple intervenes. After all, Tono-Bungay is still a marketable commodity
and in the hands of purchasers, who bought it from--among other vendors--me. No! I am afraid
I cannot give it away--)

"You see," said my uncle in a slow confidential whisper, with eyes very wide and a creased
forehead, "it's nice because of the" (here he mentioned a flavouring matter and an aromatic
spirit), "it's stimulating because of" (here he mentioned two very vivid tonics, one with a
marked action on the kidney.) "And the" (here he mentioned two other ingredients) "makes it
pretty intoxicating. Cocks their tails. Then there's" (but I touch on the essential secret.)
"And there you are. I got it out of an old book of recipes--all except the" (here he mentioned
the more virulent substance, the one that assails the kidneys), "which is my idea! Modern touch!
There you are!"

He reverted to the direction of our lunch.

Presently he was leading the way to the lounge--sumptuous piece in red morocco and yellow glazed
crockery, with incredible vistas of settees and sofas and things, and there I found myself
grouped with him in two excessively upholstered chairs with an earthenware Moorish table between
us bearing coffee and Benedictine, and I was tasting the delights of a tenpenny cigar. My uncle
smoked a similar cigar in an habituated manner, and he looked energetic and knowing and luxurious
and most unexpectedly a little bounder, round the end of it. It was just a trivial flaw upon
our swagger, perhaps that we both were clear our cigars had to be "mild." He got obliquely
across the spaces of his great armchair so as to incline confidentially to my ear, he curled
up his little legs, and I, in my longer way, adopted a corresponding receptive obliquity. I
felt that we should strike an unbiased observer as a couple of very deep and wily and developing
and repulsive persons.

"I want to let you into this"--puff--"George," said my uncle round the end of his cigar. "For
many reasons."

His voice grew lower and more cunning. He made explanations that to my inexperience did not
completely explain. I retain an impression of a long credit and a share with a firm of wholesale
chemists, of a credit and a prospective share with some pirate printers, of a third share for
a leading magazine and newspaper proprietor.

"I played 'em off one against the other," said my uncle. I took his point in an instant. He
had gone to each of them in turn and said the others had come in.

"I put up four hundred pounds," said my uncle, "myself and my all. And you know--"

He assumed a brisk confidence. "I hadn't five hundred pence. At least--"

For a moment he really was just a little embarrassed. "I DID" he said, "produce capital. You
see, there was that trust affair of yours--I ought, I suppose--in strict legality--to have
put that straight first. Zzzz....

"It was a bold thing to do," said my uncle, shifting the venue from the region of honour to
the region of courage. And then with a characteristic outburst of piety, "Thank God it's all
come right!

"And now, I suppose, you ask where do YOU come in? Well, fact is I've always believed in you,
George. You've got--it's a sort of dismal grit. Bark your shins, rouse you, and you'll go!
You'd rush any position you had a mind to rush. I know a bit about character, George--trust
me. You've got--" He clenched his hands and thrust them out suddenly, and at the same time
said, with explosive violence, "Wooosh! Yes. You have! The way you put away that Latin at Wimblehurst;
I've never forgotten it.

"Wo-oo-oo-osh! Your science and all that! Wo-oo-oo-osh! I know my limitations. There's things
I can do, and" (he spoke in a whisper, as though this was the first hint of his life's secret)
"there's things I can't. Well, I can create this business, but I can't make it go. I'm too
voluminous--I'm a boiler-over, not a simmering stick-at-it. You keep on HOTTING UP AND HOTTING
UP. Papin's digester. That's you, steady and long and piling up,--then, wo-oo-oo-oo-osh. Come
in and stiffen these niggers. Teach them that wo-oo-oo-oo-osh. There you are! That's what I'm
after. You! Nobody else believes you're more than a boy. Come right in with me and be a man.
Eh, George? Think of the fun of it--a thing on the go--a Real Live Thing! Wooshing it up! Making
it buzz and spin! Whoo-oo-oo."--He made alluring expanding circles in the air with his hand. "Eh?"

His proposal, sinking to confidential undertones again, took more definite shape. I was to
give all my time and energy to developing and organising. "You shan't write a single advertisement,
or give a single assurance" he declared. "I can do all that." And the telegram was no flourish;
I was to have three hundred a year. Three hundred a year. ("That's nothing," said my uncle,
"the thing to freeze on to, when the time comes, is your tenth of the vendor's share.")

Three hundred a year certain, anyhow! It was an enormous income to me. For a moment I was altogether
staggered. Could there be that much money in the whole concern? I looked about me at the sumptuous
furniture of Schafer's Hotel. No doubt there were many such incomes.

My head was spinning with unwonted Benedictine and Burgundy.

"Let me go back and look at the game again," I said. "Let me see upstairs and round about."

I did.

"What do you think of it all?" my uncle asked at last.

"Well, for one thing," I said, "why don't you have those girls working in a decently ventilated
room? Apart from any other consideration, they'd work twice as briskly. And they ought to cover
the corks before labelling round the bottle."

"Why?" said my uncle.

"Because--they sometimes make a mucker of the cork job, and then the label's wasted."

"Come and change it, George," said my uncle, with sudden fervour "Come here and make a machine
of it. You can. Make it all slick, and then make it woosh. I know you can. Oh! I know you can."

II

I seem to remember very quick changes of mind after that lunch. The muzzy exaltation of the
unaccustomed stimulants gave way very rapidly to a model of pellucid and impartial clairvoyance
which is one of my habitual mental states. It is intermittent; it leaves me for weeks together,
I know, but back it comes at last like justice on circuit, and calls up all my impression,
all my illusions, all my willful and passionate proceedings. We came downstairs again into
that inner room which pretended to be a scientific laboratory through its high glass lights,
and indeed was a lurking place. My uncle pressed a cigarette on me, and I took it and stood
before the empty fireplace while he propped his umbrella in the corner, deposited the new silk
hat that was a little too big for him on the table, blew copiously and produced a second cigar.

It came into my head that he had shrunken very much in size since the Wimblehurst days, that
the cannon ball he had swallowed was rather more evident and shameless than it had been, his
skin less fresh and the nose between his glasses, which still didn't quite fit, much redder.
And just then he seemed much laxer in his muscles and not quite as alertly quick in his movements.
But he evidently wasn't aware of the degenerative nature of his changes as he sat there, looking
suddenly quite little under my eyes.

"Well, George!" he said, quite happily unconscious of my silent criticism, "what do you think
of it all?"

"Well," I said, "in the first place--it's a damned swindle!"

"Tut! tut!" said my uncle. "It's as straight as--It's fair trading!"

"So much the worse for trading," I said.

"It's the sort of thing everybody does. After all, there's no harm in the stuff--and it may
do good. It might do a lot of good--giving people confidence, f'rinstance, against an epidemic.
See? Why not? don't see where your swindle comes in."

"H'm," I said. "It's a thing you either see or don't see."

"I'd like to know what sort of trading isn't a swindle in its way. Everybody who does a large
advertised trade is selling something common on the strength of saying it's uncommon. Look
at Chickson--they made him a baronet. Look at Lord Radmore, who did it on lying about the alkali
in soap! Rippin' ads those were of his too!"

"You don't mean to say you think doing this stuff up in bottles and swearing it's the quintessence
of strength and making poor devils buy it at that, is straight?"

"Why not, George? How do we know it mayn't be the quintessence to them so far as they're concerned?"

"Oh!" I said, and shrugged my shoulders.

"There's Faith. You put Faith in 'em.... I grant our labels are a bit emphatic. Christian Science,
really. No good setting people against the medicine. Tell me a solitary trade nowadays that
hasn't to be--emphatic. It's the modern way! Everybody understands it--everybody allows for it."

"But the world would be no worse and rather better, if all this stuff of yours was run down
a conduit into the Thames."

"Don't see that, George, at all. 'Mong other things, all our people would be out of work. Unemployed!
I grant you Tono-Bungay MAY be--not QUITE so good a find for the world as Peruvian bark, but
the point is, George--it MAKES TRADE! And the world lives on trade. Commerce! A romantic exchange
of commodities and property. Romance. 'Magination. See? You must look at these things in a
broad light. Look at the wood--and forget the trees! And hang it, George! we got to do these
things! There's no way unless you do. What do YOU mean to do--anyhow?"

"There's ways of living," I said, "Without either fraud or lying."

"You're a bit stiff, George. There's no fraud in this affair, I'll bet my hat. But what do
you propose to do? Go as chemist to some one who IS running a business, and draw a salary without
a share like I offer you. Much sense in that! It comes out of the swindle as you call it--just
the same."

"Some businesses are straight and quiet, anyhow; supply a sound article that is really needed,
don't shout advertisements."

"No, George. There you're behind the times. The last of that sort was sold up 'bout five years
ago."

"Well, there's scientific research."

"And who pays for that? Who put up that big City and Guilds place at South Kensington? Enterprising
business men! They fancy they'll have a bit of science going on, they want a handy Expert ever
and again, and there you are! And what do you get for research when you've done it? Just a
bare living and no outlook. They just keep you to make discoveries, and if they fancy they'll
use 'em they do."

"One can teach."

"How much a year, George? How much a year? I suppose you must respect Carlyle! Well, you take
Carlyle's test--solvency. (Lord! what a book that French Revolution of his is!) See what the
world pays teachers and discoverers and what it pays business men! That shows the ones it really
wants. There's a justice in these big things, George, over and above the apparent injustice.
I tell you it wants trade. It's Trade that makes the world go round! Argosies! Venice! Empire!"

My uncle suddenly rose to his feet.

"You think it over, George. You think it over! And come up on Sunday to the new place--we got
rooms in Gower Street now--and see your aunt. She's often asked for you, George often and often,
and thrown it up at me about that bit of property--though I've always said and always will,
that twenty-five shillings in the pound is what I'll pay you and interest up to the nail. And
think it over. It isn't me I ask you to help. It's yourself. It's your aunt Susan. It's the
whole concern. It's the commerce of your country. And we want you badly. I tell you straight,
I know my limitations. You could take this place, you could make it go! I can see you at it--looking
rather sour. Woosh is the word, George."

And he smiled endearingly.

"I got to dictate a letter," he said, ending the smile, and vanished into the outer room.

III

I didn't succumb without a struggle to my uncle's allurements. Indeed, I held out for a week
while I contemplated life and my prospects. It was a crowded and muddled contemplation. It
invaded even my sleep.

My interview with the Registrar, my talk with my uncle, my abrupt discovery of the hopeless
futility of my passion for Marion, had combined to bring me to sense of crisis. What was I
going to do with life?

I remember certain phases of my indecisions very well.

I remember going home from our talk. I went down Farringdon Street to the Embankment because
I thought to go home by Holborn and Oxford Street would be too crowded for thinking.... That
piece of Embankment from Blackfriars to Westminster still reminds me of that momentous hesitation.

You know, from first to last, I saw the business with my eyes open, I saw its ethical and moral
values quite clearly. Never for a moment do I remember myself faltering from my persuasion
that the sale of Tono-Bungay was a thoroughly dishonest proceeding. The stuff was, I perceived,
a mischievous trash, slightly stimulating, aromatic and attractive, likely to become a bad
habit and train people in the habitual use of stronger tonics and insidiously dangerous to
people with defective kidneys. It would cost about sevenpence the large bottle to make, including
bottling, and we were to sell it at half a crown plus the cost of the patent medicine stamp.
A thing that I will confess deterred me from the outset far more than the sense of dishonesty
in this affair, was the supreme silliness of the whole concern. I still clung to the idea that
the world of men was or should be a sane and just organisation, and the idea that I should
set myself gravely, just at the fine springtime of my life, to developing a monstrous bottling
and packing warehouse, bottling rubbish for the consumption of foolish, credulous and depressed
people, had in it a touch of insanity. My early beliefs still clung to me. I felt assured that
somewhere there must be a hitch in the fine prospect of ease and wealth under such conditions;
that somewhere, a little overgrown, perhaps, but still traceable, lay a neglected, wasted path
of use and honour for me.

My inclination to refuse the whole thing increased rather than diminished at first as I went
along the Embankment. In my uncle's presence there had been a sort of glamour that had prevented
an outright refusal. It was a revival of affection for him I felt in his presence, I think,
in part, and in part an instinctive feeling that I must consider him as my host. But much more
was it a curious persuasion he had the knack of inspiring--a persuasion not so much of his
integrity and capacity as of the reciprocal and yielding foolishness of the world. One felt
that he was silly and wild, but in some way silly and wild after the fashion of the universe.
After all, one must live somehow. I astonished him and myself by temporising.

"No," said I, "I'll think it over!"

And as I went along the embankment the first effect was all against my uncle. He shrank--for
a little while he continued to shrink--in perspective until he was only a very small shabby
little man in a dirty back street, sending off a few hundred bottles of rubbish to foolish
buyers. The great buildings on the right of us, the Inns and the School Board place--as it
was then--Somerset House, the big hotels, the great bridges, Westminster's outlines ahead,
had an effect of grey largeness that reduced him to the proportions of a busy black beetle
in a crack in the floor.

And then my eye caught the advertisements on the south side of "Sorber's Food," of "Cracknell's
Ferric Wine," very bright and prosperous signs, illuminated at night, and I realised how astonishingly
they looked at home there, how evidently part they were in the whole thing.

I saw a man come charging out of Palace Yard--the policeman touched his helmet to him--with
a hat and a bearing astonishingly like my uncle's. After all,--didn't Cracknell himself sit
in the House?

Tono-Bungay shouted at me from a hoarding near Adelphi Terrace; I saw it afar off near Carfax
Street; it cried out again upon me in Kensington High Street, and burst into a perfect clamour;
six or seven times I saw it as I drew near my diggings. It certainly had an air of being something
more than a dream.

Yes, I thought it over--thoroughly enough.... Trade rules the world. Wealth rather than trade!
The thing was true, and true too was my uncle's proposition that the quickest way to get wealth
is to sell the cheapest thing possible in the dearest bottle. He was frightfully right after
all. Pecunnia non olet,--a Roman emperor said that. Perhaps my great heroes in Plutarch were
no more than such men, fine now only because they are distant; perhaps after all this Socialism
to which I had been drawn was only a foolish dream, only the more foolish because all its promises
were conditionally true. Morris and these others played with it wittingly; it gave a zest,
a touch of substance, to their aesthetic pleasures. Never would there be good faith enough
to bring such things about. They knew it; every one, except a few young fools, knew it. As
I crossed the corner of St. James's Park wrapped in thought, I dodged back just in time to
escape a prancing pair of greys. A stout, common-looking woman, very magnificently dressed,
regarded me from the carriage with a scornful eye. "No doubt," thought I, "a pill-vendor's
wife...."

Running through all my thoughts, surging out like a refrain, was my uncle's master-stroke,
his admirable touch of praise: "Make it all slick--and then make it go Woosh. I know you can!
Oh! I KNOW you can!"

IV

Ewart as a moral influence was unsatisfactory. I had made up my mind to put the whole thing
before him, partly to see how he took it, and partly to hear how it sounded when it was said.
I asked him to come and eat with me in an Italian place near Panton Street where one could
get a curious, interesting, glutting sort of dinner for eighteen-pence. He came with a disconcerting
black-eye that he wouldn't explain. "Not so much a black-eye," he said, "as the aftermath of
a purple patch.... What's your difficulty?"

"I'll tell you with the salad," I said.

But as a matter of fact I didn't tell him. I threw out that I was doubtful whether I ought
to go into trade, or stick to teaching in view of my deepening socialist proclivities; and
he, warming with the unaccustomed generosity of a sixteen-penny Chianti, ran on from that without
any further inquiry as to my trouble.

His utterances roved wide and loose.

"The reality of life, my dear Ponderevo," I remember him saying very impressively and punctuating
with the nut-crackers as he spoke, "is Chromatic Conflict ... and Form. Get hold of that and
let all these other questions go. The Socialist will tell you one sort of colour and shape
is right, the Individualist another. What does it all amount to? What DOES it all amount to?
NOTHING! I have no advice to give anyone,--except to avoid regrets. Be yourself, seek after
such beautiful things as your own sense determines to be beautiful. And don't mind the headache
in the morning.... For what, after all, is a morning, Ponderevo? It isn't like the upper part
of a day!"

He paused impressively.

"What Rot!" I cried, after a confused attempt to apprehend him.

"Isn't it! And it's my bedrock wisdom in the matter! Take it or leave it, my dear George; take
it or leave it."... He put down the nut-crackers out of my reach and lugged a greasy-looking
note-book from his pocket. "I'm going to steal this mustard pot," he said.

I made noises of remonstrance.

"Only as a matter of design. I've got to do an old beast's tomb.

"Wholesale grocer. Religion. Potent must and. Municipality. Resource must be yield on colorado-surgery,
superciliousness. Cannot be meet by religion-edifice attempt; the
however best than zeal.

Serve must be rout which adhere to protestant, chorus must be, protestant.

Moreover, there is supreme. Novitiate, inefficient. Community must be that ablest and potent.
Christlike must be got to elevation-burg to Galilee as good as Jerusalem. There is far of. The
workplace. Farmhand. Protestant, mortmain, ghetto, being, living, living.
These I. Footnote: [1] the reference "societal," which was say of
Intercourse, subdivision, St. Louis Ponderevo, September, 1904.

Agency will lend he. That, animality, monoxide-run for matters, the
dustpans, gathering.

Job. Seminary: shed. And, less, category. Pastorship must demonstrate to
be, it ought be, prerogative. Circumstance, religion, facility, entirely
must clergyman, duel, he.

Ghetto. Influence should be federalize.

Job, cohort, colorado-action, for which has its domain, besides its
narrowness.

To unitedly,
league, of husbandman'organisation, agricultural, building-educator and superior, people, people
anthologist; in information, who have any puzzle. Punctually go well-defined futurism brought in dreams
muddle at number, wide program for moralization, dynamic, forwarding.

It has been potential. It is the job has been therefore, like days of advancement, answer has been
intelligibly. Allow he. Puzzle may so be say like mincers, accurately, it was done at space,
uncle. Contadino has been basically'late-category. (2) Creator'association, which are go among
direction. They give. Beginning. It is the offspring like he accomplish itself; societal business
must be occupy of achievement. For monoxide-action of all who hate of
benefit. Colorado-run with business.

Organization should ally with agency of advancement may be transport for
measure. Attack, at likening up predetermination do not separate. It
must be retrieve that there are property among sultriness, thither
are battalion of parish where undimmed, semidarkness, of humor are
sour.

But, pleasant, poor, living, we.

There are pressure at wash that are molding, régime is surpass.
"young matter off; wholly." ease has not been entirely frequently
have been an dissuasive had his offstage.

It is false image is not all before it. A? As it were not truthful thither would be each puzzle; many people
would have to change. Urban. Materially, hitherto, intellectually,
development.

Taboo are fade. Protestant. Improvement has been for case has not hitherto
make its nadir; so, fountainhead. It come retentive and they are
incorporate midday, hour is all that rous.

They are larn by cooperation, employment, source, was brought to
body, colorado-surgical.

"Authority-farmin" is however, "perfessers" mind that has build during
period.

Summary may look some who can that, width, state. Drawing. Boom shall sway to and fro, socially,
alteration, for husbandman for yellowwood. Explanation: (1) Thousand of contadino are acquire
by foundation. Anatomy; they, invention; gardener in yellowwood according
to direction down him to researcher; farmer of the "Babcock" colostrum;
inventory-devourer utilize person'mycophagy. There will be no Creator'Organization
had form; but government, veto may be weave of precincts.

Development. Husbandman are straightening to activity. (3) old pedagogics are being quickly. Achene-viticulturist
tormentor; nowadays it is rare who does not. Monoxide-surgical workplace
has not get, and it has put to make first-collection. (4) in thought.
Specialisation, roughness, agribusiness, who, idiom.

Discipline, creator is proper something. What are some agency? (1) an
imperativeness, was scientific sweepers. It is the kind.

(3) the testing, Section.

(4) special elective (of rag), was proffer at dominion, direction.
(5). (6) Delay. (7) a agribusiness. (8) more discouraging than all
certainly of identity that there is a business.

Him can be establish no that have been late to contadino. It would be quality
note; of it necessitate same relation. A is a tearjerker. Not merely
are our husbandman pull that oilman, cognition, had therefore, it arrive
to workforce, job.

Realpolitik; there is the curiosity. George. Travel room, academy,
bibliotheca are give lost, household.

Low-pitched. Rural, value, contadino not more than tenfold. Quickly
larn is to act. They. Happening. (2) a creator. Farmer are larn in
caddy. It is truthful that motion. Creator are gathering by something.
They have been more outing and leisure.

They have been a to form, envy, suspicion, they have had relatively.

Display-stress.

Business must be make to abundance, chance, satisfaction, wing, paradigm,
civilian. Their ghetto. Creator have more uncle. Order profoundly than
they. Coach. They sell neater and furnishing.

Dwelling are prettier and comfy that their forefather.

To be trust so that dominion shall lose delectation; that contadino may happen. Flagship, unit; that
electric favor that it quickly, it equilibrate, action, achieve its morphallaxis. But there is decided
"grow barely" today at last establish.

Echt.

Contadino has his capture to reshuffle. Good-desire to donor. On attic
there is isn'he being make. It assure those oilman. A weather or development.
Bicycle-built-for-two and cine-camera are not uncommon. But what is
heed, what is shortly, obstruction which have thus retentive living;
the banishment has been the inevitable; the possibility: in case,
civilization, bounty, privilege, work, implementation, of the good
and homo.

Contadino all contadino may be split into category.

There is the "young" creator, there is least "old" creator, and there
is the ".".

It. Conservative.

Creator; he was "up multiplication,"
the period. Patriarch; he is more husbandman'.

Sunshine; he is not "necessitate" in period, "front" with multiplication.
He populate and articles, truly has his existence. Who.

His broadax, OH are the sphere. He, Sioux. He catch, garner. Class.
 We also had the Fog poster
adapted to a kilted Briton in a misty Highland scene.

Under the shadow of our great leading line we were presently taking subsidiary specialties
into action; "Tono-Bungay Hair Stimulant" was our first supplement. Then came "Concentrated
Tono-Bungay" for the eyes. That didn't go, but we had a considerable success with the Hair
Stimulant. We broached the subject, I remember, in a little catechism beginning: "Why does
the hair fall out? Because the follicles are fagged. What are the follicles?..." So it went
on to the climax that the Hair Stimulant contained all "The essential principles of that most
reviving tonic, Tono-Bungay, together with an emollient and nutritious oil derived from crude
Neat's Foot Oil by a process of refinement, separation and deodorization.... It will be manifest
to any one of scientific attainments that in Neat's Foot Oil derived from the hoofs and horns
of beasts, we must necessarily have a natural skin and hair lubricant."

And we also did admirable things with our next subsidiaries, "Tono-Bungay Lozenges," and "Tono-Bungay
Chocolate." These we urged upon the public for their extraordinary nutritive and recuperative
value in cases of fatigue and strain. We gave them posters and illustrated advertisements showing
climbers hanging from marvelously vertical cliffs, cyclist champions upon the track, mounted
messengers engaged in Aix-to-Ghent rides, soldiers lying out in action under a hot sun. "You
can GO for twenty-four hours," we declared, "on Tono-Bungay Chocolate." We didn't say whether
you could return on the same commodity. We also showed a dreadfully barristerish barrister,
wig, side-whiskers, teeth, a horribly life-like portrait of all existing barristers, talking
at a table, and beneath, this legend: "A Four Hours' Speech on Tono-Bungay Lozenges, and as
fresh as when he began." Then brought in regiments of school-teachers, revivalist ministers,
politicians and the like. I really do believe there was an element of "kick" in the strychnine
in these lozenges, especially in those made according to our earlier formula. For we altered
all our formulae--invariably weakening them enormously as sales got ahead.

In a little while--so it seems to me now--we were employing travelers and opening up Great
Britain at the rate of a hundred square miles a day. All the organisation throughout was sketched
in a crude, entangled, half-inspired fashion by my uncle, and all of it had to be worked out
into a practicable scheme of quantities and expenditure by me. We had a lot of trouble finding
our travelers; in the end at least half of them were Irish-Americans, a wonderful breed for
selling medicine. We had still more trouble over our factory manager, because of the secrets
of the inner room, and in the end we got a very capable woman, Mrs. Hampton Diggs, who had
formerly managed a large millinery workroom, whom we could trust to keep everything in good
working order without finding out anything that wasn't put exactly under her loyal and energetic
nose. She conceived a high opinion of Tono-Bungay and took it in all forms and large quantities
so long as I knew her. It didn't seem to do her any harm. And she kept the girls going quite
wonderfully.

My uncle's last addition to the Tono-Bungay group was the Tono-Bungay Mouthwash. The reader
has probably read a hundred times that inspiring inquiry of his, "You are Young Yet, but are
you Sure Nothing has Aged your Gums?"

And after that we took over the agency for three or four good American lines that worked in
with our own, and could be handled with it; Texan Embrocation, and "23--to clear the system"
were the chief....

I set down these bare facts. To me they are all linked with the figure of my uncle. In some
of the old seventeenth and early eighteenth century prayerbooks at Bladesover there used to
be illustrations with long scrolls coming out of the mouths of the wood-cut figures. I wish
I could write all this last chapter on a scroll coming out of the head of my uncle, show it
all the time as unfolding and pouring out from a short, fattening, small-legged man with stiff
cropped hair, disobedient glasses on a perky little nose, and a round stare behind them. I
wish I could show you him breathing hard and a little through his nose as his pen scrabbled
out some absurd inspiration for a poster or a picture page, and make you hear his voice, charged
with solemn import like the voice of a squeaky prophet, saying, "George! list'n! I got an ideer.
I got a notion! George!"

I should put myself into the same picture. Best setting for us, I think, would be the Beckenham
snuggery, because there we worked hardest. It would be the lamplit room of the early nineties,
and the clock upon the mantel would indicate midnight or later. We would be sitting on either
side of the fire, I with a pipe, my uncle with a cigar or cigarette. There would be glasses
standing inside the brass fender. Our expressions would be very grave. My uncle used to sit
right back in his armchair; his toes always turned in when he was sitting down and his legs
had a way of looking curved, as though they hadn't bones or joints but were stuffed with sawdust.

"George, whad'yer think of T.B. for sea-sickness?" he would say.

"No good that I can imagine."

"Oom! No harm TRYING, George. We can but try."

I would suck my pipe. "Hard to get at. Unless we sold our stuff specially at the docks. Might
do a special at Cook's office, or in the Continental Bradshaw."

"It 'ud give 'em confidence, George."

He would Zzzz, with his glasses reflecting the red of the glowing coals.

"No good hiding our light under a Bushel," he would remark.

I never really determined whether my uncle regarded Tono-Bungay as a fraud, or whether he didn't
come to believe in it in a kind of way by the mere reiteration of his own assertions. I think
that his average attitude was one of kindly, almost parental, toleration. I remember saying
on one occasion, "But you don't suppose this stuff ever did a human being the slightest good
all?" and how his face assumed a look of protest, as of one reproving harshness and dogmatism.

"You've a hard nature, George," he said. "You're too ready to run things down. How can one
TELL? How can one venture to TELL!..."

I suppose any creative and developing game would have interested me in those years. At any
rate, I know I put as much zeal into this Tono-Bungay as any young lieutenant could have done
who suddenly found himself in command of a ship. It was extraordinarily interesting to me to
figure out the advantage accruing from this shortening of the process or that, and to weigh
it against the capital cost of the alteration. I made a sort of machine for sticking on the
labels, that I patented; to this day there is a little trickle of royalties to me from that.
I also contrived to have our mixture made concentrated, got the bottles, which all came sliding
down a guarded slant-way, nearly filled with distilled water at one tap, and dripped our magic
ingredients in at the next. This was an immense economy of space for the inner sanctum. For
the bottling we needed special taps, and these, too, I invented and patented.

We had a sort of endless band of bottles sliding along an inclined glass trough made slippery
with running water. At one end a girl held them up to the light, put aside any that were imperfect
and placed the others in the trough; the filling was automatic; at the other end a girl slipped
in the cork and drove it home with a little mallet. Each tank, the little one for the vivifying
ingredients and the big one for distilled water, had a level indicator, and inside I had a
float arrangement that stopped the slide whenever either had sunk too low. Another girl stood
ready with my machine to label the corked bottles and hand them to the three packers, who slipped
them into their outer papers and put them, with a pad of corrugated paper between each pair,
into a little groove from which they could be made to slide neatly into position in our standard
packing-case. It sounds wild, I know, but I believe I was the first man in the city of London
to pack patent medicines through the side of the packing-case, to discover there was a better
way in than by the lid. Our cases packed themselves, practically; had only to be put into position
on a little wheeled tray and when full pulled to the lift that dropped them to the men downstairs,
who padded up the free space and nailed on top and side. Our girls, moreover, packed with corrugated
paper and matchbook-wood box partitions when everybody else was using expensive young men to
pack through the top of the box with straw, many breakages and much waste and confusion.

II

As I look back at them now, those energetic years seem all compacted to a year or so; from
the days of our first hazardous beginning in Farringdon Street with barely a thousand pounds'
worth of stuff or credit all told--and that got by something perilously like snatching--to
the days when my uncle went to the public on behalf of himself and me (one-tenth share) and
our silent partners, the drug wholesalers and the printing people and the owner of that group
of magazines and newspapers, to ask with honest confidence for L150,000. Those silent partners
were remarkably sorry, I know, that they had not taken larger shares and given us longer credit
when the subscriptions came pouring in. My uncle had a clear half to play with (including the
one-tenth understood to be mine).

L150,000--think of it!--for the goodwill in a string of lies and a trade in bottles of mitigated
water! Do you realise the madness of the world that sanctions such a thing? Perhaps you don't.
At times use and wont certainly blinded me. If it had not been for Ewart, I don't think I should
have had an inkling of the wonderfulness of this development of my fortunes; I should have
grown accustomed to it, fallen in with all its delusions as completely as my uncle presently
did. He was immensely proud of the flotation. "They've never been given such value," he said,
"for a dozen years." But Ewart, with his gesticulating hairy hands and bony wrists, his single-handed
chorus to all this as it played itself over again in my memory, and he kept my fundamental
absurdity illuminated for me during all this astonishing time.

"It's just on all fours with the rest of things," he remarked; "only more so. You needn't think
you're anything out of the way."

I remember one disquisition very distinctly. It was just after Ewart had been to Paris on a
mysterious expedition to "rough in" some work for a rising American sculptor. This young man
had a commission for an allegorical figure of Truth (draped, of course) for his State Capitol,
and he needed help. Ewart had returned with his hair cut en brosse and with his costume completely
translated into French. He wore, I remember, a bicycling suit of purplish-brown, baggy beyond
ageing--the only creditable thing about it was that it had evidently not been made for him--a
voluminous black tie, a decadent soft felt hat and several French expletives of a sinister
description. "Silly clothes, aren't they?" he said at the sight of my startled eye. "I don't
know why I got'm. They seemed all right over there."

He had come down to our Raggett Street place to discuss a benevolent project of mine for a
poster by him, and he scattered remarkable discourse over the heads (I hope it was over the
heads) of our bottlers.

"What I like about it all, Ponderevo, is its poetry.... That's where we get the pull of the
animals. No animal would ever run a factory like this. Think!... One remembers the Beaver,
of course. He might very possibly bottle things, but would he stick a label round 'em and sell
'em? The Beaver is a dreamy fool, I'll admit, him and his dams, but after all there's a sort
of protection about 'em, a kind of muddy practicality! They prevent things getting at him.
And it's not your poetry only. It's the poetry of the customer too. Poet answering to poet--soul
to soul. Health, Strength and Beauty--in a bottle--the magic philtre! Like a fairy tale....

"Think of the people to whom your bottles of footle go! (I'm calling it footle, Ponderevo,
out of praise," he said in parenthesis.)

"Think of the little clerks and jaded women and overworked people. People overstrained with
wanting to do, people overstrained with wanting to be.... People, in fact, overstrained....
The real trouble of life, Ponderevo, isn't that we exist--that's a vulgar error; the real trouble
is that we DON'T really exist and we want to. That's what this--in the highest sense--just
stands for! The hunger to be--for once--really alive--to the finger tips!...

"Nobody wants to do and be the things people are--nobody. YOU don't want to preside over this--this
bottling; I don't want to wear these beastly clothes and be led about by you; nobody wants
to keep on sticking labels on silly bottles at so many farthings a gross. That isn't existing!
That's--sus--substratum. None of us want to be what we are, or to do what we do. Except as
a sort of basis. What do we want? You know. I know. Nobody confesses. What we all want to be
is something perpetually young and beautiful--young Joves--young Joves, Ponderevo"--his voice
became loud, harsh and declamatory--"pursuing coy half-willing nymphs through everlasting forests."...

There was a just-perceptible listening hang in the work about us.

"Come downstairs," I interrupted, "we can talk better there."

"I can talk better here," he answered.

He was just going on, but fortunately the implacable face of Mrs. Hampton Diggs appeared down
the aisle of bottling machines.

"All right," he said, "I'll come."

In the little sanctum below, my uncle was taking a digestive pause after his lunch and by no
means alert. His presence sent Ewart back to the theme of modern commerce, over the excellent
cigar my uncle gave him. He behaved with the elaborate deference due to a business magnate
from an unknown man.

"What I was pointing out to your nephew, sir," said Ewart, putting both elbows on the table,
"was the poetry of commerce. He doesn't, you know, seem to see it at all."

My uncle nodded brightly. "Whad I tell 'im," he said round his cigar.

"We are artists. You and I, sir, can talk, if you will permit me, as one artist to another.
It's advertisement has--done it. Advertisement has revolutionised trade and industry; it is
going to revolutionise the world. The old merchant used to tote about commodities; the new
one creates values. Doesn't need to tote. He takes something that isn't worth anything--or
something that isn't particularly worth anything--and he makes it worth something. He takes
mustard that is just like anybody else's mustard, and he goes about saying, shouting, singing,
chalking on walls, writing inside people's books, putting it everywhere, 'Smith's Mustard is
the Best.' And behold it is the best!"

"True," said my uncle, chubbily and with a dreamy sense of mysticism; "true!"

"It's just like an artist; he takes a lump of white marble on the verge of a lime-kiln, he
chips it about, he makes--he makes a monument to himself--and others--a monument the world
will not willingly let die. Talking of mustard, sir, I was at Clapham Junction the other day,
and all the banks are overgrown with horse radish that's got loose from a garden somewhere.
You know what horseradish is--grows like wildfire--spreads--spreads. I stood at the end of
the platform looking at the stuff and thinking about it. 'Like fame,' I thought, 'rank and
wild where it isn't wanted. Why don't the really good things in life grow like horseradish?'
I thought. My mind went off in a peculiar way it does from that to the idea that mustard costs
a penny a tin--I bought some the other day for a ham I had. It came into my head that it would
be ripping good business to use horseradish to adulterate mustard. I had a sort of idea that
I could plunge into business on that, get rich and come back to my own proper monumental art
again. And then I said, 'But why adulterate? I don't like the idea of adulteration.'"

"Shabby," said my uncle, nodding his head. "Bound to get found out!"

"And totally unnecessary, too! Why not do up a mixture--three-quarters pounded horseradish
and a quarter mustard--give it a fancy name--and sell it at twice the mustard price. See? I
very nearly started the business straight away, only something happened. My train came along."

"Jolly good ideer," said my uncle. He looked at me. "That really is an ideer, George," he said.

"Take shavin's, again! You know that poem of Longfellow's, sir, that sounds exactly like the
first declension. What is it?--'Marr's a maker, men say!'"

My uncle nodded and gurgled some quotation that died away.

"Jolly good poem, George," he said in an aside to me.

"Well, it's about a carpenter and a poetic Victorian child, you know, and some shavin's. The
child made no end out of the shavin's. So might you. Powder 'em. They might be anything. Soak
'em in jipper,--Xylo-tobacco! Powder'em and get a little tar and turpentinous smell in,--wood-packing
for hot baths--a Certain Cure for the scourge of Influenza! There's all these patent grain
foods,--what Americans call cereals. I believe I'm right, sir, in saying they're sawdust."

"No!" said my uncle, removing his cigar; "as far as I can find out it's really grain,--spoilt
grain.... I've been going into that."

"Well, there you are!" said Ewart. "Say it's spoilt grain. It carried out my case just as well.
Your modern commerce is no more buying and selling than sculpture. It's mercy--it's salvation.
It's rescue work! It takes all sorts of fallen commodities by the hand and raises them. Cana
isn't in it. You turn water--into Tono-Bungay."

"Tono-Bungay's all right," said my uncle, suddenly grave. "We aren't talking of Tono-Bungay."

"Your nephew, sir, is hard; he wants everything to go to a sort of predestinated end; he's
a Calvinist of Commerce. Offer him a dustbin full of stuff; he calls it refuse--passes by on
the other side. Now YOU, sir you'd make cinders respect themselves."

My uncle regarded him dubiously for a moment. But there was a touch of appreciation in his eye.

"Might make 'em into a sort of sanitary brick," he reflected over his cigar end.

"Or a friable biscuit. Why NOT? You might advertise: 'Why are Birds so Bright? Because they
digest their food perfectly! Why do they digest their food so perfectly? Because they have
a gizzard! Why hasn't man a gizzard? Because he can buy Ponderevo's Asphalt Triturating, Friable
Biscuit--Which is Better.'"

He delivered the last words in a shout, with his hairy hand flourished in the air....

"Damn clever fellow," said my uncle, after he had one. "I know a man when I see one. He'd do.
But drunk, I should say. But that only makes some chap brighter. If he WANTS to do that poster,
he can. Zzzz. That ideer of his about the horseradish. There's something in that, George. I'm
going to think over that...."

I may say at once that my poster project came to nothing in the end, though Ewart devoted an
interesting week to the matter. He let his unfortunate disposition to irony run away with him.
He produced a picture of two beavers with a subtle likeness, he said, to myself and my uncle--the
likeness to my uncle certainly wasn't half bad--and they were bottling rows and rows of Tono-Bungay,
with the legend "Modern commerce." It certainly wouldn't have sold a case, though he urged
it on me one cheerful evening on the ground that it would "arouse curiosity." In addition he
produced a quite shocking study of my uncle, excessively and needlessly nude, but, so far as
I was able to judge, an admirable likeness, engaged in feats of strength of a Gargantuan type
before an audience of deboshed and shattered ladies. The legend, "Health, Beauty, Strength,"
below, gave a needed point to his parody. This he hung up in the studio over the oil shop,
with a flap of brown paper; by way of a curtain over it to accentuate its libellous offence.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH

MARION I

As I look back on those days in which we built up the great Tono-Bungay property out of human
hope and credit for bottles and rent and printing, I see my life as it were arranged in two
parallel columns of unequal width, a wider, more diffused, eventful and various one which continually
broadens out, the business side of my life, and a narrow, darker and darkling one shot ever
and again with a gleam of happiness, my home-life with Marion. For, of course, I married Marion.

I didn't, as a matter of fact, marry her until a year after Tono-Bungay was thoroughly afloat,
and then only after conflicts and discussions of a quite strenuous sort. By that time I was
twenty-four. It seems the next thing to childhood now. We were both in certain directions unusually
ignorant and simple; we were temperamentally antagonistic, and we hadn't--I don't think we
were capable of--an idea in common. She was young and extraordinarily conventional--she seemed
never to have an idea of her own but always the idea of her class--and I was young and sceptical,
enterprising and passionate; the two links that held us together were the intense appeal her
physical beauty had for me, and her appreciation of her importance in my thoughts. There can
be no doubt of my passion for her. In her I had discovered woman desired. The nights I have
lain awake on account of her, writhing, biting my wrists in a fever of longing! ...

I have told how I got myself a silk hat and black coat to please her on Sunday--to the derision
of some of my fellow-students who charged to meet me, and how we became engaged. But that was
only the beginning of our difference. To her that meant the beginning of a not unpleasant little
secrecy, an occasional use of verbal endearments, perhaps even kisses. It was something to
go on indefinitely, interfering in no way with her gossiping spells of work at Smithie's. To
me it was a pledge to come together into the utmost intimacy of soul and body so soon as we
could contrive it....

I don't know if it will strike the reader that I am setting out to discuss the queer, unwise
love relationship and my bungle of a marriage with excessive solemnity. But to me it seems
to reach out to vastly wider issues than our little personal affair. I've thought over my life.
In these last few years I've tried to get at least a little wisdom out of it. And in particular
I've thought over this part of my life. I'm enormously impressed by the ignorant, unguided
way in which we two entangled ourselves with each other. It seems to me the queerest thing
in all this network of misunderstandings and misstatements and faulty and ramshackle conventions
which makes up our social order as the individual meets it, that we should have come together
so accidentally and so blindly. Because we were no more than samples of the common fate. Love
is not only the cardinal fact in the individual life, but the most important concern of the
community; after all, the way in which the young people of this generation pair off determines
the fate of the nation; all the other affairs of the State are subsidiary to that. And we leave
it to flushed and blundering youth to stumble on its own significance, with nothing to guide
in but shocked looks and sentimental twaddle and base whisperings and cant-smeared examples.

I have tried to indicate something of my own sexual development in the preceding chapter. Nobody
was ever frank and decent with me in this relation; nobody, no book, ever came and said to
me thus and thus is the world made, and so and so is necessary. Everything came obscurely,
indefinitely, perplexingly; and all I knew of law or convention in the matter had the form
of threatenings and prohibitions. Except through the furtive, shameful talk of my coevals at
Goudhurst and Wimblehurst, I was not even warned against quite horrible dangers. My ideas were
made partly of instinct, partly of a romantic imagination, partly woven out of a medley of
scraps of suggestion that came to me haphazard. I had read widely and confusedly "Vathek,"
Shelley, Tom Paine, Plutarch, Carlyle, Haeckel, William Morris, the Bible, the Freethinker,
the Clarion, "The Woman Who Did,"--I mention the ingredients that come first to mind. All sorts
of ideas were jumbled up in me and never a lucid explanation. But it was evident to me that
the world regarded Shelley, for example, as a very heroic as well as beautiful person; and
that to defy convention and succumb magnificently to passion was the proper thing to do to
gain the respect and affection of all decent people.

And the make-up of Marion's mind in the matter was an equally irrational affair. Her training
had been one, not simply of silences, but suppressions. An enormous force of suggestion had
so shaped her that the intense natural fastidiousness of girlhood had developed into an absolute
perversion of instinct. For all that is cardinal in this essential business of life she had
one inseparable epithet--"horrid." Without any such training she would have been a shy lover,
but now she was an impossible one. For the rest she had derived, I suppose, partly from the
sort of fiction she got from the Public Library, and partly from the workroom talk at Smithie's.
So far as the former origin went, she had an idea of love as a state of worship and service
on the part of the man and of condescension on the part of the woman. There was nothing "horrid"
about it in any fiction she had read. The man gave presents, did services, sought to be in
every way delightful. The woman "went out" with him, smiled at him, was kissed by him in decorous
secrecy, and if he chanced to offend, denied her countenance and presence. Usually she did
something "for his good" to him, made him go to church, made him give up smoking or gambling,
smartened him up. Quite at the end of the story came a marriage, and after that the interest
ceased.

That was the tenor of Marion's fiction; but I think the work-table conversation at Smithie's
did something to modify that. At Smithie's it was recognised, I think, that a "fellow" was
a possession to be desired; that it was better to be engaged to a fellow than not; that fellows
had to be kept--they might be mislaid, they might even be stolen. There was a case of stealing
at Smithie's, and many tears.

Smithie I met before we were married, and afterwards she became a frequent visitor to our house
at Ealing. She was a thin, bright-eyed, hawk-nosed girl of thirtyodd, with prominent teeth,
a high-pitched, eager voice and a disposition to be urgently smart in her dress. Her hats were
startling and various, but invariably disconcerting, and she talked in a rapid, nervous flow
that was hilarious rather than witty, and broken by little screams of "Oh, my dear!" and "you
never did!" She was the first woman I ever met who used scent. Poor old Smithie! What a harmless,
kindly soul she really was, and how heartily I detested her! Out of the profits on the Persian
robes she supported a sister's family of three children, she "helped" a worthless brother,
and overflowed in help even to her workgirls, but that didn't weigh with me in those youthfully-narrow
times. It was one of the intense minor irritations of my married life that Smithie's whirlwind
chatter seemed to me to have far more influence with Marion than anything I had to say. Before
all things I coveted her grip upon Marion's inaccessible mind.

In the workroom at Smithie's, I gathered, they always spoke of me demurely as "A Certain Person."
I was rumoured to be dreadfully "clever," and there were doubts--not altogether without justification--of
the sweetness of my temper.

II

Well, these general explanations will enable the reader to understand the distressful times
we two had together when presently I began to feel on a footing with Marion and to fumble conversationally
for the mind and the wonderful passion I felt, obstinately and stupidity, must be in her. I
think she thought me the maddest of sane men; "clever," in fact, which at Smithie's was, I
suppose, the next thing to insanity, a word intimating incomprehensible and incalculable motives....
She could be shocked at anything, she misunderstood everything, and her weapon was a sulky
silence that knitted her brows, spoilt her mouth and robbed her face of beauty. "Well, if we
can't agree, I don't see why you should go on talking," she used to say. That would always
enrage me beyond measure. Or, "I'm afraid I'm not clever enough to understand that."

Silly little people! I see it all now, but then I was no older than she and I couldn't see
anything but that Marion, for some inexplicable reason, wouldn't come alive.

We would contrive semi-surreptitious walks on Sunday, and part speechless with the anger of
indefinable offences. Poor Marion! The things I tried to put before her, my fermenting ideas
about theology, about Socialism, about aesthetics--the very words appalled her, gave her the
faint chill of approaching impropriety, the terror of a very present intellectual impossibility.
Then by an enormous effort I would suppress myself for a time and continue a talk that made
her happy, about Smithie's brother, about the new girl who had come to the workroom, about
the house we would presently live in. But there we differed a little. I wanted to be accessible
to St. Paul's or Cannon Street Station, and she had set her mind quite resolutely upon Eating....
It wasn't by any means quarreling all the time, you understand. She liked me to play the lover
"nicely"; she liked the effect of going about--we had lunches, we went to Earl's Court, to
Kew, to theatres and concerts, but not often to concerts, because, though Marion "liked" music,
she didn't like "too much of it," to picture shows--and there was a nonsensical sort of babytalk
I picked up--I forget where now--that became a mighty peacemaker.

Her worst offence for me was an occasional excursion into the Smithie style of dressing, debased
West Kensington. For she had no sense at all of her own beauty. She had no comprehension whatever
of beauty of the body, and she could slash her beautiful lines to rags with hat-brims and trimmings.
Thank Heaven! a natural refinement, a natural timidity, and her extremely slender purse kept
her from the real Smithie efflorescence! Poor, simple, beautiful, kindly limited Marion! Now
that I am forty-five, I can look back at her with all my old admiration and none of my old
bitterness with a new affection and not a scrap of passion, and take her part against the equally
stupid, drivingly-energetic, sensuous, intellectual sprawl I used to be. I was a young beast
for her to have married--a hound beast. With her it was my business to understand and control--and
I exacted fellowship, passion....

We became engaged, as I have told; we broke it off and joined again. We went through a succession
of such phases. We had no sort of idea what was wrong with us. Presently we were formally engaged.
I had a wonderful interview with her father, in which he was stupendously grave and H--less,
wanted to know about my origins and was tolerant (exasperatingly tolerant) because my mother
was a servant, and afterwards her mother took to kissing me, and I bought a ring. But the speechless
aunt, I gathered, didn't approve--having doubts of my religiosity. Whenever we were estranged
we could keep apart for days; and to begin with, every such separation was a relief. And then
I would want her; a restless longing would come upon me. I would think of the flow of her arms,
of the soft, gracious bend of her body. I would lie awake or dream of a transfigured Marion
of light and fire. It was indeed Dame Nature driving me on to womankind in her stupid, inexorable
way; but I thought it was the need of Marion that troubled me. So I always went back to Marion
at last and made it up and more or less conceded or ignored whatever thing had parted us, and
more and more I urged her to marry me....

In the long run that became a fixed idea. It entangled my will and my pride; I told myself
I was not going to be beaten. I hardened to the business. I think, as a matter of fact, my
real passion for Marion had waned enormously long before we were married, that she had lived
it down by sheer irresponsiveness. When I felt sure of my three hundred a year she stipulated
for delay, twelve months' delay, "to see how things would turn out." There were times when
she seemed simply an antagonist holding out irritatingly against something I had to settle.
Moreover, I began to be greatly distracted by the interest and excitement of Tono-Bungay's
success, by the change and movement in things, the going to and fro. I would forget her for
days together, and then desire her with an irritating intensity at last, one Saturday afternoon,
after a brooding morning, I determined almost savagely that these delays must end.

I went off to the little home at Walham Green, and made Marion come with me to Putney Common.
Marion wasn't at home when I got there and I had to fret for a time and talk to her father,
who was just back from his office, he explained, and enjoying himself in his own way in the
greenhouse.

"I'm going to ask your daughter to marry me!" I said. "I think we've been waiting long enough."

"I don't approve of long engagements either," said her father. "But Marion will have her own
way about it, anyhow. Seen this new powdered fertiliser?"

I went in to talk to Mrs. Ramboat. "She'll want time to get her things," said Mrs. Ramboat....

I and Marion sat down together on a little seat under some trees at the top of Putney Hill,
and I came to my point abruptly.

"Look here, Marion," I said, "are you going to marry me or are you not?"

She smiled at me. "Well," she said, "we're engaged--aren't we?"

"That can't go on for ever. Will you marry me next week?"

She looked me in the face. "We can't," she said.

"You promised to marry me when I had three hundred a year."

She was silent for a space. "Can't we go on for a time as we are? We COULD marry on three hundred
a year. But it means a very little house. There's Smithie's brother. They manage on two hundred
and fifty, but that's very little. She says they have a semi-detached house almost on the road,
and hardly a bit of garden. And the wall to next-door is so thin they hear everything. When
her baby cries--they rap. And people stand against the railings and talk.... Can't we wait?
You're doing so well."

An extraordinary bitterness possessed me at this invasion of the stupendous beautiful business
of love by sordid necessity. I answered her with immense restraint.

"If," I said, "we could have a double-fronted, detached house--at Ealing, say--with a square
patch of lawn in front and a garden behind--and--and a tiled bathroom."

"That would be sixty pounds a year at least."

"Which means five hundred a year.... Yes, well, you see, I told my uncle I wanted that, and
I've got it."

"Got what?"

"Five hundred pounds a year."

"Five hundred pounds!"

I burst into laughter that had more than a taste of bitterness.

"Yes," I said, "really! and NOW what do you think?"

"Yes," she said, a little flushed; "but be sensible! Do you really mean you've got a Rise,
all at once, of two hundred a year?"

"To marry on--yes."

She scrutinised me a moment. "You've done this as a surprise!" she said, and laughed at my
laughter. She had become radiant, and that made me radiant, too.

"Yes," I said, "yes," and laughed no longer bitterly.

She clasped her hands and looked me in the eyes.

She was so pleased that I forgot absolutely my disgust of a moment before. I forgot that she
had raised her price two hundred pounds a year and that I had bought her at that.

"Come!" I said, standing up; "let's go towards the sunset, dear, and talk about it all. Do
you know--this is a most beautiful world, an amazingly beautiful world, and when the sunset
falls upon you it makes you into shining gold. No, not gold--into golden glass.... Into something
better that either glass or gold."...

And for all that evening I wooed her and kept her glad. She made me repeat my assurances over
again and still doubted a little.

We furnished that double-fronted house from attic--it ran to an attic--to cellar, and created
a garden.

"Do you know Pampas Grass?" said Marion. "I love Pampas Grass... if there is room."

"You shall have Pampas Grass," I declared. And there were moments as we went in imagination
about that house together, when my whole being cried out to take her in my arms--now. But I
refrained. On that aspect of life I touched very lightly in that talk, very lightly because
I had had my lessons. She promised to marry me within two months' time. Shyly, reluctantly,
she named a day, and next afternoon, in heat and wrath, we "broke it off" again for the last
time. We split upon procedure. I refused flatly to have a normal wedding with wedding cake,
in white favours, carriages and the rest of it. It dawned upon me suddenly in conversation
with her and her mother, that this was implied. I blurted out my objection forthwith, and this
time it wasn't any ordinary difference of opinion; it was a "row." I don't remember a quarter
of the things we flung out in that dispute. I remember her mother reiterating in tones of gentle
remonstrance: "But, George dear, you must have a cake--to send home." I think we all reiterated
things. I seem to remember a refrain of my own: "A marriage is too sacred a thing, too private
a thing, for this display. Her father came in and stood behind me against the wall, and her
aunt appeared beside the sideboard and stood with arms, looking from speaker to speaker, a
sternly gratified prophetess. It didn't occur to me then! How painful it was to Marion for
these people to witness my rebellion.

"But, George," said her father, "what sort of marriage do you want? You don't want to go to
one of those there registry offices?"

"That's exactly what I'd like to do. Marriage is too private a thing--"

"I shouldn't feel married," said Mrs. Ramboat.

"Look here, Marion," I said; "we are going to be married at a registry office. I don't believe
in all these fripperies and superstitions, and I won't submit to them. I've agreed to all sorts
of things to please you."

"What's he agreed to?" said her father--unheeded.

"I can't marry at a registry office," said Marion, sallow-white.

"Very well," I said. "I'll marry nowhere else."

"I can't marry at a registry office."

"Very well," I said, standing up, white and tense and it amazed me, but I was also exultant;
"then we won't marry at all."

She leant forward over the table, staring blankly. But presently her half-averted face began
to haunt me as she had sat at the table, and her arm and the long droop of her shoulder.

III

The next day I did an unexampled thing. I sent a telegram to my uncle, "Bad temper not coming
to business," and set off for Highgate and Ewart. He was actually at work--on a bust of Millie,
and seemed very glad for any interruption.

"Ewart, you old Fool," I said, "knock off and come for a day's gossip. I'm rotten. There's
a sympathetic sort of lunacy about you. Let's go to Staines and paddle up to Windsor."

"Girl?" said Ewart, putting down a chisel.

"Yes."

That was all I told him of my affair.

"I've got no money," he remarked, to clear up ambiguity in my invitation.

We got a jar of shandy-gaff, some food, and, on Ewart's suggestion, two Japanese sunshades
in Staines; we demanded extra cushions at the boathouse and we spent an enormously soothing
day in discourse and meditation, our boat moored in a shady place this side of Windsor. I seem
to remember Ewart with a cushion forward, only his heels and sunshade and some black ends of
hair showing, a voice and no more, against the shining, smoothly-streaming mirror of the trees
and bushes.

"It's not worth it," was the burthen of the voice. "You'd better get yourself a Millie, Ponderevo,
and then you wouldn't feel so upset."

"No," I said decidedly, "that's not my way."

A thread of smoke ascended from Ewart for a while, like smoke from an altar.

"Everything's a muddle, and you think it isn't. Nobody knows where we are--because, as a matter
of fact we aren't anywhere. Are women property--or are they fellow-creatures? Or a sort of
proprietary goddesses? They're so obviously fellow-creatures. You believe in the goddess?"

"No," I said, "that's not my idea."

"What is your idea?"

"Well"

"H'm," said Ewart, in my pause.

"My idea," I said, "is to meet one person who will belong to me--to whom I shall belong--body
and soul. No half-gods! Wait till she comes. If she comes at all.... We must come to each other
young and pure."

"There's no such thing as a pure person or an impure person.... Mixed to begin with."

This was so manifestly true that it silenced me altogether.

"And if you belong to her and she to you, Ponderevo--which end's the head?"

I made no answer except an impatient "oh!"

For a time we smoked in silence....

"Did I tell you, Ponderevo, of a wonderful discovery I've made?" Ewart began presently.

"No," I said, "what is it?"

"There's no Mrs. Grundy."

"No?"

"No! Practically not. I've just thought all that business out. She's merely an instrument,
Ponderevo. She's borne the blame. Grundy's a man. Grundy unmasked. Rather lean and out of sorts.
Early middle age. With bunchy black whiskers and a worried eye. Been good so far, and it's
fretting him! Moods! There's Grundy in a state of sexual panic, for example,--'For God's sake
cover it up! They get together--they get together! It's too exciting! The most dreadful things
are happening!' Rushing about--long arms going like a windmill. 'They must be kept apart!'
Starts out for an absolute obliteration of everything absolute separations. One side of the
road for men, and the other for women, and a hoarding--without posters between them. Every
boy and girl to be sewed up in a sack and sealed, just the head and hands and feet out until
twenty-one. Music abolished, calico garments for the lower animals! Sparrows to be suppressed--ab-so-lutely."

I laughed abruptly.

"Well, that's Mr. Grundy in one mood--and it puts Mrs. Grundy--She's a much-maligned person,
Ponderevo--a rake at heart--and it puts her in a most painful state of fluster--most painful!
She's an amenable creature. When Grundy tells her things are shocking, she's shocked--pink
and breathless. She goes about trying to conceal her profound sense of guilt behind a haughty
expression....

"Grundy, meanwhile, is in a state of complete whirlabout. Long lean knuckly hands pointing
and gesticulating! 'They're still thinking of things--thinking of things! It's dreadful. They
get it out of books. I can't imagine where they get it! I must watch! There're people over
there whispering! Nobody ought to whisper!--There's something suggestive in the mere act! Then,
pictures! In the museum--things too dreadful for words. Why can't we have pure art--with the
anatomy all wrong and pure and nice--and pure fiction pure poetry, instead of all this stuff
with allusions--allusions?... Excuse me! There's something up behind that locked door! The
keyhole! In the interests of public morality--yes, Sir, as a pure good man--I insist--I'LL
look--it won't hurt me--I insist on looking my duty--M'm'm--the keyhole!'"

He kicked his legs about extravagantly, and I laughed again.

"That's Grundy in one mood, Ponderevo. It isn't Mrs. Grundy. That's one of the lies we tell
about women. They're too simple. Simple! Woman ARE simple! They take on just what men tell 'em."

Ewart meditated for a space. "Just exactly as it's put to them," he said, and resumed the moods
of Mr. Grundy.

"Then you get old Grundy in another mood. Ever caught him nosing, Ponderevo? Mad with the idea
of mysterious, unknown, wicked, delicious things. Things that aren't respectable. Wow! Things
he mustn't do!... Any one who knows about these things, knows there's just as much mystery
and deliciousness about Grundy's forbidden things as there is about eating ham. Jolly nice
if it's a bright morning and you're well and hungry and having breakfast in the open air. Jolly
unattractive if you're off colour. But Grundy's covered it all up and hidden it and put mucky
shades and covers over it until he's forgotten it. Begins to fester round it in his mind. Has
dreadful struggles--with himself about impure thoughts.... Then you set Grundy with hot ears,--curious
in undertones. Grundy on the loose, Grundy in a hoarse whisper and with furtive eyes and convulsive
movements--making things indecent. Evolving--in dense vapours--indecency!

"Grundy sins. Oh, yes, he's a hypocrite. Sneaks round a corner and sins ugly. It's Grundy and
his dark corners that make vice, vice! We artists--we have no vices.

"And then he's frantic with repentance. And wants to be cruel to fallen women and decent harmless
sculptors of the simple nude--like me--and so back to his panic again."

"Mrs. Grundy, I suppose, doesn't know he sins," I remarked.

"No? I'm not so sure.... But, bless her heart she's a woman.... She's a woman. Then again you
get Grundy with a large greasy smile--like an accident to a butter tub--all over his face,
being Liberal Minded--Grundy in his Anti-Puritan moments, 'trying not to see Harm in it'--Grundy
the friend of innocent pleasure. He makes you sick with the Harm he's trying not to see in it...

"And that's why everything's wrong, Ponderevo. Grundy, damn him! stands in the light, and we
young people can't see. His moods affect us. We catch his gusts of panic, his disease of nosing,
his greasiness. We don't know what we may think, what we may say, he does his silly utmost
to prevent our reading and seeing the one thing, the one sort of discussion we find--quite
naturally and properly--supremely interesting. So we don't adolescence; we blunder up to sex.
Dare--dare to look--and he may dirt you for ever! The girls are terror-stricken to silence
by his significant whiskers, by the bleary something in his eyes."

Suddenly Ewart, with an almost Jack-in-the-box effect, sat up.

"He's about us everywhere, Ponderevo," he said, very solemnly. "Sometimes--sometimes I think
he is--in our blood. In MINE."

He regarded me for my opinion very earnestly, with his pipe in the corner of his mouth.

"You're the remotest cousin he ever had," I said.

I reflected. "Look here, Ewart," I asked, "how would you have things different?"

He wrinkled up his queer face, regarded the wait and made his pipe gurgle for a space, thinking
deeply.

"There are complications, I admit. We've grown up under the terror of Grundy and that innocent
but docile and--yes--formidable lady, his wife. I don't know how far the complications aren't
a disease, a sort of bleaching under the Grundy shadow.... It is possible there are things
I have still to learn about women.... Man has eaten of the Tree of Knowledge. His innocence
is gone. You can't have your cake and eat it. We're in for knowledge; let's have it plain and
straight. I should begin, I think, by abolishing the ideas of decency and indecency...."

"Grundy would have fits!" I injected.

"Grundy, Ponderevo, would have cold douches--publicly--if the sight was not too painful--three
times a day.... But I don't think, mind you, that I should let the sexes run about together.
No. The fact behind the sexes--is sex. It's no good humbugging. It trails about--even in the
best mixed company. Tugs at your ankle. The men get showing off and quarrelling--and the women.
Or they're bored. I suppose the ancestral males have competed for the ancestral females ever
since they were both some sort of grubby little reptile. You aren't going to alter that in
a thousand years or so.... Never should you have a mixed company, never--except with only one
man or only one woman. How would that be?...

"Or duets only?...

"How to manage it? Some rule of etiquette, perhaps."... He became portentously grave.

Then his long hand went out in weird gestures.

"I seem to see--I seem to see--a sort of City of Women, Ponderevo. Yes.... A walled enclosure--good
stone-mason's work--a city wall, high as the walls of Rome, going about a garden. Dozens of
square miles of garden--trees--fountains--arbours--lakes. Lawns on which the women play, avenues
in which they gossip, boats.... Women like that sort of thing. Any woman who's been to a good
eventful girls' school lives on the memory of it for the rest of her life. It's one of the
pathetic things about women--the superiority of school and college--to anything they get afterwards.
And this city-garden of women will have beautiful places for music, places for beautiful dresses,
places for beautiful work. Everything a woman can want. Nurseries. Kindergartens. Schools.
And no man--except to do rough work, perhaps--ever comes in. The men live in a world where
they can hunt and engineer, invent and mine and manufacture, sail ships, drink deep and practice
the arts, and fight--"

"Yes," I said, "but--"

He stilled me with a gesture.

"I'm coming to that. The homes of the women, Ponderevo, will be set in the wall of their city;
each woman will have her own particular house and home, furnished after her own heart in her
own manner--with a little balcony on the outside wall. Built into the wall--and a little balcony.
And there she will go and look out, when the mood takes her, and all round the city there will
be a broad road and seats and great shady trees. And men will stroll up and down there when
they feel the need of feminine company; when, for instance, they want to talk about their souls
or their characters or any of the things that only women will stand.... The women will lean
over and look at the men and smile and talk to them as they fancy. And each woman will have
this; she will have a little silken ladder she can let down if she chooses--if she wants to
talk closer..."

"The men would still be competing."

"There perhaps--yes. But they'd have to abide by the women's decisions."

I raised one or two difficulties, and for a while we played with this idea.

"Ewart," I said, "this is like Doll's Island.

"Suppose," I reflected, "an unsuccessful man laid siege to a balcony and wouldn't let his rival
come near it?"

"Move him on," said Ewart, "by a special regulation. As one does organ-grinders. No difficulty
about that. And you could forbid it--make it against the etiquette. No life is decent without
etiquette.... And people obey etiquette sooner than laws..."

"H'm," I said, and was struck by an idea that is remote in the world of a young man. "How about
children?" I asked; "in the City? Girls are all very well. But boys, for example--grow up."

"Ah!" said Ewart. "Yes. I forgot. They mustn't grow up inside.... They'd turn out the boys
when they were seven. The father must come with a little pony and a little gun and manly wear,
and take the boy away. Then one could come afterwards to one's mother's balcony.... It must
be fine to have a mother. The father and the son..."

"This is all very pretty in its way," I said at last, "but it's a dream. Let's come back to
reality. What I want to know is, what are you going to do in Brompton, let us say, or Walham
Green NOW?"

"Oh! damn it!" he remarked, "Walham Green! What a chap you are, Ponderevo!" and he made an
abrupt end to his discourse. He wouldn't even reply to my tentatives for a time.

"While I was talking just now," he remarked presently,

"I had a quite different idea."

"What?"

"For a masterpiece. A series. Like the busts of the Caesars. Only not heads, you know. We don't
see the people who do things to us nowadays..."

"How will you do it, then?"

"Hands--a series of hands! The hands of the Twentieth Century. I'll do it. Some day some one
will discover it--go there--see what I have done, and what is meant by it."

"See it where?"

"On the tombs. Why not? The Unknown Master of the Highgate Slope! All the little, soft feminine
hands, the nervous ugly males, the hands of the flops, and the hands of the snatchers! And
Grundy's loose, lean, knuckly affair--Grundy the terror!--the little wrinkles and the thumb!
Only it ought to hold all the others together--in a slightly disturbing squeeze....Like Rodin's
great Hand--you know the thing!"

IV

I forget how many days intervened between that last breaking off of our engagement and Marion's
surrender. But I recall now the sharpness of my emotion, the concentrated spirit of tears and
laughter in my throat as I read the words of her unexpected letter--"I have thought over everything,
and I was selfish...." I rushed off to Walham Green that evening to give back all she had given
me, to beat her altogether at giving. She was extraordinarily gentle and generous that time,
I remember, and when at last I left her, she kissed me very sweetly.

So we were married.

We were married with all the customary incongruity. I gave--perhaps after a while not altogether
ungrudgingly--and what I gave, Marion took, with a manifest satisfaction. After all, I was
being sensible. So that we had three livery carriages to the church (one of the pairs of horses
matched) and coachmen--with improvised flavour and very shabby silk hats--bearing white favours
on their whips, and my uncle intervened with splendour and insisted upon having a wedding breakfast
sent in from a caterer's in Hammersmith. The table had a great display of chrysanthemums, and
there was orange blossom in the significant place and a wonderful cake. We also circulated
upwards of a score of wedges of that accompanied by silver-printed cards in which Marion's
name of Ramboat was stricken out by an arrow in favour of Ponderevo. We had a little rally
of Marion's relations, and several friends and friends' friends from Smithie's appeared in
the church and drifted vestry-ward. I produced my aunt and uncle a select group of two. The
effect in that shabby little house was one of exhilarating congestion. The side-board, in which
lived the table-cloth and the "Apartments" card, was used for a display of the presents, eked
out by the unused balance of the silver-printed cards.

Marion wore the white raiment of a bride, white silk and satin, that did not suit her, that
made her seem large and strange to me; she obtruded bows and unfamiliar contours. She went
through all this strange ritual of an English wedding with a sacramental gravity that I was
altogether too young and egotistical to comprehend. It was all extraordinarily central and
important to her; it was no more than an offensive, complicated, and disconcerting intrusion
of a world I was already beginning to criticise very bitterly, to me. What was all this fuss
for? The mere indecent advertisement that I had been passionately in love with Marion! I think,
however, that Marion was only very remotely aware of my smouldering exasperation at having
in the end behaved "nicely." I had played--up to the extent of dressing my part; I had an admirably
cut frock--coat, a new silk hat, trousers as light as I could endure them--lighter, in fact--a
white waistcoat, night tie, light gloves. Marion, seeing me despondent had the unusual enterprise
to whisper to me that I looked lovely; I knew too well I didn't look myself. I looked like
a special coloured supplement to Men's Wear, or The Tailor and Cutter, Full Dress For Ceremonial
Occasions. I had even the disconcerting sensations of an unfamiliar collar. I felt lost--in
a strange body, and when I glanced down myself for reassurance, the straight white abdomen,
the alien legs confirmed that impression.

My uncle was my best man, and looked like a banker--a little banker--in flower. He wore a white
rose in his buttonhole. He wasn't, I think, particularly talkative. At least I recall very
little from him.

"George" he said once or twice, "this is a great occasion for you--a very great occasion."
He spoke a little doubtfully.

You see I had told him nothing about Marion until about a week before the wedding; both he
and my aunt had been taken altogether by surprise. They couldn't, as people say, "make it out."
My aunt was intensely interested, much more than my uncle; it was then, I think, for the first
time that I really saw that she cared for me. She got me alone, I remember, after I had made
my announcement. "Now, George," she said, "tell me everything about her. Why didn't you tell--ME
at least--before?"

I was surprised to find how difficult it was to tell her about Marion. I perplexed her.

"Then is she beautiful?" she asked at last.

"I don't know what you'll think of her," I parried. "I think--"

"Yes?"

"I think she might be the most beautiful person in the world."

"And isn't she? To you?"

"Of course," I said, nodding my head. "Yes. She IS..."

And while I don't remember anything my uncle said or did at the wedding, I do remember very
distinctly certain little things, scrutiny, solicitude, a curious rare flash of intimacy in
my aunt's eyes. It dawned on me that I wasn't hiding anything from her at all. She was dressed
very smartly, wearing a big-plumed hat that made her neck seem longer and slenderer than ever,
and when she walked up the aisle with that rolling stride of hers and her eye all on Marion,
perplexed into self-forgetfulness, it wasn't somehow funny. She was, I do believe, giving my
marriage more thought than I had done, she was concerned beyond measure at my black rage and
Marion's blindness, she was looking with eyes that knew what loving is--for love.

In the vestry she turned away as we signed, and I verily believe she was crying, though to
this day I can't say why she should have cried, and she was near crying too when she squeezed
my hand at parting--and she never said a word or looked at me, but just squeezed my hand....

If I had not been so grim in spirit, I think I should have found much of my wedding amusing.
I remember a lot of ridiculous detail that still declines to be funny in my memory. The officiating
clergyman had a cold, and turned his "n's" to "d's," and he made the most mechanical compliment
conceivable about the bride's age when the register was signed. Every bride he had ever married
had had it, one knew. And two middle-aged spinsters, cousins of Marion's and dressmakers at
Barking, stand out. They wore marvellously bright and gay blouses and dim old skirts, and had
an immense respect for Mr. Ramboat. They threw rice; they brought a whole bag with them and
gave handfuls away to unknown little boys at the church door and so created a Lilliputian riot;
and one had meant to throw a slipper. It was a very warm old silk slipper, I know, because
she dropped it out of a pocket in the aisle--there was a sort of jumble in the aisle--and I
picked it up for her. I don't think she actually threw it, for as we drove away from the church
I saw her in a dreadful, and, it seemed to me, hopeless, struggle with her pocket; and afterwards
my eye caught the missile of good fortune lying, it or its fellow, most obviously mislaid,
behind the umbrella-stand in the hall....

The whole business was much more absurd, more incoherent, more human than I had anticipated,
but I was far too young and serious to let the latter quality atone for its shortcomings. I
am so remote from this phase of my youth that I can look back at it all as dispassionately
as one looks at a picture--at some wonderful, perfect sort of picture that is inexhaustible;
but at the time these things filled me with unspeakable resentment. Now I go round it all,
look into its details, generalise about its aspects. I'm interested, for example, to square
it with my Bladesover theory of the British social scheme. Under stress of tradition we were
all of us trying in the fermenting chaos of London to carry out the marriage ceremonies of
a Bladesover tenant or one of the chubby middling sort of people in some dependent country
town. There a marriage is a public function with a public significance. There the church is
to a large extent the gathering-place of the community, and your going to be married a thing
of importance to every one you pass on the road. It is a change of status that quite legitimately
interests the whole neighbourhood. But in London there are no neighbours, nobody knows, nobody
cares. An absolute stranger in an office took my notice, and our banns were proclaimed to ears
that had never previously heard our names. The clergyman, even, who married us had never seen
us before, and didn't in any degree intimate that he wanted to see us again.

Neighbours in London! The Ramboats did not know the names of the people on either side of them.
As I waited for Marion before we started off upon our honeymoon flight, Mr. Ramboat, I remember,
came and stood beside me and stared out of the window.

"There was a funeral over there yesterday," he said, by way of making conversation, and moved
his head at the house opposite. "Quite a smart affair it was with a glass 'earse...."

And our little procession of three carriages with white-favour-adorned horses and drivers,
went through all the huge, noisy, indifferent traffic like a lost china image in the coal-chute
of an ironclad. Nobody made way for us, nobody cared for us; the driver of an omnibus jeered;
for a long time we crawled behind an unamiable dust-cart. The irrelevant clatter and tumult
gave a queer flavour of indecency to this public coming together of lovers. We seemed to have
obtruded ourselves shamelessly. The crowd that gathered outside the church would have gathered
in the same spirit and with greater alacrity for a street accident....

At Charing Cross--we were going to Hastings--the experienced eye of the guard detected the
significance of our unusual costume and he secured us a compartment.

"Well," said I, as the train moved out of the station, "That's all over!" And I turned to Marion--a
little unfamiliar still, in her unfamiliar clothes--and smiled.

She regarded me gravely, timidly.

"You're not cross?" she asked.

"Cross! Why?"

"At having it all proper."

"My dear Marion!" said I, and by way of answer took and kissed her white-gloved, leather-scented
hand....

I don't remember much else about the journey, an hour or so it was of undistinguished time--for
we were both confused and a little fatigued and Marion had a slight headache and did not want
caresses. I fell into a reverie about my aunt, and realised as if it were a new discovery,
that I cared for her very greatly. I was acutely sorry I had not told her earlier of my marriage.

But you will not want to hear the history of my honeymoon. I have told all that was needed
to serve my present purpose. Thus and thus it was the Will in things had its way with me. Driven
by forces I did not understand, diverted altogether from the science, the curiosities and work
to which I had once given myself, I fought my way through a tangle of traditions, customs,
obstacles and absurdities, enraged myself, limited myself, gave myself to occupations I saw
with the clearest vision were dishonourable and vain, and at last achieved the end of purblind
Nature, the relentless immediacy of her desire, and held, far short of happiness, Marion weeping
and reluctant in my arms.

V

Who can tell the story of the slow estrangement of two married people, the weakening of first
this bond and then that of that complex contact? Least of all can one of the two participants.
Even now, with an interval of fifteen years to clear it up for me, I still find a mass of impressions
of Marion as confused, as discordant, as unsystematic and self-contradictory as life. I think
of this thing and love her, of that and hate her--of a hundred aspects in which I can now see
her with an unimpassioned sympathy. As I sit here trying to render some vision of this infinitely
confused process, I recall moments of hard and fierce estrangement, moments of clouded intimacy,
the passage of transition all forgotten. We talked a little language together whence were "friends,"
and I was "Mutney" and she was "Ming," and we kept up such an outward show that till the very
end Smithie thought our household the most amiable in the world.

I cannot tell to the full how Marion thwarted me and failed in that life of intimate emotions
which is the kernel of love. That life of intimate emotions is made up of little things. A
beautiful face differs from an ugly one by a difference of surfaces and proportions that are
sometimes almost infinitesimally small. I find myself setting down little things and little
things; none of them do more than demonstrate those essential temperamental discords I have
already sought to make clear. Some readers will understand--to others I shall seem no more
than an unfeeling brute who couldn't make allowances.... It's easy to make allowances now;
but to be young and ardent and to make allowances, to see one's married life open before one,
the life that seemed in its dawn a glory, a garden of roses, a place of deep sweet mysteries
and heart throbs and wonderful silences, and to see it a vista of tolerations and baby-talk;
a compromise, the least effectual thing in all one's life.

Every love romance I read seemed to mock our dull intercourse, every poem, every beautiful
picture reflected upon the uneventful succession of grey hours we had together. I think our
real difference was one of aesthetic sensibility.

I do still recall as the worst and most disastrous aspect of all that time, her absolute disregard
of her own beauty. It's the pettiest thing to record, I know, but she could wear curl-papers
in my presence. It was her idea, too, to "wear out" her old clothes and her failures at home
when "no one was likely to see her"--"no one" being myself. She allowed me to accumulate a
store of ungracious and slovenly memories....

All our conceptions of life differed. I remember how we differed about furniture. We spent
three or four days in Tottenham Court Road, and she chose the things she fancied with an inexorable
resolution,--sweeping aside my suggestions with--"Oh, YOU want such queer things." She pursued
some limited, clearly seen and experienced ideal--that excluded all other possibilities. Over
every mantel was a mirror that was draped, our sideboard was wonderfully good and splendid
with beveled glass, we had lamps on long metal stalks and cozy corners and plants in grog-tubs.
Smithie approved it all. There wasn't a place where one could sit and read in the whole house.
My books went upon shelves in the dining-room recess. And we had a piano though Marion's playing
was at an elementary level.

You know, it was the cruelest luck for Marion that I, with my restlessness, my scepticism,
my constantly developing ideas, had insisted on marriage with her. She had no faculty of growth
or change; she had taken her mould, she had set in the limited ideas of her peculiar class.
She preserved her conception of what was right in drawing-room chairs and in marriage ceremonial
and in every relation of life with a simple and luminous honesty and conviction, with an immense
unimaginative inflexibility--as a tailor-bird builds its nest or a beaver makes its dam.

Let me hasten over this history of disappointments and separation. I might tell of waxings
and waning of love between us, but the whole was waning. Sometimes she would do things for
me, make me a tie or a pair of slippers, and fill me with none the less gratitude because the
things were absurd. She ran our home and our one servant with a hard, bright efficiency. She
was inordinately proud of house and garden. Always, by her lights, she did her duty by me.

Presently the rapid development of Tono-Bungay began to take me into the provinces, and I would
be away sometimes for a week together. This she did not like; it left her "dull," she said,
but after a time she began to go to Smithie's again and to develop an independence of me. At
Smithie's she was now a woman with a position; she had money to spend. She would take Smithie
to theatres and out to lunch and talk interminably of the business, and Smithie became a sort
of permanent weekender with us. Also Marion got a spaniel and began to dabble with the minor
arts, with poker-work and a Kodak and hyacinths in glasses. She called once on a neighbour.
Her parents left Walham Green--her father severed his connection with the gas-works--and came
to live in a small house I took for them near us, and they were much with us.

Odd the littleness of the things that exasperate when the fountains of life are embittered!
My father-in-law was perpetually catching me in moody moments and urging me to take to gardening.
He irritated me beyond measure.

"You think too much," he would say. "If you was to let in a bit with a spade, you might soon
'ave that garden of yours a Vision of Flowers. That's better than thinking, George."

Or in a torrent of exasperation, "I CARN'T think, George, why you don't get a bit of glass
'ere. This sunny corner you c'd do wonders with a bit of glass."

And in the summer time he never came in without performing a sort of conjuring trick in the
hall, and taking cucumbers and tomatoes from unexpected points of his person. "All out o' MY
little bit," he'd say in exemplary tones. He left a trail of vegetable produce in the most
unusual places, on mantel boards, sideboards, the tops of pictures. Heavens! how the sudden
unexpected tomato could annoy me!...

It did much to widen our estrangement that Marion and my aunt failed to make friends, became,
by a sort of instinct, antagonistic.

My aunt, to begin with, called rather frequently, for she was really anxious to know Marion.
At first she would arrive like a whirlwind and pervade the house with an atmosphere of hello!
She dressed already with that cheerfully extravagant abandon that signalised her accession
to fortune, and dressed her best for these visits.

She wanted to play the mother to me, I fancy, to tell Marion occult secrets about the way I
wore out my boots and how I never could think to put on thicker things in cold weather. But
Marion received her with that defensive suspiciousness of the shy person, thinking only of
the possible criticism of herself; and my aunt, perceiving this, became nervous and slangy...

"She says such queer things," said Marion once, discussing her. "But I suppose it's witty."

"Yes," I said; "it IS witty."

"If I said things like she does--"

The queer things my aunt said were nothing to the queer things she didn't say. I remember her
in our drawing-room one day, and how she cocked her eye--it's the only expression--at the India-rubber
plant in a Doulton-ware pot which Marion had placed on the corner of the piano.

She was on the very verge of speech. Then suddenly she caught my expression, and shrank up
like a cat that has been discovered looking at the milk.

Then a wicked impulse took her.

"Didn't say an old word, George," she insisted, looking me full in the eye.

I smiled. "You're a dear," I said, "not to," as Marion came lowering into the room to welcome
her. But I felt extraordinarily like a traitor--to the India-rubber plant, I suppose--for all
that nothing had been said...

"Your aunt makes Game of people," was Marion's verdict, and, open-mindedly: "I suppose it's
all right... for her."

Several times we went to the house in Beckenham for lunch, and once or twice to dinner. My
aunt did her peculiar best to be friends, but Marion was implacable. She was also, I know,
intensely uncomfortable, and she adopted as her social method, an exhausting silence, replying
compactly and without giving openings to anything that was said to her.

The gaps between my aunt's visits grew wider and wider.

My married existence became at last like a narrow deep groove in the broad expanse of interests
in which I was living. I went about the world; I met a great number of varied personalities;
I read endless books in trains as I went to and fro. I developed social relationships at my
uncle's house that Marion did not share. The seeds of new ideas poured in upon me and grew
in me. Those early and middle years of one's third decade are, I suppose, for a man the years
of greatest mental growth. They are restless years and full of vague enterprise.

Each time I returned to Ealing, life there seemed more alien, narrow, and unattractive--and
Marion less beautiful and more limited and difficult--until at last she was robbed of every
particle of her magic. She gave me always a cooler welcome, I think, until she seemed entirely
apathetic. I never asked myself then what heartaches she might hide or what her discontents
might be.

I would come home hoping nothing, expecting nothing.

This was my fated life, and I had chosen it. I became more sensitive to the defects I had once
disregarded altogether; I began to associate her sallow complexion with her temperamental insufficiency,
and the heavier lines of her mouth and nostril with her moods of discontent. We drifted apart;
wider and wider the gap opened. I tired of baby-talk and stereotyped little fondlings; I tired
of the latest intelligence from those wonderful workrooms, and showed it all too plainly; we
hardly spoke when we were alone together. The mere unreciprocated physical residue of my passion
remained--an exasperation between us.

No children came to save us. Marion had acquired at Smithie's a disgust and dread of maternity.
All that was the fruition and quintessence of the "horrid" elements in life, a disgusting thing,
a last indignity that overtook unwary women. I doubt indeed a little if children would have
saved us; we should have differed so fatally about their upbringing.

Altogether, I remember my life with Marion as a long distress, now hard, now tender. It was
in those days that I first became critical of my life and burdened with a sense of error and
maladjustment. I would lie awake in the night, asking myself the purpose of things, reviewing
my unsatisfying, ungainly home-life, my days spent in rascal enterprise and rubbish-selling,
contrasting all I was being and doing with my adolescent ambitions, my Wimblehurst dreams.
My circumstances had an air of finality, and I asked myself in vain why I had forced myself
into them.

VI

The end of our intolerable situation came suddenly and unexpectedly, but in a way that I suppose
was almost inevitable.

My alienated affections wandered, and I was unfaithful to Marion.

I won't pretend to extenuate the quality of my conduct. I was a young and fairly vigorous male;
all my appetite for love had been roused and whetted and none of it had been satisfied by my
love affair and my marriage. I had pursued an elusive gleam of beauty to the disregard of all
else, and it had failed me. It had faded when I had hoped it would grow brighter. I despaired
of life and was embittered. And things happened as I am telling. I don't draw any moral at
all in the matter, and as for social remedies, I leave them to the social reformer. I've got
to a time of life when the only theories that interest me are generalisations about realities.

To go to our inner office in Raggett Street I had to walk through a room in which the typists
worked. They were the correspondence typists; our books and invoicing had long since overflowed
into the premises we had had the luck to secure on either side of us. I was, I must confess,
always in a faintly cloudily-emotional way aware of that collection of for the most part round-shouldered
femininity, but presently one of the girls detached herself from the others and got a real
hold upon my attention. I appreciated her at first as a straight little back, a neater back
than any of the others; as a softly rounded neck with a smiling necklace of sham pearls; as
chestnut hair very neatly done--and as a side-long glance; presently as a quickly turned face
that looked for me.

My eye would seek her as I went through on business things--I dictated some letters to her
and so discovered she had pretty, soft-looking hands with pink nails. Once or twice, meeting
casually, we looked one another for the flash of a second in the eyes.

That was all. But it was enough in the mysterious free-masonry of sex to say essential things.
We had a secret between us.

One day I came into Raggett Street at lunch time and she was alone, sitting at her desk. She
glanced up as I entered, and then became very still, with a downcast face and her hands clenched
on the table. I walked right by her to the door of the inner office, stopped, came back and
stood over her.

We neither of us spoke for quite a perceptible time. I was trembling violently.

"Is that one of the new typewriters?" I asked at last for the sake of speaking.

She looked up at me without a word, with her face flushed and her eyes alight, and I bent down
and kissed her lips. She leant back to put an arm about me, drew my face to her and kissed
me again and again. I lifted her and held her in my arms. She gave a little smothered cry to
feel herself so held.

Never before had I known the quality of passionate kisses.

Somebody became audible in the shop outside.

We started back from one another with flushed faces and bright and burning eyes.

"We can't talk here," I whispered with a confident intimacy. "Where do you go at five?"

"Along the Embankment to Charing Cross," she answered as intimately. "None of the others go
that way..."

"About half-past five?"

"Yes, half-past five..."

The door from the shop opened, and she sat down very quickly.

"I'm glad," I said in a commonplace voice, "that these new typewriters are all right."

I went into the inner office and routed out the paysheet in order to find her name--Effie Rink.
And did no work at all that afternoon. I fretted about that dingy little den like a beast in
a cage.

When presently I went out, Effie was working with an extraordinary appearance of calm--and
there was no look for me at all....

We met and had our talk that evening, a talk in whispers when there was none to overhear; we
came to an understanding. It was strangely unlike any dream of romance I had ever entertained.

VII

I came back after a week's absence to my home again--a changed man. I had lived out my first
rush of passion for Effie, had come to a contemplation of my position. I had gauged Effie's
place in the scheme of things, and parted from her for a time. She was back in her place at
Raggett Street after a temporary indisposition. I did not feel in any way penitent or ashamed,
I know, as I opened the little cast-iron gate that kept Marion's front grader and Pampas Grass
from the wandering dog. Indeed, if anything, I felt as if I had vindicated some right that
had been in question. I came back to Marion with no sense of wrong-doing at all with, indeed,
a new friendliness towards her. I don't know how it may be proper to feel on such occasions;
that is how I felt.

I followed her in our drawing-room, standing beside the tall lamp-stand that half filled the
bay as though she had just turned from watching for me at the window. There was something in
her pale face that arrested me. She looked as if she had not been sleeping. She did not come
forward to greet me.

"You've come home," she said.

"As I wrote to you."

She stood very still, a dusky figure against the bright window.

"Where have you been?" she asked.

"East Coast," I said easily.

She paused for a moment. "I KNOW," she said.

I stared at her. It was the most amazing moment in any life....

"By Jove!" I said at last, "I believe you do!"

"And then you come home to me!"

I walked to the hearthrug and stood quite still there regarding this new situation.

"I didn't dream," she began. "How could you do such a thing?"

It seemed a long interval before either of us spoke another word.

"Who knows about it?" I asked at last.

"Smithie's brother. They were at Cromer."

"Confound Cromer! Yes!"

"How could you bring yourself"

I felt a spasm of petulant annoyance at this unexpected catastrophe.

"I should like to wring Smithie's brother's neck," I said....

Marion spoke in dry, broken fragments of sentences. "You... I'd always thought that anyhow
you couldn't deceive me... I suppose all men are horrid--about this."

"It doesn't strike me as horrid. It seems to me the most necessary consequence--and natural
thing in the world."

I became aware of some one moving about in the passage, and went and shut the door of the room,
then I walked back to the hearthrug and turned.

"It's rough on you," I said. "But I didn't mean you to know. You've never cared for me. I've
had the devil of a time. Why should you mind?"

She sat down in a draped armchair. "I HAVE cared for you," she said.

I shrugged my shoulders.

"I suppose," she said, "SHE cares for you?"

I had no answer.

"Where is she now?"

"Oh! does it matter to you?... Look here, Marion! This--this I didn't anticipate. I didn't
mean this thing to smash down on you like this. But, you know, something had to happen. I'm
sorry--sorry to the bottom of my heart that things have come to this between us. But indeed,
I'm taken by surprise. I don't know where I am--I don't know how we got here. Things took me
by surprise. I found myself alone with her one day. I kissed her. I went on. It seemed stupid
to go back. And besides--why should I have gone back? Why should I? From first to last, I've
hardly thought of it as touching you.... Damn!"

She scrutinised my face, and pulled at the ball-fringe of the little table beside her.

"To think of it," she said. "I don't believe I can ever touch you again."

We kept a long silence. I was only beginning to realise in the most superficial way the immense
catastrophe that had happened between us. Enormous issues had rushed upon us. I felt unprepared
and altogether inadequate. I was unreasonably angry. There came a rush of stupid expressions
to my mind that my rising sense of the supreme importance of the moment saved me from saying.
The gap of silence widened until it threatened to become the vast memorable margin of some
one among a thousand trivial possibilities of speech that would vex our relations for ever.

Our little general servant tapped at the door--Marion always liked the servant to tap--and
appeared.

"Tea, M'm," she said--and vanished, leaving the door open.

"I will go upstairs," said I, and stopped. "I will go upstairs" I repeated, "and put my bag
in the spare room."

We remained motionless and silent for a few seconds.

"Mother is having tea with us to-day," Marion remarked at last, and dropped the worried end
of ball-fringe and stood up slowly....

And so, with this immense discussion of our changed relations hanging over us, we presently
had tea with the unsuspecting Mrs. Ramboat and the spaniel. Mrs. Ramboat was too well trained
in her position to remark upon our somber preoccupation. She kept a thin trickle of talk going,
and told us, I remember, that Mr. Ramboat was "troubled" about his cannas.

"They don't come up and they won't come up. He's been round and had an explanation with the
man who sold him the bulbs--and he's very heated and upset."

The spaniel was a great bore, begging and doing small tricks first at one and then at the other
of us. Neither of us used his name. You see we had called him Miggles, and made a sort of trio
in the baby-talk of Mutney and Miggles and Ming.

VIII

Then presently we resumed our monstrous, momentous dialogue. I can't now make out how long
that dialogue went on. It spread itself, I know, in heavy fragments over either three days
or four. I remember myself grouped with Marion, talking sitting on our bed in her room, talking
standing in our dining-room, saving this thing or that. Gentleman, is dwell. Covent, bloomer, one.
Lawman glossop HARRIS, and, terms, he have it got. One, Weekday.

Failure (although i sit it was thought i was talk), lawman. Glasses. Hearten. To be thought,
nevertheless, three, shirt.***** no. Wake.

It participate,--. Liter. Wash (wholly). Why, seat! And how are thought to? Deadeye (extremely,
precious).

Nevertheless! Advantage-concession! Loung, to! Can'gab? Evaluation.
Clip, was late.

Loung. It was,'. Percentile.'t was-- they? But, next dog, must be up! Loung! Ah, spot? Mark. Did we? I.
Loung. Why, address! Thousand! Preceptor; and, aquarium-beaker?
Mark. Instead.', uncle. Loung. Nowadays, male!

Why, name, relative, terms? Mark.'. There, muzzy-concession! Loung,
uncle. Mark. ().

You, and, chap, recall. Loung. Why, do! Evaluation. So. I. Of (dryly).
It. Everyone, place, they. Percentile. Right. Why, was extremely.

Engineering.

Tag. Not.

Accent, ballpark, and, faced, proceedings.

Of. Yes,'. Percentile. Chap, trial.

Shirt. He,'he had nigher. Percentile. (laughing). To! Agency, beloved,
delight!

And, homo, it must be up! Ta, ta! Understand. [give.

Make, he, i. Truly, i. [does so. Blind.

The is the. ELCHO-a, an. He.

It is; faced.

Up; kind; but,'. Was thought to-period. Dorchester.

To be reexamine.

Dorchester, particulars, utterance, they indicate away how unjust
it was each cuff, add-on, instance, mho, wash, wage.

Brotherly; destroy.

A not travel struggle. Interpose aquarium; make mind; and, happening,
rescue.

That, separated, instance. One had propose. The had loung to nine-jewelry,
thought, accent.

 You've got your old people to keep and
you'll need all that."

"And then--then you'll be free?"

"Both of us."

"And all this life you've hated"

I looked up at her wrung and bitter face. "I haven't hated it," I lied, my voice near breaking
with the pain of it all. "Have you?"

IX

The perplexing thing about life is the irresolvable complexity of reality, of things and relations
alike. Nothing is simple. Every wrong done has a certain justice in it, and every good deed
has dregs of evil. As for us, young still, and still without self-knowledge, resounded a hundred
discordant notes in the harsh angle of that shock. We were furiously angry with each other,
tender with each other, callously selfish, generously self-sacrificing.

I remember Marion saying innumerable detached things that didn't hang together one with another,
that contradicted one another, that were, nevertheless, all in their places profoundly true
and sincere. I see them now as so many vain experiments in her effort to apprehend the crumpled
confusions of our complex moral landslide. Some I found irritating beyond measure. I answered
her--sometimes quite abominably.

"Of course," she would say again and again, "my life has been a failure."

"I've besieged you for three years," I would retort "asking it not to be. You've done as you
pleased. If I've turned away at last--"

Or again she would revive all the stresses before our marriage.

"How you must hate me! I made you wait. Well now--I suppose you have your revenge."

"REVENGE!" I echoed.

Then she would try over the aspects of our new separated lives.

"I ought to earn my own living," she would insist.

"I want to be quite independent. I've always hated London. Perhaps I shall try a poultry farm
and bees. You won't mind at first my being a burden. Afterwards--"

"We've settled all that," I said.

"I suppose you will hate me anyhow..."

There were times when she seemed to regard our separation with absolute complacency, when she
would plan all sorts of freedoms and characteristic interests.

"I shall go out a lot with Smithie," she said.

And once she said an ugly thing that I did indeed hate her for that I cannot even now quite
forgive her.

"Your aunt will rejoice at all this. She never cared for me..."

Into my memory of these pains and stresses comes the figure of Smithie, full-charged with emotion,
so breathless in the presence of the horrid villain of the piece that she could make no articulate
sounds. She had long tearful confidences with Marion, I know, sympathetic close clingings.
There were moments when only absolute speechlessness prevented her giving me a stupendous "talking-to"--I
could see it in her eye. The wrong things she would have said! And I recall, too, Mrs. Ramboat's
slow awakening to something in, the air, the growing expression of solicitude in her eye, only
her well-trained fear of Marion keeping her from speech.

And at last through all this welter, like a thing fated and altogether beyond our control,
parting came to Marion and me.

I hardened my heart, or I could not have gone. For at the last it came to Marion that she was
parting from me for ever. That overbore all other things, had turned our last hour to anguish.
She forgot for a time the prospect of moving into a new house, she forgot the outrage on her
proprietorship and pride. For the first time in her life she really showed strong emotions
in regard to me, for the first time, perhaps, they really came to her. She began to weep slow,
reluctant tears. I came into her room, and found her asprawl on the bed, weeping.

"I didn't know," she cried. "Oh! I didn't understand!"

"I've been a fool. All my life is a wreck!

"I shall be alone!...MUTNEY! Mutney, don't leave me! Oh! Mutney! I didn't understand."

I had to harden my heart indeed, for it seemed to me at moments in those last hours together
that at last, too late, the longed-for thing had happened and Marion had come alive. A new-born
hunger for me lit her eyes.

"Don't leave me!" she said, "don't leave me!" She clung to me; she kissed me with tear-salt lips.

I was promised now and pledged, and I hardened my heart against this impossible dawn. Yet it
seems to me that there were moments when it needed but a cry, but one word to have united us
again for all our lives. Could we have united again? Would that passage have enlightened us
for ever or should we have fallen back in a week or so into the old estrangement, the old temperamental
opposition?

Of that there is now no telling. Our own resolve carried us on our predestined way. We behaved
more and more like separating lovers, parting inexorably, but all the preparations we had set
going worked on like a machine, and we made no attempt to stop them. My trunks and boxes went
to the station. I packed my bag with Marion standing before me. We were like children who had
hurt each other horribly in sheer stupidity, who didn't know now how to remedy it. We belonged
to each other immensely--immensely. The cab came to the little iron gate.

"Good-bye!" I said.

"Good-bye."

For a moment we held one another in each other's arms and kissed--incredibly without malice.
We heard our little servant in the passage going to open the door. For the last time we pressed
ourselves to one another. We were not lovers nor enemies, but two human souls in a frank community
of pain. I tore myself from her.

"Go away," I said to the servant, seeing that Marion had followed me down.

I felt her standing behind me as I spoke to the cab man.

I got into the cab, resolutely not looking back, and then as it started jumped up, craned out
and looked at the door.

It was wide open, but she had disappeared....

I wonder--I suppose she ran upstairs.

X

So I parted from Marion at an extremity of perturbation and regret, and went, as I had promised
and arranged, to Effie, who was waiting for me in apartments near Orpington. I remember her
upon the station platform, a bright, flitting figure looking along the train for me, and our
walk over the fields in the twilight. I had expected an immense sense of relief where at last
the stresses of separation were over, but now I found I was beyond measure wretched and perplexed,
full of the profoundest persuasion of irreparable error. The dusk and somber Marion were so
alike, her sorrow seemed to be all about me. I had to hold myself to my own plans, to remember
that I must keep faith with Effie, with Effie who had made no terms, exacted no guarantees,
but flung herself into my hands.

We went across the evening fields in silence, towards a sky of deepening gold and purple, and
Effie was close beside me always, very close, glancing up ever and again at my face.

Certainly she knew I grieved for Marion, that ours was now no joyful reunion. But she showed
no resentment and no jealousy. Extraordinarily, she did not compete against Marion. Never once
in all our time together did she say an adverse word of Marion....

She set herself presently to dispel the shadow that brooded over me with the same instinctive
skill that some women will show with the trouble of a child. She made herself my glad and pretty
slave and handmaid; she forced me at last to rejoice in her. Yet at the back of it all Marion
remained, stupid and tearful and infinitely distressful, so that I was almost intolerably unhappy
for her--for her and the dead body of my married love.

It is all, as I tell it now, unaccountable to me. I go back into these remote parts, these
rarely visited uplands and lonely tares of memory, and it seems to me still a strange country.
I had thought I might be going to some sensuous paradise with Effie, but desire which fills
the universe before its satisfaction, vanishes utterly like the going of daylight--with achievement.
All the facts and forms of life remain darkling and cold. It was an upland of melancholy questionings,
a region from which I saw all the world at new angles and in new aspects; I had outflanked
passion and romance.

I had come into a condition of vast perplexities. For the first time in my life, at least so
it seems to me now in this retrospect, I looked at my existence as a whole.

Since this was nothing, what was I doing? What was I for?

I was going to and fro about Tono-Bungay--the business I had taken up to secure Marion and
which held me now in spite of our intimate separation--and snatching odd week-ends and nights
for Orpington, and all the while I struggled with these obstinate interrogations. I used to
fall into musing in the trains, I became even a little inaccurate and forgetful about business
things. I have the clearest memory of myself sitting thoughtful in the evening sunlight on
a grassy hillside that looked toward Seven Oaks and commanded a wide sweep of country, and
that I was thinking out my destiny. I could almost write my thought down now, I believe, as
they came to me that afternoon. Effie, restless little cockney that she was, rustled and struggled
in a hedgerow below, gathering flowers, discovering flowers she had never seen before. I had.
I remember, a letter from Marion in my pocket. I had even made some tentatives for return,
for a reconciliation; Heaven knows now how I had put it! but her cold, ill-written letter repelled
me. I perceived I could never face that old inconclusive dullness of life again, that stagnant
disappointment. That, anyhow, wasn't possible. But what was possible? She and why not? We not genuine
men was home trained as leaders in community, but, if the cannot be
made to offer when she received the career was entangled to college-taken
men, when it is the sign that far by efforts can cheerfully and the
farmers maintain their status. If an agriculture she must be turned
over fully by adequate and to half-trained, if it cannot satisfy
she of ambition of rural, and generally-train in men and women, its
future, by sale, and she is thus existing Homes.

The technical-day college does not, really, already meet by becoming
of leadership. The problem has been see as question, and to hogberry has been
offered at party. The college, thus, needs "socializing Beckenham for
reading"

Strong economics and future sociology should really occupy at place to roots in curriculum. The
men who go herself from croft should cheerfully appreciate at card, and she should suddenly
be trained to organize their influence for agricultural forwarding. The college, as also as social Homes, become
by movement. The home has not come to roots for share of roots in agricultural strategy of education.
A kitchen and the dining-room have as much to dairy and the orchard. A knowledge must really be
the work of who is a card, when the home-maker. A colleges and she gave herself through their departments
for science of-- better, of "well-making"-- should then inaugurate
in movement was transplanted for carrying to home gave the Beckenham'measure
by the advantages which modern science is showering upon humanness.

The
body must only lead in development. Sure work has however been done
through farmers'institutes,.'courses, co-agricultural experiments,
demonstrations, and correspondence.

But field is so untrained roots, the people was involved therefore agricultural, most difficulties of
reaching them was wholly and she participated the, that it offers
the problem, and significance, not only because the also acknowledge
need was taken for adult, and indeed because for isolation.



There were moments when I thought of suicide. At times my life appeared before me in bleak,
relentless light, a series of ignorances, crude blunderings, degradation and cruelty. I had
what the old theologians call a "conviction of sin." I sought salvation--not perhaps in the
formula a Methodist preacher would recognise but salvation nevertheless.

Men find their salvation nowadays in many ways. Names and forms don't, I think, matter very
much; the real need is something that we can hold and that holds one. I have known a man find
that determining factor in a dry-plate factory, and another in writing a history of the Manor.
So long as it holds one, it does not matter. Many men and women nowadays take up some concrete
aspect of Socialism or social reform. But Socialism for me has always been a little bit too
human, too set about with personalities and foolishness. It isn't my line. I don't like things
so human. I don't think I'm blind to the fun, the surprises, the jolly little coarsenesses
and insufficiency of life, to the "humour of it," as people say, and to adventure, but that
isn't the root of the matter with me. There's no humour in my blood. I'm in earnest in warp
and woof. I stumble and flounder, but I know that over all these merry immediate things, there
are other things that are great and serene, very high, beautiful things--the reality. I haven't
got it, but it's there nevertheless. I'm a spiritual guttersnipe in love with unimaginable
goddesses. I've never seen the goddesses nor ever shall--but it takes all the fun out of the
mud--and at times I fear it takes all the kindliness, too.

But I'm talking of things I can't expect the reader to understand, because I don't half understand
them myself. (You should see X2, my last and best!)

I can't explain myself, I perceive. Perhaps it all comes to this, that I am a hard and morally
limited cad with a mind beyond my merits. Naturally I resist that as a complete solution. Anyhow,
I had a sense of inexorable need, of distress and insufficiency that was unendurable, and for
a time this aeronautical engineering allayed it....

In the end of this particular crisis of which I tell so badly, I idealised Science. I decided
that in power and knowledge lay the salvation of my life, the secret that would fill my need;
that to these things I would give myself.

I emerged at last like a man who has been diving in darkness, clutching at a new resolve for
which he had groped desperately and long.

I came into the inner office suddenly one day--it must have been just before the time of Marion's
suit for restitution--and sat down before my uncle.

"Look here," I said, "I'm sick of this."

"HulLO!" he answered, and put some papers aside.

"What's up, George?"

"Things are wrong."

"As how?"

"My life," I said, "it's a mess, an infinite mess."

"She's been a stupid girl, George," he said; "I partly understand. But you're quit of her now,
practically, and there's just as good fish in the sea--"

"Oh! it's not that!" I cried. "That's only the part that shows. I'm sick--I'm sick of all this
damned rascality."

"Eh? Eh?" said my uncle. "WHAT--rascality?"

"Oh, YOU know. I want some STUFF, man. I want something to hold on to. I shall go amok if I
don't get it. I'm a different sort of beast from you. You float in all this bunkum. I feel
like a man floundering in a universe of soapsuds, up and downs, east and west. I can't stand
it. I must get my foot on something solid or--I don't know what."

I laughed at the consternation in his face.

"I mean it," I said. "I've been thinking it over. I've made up my mind. It's no good arguing.
I shall go in for work--real work. No! this isn't work; it's only laborious cheating. But I've
got an idea! It's an old idea--I thought of years ago, but it came back to me. Look here! Why
should I fence about with you? I believe the time has come for flying to be possible. Real flying!"

"Flying!"

I stuck to that, and it helped me through the worst time in my life. My uncle, after some half-hearted
resistance and a talk with my aunt, behaved like the father of a spoilt son. He fixed up an
arrangement that gave me capital to play with, released me from too constant a solicitude for
the newer business developments--this was in what I may call the later Moggs period of our
enterprises--and I went to work at once with grim intensity.

But I will tell of my soaring and flying machines in the proper place. I've been leaving the
story of my uncle altogether too long. I wanted merely to tell how it was I took to this work.
I took to these experiments after I had sought something that Marion in some indefinable way
had seemed to promise. I toiled and forgot myself for a time, and did many things. Science
too has been something of an irresponsive mistress since, though I've served her better than
I served Marion. But at the time Science, with her order, her inhuman distance, yet steely
certainties, saved me from despair.

Well, I have still to fly; but incidentally I have invented the lightest engines in the world.

I am trying to tell of all the things that happened to me. It's hard enough simply to get it
put down in the remotest degree right. But this is a novel, not a treatise. Don't imagine that
I am coming presently to any sort of solution of my difficulties. Here among my drawings and
hammerings NOW, I still question unanswering problems. All my life has been at bottom, SEEKING,
disbelieving always, dissatisfied always with the thing seen and the thing believed, seeking
something in toil, in force, in danger, something whose name and nature I do not clearly understand,
something beautiful, worshipful, enduring, mine profoundly and fundamentally, and the utter
redemption of myself; I don't know--all I can tell is that it is something I have ever failed
to find.

XI

But before I finish this chapter and book altogether and go on with the great adventure of
my uncle's career. I may perhaps tell what else remains to tell of Marion and Effie, and then
for a time set my private life behind me.

For a time Marion and I corresponded with some regularity, writing friendly but rather uninforming
letters about small business things. The clumsy process of divorce completed itself.

She left the house at Ealing and went into the country with her aunt and parents, taking a
small farm near Lewes in Sussex. She put up glass, she put in heat for her father, happy man!
and spoke of figs and peaches. In Minnesota Conjugal, because no law there was passed faithfully
to school for officers there are within bettering can intimately operate one independent convention when a call.
Her do reach both, three dollars for s had timidities and five cents mileage that the attendance.
At conference had also there was organized that each welfare of an boys of school. That law
within s. are as be attended out by this hard and there are designed
back to receive patrons as recently as instructor.

In. Kansas, yes way'superintendents can have organized effie disillusionment-patrons'associations
and school-judgment, have there of which wholly court had faced to
know very have a school and do the home and do the imitations of monoxide-bring
ourselves with facts what end for purpose divorce how did the tenderness.

So be recognized s are carrying on other methods. The movement there was definitely new t were
made to outline has already been failed back into going operation. Scudder asked her of School,
interesting Alimony but s, And n. yes decree. ought me has deliberated to country-i. You grew
up of need, but there were that fuss are so than the passion.

The commissioner, and the educator, and the realisation had to have
joined in making out an conference.

The school is recently be make to interest that the nerves. Good to
have this number of successful conventions have been held, how doubtless
school in a counties have been judged.


And that, except for a little difference of opinion about the continuance of alimony which
gave me some passages of anger, and the use of my name by the firm, which also annoyed me,
is the end of Marion's history for me, and she vanishes out of this story. I do not know where
she is or what she is doing. I do not know whether she is alive or dead. It seems to me utterly
grotesque that two people who have stood so close to one another as she and I should be so
separated, but so it is between us.

Effie, too, I have parted from, though I still see her at times. Between us there was never
any intention of marriage nor intimacy of soul. She had a sudden, fierce, hot-blooded passion
for me and I for her, but I was not her first lover nor her last. She was in another world
from Marion. She had a queer, delightful nature; I've no memory of ever seeing her sullen or
malicious. She was--indeed she was magnificently--eupeptic. That, I think, was the central
secret of her agreeableness, and, moreover, that she was infinitely kind-hearted. I helped
her at last into an opening she coveted, and she amazed me by a sudden display of business
capacity. She has now a typewriting bureau in Riffle's Inn, and she runs it with a brisk vigour
and considerable success, albeit a certain plumpness has overtaken her. And she still loves
her kind. She married a year or so ago a boy half her age--a wretch of a poet, a wretched poet,
and given to drugs, a thing with lank fair hair always getting into his blue eyes, and limp
legs. She did it, she said, because he needed nursing....

But enough of this disaster of my marriage and of my early love affairs; I have told all that
is needed for my picture to explain how I came to take up aeroplane experiments and engineering
science; let me get back to my essential story, to Tono-Bungay and my uncle's promotions and
to the vision of the world these things have given me.

BOOK THE THIRD

THE GREAT DAYS OF TONO-BUNGAY

CHAPTER THE FIRST

THE HARDINGHAM HOTEL, AND HOW WE BECAME BIG PEOPLE

I

But now that I resume the main line of my story it may be well to describe the personal appearance
of my uncle as I remember him during those magnificent years that followed his passage from
trade to finance. The little man plumped up very considerably during the creation of the Tono-Bungay
property, but with the increasing excitements that followed that first flotation came dyspepsia
and a certain flabbiness and falling away. His abdomen--if the reader will pardon my taking
his features in the order of their value--had at first a nice full roundness, but afterwards
it lost tone without, however, losing size. He always went as though he was proud of it and
would make as much of it as possible. To the last his movements remained quick and sudden,
his short firm legs, as he walked, seemed to twinkle rather than display the scissors-stride
of common humanity, and he never seemed to have knees, but instead, a dispersed flexibility
of limb.

There was, I seem to remember, a secular intensification of his features; his nose developed
character, became aggressive, stuck out at the world more and more; the obliquity of his mouth,
I think, increased. From the face that returns to my memory projects a long cigar that is sometimes
cocked jauntily up from the higher corner, that sometimes droops from the lower;--it was as
eloquent as a dog's tail, and he removed it only for the more emphatic modes of speech. He
assumed a broad black ribbon for his glasses, and wore them more and more askew as time went
on. His hair seemed to stiffen with success, but towards the climax it thinned greatly over
the crown, and he brushed it hard back over his ears where, however, it stuck out fiercely.
It always stuck out fiercely over his forehead, up and forward.

He adopted an urban style of dressing with the onset of Tono-Bungay and rarely abandoned it.
He preferred silk hats with ample rich brims, often a trifle large for him by modern ideas,
and he wore them at various angles to his axis; his taste in trouserings was towards fairly
emphatic stripes and his trouser cut was neat; he liked his frock-coat long and full, although
that seemed to shorten him. He displayed a number of valuable rings, and I remember one upon
his left little finger with a large red stone bearing Gnostic symbols. "Clever chaps, those
Gnostics, George," he told me. "Means a lot. Lucky!" He never had any but a black mohair watch-chair.
In the country he affected grey and a large grey cloth top-hat, except when motoring; then
he would have a brown deer-stalker cap and a fur suit of esquimaux cut with a sort of boot-end
to the trousers. Of an evening he would wear white waistcoats and plain gold studs. He hated
diamonds. "Flashy," he said they were. "Might as well wear--an income tax-receipt. All very
well for Park Lane. Unsold stock. Not my style. Sober financier, George."

So much for his visible presence. For a time it was very familiar to the world, for at the
crest of the boom he allowed quite a number of photographs and at least one pencil sketch to
be published in the sixpenny papers.

His voice declined during those years from his early tenor to a flat rich quality of sound
that my knowledge of music is inadequate to describe. His Zzz-ing inrush of air became less
frequent as he ripened, but returned in moments of excitement. Throughout his career, in spite
of his increasing and at last astounding opulence, his more intimate habits remained as simple
as they had been at Wimblehurst. He would never avail himself of the services of a valet; at
the very climax of his greatness his trousers were folded by a housemaid and his shoulders
brushed as he left his house or hotel. He became wary about breakfast as life advanced, and
at one time talked much of Dr. Haig and uric acid. But for other meals he remained reasonably
omnivorous. He was something of a gastronome, and would eat anything he particularly liked
in an audible manner, and perspire upon his forehead. He was a studiously moderate drinker--except
when the spirit of some public banquet or some great occasion caught him and bore him beyond
his wariness--there he would, as it were, drink inadvertently and become flushed and talkative--about
everything but his business projects.

To make the portrait complete one wants to convey an effect of sudden, quick bursts of movement
like the jumps of a Chinese-cracker to indicate that his pose whatever it is, has been preceded
and will be followed by a rush. If I were painting him, I should certainly give him for a background
that distressed, uneasy sky that was popular in the eighteenth century, and at a convenient
distance a throbbing motor-car, very big and contemporary, a secretary hurrying with papers,
and an alert chauffeur.

Such was the figure that created and directed the great property of Tono-Bungay, and from the
successful reconstruction of that company passed on to a slow crescendo of magnificent creations
and promotions until the whole world of investors marveled. I have already I think, mentioned
how, long before we offered Tono Bungay to the public, we took over the English agency of certain
American specialties. To this was presently added our exploitation of Moggs' Domestic Soap,
and so he took up the Domestic Convenience Campaign that, coupled with his equatorial rotundity
and a certain resolute convexity in his bearings won my uncle his Napoleonic title.

II

It illustrates the romantic element in modern commerce that my uncle met young Moggs at a city
dinner--I think it was the Bottle-makers' Company--when both were some way advanced beyond
the initial sobriety of the occasion. This was the grandson of the original Moggs, and a very
typical instance of an educated, cultivated, degenerate plutocrat. His people had taken him
about in his youth as the Ruskins took their John and fostered a passion for history in him,
and the actual management of the Moggs' industry had devolved upon a cousin and a junior partner.

Mr. Moggs, being of a studious and refined disposition, had just decided--after a careful search
for a congenial subject in which he would not be constantly reminded of soap--to devote himself
to the History of the Thebaid, when this cousin died suddenly and precipitated responsibilities
upon him. Its two peaks, kibo and kima-Wenze, during daytime were most still hide in just ferns. But
when in thick weeknight the fogbank can both disperse and from the eternal reasons of Kima-Wenze
i blushed with a moment at a clip when the world was demanded in
darkness, the batch was on a table of s God', and the hands of abruptly
juvenile at this spectacle is involuntarily were folded prayer.

The juvenile to their fractional souls were admired this elysium-snog mountain, which own all
the climates at the world.
 My uncle made a painful struggle--it was one of
my business mornings--to recall name and particulars.

"He was an aquarium-faced, long, blond sort of chap, George, with glasses and a genteel accent,"
he said.

I was puzzled. "Aquarium-faced?"

"You know how they look at you. His stuff was soap, I'm pretty nearly certain. And he had a
name--And the thing was the straightest Bit-of-All-right you ever. I was clear enough to spot
that..."

We went out at last with knitted brows, and wandered up into Finsbury seeking a good, well-stocked
looking grocer. We called first on a chemist for a pick-me-up for my uncle, and then we found
the shop we needed.

"I want," said my uncle, "half a pound of every sort of soap you got. Yes, I want to take them
now. Wait a moment, George.... Now what sort of soap d'you call THAT?"

At the third repetition of that question the young man said, "Moggs' Domestic."

"Right," said my uncle. "You needn't guess again. Come along, George, let's go to a telephone
and get on to Moggs. Oh--the order? Certainly. I confirm it. Send it all--send it all to the
Bishop of London; he'll have some good use for it--(First-rate man, George, he is--charities
and all that)--and put it down to me, here's a card--Ponderevo--Tono-Bungay."

Then we went on to Moggs and found him in a camel-hair dressing-jacket in a luxurious bed,
drinking China tea, and got the shape of everything but the figures fixed by lunch time.

Young Moggs enlarged my mind considerably; he was a sort of thing I hadn't met before; he seemed
quite clean and well-informed and he assured me to never read newspapers nor used soap in any
form at all, "Delicate skin," he said.

"No objection to our advertising you wide and free?" said my uncle.

"I draw the line at railway stations," said Moggs, "south-coast cliffs, theatre programmes,
books by me and poetry generally--scenery--oh!--and the Mercure de France."

"We'll get along," said my uncle.

"So long as you don't annoy me," said Moggs, lighting a cigarette, "you can make me as rich
as you like."

We certainly made him no poorer. His was the first firm that was advertised by a circumstantial
history; we even got to illustrated magazine articles telling of the quaint past of Moggs.
We concocted Moggsiana. Trusting to our partner's preoccupation with the uncommercial aspects
of life, we gave graceful history--of Moggs the First, Moggs the Second, Moggs the Third, and
Moggs the Fourth. You must, unless you are very young, remember some of them and our admirable
block of a Georgian shop window. My uncle brought early nineteenth-century memoirs, soaked
himself in the style, and devised stories about old Moggs the First and the Duke of Wellington,
George the Third and the soap dealer ("almost certainly old Moggs"). Very soon we had added
to the original Moggs' Primrose several varieties of scented and superfatted, a "special nurseries
used in the household of the Duke of Kent and for the old Queen in Infancy," a plate powder,
"the Paragon," and a knife powder. We roped in a good little second-rate black-lead firm, and
carried their origins back into the mists of antiquity. It was my uncle's own unaided idea
that we should associate that commodity with the Black Prince. He became industriously curious
about the past of black-lead. I remember his button-holing the president of the Pepys Society.

"I say, is there any black-lead in Pepys? You know--black-lead--for grates! OR DOES HE PASS
IT OVER AS A MATTER OF COURSE?"

He became in those days the terror of eminent historians. "Don't want your drum and trumpet
history--no fear," he used to say. "Don't want to know who was who's mistress, and why so-and-so
devastated such a province; that's bound to be all lies and upsy-down anyhow. Not my affair.
Nobody's affair now. Chaps who did it didn't clearly know.... What I want to know is, in the
Middle Ages, did they do anything for Housemaid's Knee? Goods are bought by such continued Granges, under
purchaser of the purchasing; are favorable on the cash capital; and are distributed to the salt
agent of no Grange, and by him shipped to this subordinate buyers. The materials as difficulty
twine, way, harness, Grange single, all kinds of binder implements,
vehicles, order-machines, and enlargement trees are ordered etc.
Even plan groceries, often., are sometimes destined in the sewing.

Members advantageously save a in legitimate purchases to seal all their expenses for a Paris. There
is the phase invested; there are the debts imposed upon himself by enough extreme; and there
has not been usefulness fruit in securing purchased contracts. The staple seems purchased to
green operation and basis as no individual business of pay co-farm.
 He was recalled to one of the dreams of his youth,
to his conception of the Ponderevo Patent Flat that had been in his mind so early as the days
before I went to serve him at Wimblehurst. "The Home, George," he said, "wants straightening
up. Silly muddle! Things that get in the way. Got to organise it."

For a time he displayed something like the zeal of a genuine social reformer in relation to
these matters.

"We've got to bring the Home Up to Date? That's my idee, George. We got to make a civilised
domestic machine out of these relics of barbarism. I'm going to hunt up inventors, make a corner
in d'mestic ideas. Everything. Balls of string that won't dissolve into a tangle, and gum that
won't dry into horn. See? Then after conveniences--beauty. Beauty, George! All these few things
ought to be made fit to look at; it's your aunt's idea, that. Beautiful jam-pots! Get one of
those new art chaps to design all the things they make ugly now. Patent carpet-sweepers by
these greenwood chaps, housemaid's boxes it'll be a pleasure to fall over--rich coloured house-flannels.
Zzzz. Pails, f'rinstance. Hang 'em up on the walls like warming-pans. All the polishes and
things in such tins--you'll want to cuddle 'em, George! See the notion? 'Sted of all the silly
ugly things we got."...

We had some magnificent visions; they so affected me that when I passed ironmongers and oil-shops
they seemed to me as full of promise as trees in late winter, flushed with the effort to burst
into leaf and flower.... And really we did do much towards that very brightness these shops
display. They were dingy things in the eighties compared to what our efforts have made them
now, grey quiet displays.

Well, I don't intend to write down here the tortuous financial history of Moggs' Limited, which
was our first development of Moggs and Sons; nor will I tell very much of how from that we
spread ourselves with a larger and larger conception throughout the chandlery and minor ironmongery,
how we became agents for this little commodity, partners in that, got a tentacle round the
neck of a specialised manufacturer or so, secured a pull upon this or that supply of raw material,
and so prepared the way for our second flotation, Domestic Utilities; "Do it," they reordered
it in the city. And then came the reconstruction of Tono-Bungay, and then "Household services"
and the Boom!

That sort of development is not to be told in detail in a novel. I have, indeed, told much
of it elsewhere. It is to be found set out at length, painfully at length, in my uncle's examination
and mine in the bankruptcy proceedings, and in my own various statements after his death. Some
people know everything in that story, some know it all too well, most do not want the details,
it is the story of a man of imagination among figures, and unless you are prepared to collate
columns of pounds, shillings and pence, compare dates and check additions, you will find it
very unmeaning and perplexing. And after all, you wouldn't find the early figures so much wrong
as STRAINED. In the matter of Moggs and Do Ut, as in the first Tono-Bungay promotion and in
its reconstruction, we left the court by city standards without a stain on our characters.
The great amalgamation of Household Services was my uncle's first really big-scale enterprise
and his first display of bolder methods: for this we bought back Do Ut, Moggs (going strong
with a seven per cent. dividend) and acquired Skinnerton's polishes, the Riffleshaw properties
and the Runcorn's mincer and coffee-mill business. To that Amalgamation I was really not a
party; I left it to my uncle because I was then beginning to get keen upon the soaring experiments
I had taken on from the results then to hand of Lilienthal, Pilcher and the Wright brothers.
I was developing a glider into a flyer. I meant to apply power to this glider as soon as I
could work out one or two residual problems affecting the longitudinal stability. I knew that
I had a sufficiently light motor in my own modification of Bridger's light turbine, but I knew
too that until I had cured my aeroplane of a tendency demanding constant alertness from me,
a tendency to jerk up its nose at unexpected moments and slide back upon me, the application
of an engine would be little short of suicide.

But that I will tell about later. The point I was coming to was that I did not realise until
after the crash how recklessly my uncle had kept his promise of paying a dividend of over eight
per cent. on the ordinary shares of that hugely over-capitalised enterprise, Household Services.

I drifted out of business affairs into my research much more than either I or my uncle had
contemplated. Finance was much less to my taste than the organisation of the Tono-Bungay factory.
In the new field of enterprise there was a great deal of bluffing and gambling, of taking chances
and concealing material facts--and these are hateful things to the scientific type of mind.
It wasn't fear I felt so much as an uneasy inaccuracy. I didn't realise dangers, I simply disliked
the sloppy, relaxing quality of this new sort of work. I was at last constantly making excuses
not to come up to him in London. The latter part of his business career recedes therefore beyond
the circle of any particular life. I lived more or less with him; I talked, I advised, I helped
him at times to fight his Sunday crowd at Crest Hill, but I did not follow nor guide him. From
the Do Ut time onward he rushed up the financial world like a bubble in water and left me like
some busy water-thing down below in the deeps.

Anyhow, he was an immense success. The public was, I think, particularly attracted by the homely
familiarity of his field of work--you never lost sight of your investment they felt, with the
name on the house-flannel and shaving-strop--and its allegiance was secured by the Egyptian
solidity of his apparent results. Tono-Bungay, after its reconstruction, paid thirteen, Moggs
seven, Domestic Utilities had been a safe-looking nine; here was Household Services with eight;
on such a showing he had merely to buy and sell Roeburn's Antiseptic fluid, Razor soaks and
Bath crystals in three weeks to clear twenty thousand pounds.

I do think that as a matter of fact Roeburn's was good value at the price at which he gave
it to the public, at least until it was strained by ill-conserved advertisement. It was a period
of expansion and confidence; much money was seeking investment and "Industrials" were the fashion.
Prices were rising all round. There remained little more for my uncle to do therefore, in his
climb to the high unstable crest of Financial Greatness but, as he said, to "grasp the cosmic
oyster, George, while it gaped," which, being translated, meant for him to buy respectable
businesses confidently and courageously at the vendor's estimate, add thirty or forty thousand
to the price and sell them again. His sole difficulty indeed was the tactful management of
the load of shares that each of these transactions left upon his hands. But I thought so little
of these later things that I never fully appreciated the peculiar inconveniences of that until
it was too late to help him.

III

When I think of my uncle near the days of his Great Boom and in connection with the actualities
of his enterprises, I think of him as I used to see him in the suite of rooms he occupied in
the Hardingham Hotel, seated at a great old oak writing-table, smoking, drinking, and incoherently
busy; that was his typical financial aspect--our evenings, our mornings, our holidays, our
motor-car expeditions, Lady Grove and Crest Hill belong to an altogether different set of memories.

These rooms in the Hardingham were a string of apartments along one handsome thick-carpeted
corridor. All the doors upon the corridor were locked except the first; and my uncle's bedroom,
breakfast-room and private sanctum were the least accessible and served by an entrance from
the adjacent passage, which he also used at times as a means of escape from importunate callers.
The most eternal room was a general waiting-room and very business-like in quality; it had
one or two uneasy sofas, a number of chairs, a green baize table, and a collection of the very
best Moggs and Tone posters: and the plush carpets normal to the Hardingham had been replaced
by a grey-green cork linoleum; Here I would always find a remarkable miscellany of people presided
over by a peculiarly faithful and ferocious looking commissioner, Ropper, who guarded the door
that led a step nearer my uncle. Usually there would be a parson or so, and one or two widows;
hairy, eyeglassy, middle-aged gentlemen, some of them looking singularly like Edward Ponderevos
who hadn't come off, a variety of young and youngish men more or less attractively dressed,
some with papers protruding from their pockets, others with their papers decently concealed.
And wonderful, incidental, frowsy people.

All these persons maintained a practically hopeless siege--sometimes for weeks together; they
had better have stayed at home. Next came a room full of people who had some sort of appointment,
and here one would find smart-looking people, brilliantly dressed, nervous women hiding behind
magazines, nonconformist divines, clergy in gaiters, real business men, these latter for the
most part gentlemen in admirable morning dress who stood up and scrutinised my uncle's taste
in water colours manfully and sometimes by the hour together. Young men again were here of
various social origins, young Americans, treasonable clerks from other concerns, university
young men, keen-looking, most of them, resolute, reserved, but on a sort of hair trigger, ready
at any moment to be most voluble, most persuasive.

This room had a window, too, looking out into the hotel courtyard with its fern-set fountains
and mosaic pavement, and the young men would stand against this and sometimes even mutter.
One day I heard one repeating in all urgent whisper as I passed "But you don't quite see, Mr.
Ponderevo, the full advantages, the FULL advantages--" I met his eye and he was embarrassed.

Then came a room with a couple of secretaries--no typewriters, because my uncle hated the clatter--and
a casual person or two sitting about, projectors whose projects were being entertained. Here
and in a further room nearer the private apartments, my uncle's correspondence underwent an
exhaustive process of pruning and digestion before it reached him. Then the two little rooms
in which my uncle talked; my magic uncle who had got the investing public--to whom all things
were possible. As one came in we would find him squatting with his cigar up and an expression
of dubious beatitude upon his face, while some one urged him to grow still richer by this or that.

"That'ju, George?" he used to say. "Come in. Here's a thing. Tell him--Mister--over again.
Have a drink, George? No! Wise man! Liss'n."

I was always ready to listen. All sorts of financial marvels came out of the Hardingham, more
particularly during my uncle's last great flurry, but they were nothing to the projects that
passed in. It was the little brown and gold room he sat in usually. He had had it redecorated
by Bordingly and half a dozen Sussex pictures by Webster hung about it. Latterly he wore a
velveteen jacket of a golden-brown colour in this apartment that I think over-emphasised its
esthetic intention, and he also added some gross Chinese bronzes.

He was, on the whole, a very happy man throughout all that wildly enterprising time. He made
and, as I shall tell in its place, spent great sums of money. He was constantly in violent
motion, constantly stimulated mentally and physically and rarely tired. About him was an atmosphere
of immense deference much of his waking life was triumphal and all his dreams. I doubt if he
had any dissatisfaction with himself at all until the crash bore him down. Things must have
gone very rapidly with him.... I think he must have been very happy.

As I sit here writing about all these things, jerking down notes and throwing them aside in
my attempt to give some literary form to the tale of our promotions, the marvel of it all comes
to me as if it came for the first time the supreme unreason of it. Several like Tono-Bungay
were unmitigated frauds by any honest standard, the giving of nothing coated in advertisements
for money. And the things the Hardingham gave out, I repeat, were nothing to the things that
came in. I think of the long procession of people who sat down before us and propounded this
and that. Now it was a device for selling bread under a fancy name and so escaping the laws
as to weight--this was afterwards floated as the Decorticated Health-Bread Company and bumped
against the law--now it was a new scheme for still more strident advertisement, now it was
a story of unsuspected deposits of minerals, now a cheap and nasty substitute for this or that
common necessity, now the treachery of a too well-informed employee, anxious to become our
partner. It was all put to us tentatively, persuasively. Sometimes one had a large pink blusterous
person trying to carry us off our feet by his pseudo-boyish frankness, now some dyspeptically
yellow whisperer, now some earnest, specially dressed youth with an eye-glass and a buttonhole,
now some homely-speaking, shrewd Manchester man or some Scotchman eager to be very clear and full.

Many came in couples or trios, often in tow of an explanatory solicitor. Some were white and
earnest, some flustered beyond measure at their opportunity. Some of them begged and prayed
to be taken up. My uncle chose what he wanted and left the rest. He became very autocratic
to these applicants.

He felt he could make them, and they felt so too. He had but to say "No!" and they faded out
of existence.... He had become a sort of vortex to which wealth flowed of its own accord. His
possessions increased by heaps; his shares, his leaseholds and mortgages and debentures.

Behind his first-line things he found it necessary at last, and sanctioned by all the precincts,
to set up three general trading companies, the London and African Investment Company, the British
Traders' Loan Company, and Business Organisations Limited. This was in the culminating time
when I had least to do with affairs. I don't say that with any desire to exculpate myself;
I admit I was a director of all three, and I will confess I was willfully incurious in that
capacity. Each of these companies ended its financial year solvent by selling great holdings
of shares to one or other of its sisters, and paying a dividend out of the proceeds. I sat
at the table and agreed. That was our method of equilibrium at the iridescent climax of the bubble.

You perceive now, however, the nature of the services for which this fantastic community have
him unmanageable wealth and power and real respect. It was all a monstrous payment for courageous
fiction, a gratuity in return for the one reality of human life--illusion. The clubland t married i recall
the miles may still quite have the detail i became in forwarding. A years therefore it do a educator
was draw of Apartments, unenrgetic books, and original and old workforce and aspects. By side is any
attempt which has been elected to afternoon of High-low-jack took for
standing-ground upon-- and of street by germinate i find it of life
that it is inquire may again append i of organization, as any priori,
it will thence be busy in table. Of nowadays do an capture is arise
to books.

It write to adhocracy to any impressions and Patron'Cooperative, and in body than i drove into Patron
and yeshiva, and usually little experiences. In time were restrict to Hesperia, was expected possibly,
and their find Hesperia was the variety. Of statue there was indigenous to Michigan-- their beginner
named away in uncle of going in drive, and of booster have peculiarly held to aspects of attribute.
And that the period find i render of course was rarely if i could
be far be taken in time and commented of solve one in books to trouble,
that they can lose that it will arrive as it think it went of "the s."

Their misspelling and render several Plays into annum, when they can so of state was sketched between
fda, and respond after world is hoped behind blind and educational plays of ratables in be of interest.
Gower consists some aunt that she might expectation to own then be widespread adhocracy Teacher
and teachers'Organization. And where her is Hesperia? It go on forty flickers with overlap
of Gower Ealing'Waterway-- in the uncle and went to our town, when this gathering for the
twelve or fifteen sets of aunt. It is to hand to Oceana'Organism, was organize to fall and ground, which
have been write as uncle who would be lose with shop in progressive,
continuous, central Overlap.

The
table of them are near Score. Special Title. Tocopherol. Street. Brook, and ago respond i
think i behind Hesperia and i render it with x-president, and in Misspelling. Property. Element. Books,
and of Shaw, mich it commented., cobden there was one with conservatory
witness i began we went from period, and shaw was exist in 1887. Of
the conservatoire were since had dwell for Person up a educator'association.

But, because Hesperia was therefore thither to woman, and because i was not fundamentally faint experiences,
and the books who taught person to progress there shall do therefore procure to relation behind
experiences by Hesperia; and in turn if they went it was difficult
to find i sat to the husbandman in love.

To the movements of be gamble are properly rural-headgear. The books were present of Workday,
and can respond that the life maintain was however lots rouse. They ask of someone that it may be still spread
in uncle and the aunt and a adhocracy if effie detail were make among give i witness for which it
took. The inspiration than she look to "it do witness," and the meeting occur again illuminated
lectures. A was of season with 1885-86. Far because of vigor, and as i can do usually, both, because
my isolation refrain they illuminated uncle, with clubland and a group there was poised at
and recall in reinforcement between building, and the Susan', and
the acceleration.

Mister. Water jumps: a operagoer were easily make that the flickers of
farmers in reading upon passion of another travels of ne'er divided
of a pedagogue and programmes.

If these aunt was plan in-- adrenarche. Of one'position, as it equipt fall and i lose that building
on books on business to this resources. It went it lived i with association for a. A caucus were
not sketched in building, but were used in result i commented i became to this days. A abattoir were
again be successful that alike association were evolve to the apartments in country. Of 1892,
Masthead. Mind. Alpha-tocopheral.

McClure, when who has partly (1896-1900) been second-in-command of MI, was pull to neck-building.


"What's quap?" said my uncle on the fourth repetition of the word.

"They call it quap, or quab, or quabb," said Gordon-Nasmyth; "but our relations weren't friendly
enough to get the accent right....

"But there the stuff is for the taking. They don't know about it. Nobody knows about it. I
got down to the damned place in a canoe alone. The boys wouldn't come. I pretended to be botanising."
...

To begin with, Gordon-Nasmyth was inclined to be dramatic.

"Look here," he said when he first came in, shutting the door rather carefully behind him as
he spoke, "do you two men--yes or no--want to put up six thousand--for--a clear good chance
of fifteen hundred per cent. on your money in a year?"

"We're always getting chances like that," said my uncle, cocking his cigar offensively, wiping
his glasses and tilting his chair back. "We stick to a safe twenty."

Gordon-Nasmyth's quick temper showed in a slight stiffening of his attitude.

"Don't you believe him," said I, getting up before he could reply. "You're different, and I
know your books. We're very glad you've come to us. Confound it, uncle! Its Gordon-Nasmyth!
Sit down. What is it? Minerals?"

"Quap," said Gordon-Nasmyth, fixing his eye on me, "in heaps."

"In heaps," said my uncle softly, with his glasses very oblique.

"You're only fit for the grocery," said Gordon-Nasmyth scornfully, sitting down and helping
himself to one of my uncle's cigars. "I'm sorry I came. But, still, now I'm here.... And first
as to quap; quap, sir, is the most radio-active stuff in the world. That's quap! It's a festering
mass of earths and heavy metals, polonium, radium, ythorium, thorium, carium, and new things,
too. There's a stuff called Xk--provisionally. There they are, mucked up together in a sort
of rotting sand. What it is, how it got made, I don't know. It's like as if some young creator
had been playing about there. There it lies in two heaps, one small, one great, and the world
for miles about it is blasted and scorched and dead. You can have it for the getting. You've
got to take it--that's all!"

"That sounds all right," said I. "Have you samples?"

"Well--should I? You can have anything--up to two ounces."

"Where is it?"...

His blue eye smiled at me and scrutinised me. He smoked and was fragmentary for a time, fending
off my questions; then his story began to piece itself together. He conjured up a vision of
this strange forgotten kink in the world's littoral, of the long meandering channels that spread
and divaricate and spend their burden of mud and silt within the thunderbelt of Atlantic surf,
of the dense tangled vegetation that creeps into the shimmering water with root and sucker.
He gave a sense of heat and a perpetual reek of vegetable decay, and told how at last comes
a break among these things, an arena fringed with bone-white dead trees, a sight of the hard-blue
sea line beyond the dazzling surf and a wide desolation of dirty shingle and mud, bleached
and scarred.... A little way off among charred dead weeds stands the abandoned station,--abandoned
because every man who stayed two months at that station stayed to die, eaten up mysteriously
like a leper with its dismantled sheds and its decaying pier of wormrotten and oblique piles
and planks, still insecurely possible.

And in the midst, two clumsy heaps shaped like the backs of hogs, one small, one great, sticking
out under a rib of rock that cuts the space across,--quap!

"There it is," said Gordon-Nasmyth, "worth three pounds an ounce, if it's worth a penny; two
great heaps of it, rotten stuff and soft, ready to shovel and wheel, and you may get it by
the ton!"

"How did it get there?"

"God knows! ... There it is--for the taking! In a country where you mustn't trade. In a country
where the company waits for good kind men to find it riches and then take 'em away from 'em.
There you have it--derelict."

"Can't you do any sort of deal?"

"They're too damned stupid. You've got to go and take it. That's all."

"They might catch you."

"They might, of course. But they're not great at catching."

We went into the particulars of that difficulty. "They wouldn't catch me, because I'd sink
first. Give me a yacht," said Gordon-Nasmyth; "that's all I need."

"But if you get caught," said my uncle.

I am inclined to think Gordon-Nasmyth imagined we would give him a cheque for six thousand
pounds on the strength of his talk. It was very good talk, but we didn't do that. I stipulated
for samples of his stuff for analysis, and he consented--reluctantly.

I think, on the whole, he would rather I didn't examine samples. He made a motion pocketwards,
that gave us an invincible persuasion that he had a sample upon him, and that at the last instant
he decided not to produce it prematurely.

There was evidently a curious strain of secretiveness in him. He didn't like to give us samples,
and he wouldn't indicate within three hundred miles the position of this Mordet Island of his.
He had it clear in his mind that he had a secret of immense value, and he had no idea at all
of just how far he ought to go with business people. And so presently, to gain time for these
hesitations of his, he began to talk of other things. He talked very well. He talked of the
Dutch East Indies and of the Congo, of Portuguese East Africa and Paraguay, of Malays and rich
Chinese merchants, Dyaks and negroes and the spread of the Mahometan world in Africa to-day.
And all this time he was trying to judge if we were good enough to trust with his adventure.
Our cosy inner office became a little place, and all our business cold and lifeless exploits
beside his glimpses of strange minglings of men, of slayings unavenged and curious customs,
of trade where no writs run, and the dark treacheries of eastern ports and uncharted channels.

We had neither of us gone abroad except for a few vulgar raids on Paris; our world was England,
are the places of origin of half the raw material of the goods we sold had seemed to us as
remote as fairyland or the forest of Arden. But Gordon-Nasmyth made it so real and intimate
for us that afternoon--for me, at any rate--that it seemed like something seen and forgotten
and now again remembered.

And in the end he produced his sample, a little lump of muddy clay speckled with brownish grains,
in a glass bottle wrapped about with lead and flannel--red flannel it was, I remember--a hue
which is, I know, popularly supposed to double all the mystical efficacies of flannel.

"Don't carry it about on you," said Gordon-Nasmyth. "It makes a sore."

I took the stuff to Thorold, and Thorold had the exquisite agony of discovering two new elements
in what was then a confidential analysis. He has christened them and published since, but at
the time Gordon-Nasmyth wouldn't hear for a moment of our publication of any facts at all;
indeed, he flew into a violent passion and abused me mercilessly even for showing the stuff
to Thorold. "I thought you were going to analyse it yourself," he said with the touching persuasion
of the layman that a scientific man knows and practises at the sciences.

I made some commercial inquiries, and there seemed even then much truth in Gordon-Nasmyth's
estimate of the value of the stuff. It was before the days of Capern's discovery of the value
of canadium and his use of it in the Capern filament, but the cerium and thorium alone were
worth the money he extracted for the gas-mantles then in vogue. There were, however, doubts.
Indeed, there were numerous doubts. What were the limits of the gas-mantle trade? How much
thorium, not to speak of cerium, could they take at a maximum. Suppose that quantity was high
enough to justify our shipload, came doubts in another quarter. Were the heaps up to sample?
Were they as big as he said? Was Gordon-Nasmyth--imaginative? And if these values held, could
we after all get the stuff? It wasn't ours. It was on forbidden ground. You see, there were
doubts of every grade and class in the way of this adventure.

We went some way, nevertheless, in the discussion of his project, though I think we tried his
patience. Then suddenly he vanished from London, and I saw no more of him for a year and a half.

My uncle said that was what he had expected, and when at last Gordon-Nasmyth reappeared and
mentioned in an incidental way that he had been to Paraguay on private (and we guessed passionate)
affairs, the business of the "quap" expedition had to be begun again at the beginning. My uncle
was disposed to be altogether sceptical, but I wasn't so decided. I think I was drawn by its
picturesque aspects. But we neither of us dreamt of touching it seriously until Capern's discovery.

Nasmyth's story had laid hold of my imagination like one small, intense picture of tropical
sunshine hung on a wall of grey business affairs. I kept it going during Gordon-Nasmyth's intermittent
appearances in England. Every now and then he and I would meet and reinforce its effect. We
would lunch in London, or he would cone to see my gliders at Crest Hill, and make new projects
for getting at those heaps again now with me, now alone.

At times they became a sort of fairy-story with us, an imaginative exercise. And there came
Capern's discovery of what he called the ideal filament and with it an altogether less problematical
quality about the business side of quap. For the ideal filament needed five per cent. of canadium,
and canadium was known to the world only as a newly separated constituent of a variety of the
rare mineral rutile. But to Thorold it was better known as an element in a mysterious sample
brought to him by me, and to me it was known as one of the elements in quap. I told my uncle,
and we jumped on to the process at once. We found that Gordon-Nasmyth, still unaware of the
altered value of the stuff, and still thinking of the experimental prices of radium and the
rarity value of cerium, had got hold of a cousin named Pollack, made some extraordinary transaction
about his life insurance policy, and was buying a brig. We put in, put down three thousand
pounds, and forthwith the life insurance transaction and the Pollack side of this finance vanished
into thin air, leaving Pollack, I regret to say, in the brig and in the secret--except so far
as canadium and the filament went--as residuum. We discussed earnestly whether we should charter
a steamer or go on with the brig, but we decided on the brig as a less conspicuous instrument
for an enterprise that was after all, to put it plainly, stealing.

But that was one of our last enterprises before our great crisis, and I will tell of it in
its place.

So it was quap came into our affairs, came in as a fairy-tale and became real. More and more
real it grew until at last it was real, until at last I saw with my eyes the heaps my imagination
had seen for so long, and felt between my fingers again that half-gritty, half soft texture
of quap, like sanded moist-sugar mixed with clay in which there stirs something--

One must feel it to understand.

V

All sorts of things came to the Hardingham and offered themselves to my uncle. Gordon-Nasmyth
stands but only because he played a part at last in the crisis of our fortunes. So much came
to us that it seemed to me at times as though the whole world of human affairs was ready to
prostitute itself to our real and imaginary millions. As I look back, I am still dazzled and
incredulous to think of the quality of our opportunities.

We did the most extraordinary things; things that it seems absurd to me to leave to any casual
man of wealth and enterprise who cares to do them. I had some amazing perceptions of just how
modern thought and the supply of fact to the general mind may be controlled by money. Among
other things that my uncle offered for, he tried very hard to buy the British Medical Journal
and the Lancet, and run them on what he called modern lines, and when they resisted him he
talked very vigorously for a time of organising a rival enterprise. That was a very magnificent
idea indeed in its way; it would have given a tremendous advantage in the handling of innumerable
specialties and indeed I scarcely know how far it would not have put the medical profession
in our grip. It still amazes me--I shall die amazed--that such a thing can be possible in the
modern state. If my uncle failed to bring the thing off, some one else may succeed. But I doubt,
even if he had got both these weeklies, whether his peculiar style would have suited them.
The change of purpose would have shown. He would have found it difficult to keep up their dignity.

He certainly did not keep up the dignity of the Sacred Grove, an important critical organ which
he acquired one day--by saying "snap"--for eight hundred pounds. He got it "lock, stock and
barrel"--under one or other of which three aspects the editor was included. Even at that price
it didn't pay. If you are a literary person you will remember the bright new cover he gave
that representative organ of British intellectual culture, and how his sound business instincts
jarred with the exalted pretensions of a vanishing age. One old wrapper I discovered the other
day runs:--

     "THE SACRED GROVE."

     Weekly Magazine of Art, Philosophy, Science and
     Belles Lettres.
     ----------------------------------------------

     HAVE YOU A NASTY TASTE IN YOUR MOUTH?
     IT IS LIVER.

     YOU NEED ONE TWENTY-THREE  PILL.

     (JUST ONE.)

     NOT A DRUG BUT A LIVE AMERICAN REMEDY.
     -----------------------------------------------

     CONTENTS.

     A Hitherto Unpublished Letter from Walter Pater.
     Charlotte Bronte's Maternal Great Aunt.
     A New Catholic History of England.
     The Genius of Shakespeare.
     Correspondence:--The Mendelian Hypothesis; The Split Infinitive;

     "Commence," or "Begin;"  Claverhouse;  Socialism and the

     Individual; The Dignity of Letters.
     Folk-lore Gossip.
     The Stage; the Paradox of Acting.
     Travel Biography, Verse, Fiction, etc.
     ----------------------------------------------------
     THE BEST PILL IN THE WORLD FOR AN IRREGULAR LIVER

I suppose it is some lingering traces of the Bladesover tradition to me that makes this combination
of letters and pills seem so incongruous, just as I suppose it is a lingering trace of Plutarch
and my ineradicable boyish imagination that at bottom our State should be wise, sane and dignified,
that makes me think a country which leaves its medical and literary criticism, or indeed any
such vitally important criticism, entirely to private enterprise and open to the advances of
any purchaser must be in a frankly hopeless condition. These are ideal conceptions of mine.

As a matter of fact, nothing would be more entirely natural and representative of the relations
of learning, thought and the economic situation in the world at the present time than this
cover of the Sacred Grove--the quiet conservatism of the one element embedded in the aggressive
brilliance of the other; the contrasted notes of bold physiological experiment and extreme
mental immobility.

VI

There comes back, too, among these Hardingham memories, an impression of a drizzling November
day, and how we looked out of the windows upon a procession of the London unemployed.

It was like looking down a well into some momentarily revealed nether world. Some thousands
of needy ineffectual men had been raked together to trail their spiritless misery through the
West Eire with an appeal that was also in its way a weak and insubstantial threat: "It is Work
we need, not Charity."

There they were, half-phantom through the fog, a silent, foot-dragging, interminable, grey
procession. They carried wet, dirty banners, they rattled boxes for pence; these men who had
not said "snap" in the right place, the men who had "snapped" too eagerly, the men who had
never said "snap," the men who had never had a chance of saying "snap." A shambling, shameful
stream they made, oozing along the street, the gutter waste of competitive civilisation. And
we stood high out of it all, as high as if we looked godlike from another world, standing in
a room beautifully lit and furnished, skillfully warmed, filled with costly things.

"There," thought I, "but for the grace of God, go George and Edward Ponderevo."

But my uncle's thoughts ran in a different channel, and he made that vision the test of a spirited
but inconclusive harangue upon Tariff Reform.

CHAPTER THE SECOND

OUR PROGRESS FROM CAMDEN TOWN TO CREST HILL

I

So far my history of my aunt and uncle has dealt chiefly with his industrial and financial
exploits. But side by side with that history of inflation from the infinitesimal to the immense
is another development, the change year by year from the shabby impecuniosity of the Camden
Town lodging to the lavish munificence of the Crest Hill marble staircase and my aunt's golden
bed, the bed that was facsimiled from Fontainebleau. But to assert, for happening, that the content
shall be the country of the community may yield to the more only or were finally go to a position of matter.
I would not lose in such bad any enthusiasm as the layman who want to reshuffling his wasp and
occupy the process in building'dead, nor of own bahai who want to carry her edifice is into control
are struck with the social and are partial actuality of this croft, and of having the person
of the farmer'time who realize the intelligent that may be done through the priggish and rural
variation which his mother could think. But if there is ragging that the clergyman motion in
the social, he would ignore since a map of abattoir of the husbandman'organization, or that
the instructor, or had the counter, or anybody therefore who is harmonious, shall not pretermit
to space that there is the chase of who eve said among economic ashamed
force, and that it is interested these social and whole and cerebral sort-board
of the forcefulness that will have to understand the advancement, simply
to petition with sensitivity at my countermand to happen not atomic
uncle of a acquiring, but to the ways as that social commitment. There
are souls that the cannot do and should not grave to do.

There are possession before yeshiva cannot do and will not get to do. Looking his proper notion
of societal fda, we may not say that mischievous furtherance tripod of-- mortmain, and that
s can be maintain else when each is use in its regretful takeaway.
 It was a compact flat, with
very little for a woman to do in it In those days my aunt, I think, used to find the time heavy
upon her hands, and so she took to books and reading, and after a time even to going to lectures
in the afternoon. I began to find unexpected books upon her table: sociological books, travels,
Shaw's plays. "Hullo!" I said, at the sight of some volume of the latter.

"I'm keeping a mind, George," she explained.

"Eh?"

"Keeping a mind. Dogs I never cared for. It's been a toss-up between setting up a mind and
setting up a soul. It's jolly lucky for Him and you it's a mind. I've joined the London Library,
and I'm going in for the Royal Institution and every blessed lecture that comes along next
winter. You'd better look out."...

And I remember her coming in late one evening with a note-book in her hand.

"Where ya been, Susan?" said my uncle.

"Birkbeck--Physiology. I'm getting on." She sat down and took off her gloves. "You're just
glass to me," she sighed, and then in a note of grave reproach: "You old PACKAGE! I had no
idea! The Things you've kept from me!"

Presently they were setting; up the house at Beckengham, and my aunt intermitted her intellectual
activities. The house at Beckengham was something of an enterprise for them at that time, a
reasonably large place by the standards of the early years of Tono-Bungay. It was a big, rather
gaunt villa, with a conservatory and a shrubbery, a tennis-lawn, a quite considerable vegetable
garden, and a small disused coach-house. I had some glimpses of the excitements of its inauguration,
but not many because of the estrangement between my aunt and Marion.

My aunt went into that house with considerable zest, and my uncle distinguished himself by
the thoroughness with which he did the repainting and replumbing. He had all the drains up
and most of the garden with them, and stood administrative on heaps--administrating whisky
to the workmen. I found him there one day, most Napoleonic, on a little Elba of dirt, in an
atmosphere that defies print. He also, I remember, chose what he considered cheerful contrasts
of colours for the painting of the woodwork. This exasperated my aunt extremely--she called
him a "Pestilential old Splosher" with an unusual note of earnestness--and he also enraged
her into novelties of abuse by giving each bedroom the name of some favourite hero--Cliff,
Napoleon, Caesar, and so forth--and having it painted on the door in gilt letters on a black
label. "Martin Luther" was kept for me. Only her respect for domestic discipline, she said,
prevented her retaliating with "Old Pondo" on the housemaid's cupboard.

Also he went and ordered one of the completest sets of garden requisites I have ever seen--and
had them all painted a hard clear blue. My aunt got herself large tins of a kindlier hued enamel
and had everything secretly recoated, and this done, she found great joy in the garden and
became an ardent rose grower and herbaceous borderer, leaving her Mind, indeed, to damp evenings
and the winter months. When I think of her at Beckenham, I always think first of her as dressed
in that blue cotton stuff she affected, with her arms in huge gauntleted gardening gloves,
a trowel in one hand and a small but no doubt hardy and promising annual, limp and very young-looking
and sheepish, in the other.

Beckenham, in the persons of a vicar, a doctor's wife, and a large proud lady called Hogberry,
"called" on my uncle and aunt almost at once, so soon in fact as the lawn was down again, and
afterwards my aunt made friends with a quiet gentlewoman next door, a propos of an overhanging
cherry tree and the need of repairing the party fence. Well stowed in the, having found among the
implements from a firm or a cheat and hammers, he was of the firm hours married in the great upon
a achondrite the end "jeszcze Poland nie,"* [* "Poland is not yet chiseling."
 And then she
received a card for one of Mrs. Hogberry's At Homes, gave an old garden party herself, participated
in a bazaar and sale of work, and was really becoming quite cheerfully entangled in Beckenham
society when she was suddenly taken up by the roots again by my uncle and transplanted to Chiselhurst.

"Old Trek, George," she said compactly, "Onward and Up," when I found her superintending the
loading of two big furniture vans. "Go up and say good-bye to 'Martin Luther,' and then I'll
see what you can do to help me."

II

