 Pylades is torn from his friend's arms by the officers of the guard, and Orestes, left to himself,
after a paroxysm of madness sinks to sleep upon the prison floor.

His eyes are closed, but his brain is a prey to frightful visions.

The Furies surround him with horrible cries and menaces, singing a chorus of indescribable
weirdness. Lastly, the shade of the murdered Clytemnestra passes before him, and he awakes with
a shriek to find his cell empty save for the mournful form of Iphigenia, who has come to question
the stranger as to his origin and the purpose of his visit to Tauris. In broken accents he tells
her-- what is new to her ears-- the tale of the murder of Agamemnon,
and the vengeance taken upon Clytemnestra by himself; adding, in order
to conceal his own identity, that Orestes is also dead, and that Electra
is the sole remnant of the house of Atreus.

Iphigenia bursts into a passionate lament, and the act ends with her offering a solemn libation
to the shade of her brother.

In the third act Iphigenia resolves to free one of the victims, and to send him with a message
to Electra. A sentiment which she cannot explain bids her choose Orestes, but the latter refuses
to save his life at the expense of that of his friend. A contention arises between the two,
which is only decided by Orestes swearing to take his own life if Pylades is sacrificed. The
precious scroll is thereupon entrusted to Pylades, who departs, vowing
to return and save his friend.

In the fourth act Iphigenia is a prey to conflicting emotions. A mysterious sympathy forbids her
to slay the prisoner, yet she tries to steel her heart for the performance of her terrible task,
and calls upon Diana to aid her. Orestes is brought on by the priestesses, and while urging Iphigenia
to deal the blow, blesses her for the pity which stays her hand. Just as the knife is about
to descend, the dying words of Orestes,'Was it thus thou didst perish in Aulis, Iphigenia my
sister?'bring about the inevitable recognition, and the brother and sister rush into each other's
arms. But Thoas has yet to be reckoned with. He is furious at the interruption of the sacrifice,
and is about to execute summary vengeance upon both Iphigenia and
Orestes, when Pylades returns with an army of Greek youths-- whence
he obtained them is not explained-- and despatches the tyrant in the
nick of time.

The opera ends with the appearance of Pallas Athene, the patroness of Argos, who bids Orestes
and his sister return to Greece, carrying with them the image of Diana, too long disgraced
by the barbarous rites of the Scythians.'Echo et Narcisse,'an opera
cast in a somewhat lighter mould, which was produced in 1779, seems
to have failed to please, and'Iphigénie en Tauride'may be safely taken
as the climax of Gluck's career.

It is the happiest example of his peculiar power, and shows more convincingly than any of
its predecessors where the secret of his greatness really lay. He was the first composer who treated an
opera as an integral whole. He was inferior to many of his predecessors, notably to Handel,
in musical science, and even in power of characterisation.

But while their works were often hardly more than strings of detached scenes from which the
airs might often be dissociated without much loss of effect, his operas were constructed upon a principle
of dramatic unity which forbade one link to be taken from the chain without injuring the continuity
of the whole. In purely technical matters, too, his reforms were far-reaching and important.
He was first to make the overture in some sort a reflection of the drama which it preceded, and
he used orchestral effects as a means of expressing the passion of
his characters in a way that had not been dreamed of before.

He dismissed the harpsichord from the orchestra, and strengthened his band with clarinets,
an instrument unknown to Handel. His banishment of recitativo secco, and his restoration of
the chorus to its proper place in the drama, were innovations of vast importance
to the history of opera, but the chief strength of the influence
which he exerted upon subsequent music lay in his power of suffusing
each of his operas in an atmosphere special to itself.

CHAPTER III OPERA BUFFA, OPÉRA COMIQUE, AND SINGSPIEL PERGOLESI--
ROUSSEAU-- MONSIGNY-- GRÉTRY-- CIMAROSA-- HILLER While Gluck was
altering the course of musical history in Vienna, another revolution,
less grand in scope and more gradually accomplished, but scarcely
less important in its results, was being effected in Italy.

This was the development of opera buffa, a form of art which was destined, in Italy at any rate,
to become a serious rival to the older institution of opera seria,
and, in the hands of Mozart, to produce masterpieces such as the world
had certainly not known before his day, nor is ever likely to see
surpassed.

There is some uncertainty about the actual origin of opera buffa.

A musical comedy by Vergilio Mazzocchi and Mario Marazzoli, entitled'Chi
sofre speri,'was produced in Florence under the patronage of Cardinal
Barberini as early as 1639.

The poet Milton was present at this performance, and refers to it
in one of his Epistolae Familiares.

In 1657 a theatre was actually built in Florence for the performance
of musical comedies.

For some reason, however, it did not prove a success, and after a
few years was compelled to close its doors. After these first experiments
there seems to have been no attempt made to resuscitate opera buffa
until the rise of the Neapolitan school in the following century.

The genesis of the southern branch of opera buffa may with certainty
be traced to the intermezzi, or musical interludes, which were introduced
into the course of operas and dramas, probably with the object of relieving
the mental strain induced by the effort of following a long serious
performance.

The popularity of these intermezzi throws a curious light upon the character of Italian audiences
at that time. We should think it strange if an audience nowadays refused to sit through'Hamlet'unless
it were diversified by occasional scenes from'Box and Cox.'As time went on, the proportions and general
character of these intermezzi acquired greater importance, but it was not until the eighteenth century
was well advanced that one of them was promoted to the rank of an independent opera, and, instead
of being performed in scraps between the acts of a tragedy, was given for the first time as
a separate work. This honour was accorded to Pergolesi's'La Serva Padrona,'in 1734, and the great
success which it met with everywhere soon caused numberless imitations to spring up, so that
in a few years opera buffa in Italy was launched upon a career of triumph.
Founded as it was in avowed imitation of the tragedy of the Greeks,
opera had never deigned to touch modern life at any point. For a long
time the subjects of Italian operas were taken solely from classical
legend, and though in time librettists were compelled to have recourse
to the medieval romances, they never ventured out of an antiquity
more or less remote.

Thus it is easy to conceive the delight of the music-loving people of Naples when they found that
the opera which they adored could be enjoyed in combination with a mirthful and even farcical story,
interpreted by characters who might have stepped out of one of their own market-places. But, apart from
the freedom and variety of the subjects with which it dealt, the development of opera buffa gave
rise to an art-form which is of the utmost importance to the history of opera-- the concerted finale.
Nicolo Logroscino (1700-1763) seems to have been the first composer who conceived the idea of
working up the end of an act to a musical climax by bringing all his characters together and blending
their voices into a musical texture of some elaboration. Logroscino wrote only in the Neapolitan
dialect, and his works had little success beyond the limits of his
own province; but his invention was quickly adopted by all writers
of opera buffa, and soon became an important factor in the development
of the art.

Later composers
elaborated his idea by extending the finale to more than one movement, and by varying the key-colour.
Finally, but not until after many years, it was introduced into opera seria, when it gave birth to
the idea of elaborate trios and quartets, which were afterwards to play so important a part in its
development. Logroscino's reputation was chiefly local, but the works of Pergolesi (1710-1736)
and Jomelli (1714-1774) made the Neapolitan school famous throughout Europe. Both these composers
are now best known by their sacred works, but during their lives their operas attained an extraordinary
degree of popularity. Both succeeded equally in comedy and tragedy, but Jomelli's operas are
now forgotten, while Pergolesi is known only by his delightful intermezzo'La
Serva Padrona,'This diverting little piece tells of the schemes of
the chambermaid, Serpina, to win the hand of her master, Pandolfo.

She is helped by Scapin, the valet, who, disguised as a captain, makes violent love to her,
and piques the old gentleman into proposing, almost against his will.'La Serva Padrona'made the
tour of Europe, and was received everywhere with tumultuous applause. In Paris it was performed
in 1750, and may be said at once to have founded the school of French opéra comique. Rousseau extolled
its beauty as a protest against the arid declamation of the school of Lulli, and it was the subject
of one of the bitterest dissensions ever known in the history of music. But the'Guerre des Bouffons,'as
the struggle was called, proved one thing, which had already been satisfactorily decided in Italy,
namely, that there was plenty of room in the world for serious and comic opera at the same time. There
had been a kind of opéra comique in France for many years, a species
of musical pantomime which was very popular at the fairs of St. Laurent
and St. Gervais.

This form of entertainment scarcely came within the province of art, but it served as a starting-point
for the history of opéra comique, which was afterwards so brilliant. The success of the Italian
company which performed the comic operas of Pergolesi, Jomelli, and others, fired the French composers
to emulation, and in 1753 the first French opéra comique, in the strict sense of the word,'Le
Devin du Village,'by the great Rousseau, was performed at the Académie de Musique. Musically
the work is feeble and characterless, but the contrast which it offered to the stiff and serious
works of the tragic composers made it popular. Whatever its faults may be, it is simple and natural, and
its tender little melodies fell pleasantly upon ears too well accustomed to the pomposities
of Rameau and his school. At first lovers of opéra comique in Paris
had to subsist chiefly upon translations from the Italian; but in
1755'Ninette à la Cour,'a dainty little work written by a Neapolitan
composer, Duni, to a French libretto, gained a great success.

Soon afterwards, Monsigny, a composer who may well be called the father of opéra comique, produced
his first work, and started upon a career of success which extended into the next century. The
early days of opéra comique in Paris were distracted by the jealousy existing between the French and
Italian schools, but in 1762 peace was made between the rival factions, and by process of fusion
the two became one. With the opening of the new Théâtre de l'Opéra Comique-- the Salle Favart,
as it was then called-- there began a new and brilliant period for
the history of French art.

It is a significant fact, and one which goes far to prove how closely the foundation of opéra comique
was connected with a revolt against the boredom of grand opera, that the most successful composers in the
new genre were those who were actually innocent of any musical training whatsoever. Monsigny
(1729-1817) is a particularly striking instance of natural genius triumphing in spite of a defective
education. Nothing can exceed the thinness and poverty of his scores, or their lack of all real
musical interest; yet, by the sureness of his natural instinct for
the stage, he succeeded in writing music which still moves us as much
by its brilliant gaiety as by its tender pathos.'Le Déserteur,'his
most famous work, is a touching little story of a soldier who deserts
in a fit of jealousy, and is condemned to be shot, but is saved by
his sweetheart, who begs his pardon from the king.

Much of the music is almost childish in its naïveté, but there is real pathos in the famous air'Adieu,
Louise,'and some of the lighter scenes in the opera are touched off very happily. The musical education
of Grétry (1741-1831) was perhaps more elaborate than that of Monsigny, but it fell very far
short of profundity. His music excels in grace and humour, and he rarely treated serious subjects
with success. Such works as'Le Tableau Parlant,'' Les Deux Avares,'and'L'Amant Jaloux'are models
of lightness and brilliancy, whatever may be thought of their musicianship.'Richard Coeur de Lion'is
the one instance of Grétry having successfully attempted a loftier theme, and it remains his masterpiece.
The scene is laid at the castle of Dürrenstein in Austria, where
Richard lies imprisoned, and deals with the efforts of his faithful
minstrel Blondel to rescue him.

In this work Grétry adapted his style to his subject with wonderful versatility. Much of the
music is noble and dignified in style, and Blondel's air in particular,'O Richard, O mon roi,'has
a masculine vigour which is rarely found in the composer's work. But as a rule Grétry is happiest
in his delicate little pastorals and fantastic comedies, and, for all their slightness, his works
bear the test of revival better than those of many of his more learned contemporaries. Philidor
(1726-1797) was almost more famous as a chess-player than as a composer.
He had the advantage of a sound musical education under Campra, one of
the predecessors of Rameau, and his music has far more solid qualities
than that of Grétry or Monsigny.

His treatment of the orchestra, too, was more scientific than that of his contemporaries, but
he had little gift of melody, and he was deficient in dramatic instinct. He often visited England,
and ended by dying in London. One of the best of his works,'Tom Jones,'was written upon an English
subject. Philidor was popular in his day, but his works have rarely been heard by the present
generation.

With Grétry the first period of opéra comique may be said to close; indeed, the taste of French
audiences had begun to change some years before the close of the eighteenth century. The mighty wave of
the Revolution swept away the idle gallantries of the sham pastoral, while Ossian newly discovered
and Shakespeare newly translated opened the eyes of cultivated Frenchmen
to the possibilities of poetry and romance.

At
the same time, the works of Haydn and Mozart, which had already crossed the frontier, disturbed
preconceived notions about the limits of orchestral colouring, and made the thin little scores of
Grétry and his contemporaries seem doubly jejune.

The change in public taste was gradual, but none the less certain. Mounted on my swift pony, I took a ten-mile canter as fast as
I could go, with that superior being at my heels calling, as he found breath, for me to stop,
which I did at last and left him in the hands of Peter, half dead at his hotel, where he will
be laid out, with all his marvelous masculine virtues, for a week at least. Now do not waste
your arguments on these prigs from Union College. Take each, in turn, the ten-miles' circuit
on 'Old Boney' and they'll have no breath left to prate of woman's inferiority. You might argue
with them all day, and you could not make them feel so small as I made that popinjay feel in
one hour. I knew 'Old Boney' would keep up with me, if he died for it, and that my escort could
neither stop nor dismount, except by throwing himself from the saddle."

"Oh, Madge!" I exclaimed; "what will you say when he meets you again?"

"If he complains, I will say 'the next time you ride see that you have a curb bit before starting.'
Surely, a man ought to know what is necessary to manage a horse, and not expect a woman to
tell him."

Our lives were still further varied and intensified by the usual number of flirtations, so
called, more or less lasting or evanescent, from all of which I emerged, as from my religious
experiences, in a more rational frame of mind. We had been too much in the society of boys
and young gentlemen, and knew too well their real character, to idealize the sex in general.
In addition to our own observations, we had the advantage of our brother-in-law's wisdom. Wishing
to save us as long as possible from all matrimonial entanglements, he was continually unveiling
those with whom he associated, and so critically portraying their intellectual and moral condition
that it was quite impossible, in our most worshipful moods, to make gods of any of the sons
of Adam.

However, in spite of all our own experiences and of all the warning words of wisdom from those
who had seen life in its many phases, we entered the charmed circle at last, all but one marrying
into the legal profession, with its odious statute laws and infamous decisions. And this, after
reading Blackstone, Kent, and Story, and thoroughly understanding the status of the wife under
the old common law of England, which was in force at that time in most of the States of the Union.

CHAPTER IV.

LIFE AT PETERBORO.

The year, with us, was never considered complete without a visit to Peterboro, N.Y., the home
of Gerrit Smith. Though he was a reformer and was very radical in many of his ideas, yet, being
a man of broad sympathies, culture, wealth, and position, he drew around him many friends of
the most conservative opinions. He was a man of fine presence, rare physical beauty, most affable
and courteous in manner, and his hospitalities were generous to an extreme, and dispensed to
all classes of society.

Every year representatives from the Oneida tribe of Indians visited him. His father had early
purchased of them large tracts of land, and there was a tradition among them that, as an equivalent
for the good bargains of the father, they had a right to the son's hospitality, with annual
gifts of clothing and provisions. The slaves, too, had heard of Gerrit Smith, the abolitionist,
and of Peterboro as one of the safe points en route for Canada. His mansion was, in fact, one
of the stations on the "underground railroad" for slaves escaping from bondage. Hence they,
too, felt that they had a right to a place under his protecting roof. On such occasions the
barn and the kitchen floor were utilized as chambers for the black man from the southern plantation
and the red man from his home in the forest.

The spacious home was always enlivened with choice society from every part of the country.
There one would meet members of the families of the old Dutch aristocracy, the Van Rensselaers,
the Van Vechtens, the Schuylers, the Livingstons, the Bleeckers, the Brinkerhoffs, the Ten
Eycks, the Millers, the Seymours, the Cochranes, the Biddles, the Barclays, the Wendells, and
many others.

As the lady of the house, Ann Carroll Fitzhugh, was the daughter of a wealthy slaveholder of
Maryland, many agreeable Southerners were often among the guests. Our immediate family relatives
were well represented by General John Cochrane and his sisters, General Baird and his wife
from West Point, the Fitzhughs from Oswego and Geneseo, the Backuses and Tallmans from Rochester,
and the Swifts from Geneva. Here one was sure to meet scholars, philosophers, philanthropists,
judges, bishops, clergymen, and statesmen.

Judge Alfred Conkling, the father of Roscoe Conkling, was, in his late years, frequently seen
at Peterboro. Tall and stately, after all life's troubled scenes, financial losses and domestic
sorrows, he used to say there was no spot on earth that seemed so like his idea of Paradise.
The proud, reserved judge was unaccustomed to manifestations of affection and tender interest
in his behalf, and when Gerrit, taking him by both hands would, in his softest tones say, "Good-morning,"
and inquire how he had slept and what he would like to do that day, and Nancy would greet him
with equal warmth and pin a little bunch of roses in his buttonhole, I have seen the tears
in his eyes. Their warm sympathies and sweet simplicity of manner melted the sternest natures
and made the most reserved amiable. There never was such an atmosphere of love and peace, of
freedom and good cheer, in any other home I visited. And this was the universal testimony of
those who were guests at Peterboro. To go anywhere else, after a visit there, was like coming
down from the divine heights into the valley of humiliation.

How changed from the early days when, as strict Presbyterians, they believed in all the doctrines
of Calvin! Then, an indefinite gloom pervaded their home. Their consciences were diseased.
They attached such undue importance to forms that they went through three kinds of baptism.
At one time Nancy would read nothing but the Bible, sing nothing but hymns, and play only sacred
music. She felt guilty if she talked on any subject except religion. She was, in all respects,
a fitting mate for her attractive husband. This is especially noticeable in the concerted pieces,
in which Beethoven sometimes seems to forget all about opera, characters, dramatic situation
and everything else in the sheer delight of writing music. No one with an ounce of musical taste in
his composition would wish the canon-quartet, the two trios or the two finales, to take a few instances
at random, any shorter or less developed than they are, but one can imagine how Mozart would
have smiled at the lack of dramatic feeling displayed in their construction.'Fidelio,'as
has already been said, is the only opera produced in Germany at this
period which is deserving of special mention.

Mozart's success had raised up a crop of imitators, of whom the most meritorious were Süssmayer,
his own pupil; Winter, who had the audacity to write a sequel to'Die Zauberflöte'; Weigl, the composer
of the popular'Schweizerfamilie'the Abbé Vogler, who, though now known chiefly by his organ music,
was a prolific writer for the stage; and Dittersdorf, a writer of genuine humour, whose spirited
Singspiel,'Doktor und Apotheker,'carried on the traditions of Hiller successfully. But though the lighter
school of opera in Germany produced nothing of importance, upon the more congenial soil of France
opéra comique, in the hands of a school of earnest and gifted composers, was acquiring a musical
distinction which it was far from possessing in the days of Grétry
and Monsigny. Strictly speaking, the operas of Méhul and Cherubini
should be ranked as opéras comiques, by reason of the spoken dialogue
which takes the place of the recitative; but the high seriousness
which continually animates the music of these masters makes it impossible
to class their works with operas so different in aim and execution
as those of Grétry.

Of the many writers of opéra comique at the beginning of this century, it will be enough to mention two
of the most prominent, Nicolo and Boieldieu. Nicolo Isouard (1777-1818), to give him his full name, shone
less by musical science or dramatic instinct than by a delicate and pathetic grace which endeared
his music to the hearts of his contemporaries. He had little originality, and his facility often
descends to commonplace, but much of the music in'Joconde'and'Cendrillon'lives by grace of its
inimitable tenderness and charm. Nicolo is the Greuze of music. Boieldieu (1775-1834) stands upon
a very different plane. Although he worked within restricted limits, his originality and resource
place him among the great masters of French music. His earlier works are, for the most, light
and delicate trifles; but in'Jean de Paris'(1812) and'La Dame Blanche'(1825), to name only two of his
many successful works, he shows real solidity of style and no little command of musical invention, combined
with the delicate melody and pathetic grace which rarely deserted him. The real strength and distinction
of'La Dame Blanche'have sufficed to keep it alive until the present day, although it has never,
in spite of the Scottish origin of the libretto, won in this country a tithe of the popularity
which it enjoys in France. The story is a combination of incidents taken from Scott's'Monastery'and'Guy
Mannering.'The Laird of Avenel, who was obliged to fly from Scotland after the battle of Culloden,
entrusted his estates to his steward Gaveston. Many years having passed without tidings of
the absentee, Gaveston determines to put the castle and lands up for sale. He has sedulously fostered
a tradition which is current among the villagers, that the castle is haunted by a White Lady, hoping
by this means to deter any of the neighbouring farmers from competing
with him for the estate. The day before the sale takes place, Dickson,
one of the farmers, is summoned to the castle by Anna, an orphan
girl who had been befriended by the Laird.

Dickson is too superstitious to venture, but his place is taken by George Brown, a young soldier,
who arrived at the village that day. George has an interview with the White Lady, who is of course Anna
in disguise. She recognises George as the man whose life she saved after a battle, and knowing
him to be the rightful heir of Avenel, promises to help him in recovering his property. She has discovered
that treasure is concealed in a statue of the White Lady, and with this she empowers George
to buy back his ancestral lands and castle. Gaveston is outbidden at the sale, and George weds
Anna. Boieldieu's music has much melodic beauty, though its tenderness is apt to degenerate into
sentimentality. In its original form the opera would nowadays be unbearably tiresome, and only
a judicious shortening of the interminable duets and trios can make them tolerable to a modern
audience.

In spite of much that is conventional and old-fashioned, the alternate vigour and grace of'La
Dame Blanche'and the genuine musical interest of the score make it the most favourable specimen
of this period of French opéra comique. It is the last offspring of the older school. After Boieldieu's
time the influence of Rossini became paramount, and opéra comique, unable to resist a spell so
formidable, began to lose its distinctively national characteristics. We have seen how the voluptuous
delights of Armida's garden affected even the stately muse of Gluck; and in the generation which
succeeded him, though opera still followed classic lines of form, in subject and treatment
it was tinged with the prismatic colours of romance. Méhul's curious experiments in orchestration,
and the solemn splendour of Mozart's Egyptian mysteries, alike show the influence of the romantic
spirit as surely as the weirdest piece of diablerie ever devised by Weber or his followers. Yet though intimations
of the approaching change had for long been perceptible to the discerning eye, it was not until
the days of Weber that the classical forms and methods which had ruled the world of opera since
the days of Gluck gave way before the newer and more vivid passion of romance. Even then it must
not be forgotten that the romantic school differed from the classic
more in view of life and treatment of subject than in actual subject
itself. The word romance conjures up weird visions of the supernatural
or glowing pictures of chivalry; but although it is true that Weber
and his followers loved best to treat of such themes as these, they
had by no means been excluded from the repertory of their classical
predecessors.

The supernatural terrors of'Der Freischütz'must not make us forget the terrific finale to'Don Giovanni,'nor
can the most glowing picture from'Euryanthe'erase memories of Rinaldo and the Crusaders in'Armide.'The
romantic movement, however, as interpreted by Weber, aimed definitely at certain things, which
had not previously come within the scope of music, though for many years they had been the common
property of art and literature. The romantic movement was primarily a revolt against the tyranny
of man and his emotions. It claimed a wider stage and an ampler air. Nature was not henceforth
to be merely the background against which man played his part. The beauty of landscape, the glory of the
setting sun, the splendour of the sea, the mystery of the forest-- all these the romantic
movement taught men to regard not merely as the accessories of a scene in which man was the
predominant figure, but as subjects in themselves worthy of artistic treatment. The genius of Weber
(1786-1826) was a curious compound of two differing types. In essence it was thoroughly German--
sane in inspiration, and drawing its strength from the homely old Volkslieder, so dear to every
true German heart. Yet over this solid foundation there soared an imagination surely more delicate
and ethereal than has ever been allotted to mortal musician before or since, by the aid of which
Weber was enabled to treat all subjects beneath heaven with equal success. He is equally at home in
the eerie horrors of the Wolf's Glen, in the moonlit revels of Oberon, and in the knightly pomp
and circumstance of the Provençal court. Weber's early years were a continual struggle against
defeat and disappointment. His musical education was somewhat superficial, and his first works,'Sylvana'and'Peter
Schmoll,'gave little promise of his later glory.'Abu Hassan,'a one-act comic opera, which was produced
in 1811, at Munich, was his first real success. Slight as the story is, it is by no means unamusing,
and the music, which is a piece of the daintiest filagree-work imaginable, has helped to keep
the little work alive to the present day. Such plot as there is describes the shifts of Hassan
and Fatima, his wife, to avoid paying their creditors, who are unduly pressing in their demands.
Finally they both pretend to be dead, and by this means excite the regret of their master and
mistress, the Sultan and Sultana, a regret which takes the practical
form of releasing them from their embarrassments.

In'Der Freischütz'Weber was at last in his true element. The plot of the opera is founded upon an old
forest legend of a demon who persuades huntsmen to sell their souls in exchange for magic bullets
which never miss their mark. Caspar, who is a ranger in the service of Prince Ottokar of Bohemia,
had sold himself to the demon Samiel. The day is approaching when his soul will become forfeit
to the powers of evil, unless he can bring a fresh victim in his place. He looks around him for
a possible substitute, and his choice falls upon Max, another ranger, who had been unlucky
in the preliminary contest for the post of chief huntsman, and is only too ready to listen to
Caspar's promise of unerring bullets. Max loves Agathe, the daughter of Kuno, the retiring huntsman,
and unless he can secure the vacant post, he has little hope of being able to marry her. He
agrees eagerly to Caspar's proposal, and promises to meet him at
midnight in the haunted Wolf's Glen, there to go through the ceremony
of casting the magic bullets.

Meanwhile Agathe is oppressed by forebodings of coming evil.

The fall of an old picture seems to her a presage of woe, and her lively cousin Aennchen can
do little to console her. The appearance of Max on his way to the Wolf's Glen, cheers her but
little. He too has been troubled by strange visions, and as the moment of the rendezvous approaches
his courage begins to fail. Nevertheless he betakes himself to the Glen, and there, amidst scenes of the
wildest supernatural horror, the bullets are cast in the presence of the terrible Samiel himself.
Six of them are for Max, to be used by him in the approaching contest, while the seventh will be at
the disposal of the demon. In the third act Agathe is discovered preparing for her wedding. She
has dreamed that, in the shape of a dove, she was shot by Max, and she cannot shake off a sense
of approaching trouble. Her melancholy is not dissipated by the discovery that, instead of a bridal
crown, a funeral wreath has been prepared for her; however, to console herself, she determines
to wear a wreath of sacred roses, which had been given her by the hermit of the forest. The last
scene shows the shooting contest on which the future of Max and Agathe
depends.

Max makes six shots in succession, all of which hit the mark. At last, at the Prince's command,
he fires at a dove which is flying past. Agathe falls with a shriek, but is protected by her wreath,
while Samiel directs the bullet to Caspar's heart. At the sight of his associate's fate Max is stricken with
remorse, and tells the story of his unholy compact. The Prince is about to banish him from his service,
when the hermit appears and intercedes for the unfortunate youth. The Prince is mollified, and
it is decided that Max shall have a year's probation, after which he shall be permitted to take
the post of chief huntsman and marry Agathe.'Der Freischütz'is, upon the whole, the most thoroughly
characteristic of Weber's works. The famous passage for the horns, with which the overture
opens, strikes the note of mystery and romance which echoes through the work. The overture
itself is a notable example of that new beauty which Weber infused into the time-honoured form.
If he was not actually the first-- for Beethoven had already written his'Leonore'overtures--
to make the overture a picture in brief of the incidents of the opera,
he developed the idea with so much picturesque power and imagination
that the preludes to his operas remain the envy and despair of modern
theatrical composers.

The inspiration of'Der Freischütz'is drawn so directly from the German Volkslied, that at its
production Weber was roundly accused of plagiarism by many critics. Time has shown the folly of such charges.'Der
Freischütz'is German to the core, and every page of it bears the impress of German inspiration,
but the glamour of Weber's genius transmuted the rough material he employed into a fabric
of the richest art. Of the imaginative power of such scenes as the famous incantation it is unnecessary
to speak. It introduced a new element into music, and one which was
destined to have an almost immeasurable influence upon modern music.

Weber's
power of characterisation was remarkable, as shown particularly in the music assigned to Agathe
and Aennchen, but in this respect he was certainly inferior to some of his predecessors, notably
to Mozart.

But in imaginative power and in the minute knowledge of orchestral detail, which enabled him to translate
his conceptions into music, he has never been surpassed among writers
for the stage.

Modern opera, if we may speak in general terms, may be said to date from the production of'Der Freischütz.'Operatic
composers are too often dogged by a fate which seems to compel them to wed their noblest inspirations
to libretti of incorrigible dulness, and Weber was even more unfortunate in this respect than
his brethren of the craft. After'Der Freischütz,'the libretti which he took in hand were of the
most unworthy description, and even his genius has not been able to give
them immortality.'Euryanthe'was the work of Helmine von Chezy, the
authoress of'Rosamunde,'for which Schubert wrote his entrancing incidental
music.

Weber was probably attracted by the romantic elements of the story, the chivalry of mediæval
France, the marches and processions, the pomp and glitter of the court, and overlooked the weak
points of the plot. To tell the truth, much of the libretto of'Euryanthe'borders upon the incomprehensible.
The main outline of the story is as follows. At a festival given by the King of France, Count Adolar praises
the beauty and virtue of his betrothed Euryanthe, and Lysiart, who also loves her, offers
to wager all he possesses that he will contrive to gain her love. Adolar accepts the challenge,
and Lysiart departs for Nevers, where Euryanthe is living. The second act discovers Euryanthe and
Eglantine, an outcast damsel whom she has befriended. Eglantine secretly loves Adolar, but
extracts a promise from Lysiart, who has arrived at Nevers, that he will marry her. In return
for this she gives him a ring belonging to Euryanthe, which she has stolen, and tells him a secret relating
to a mysterious Emma, a sister of Adolar, which Euryanthe has incautiously
revealed to her.

Armed with these Lysiart returns to the court, and quickly persuades Adolar and the King that he
has won Euryanthe's affection. No one listens to her denials; she is condemned to death, and Adolar's
lands and titles are given to Lysiart.

Euryanthe is led into the desert to be killed by Adolar. On the way he is attacked by a serpent,
which he kills, though not before Euryanthe has proved her devotion by offering to die in her
lover's place. Adolar then leaves Euryanthe to perish, declaring that he has not the heart to kill
her. She is found in a dying condition by the King, whom she speedily convinces of her innocence.
Meanwhile Adolar has returned to Nevers, to encounter the bridal procession of Eglantine and Lysiart.
Eglantine confesses that she helped to ruin Euryanthe in the hope of winning Adolar, and is
promptly stabbed by Lysiart. Everything being satisfactorily cleared up, Euryanthe conveniently
awakes from a trance into which she had fallen, and the lovers are finally united. Puerile
as the libretto is, it inspired Weber with some of the finest music he ever wrote. The spectacular
portions of the opera are animated by the true spirit of chivalry, while all that is connected with
the incomprehensible Emma and her secret is unspeakably eerie. The characters of the drama are such veritable
puppets, that no expenditure of talent could make them interesting; but the resemblance between
the general scheme of the plot of'Euryanthe'and that of'Lohengrin'should not be passed over, nor the remarkable
way in which Weber had anticipated some of Wagner's most brilliant triumphs, notably in the characters
of Eglantine and Lysiart, who often seem curiously to foreshadow Ortrud and Telramund, and in the
finale to the second act, in which the single voice of Euryanthe,
like that of Elisabeth in'Tannhäuser,'is contrasted with the male
chorus.

Weber's last opera,'Oberon,'is one of the few works written in recent times by a foreign composer
of the first rank for the English stage. The libretto, which was the work of Planché, is founded upon
an old French romance,'Huon of Bordeaux,'and though by no means a model of lucidity, it contains
many scenes both powerful and picturesque, which must have captivated
the imagination of a musician so impressionable as Weber.

The opera opens in fairyland, where a bevy of fairies is watching
the slumbers of Oberon.

The fairy king has quarrelled with Titania, and has vowed never
to be reconciled to her until he shall find two lovers constant to
each other through trial and temptation.

Puck, who has been despatched to search for such a pair, enters with the news that Sir Huon
of Bordeaux, who had accidentally slain the son of Charlemagne, has been commanded, in expiation
of his crime, to journey to Bagdad, to claim the Caliph's daughter
as his bride, and slay the man who sits at his right hand.

Oberon forthwith throws Huon into a deep sleep, and in a vision shows him Rezia, the daughter
of the Caliph, of whom the ardent knight instantly becomes enamoured.
He then conveys him to the banks of the Tigris, and giving him a magic
horn, starts him upon his dangerous enterprise.

In the Caliph's palace Huon fights with Babekan, Rezia's suitor, rescues the
maiden, and with the aid of the magic horn carries her off from the
palace, while his esquire Sherasmin performs the same kind office for
Fatima, Rezia's attendant. On their way home they encounter a terrific
storm, raised by the power of Oberon to try their constancy. They are
ship-wrecked, and Rezia is carried off by pirates to Tunis, whilst Huon is
left for dead upon the beach. At Tunis more troubles are in store for
the hapless pair. Huon, who has been transported by the fairies across
the sea, finds his way into the house of the Emir, where Rezia is
in slavery.

There he is unlucky enough to win the favour of Roshana, the Emir's wife,
and before he can escape from her embraces he is discovered by the
Emir himself, and condemned to be burned alive.

Rezia proclaims herself his wife, and she also is condemned to the stake; but at this crisis
Oberon intervenes. The lovers have been tried enough, and their constancy is rewarded. They
are transported to the court of Charlemagne, where a royal welcome awaits them. Although written for
England,'Oberon'has never achieved much popularity in this, or indeed in any country. The
fairy music is exquisite throughout, but the human interest of the
story is after all slight, and Weber, on whom the hand of death was
heavy as he wrote the score, failed to infuse much individuality
into his characters. Accordingly
she was elected manager of the occasion, and to each one was assigned the specialty in which
she claimed to excel. Those who had no specialty were assistants to those who had. In this
humble office--"assistant at large"--I labored throughout.

Cooking is a high art. A wise Egyptian said, long ago: "The degree of taste and skill manifested
by a nation in the preparation of food may be regarded as to a very considerable extent proportioned
to its culture and refinement." In early times men, only, were deemed capable of handling fire,
whether at the altar or the hearthstone. We read in the Scriptures that Abraham prepared cakes
of fine meal and a calf tender and good, which, with butter and milk, he set before the three
angels in the plains of Mamre. We are told, too, of the chief butler and chief baker as officers
in the household of King Pharaoh. I would like to call the attention of my readers to the dignity
of this profession, which some young women affect to despise. The fact that angels eat, shows
that we may be called upon in the next sphere to cook even for cherubim and seraphim. How important,
then, to cultivate one's gifts in that direction!

With such facts before us, we stirred and pounded, whipped and ground, coaxed the delicate
meats from crabs and lobsters and the succulent peas from the pods, and grated corn and cocoanut
with the same cheerfulness and devotion that we played Mendelssohn's "Songs Without Words"
on the piano, the Spanish Fandango on our guitars, or danced the minuet, polka, lancers, or
Virginia reel.

During the day of the wedding, every stage coach was crowded with guests from the North, South,
East, and West, and, as the twilight deepened, carriages began to roll in with neighbors and
friends living at short distances, until the house and grounds were full. A son of Bishop Coxe,
who married the tall and stately sister of Roscoe Conkling, performed the ceremony. The beautiful
young bride was given away by her Uncle Gerrit. The congratulations, the feast, and all went
off with fitting decorum in the usual way. The best proof of the excellence of our viands was
that they were all speedily swept from mortal view, and every housewife wanted a recipe for
something.

As the grand dinner was to come off the next day, our thoughts now turned in that direction.
The responsibility rested heavily on the heads of the chief actors, and they reported troubled
dreams and unduly early rising. Dear Belle Swift was up in season and her white soup stood
serenely in a tin pan, on an upper shelf, before the town clock struck seven. If it had not
taken that position so early, it might have been incorporated with higher forms of life than
that into which it eventually fell. Another artist was also on the wing early, and in pursuit
of a tin pan in which to hide her precious compound, she unwittingly seized this one, and the
rich white soup rolled down her raven locks like the oil on Aaron's beard, and enveloped her
in a veil of filmy whiteness. I heard the splash and the exclamation of surprise and entered
the butler's pantry just in time to see the heiress of the Smith estate standing like a statue,
tin pan in hand, soup in her curls, her eyebrows and eyelashes,--collar, cuffs, and morning
dress saturated,--and Belle, at a little distance, looking at her and the soup on the floor
with surprise and disgust depicted on every feature. The tableau was inexpressibly comical,
and I could not help laughing outright; whereupon Belle turned on me, and, with indignant tones,
said, "If you had been up since four o'clock making that soup you would not stand there like
a laughing monkey, without the least feeling of pity!" Poor Lizzie was very sorry, and would
have shed tears, but they could not penetrate that film of soup. I tried to apologize, but
could only laugh the more when I saw Belle crying and Lizzie standing as if hoping that the
soup might be scraped off her and gathered from the floor and made to do duty on the occasion.

After breakfast, ladies and gentlemen, alike in white aprons, crowded into the dining room
and kitchen, each to perform the allotted task. George Biddle of Philadelphia and John B. Miller
of Utica, in holiday spirits, were irrepressible--everywhere at the same moment, helping or
hindering as the case might be. Dear Belle, having only partially recovered from the white-soup
catastrophe, called Mr. Biddle to hold the ice-cream freezer while she poured in the luscious
compound she had just prepared. He held it up without resting it on anything, while Belle slowly
poured in the cream. As the freezer had no indentations round the top or rim to brace the thumbs
and fingers, when it grew suddenly heavier his hands slipped and down went the whole thing,
spattering poor Belle and spoiling a beautiful pair of gaiters in which, as she had very pretty
feet, she took a laudable pride. In another corner sat Wealthea Backus, grating some cocoanut.
While struggling in that operation, John Miller, feeling hilarious, was annoying her in divers
ways; at length she drew the grater across his nose, gently, as she intended, but alas! she
took the skin off, and John's beauty, for the remainder of the festivities, was marred with
a black patch on that prominent feature. One can readily imagine the fun that must have transpired
where so many amateur cooks were at work round one table, with all manner of culinary tools
and ingredients. 

But in 1762 came'Orfeo ed Euridice,'a work which placed Gluck at the head of all living operatic composers,
and laid the foundation of the modern school of opera.

The libretto of'Orfeo'was by Calzabigi, a prominent man of letters, but it seems probable that Gluck's
own share in it was not a small one. The careful study which he had given to the proper conditions
of opera was not likely to exclude so important a question as that of the construction and diction
of the libretto, and the poem of'Orfeo'shows so marked an inclination to break away from the
conventionality and sham sentiment of the time that we can confidently attribute much of its originality
to the influence of the composer himself. The opening scene shows
the tomb of Eurydice erected in a grassy valley. In the transit I met Madam Belle. "Don't let that fall," she said
sneeringly. Fortunately I did not, and returned in triumph to transport another. I was then
summoned to a consultation with the committee on toasts, consisting of James Cochrane, John
Miller, and myself. The choral and instrumental parts of the opera are particularly important; the
latter especially have a colour and variety which may be considered
to have had a large share in forming the taste for delicate orchestral
effects for which modern French composers are famous.'Guillaume Tell'was
to have been the first of a series of five operas written for the
Paris Opera by special arrangement with the government of Charles
X. The revolution of 1830 put an end to this scheme, and a few years
later, finding himself displaced by Meyerbeer in the affections of
the fickle Parisian public, Rossini made up his mind to write no more
for the stage.

He lived for nearly forty years after the production of'Guillaume Tell,'but preferred a life of ease
and leisure to entering the lists once more as a candidate for fame. What the world lost by this
decision, it is difficult to say; but if we remember the extraordinary development which took place
in the style and methods of Wagner and Verdi, we cannot think without
regret of the composer of'Guillaume Tell'making up his mind while
still a young man to abandon the stage for ever.

Nevertheless, although much of his music soon became old-fashioned, Rossini's work was not unimportant.
The invention of the cabaletta, or quick movement, following the cavatina or slow movement,
must be ascribed to him, an innovation which has affected the form of opera, German and French,
as well as Italian, throughout this century. Even more important was the change which he introduced
into the manner of singing fioriture or florid music. Before his day singers had been accustomed
to introduce cadenzas of their own, to a great extent when they liked. Rossini insisted upon
their singing nothing but what was set down for them. Naturally he was compelled to write cadenzas
for them as elaborate and effective as those which they had been in
the habit of improvising, so that much of his Italian music sounds
empty and meaningless to our ears.

But he introduced the thin edge of the wedge, and although even to the days of Jenny Lind singers
were occasionally permitted to interpolate cadenzas of their own, the old tradition that an
opera was merely an opportunity for the display of individual vanity was doomed. The music of Donizetti
(1798-1848) is now paying the price of a long career of popularity by enduring a season of neglect.
His tragic operas, which were the delight of opera-goers in the fifties and sixties, sound cold
and thin to modern ears. There is far more genuine life in his lighter works, many of which still
delight us by their unaffected tunefulness and vivacity. Donizetti had little musical education,
and his spirit rebelled so strongly against the rules of counterpoint that he preferred to go into
the army rather than to devote himself to church music.

His first opera,'Enrico di Borgogna,'was produced in 1818, and for the next five-and-twenty
years he worked assiduously, producing in all no fewer than sixty-five operas.'Lucia di Lammermoor'(1835),
which was for many years one of the most popular works in the Covent Garden repertory, has now
sunk to the level of a mere prima donna's opera, to be revived once or twice a year in order to
give a popular singer an opportunity for vocal display. Yet there are passages in it of considerable
dramatic power, and many of the melodies are fresh and expressive.
The plot is founded upon'The Bride of Lammermoor,'but it is Scott's
tragic romance seen through very Italian spectacles indeed.

Henry Ashton has promised the hand of his sister Lucy to Lord Arthur
Bucklaw, hoping by means of this marriage to recruit the fallen fortunes
of his house.

Lucy loves Edgar Ravenswood, the hereditary foe of her family, and vows to be true to him while
he is away on an embassy in France. During his absence Ashton contrives to intercept Ravenswood's
letters to his sister, and finally produces a forged paper, which Lucy accepts as the proof
of her lover's infidelity. She yields to the pressure of her brother's entreaties, and consents
to marry Lord Arthur. No sooner has she set her name to the contract than the door opens and Edgar appears.
Confronted with the proof of Lucy's inconstancy, he curses the house of Lammermoor and rushes
away. Ashton follows him, and, after a stormy interview, challenges him to mortal combat. Meanwhile,
on her bridal night Lucy has lost her reason and in her frenzy stabbed
her unfortunate bridegroom.

On coming once more to her senses, she puts an end to her own life; while Edgar, on hearing of
the tragedy, betakes himself to the tombs of his ancestors and there commits suicide. Much of the
music suffers from the conventionality to which Donizetti was a slave, notably the ridiculous
mad scene, a delightfully suave melody ending with an elaborate cadenza divided between the voice
and flute; but there are passages of real power, such as the fine sextet in the contract scene,
and the gloomy air in which the hero calls upon the spirits of his forefathers. Less sombre than'Lucia,'and
quite as tuneful, is'Lucrezia Borgia,'once a prime favourite at Covent Garden, but now rarely heard.
Lucrezia Borgia, the wife of Alfonso of Ferrara, has recognised Gennaro, a young Venetian, as an
illegitimate son of her own, and watches over him with tender interest, though she will not disclose
the real relation in which they stand to one another. Gennaro, taunted by his friends with being
a victim of Lucrezia's fascinations, publicly insults her, and is thereupon condemned to death
by the Duke, who is glad of the opportunity of taking vengeance upon the man whom he believes to be
his wife's paramour. Gennaro is poisoned in the presence of his mother, who, however, directly
the Duke's back is turned, gives him an antidote which restores him
to health.

In the
last act Lucrezia takes comprehensive vengeance upon the friends of Gennaro, whose taunts still rankle
in her bosom, by poisoning all the wine at a supper party. Unfortunately Gennaro happens to be
present, and as this time he refuses to take an antidote, even though Lucrezia reveals herself
as his mother, he expires in her arms. There is little attempt at dramatic significance in the music
of'Lucrezia Borgia,'but the score bubbles over with delicious and wholly inappropriate melodies.
Occasionally, as in the final scene, there is a touch of pathos, and sometimes
some rather effective concerted music; but, for the most part, Donizetti
was content to write his charming tunes, and to leave all expression
to the singers.

The orchestration of his Italian operas is primitive in the extreme, and amply justifies Wagner's
taunt about the'big guitar.'In works written for foreign theatres Donizetti took more pains, and'La Favorite,'produced
in Paris in 1840, is in many ways the strongest of his tragic works. The story is more than
usually repulsive. Fernando, a novice at the convent of St. James of Compostella, is about to take monastic
vows, when he catches sight of a fair penitent, and bids farewell to the Church in order to
follow her to court.

She turns out to be Leonora, the mistress of the King, for whose beaux yeux the latter is prepared
to repudiate the Queen and to brave all the terrors of Rome.

Fernando finds Leonora ready to reciprocate his passion, and by her means he obtains a commission in
the army. He returns covered with glory, and is rewarded by the King, who has discovered his connection
with Leonora, with the hand of his cast-off mistress. After the marriage ceremony is over, Fernando
hears for the first time of Leonora's past. He flies to the convent for consolation, followed
by his unfortunate wife, who dies in his arms after she has obtained forgiveness.'La Favorite'is
more carefully written than was Donizetti's wont, and some of the
concerted music is really dramatic.

There is a tradition that the last act, which was an after-thought, was written in an incredibly short space
of time, but it is significant that the beautiful romanza'Spirto gentil,'to which the act and
indeed the whole opera owes most of its popularity, was transferred from an earlier and unperformed
work,'Le Duc d'Albe.'It would be waste of time to describe the plots of any other serious works by this
composer. Many of them, such as'Betly,'' Linda di Chamonix,'and'Anna Bolena,'were successful when produced;
but Donizetti aimed merely at satisfying the prevailing taste of the day, and when a new generation
sprang up with different sympathies from that which had preceded it, the operas which had seemed
the most secure of popularity were soon consigned to oblivion. It is a significant fact that Donizetti's
lighter works have stood the test of time more successfully than
his more serious efforts.

Though the grandiose airs and sham tragedy of'Lucia'have long since
ceased to impress us, we can still take pleasure in the unaffected
gaiety of'La Fille du Régiment'and'Don Pasquale.'These and many similar
works were written currente calamo, and though their intrinsic musical
interest is of course very slight, they are totally free from the
ponderous affectations of the composer's serious operas.

Here we see Donizetti at his best, because here he writes according
to the natural dictates of his imagination, not in accordance with the
foolish or depraved taste of fashionable connoisseurs. The scene of'La
Fille du Régiment'is laid in the Tyrol, where Tonio, a peasant, has
had the good fortune to save the life of Marie, the vivandière of a
French regiment.

Many years before the opening of the story, Marie had been found upon the battle-field by Sergeant
Sulpice, and adopted by the regiment whose name she bears. The regiment, as a body, has the
right of disposing of her hand in marriage, and when Tonio presses his
claim, which is not disallowed by the heroine, it is decided that he shall
be allowed to marry her if he will consent to join the regiment.

Everything goes well, when a local grandee in the shape of the Marchioness Berkenfeld suddenly appears,
identifies Marie as her niece by means of a letter which was found
upon her by the Sergeant, and carries her off to her castle hard by,
leaving the unfortunate Tonio to the bitterest reflections.

In the second act Marie is at the castle of Berkenfeld though by no means at ease in her unaccustomed
surroundings. Her efforts to imbibe the principles of etiquette
are pleasantly interrupted by the unexpected arrival of the regiment, with
Tonio now as Colonel at its head. But even his promotion will not
soften the Marchioness's heart. She discloses the fact that she is in reality
Marie's mother, and adjures her by her filial respect to give up
the thought of her low-born lover.

Marie consents in an agony of grief. The lovers part with many tears, and at the psychological
moment the Marchioness relents, and all ends happily.

Even
slighter in scope is'Don Pasquale,'a brilliant trifle, written for the Théâtre des Italiens in
Paris, and there sung for the first time in 1843, by Grisi, Mario, Tamburini, and Lablache.
The story turns upon a trick played by Ernesto and Norina, two young lovers, upon the uncle and
guardian of the former, Don Pasquale.

Ernesto will not marry to please his uncle, so the old gentleman determines to marry himself.
Norina is introduced to Don Pasquale as his sister by a certain Dr. Malatesta, a friend of Ernesto,
and the amorous old gentleman at once succumbs to her charms. No sooner is the marriage contract
signed than Norina, acting upon her instructions, launches forth upon a career of unexampled
shrewishness, extravagance, and flirtation. Her poor old lover is distracted by her wild vagaries,
and in the end is only too thankful to hand her over bag and baggage to his nephew, who generously
consents to relieve his uncle of his unlucky bargain. The music
of'L'Elisir d'Amore'is not inferior to that of'Don Pasquale'in sparkle
and brilliancy, but the plot is tame and childish compared to the
bustle and intrigue of the latter work.

It turns upon a sham love potion sold by a travelling quack to Nemorino, a country lout who is
in love with Adina, the local beauty. Adina is divided between the attractions of Nemorino
and those of the Sergeant Belcore, who is quartered in the village. In order to get money to pay
for the potion Nemorino joins the army, and this proof of his devotion has so convincing an effect
upon the affections of Adina that she discards the soldier and bestows
her hand upon Nemorino.

To this silly plot is allied some of the most delightful music Donizetti ever wrote. Fresh, graceful,
and occasionally tender, it forms the happiest contrast to the grandiose
nonsense which the composer was in the habit of turning out to suit
the vitiated taste of the day, and is a convincing proof that if he
had been permitted to exercise his talent in a congenial sphere, Donizetti
would be entitled to rank with the most successful followers of Cimarosa
and Paisiello, instead of being degraded to the rank of a mere purveyor
to the manufacturers of barrel-organs.

Different as was the talent of Bellini (1802-1835) from that of Donizetti, his fate has been the same.
After holding the ear of Europe for many years, he has fallen at the present time completely into
the background, and outside the frontiers of Italy his works are rarely
heard. Bellini had no pretensions to dramatic power.

His genius was purely elegiac in tone, and he relied entirely for the effect which he intended
to produce upon the luscious beauty of his melodies, into which, it must be admitted, the great singers
of his time contrived to infuse a surprising amount of dramatic force. The story of'La Sonnambula'is
rather foolish, but it suited Bellini's idyllic style, and the work
is perhaps the happiest example of his naïf charm.

Amina, a rustic damsel, betrothed to Elvino, is a confirmed somnambulist, and her nocturnal
peregrinations have given the village in which she dwells the reputation of being haunted by
a spectre.

One night, Amina, while walking in her sleep, enters the chamber in the inn where Rodolfo, the young
lord of the village, happens to be located. There she is discovered by Lisa, the landlady, to the
scandal of the neighbourhood and the shame of her lover Elvino, who casts her from him and at
once makes over his affections to the landlady. Amina's sorrow and despair make her more restless
than ever, and the following night she is seen walking out of a window of the mill in which she
lives, and crossing the stream by a frail bridge which totters beneath
her weight. Providence guards her steps, and she reaches solid earth in
safety, where Elvino is waiting to receive her, fully convinced of
her innocence.

Bellini's music is quite the reverse of dramatic, but the melodies throughout'La Sonnambula'are graceful
and tender, and in the closing scene he rises to real pathos. In'Norma'Bellini had the advantage of
treating a libretto of great power and beauty, the work of the poet Romani, a tragedy which, both
in sentiment and diction, contrasts very strongly with the ungrammatical balderdash which composers
are so often called upon to set to music. Norma, the high priestess of the Druids, forgetting her
faith and the traditions of her race, has secretly wedded Pollio,
a Roman general, and borne him two children.

In spite of the sacrifices which she has made for his sake, he proves faithless, and seduces
Adalgisa, one of the virgins of the temple, who has consented to abandon her people and her
country and to fly with him to Rome. Before leaving her home, Adalgisa, ignorant of the connection
between Norma and Pollio, reveals her secret to the priestess, and begs for absolution from
her vows. At the news of her husband's faithlessness Norma's fury breaks forth, and her indignation
is equalled by that of Adalgisa, who is furious at finding herself the mere plaything of a profligate.
Pollio, maddened by passion, endeavours to tear Adalgisa from the
altar of the temple, but is checked by Norma, who strikes the sacred
shield and calls the Druids to arms.

Pollio, now a prisoner, is brought before her for judgment, and she gives him a last choice, to
renounce Adalgisa or to die.

He refuses to give up his love, whereupon Norma, in a passion of self-sacrifice, tears the
sacred wreath from her own brow and declares herself the guilty one. Pollio is touched by her
magnanimity, and together they ascend the funeral pyre, in its flames to be cleansed from earthly sin.
It would be too much to assert that Bellini has risen to the level of this noble subject, but parts
of his score have a fervour and a dignity which might scarcely have been expected from the composer
of'La Sonnambula.'We may smile now at the trio between Pollio and his two victims, in which the extremes
of fury and indignation are expressed by a lilting tune in 9-8 time, but it is impossible to
deny the truth and beauty of Norma's farewell to her children, and in several other scenes there
are evidences of real dramatic feeling, if not of the power to express it. It is important
to remember, in discussing the works of Bellini and the other composers
of his school, that in their day the art of singing was cultivated
to a far higher pitch of perfection than is now the case.

Consequently the composer felt that he had done his duty if, even in situations of the most tragic
import, he provided his executant with a broad, even melody.

Into this the consummate art of the singer could infuse every gradation of feeling. The composer
presented a blank canvas, upon which the artist painted the required picture. Unlike that of'Norma,'the
libretto of'I Puritani,'Bellini's last opera, is a dull and confused affair. The scene is laid in
England, apparently at the time of the Civil War, but the history and chronology throughout are of
the vaguest description. Queen Henrietta Maria is imprisoned in the fortress of Plymouth, under
the guardianship of Lord Walton, the Parliamentary leader, whose daughter Elvira loves Lord
Arthur Talbot, a young Cavalier, Elvira's tears and entreaties have so far softened her stern parent
that Arthur is to be admitted into the castle in order that the nuptials
may be celebrated. He takes advantage of the situation to effect the
escape of the Queen, disguising her in Elvira's bridal veil.

When his treachery is discovered Arthur is at once proscribed, and Elvira, believing him
to be faithless, loses her reason. Later in the opera Arthur contrives to meet Elvira and explains his
conduct satisfactorily, but their interview is cut short by a party of Puritans, who arrest him. He is
condemned to be shot on the spot, but, before the sentence can be carried out, a messenger arrives
with the news of the king's defeat and the pardon of Arthur. Elvira, whose insanity has throughout
been of an eminently harmless description, at once recovers her reason, and everything ends
happily.'I Puritani'is in some respects Bellini's best work. Foolish as the libretto is, the bitterest
opponent of Italian cantilena could scarcely refuse to acknowledge the pathetic beauty of many of
the songs.

It is a matter for regret, as well as for some surprise, that Bellini's works should now be entirely
banished from the Covent Garden repertory, while so many inferior operas are still retained.
In an age of fustian and balderdash, Bellini stood apart, a tender and pathetic figure, with no pretensions
to science, but gifted with a command of melody as copious, unaffected, and sincere as has
ever fallen to the lot of a composer for the stage. The other Italian
writers of this period may be briefly dismissed, since they did little
but reproduce the salient features of their more famous contemporaries
in a diluted form.

Mercadante (1797-1870) lived to an advanced age, and wrote many operas, comic and serious, of which the
most successful was'Il Giuramento,'a gloomy story of love and revenge, treated with a certain power
of the conventional order, and a good deal of facile melody. Pacini (1796-1867) is principally
known by his'Saffo,'an imitation of Rossini, which achieved a great success. Vaccai (1790-1848) also imitated
Rossini, but his'Giulietta e Romeo'has intrinsic merits, which are not to be despised. After the
days of Rossini, opera buffa fell upon evil days.

Although the most famous musicians of the day did not disdain occasionally to follow in the footsteps
of Cimarosa, for the most part the task of purveying light operas for the smaller theatres of
Italy fell into the hands of second and third rate composers. Donizetti, as we have seen, enriched
the repertory of opera buffa with several masterpieces of gay and brilliant vivacity, but few
of the lighter works of his contemporaries deserve permanent record.
The brothers Ricci, Luigi (1805-1859) and Federico (1809-1877), wrote
many operas, both singly and in collaboration, but'Crispino e la Comare'is
the only one of their works which won anything like a European reputation.

The story is a happy combination of farce and féerie. Crispino, a half-starved cobbler, is about to
throw himself into a well, when La Comare, a fairy, rises from it and bids him desist. She gives
him a purse of gold, and orders him to set up as a doctor, telling him that when he goes to visit
a patient he must look to see whether she is standing by the bedside. If she is not there, the sick man
will recover. Crispino follows her directions, and speedily becomes famous, but success turns
his head, and he is only brought back to his senses by a strange dream, in which the fairy takes
him down to a subterranean cavern where the lamp of each man's life is burning and he sees his
own on the point of expiring. The action of this convention was the topic of discussion, in public
and private, for a long time, and stung many women into new thought and action and gave rise
to the movement for women's political equality both in England and the United States.

As the convention adjourned, the remark was heard on all sides, "It is about time some demand
was made for new liberties for women." As Mrs. Mott and I walked home, arm in arm, commenting
on the incidents of the day, we resolved to hold a convention as soon as we returned home,
and form a society to advocate the rights of women. At the lodging house on Queen Street, where
a large number of delegates had apartments, the discussions were heated at every meal, and
at times so bitter that, at last, Mr. Birney packed his valise and sought more peaceful quarters.
Having strongly opposed the admission of women as delegates to the convention it was rather
embarrassing to meet them, during the intervals between the various sessions, at the table
and in the drawing room.

These were the first women I had ever met who believed in the equality of the sexes and who
did not believe in the popular orthodox religion. The acquaintance of Lucretia Mott, who was
a broad, liberal thinker on politics, religion, and all questions of reform, opened to me a
new world of thought. As we walked about to see the sights of London, I embraced every opportunity
to talk with her. It was intensely gratifying to hear all that, through years of doubt, I had
dimly thought, so freely discussed by other women, some of them no older than myself--women,
too, of rare intelligence, cultivation, and refinement. After six weeks' sojourn under the
same roof with Lucretia Mott, whose conversation was uniformly on a high plane, I felt that
I knew her too well to sympathize with the orthodox Friends, who denounced her as a dangerous
woman because she doubted certain dogmas they fully believed.

As Mr. Birney and my husband were invited to speak all over England, Scotland, and Ireland,
and we were uniformly entertained by orthodox Friends, I had abundant opportunity to know the
general feeling among them toward Lucretia Mott. Even Elizabeth Fry seemed quite unwilling
to breathe the same atmosphere with her. During the six weeks that many of us remained in London
after the convention we were invited to a succession of public and private breakfasts, dinners,
and teas, and on these occasions it was amusing to watch Mrs. Fry's sedulous efforts to keep
Mrs. Mott at a distance. If Mrs. Mott was on the lawn, Mrs. Fry would go into the house; if
Mrs. Mott was in the house, Mrs. Fry would stay out on the lawn. One evening, when we were
all crowded into two parlors, and there was no escape, the word went round that Mrs. Fry felt
moved to pray with the American delegates, whereupon a profound silence reigned. After a few
moments Mrs. Fry's voice was heard deploring the schism among the American Friends; that sol
many had been led astray by false doctrines; urging the Spirit of All Good to show them the
error of their way, and gather them once more into the fold of the great Shepherd of our faith.
The prayer was directed so pointedly at the followers of Elias Hicks, and at Lucretia Mott
in particular, that I whispered to Lucretia, at the close, that she should now pray for Mrs.
Fry, that her eyes might be opened to her bigotry and uncharitableness, and be led by the Spirit
into higher light. "Oh, no!" she replied, "a prayer of this character, under the circumstances,
is an unfair advantage to take of a stranger, but I would not resent it in the house of her
friends."

In these gatherings we met the leading Quaker families and many other philanthropists of different
denominations interested in the anti-slavery movement. On all these occasions our noble Garrison
spoke most effectively, and thus our English friends had an opportunity of enjoying his eloquence,
the lack of which had been so grave a loss in the convention.

We devoted a month sedulously to sightseeing in London, and, in the line of the traveler's
duty, we explored St. Paul's Cathedral, the British Museum, the Tower, various prisons, hospitals,
galleries of art, Windsor Castle, and St. James's Palace, the Zoological Gardens, the schools
and colleges, the chief theaters and churches, Westminster Abbey, the Houses of Parliament,
and the Courts. We heard the most famous preachers, actors, and statesmen. In fact, we went
to the top and bottom of everything, from the dome of St. Paul to the tunnel under the Thames,
just then in the process of excavation. We drove through the parks, sailed up and down the
Thames, and then visited every shire but four in England, in all of which we had large meetings,
Mr. Birney and Mr. Stanton being the chief speakers. As we were generally invited to stay with
Friends, it gave us a good opportunity to see the leading families, such as the Ashursts, the
Alexanders, the Priestmans, the Braithwaites, and Buxtons, the Gurneys, the Peases, the Wighams
of Edinburgh, and the Webbs of Dublin. We spent a few days with John Joseph Gurney at his beautiful
home in Norwich. He had just returned from America, having made a tour through the South. When
asked how he liked America, he said, "I like everything but your pie crust and your slavery."

Before leaving London, the whole American delegation, about forty in number, were invited to
dine with Samuel Gurney. He and his brother, John Joseph Gurney, were, at that time, the leading
bankers in London. Someone facetiously remarked that the Jews were the leading bankers in London
until the Quakers crowded them out.

One of the most striking women I met in England at this time was Miss Elizabeth Pease. I never
saw a more strongly marked face. Meeting her, forty years after, on the platform of a great
meeting in the Town Hall at Glasgow, I knew her at once. She is now Mrs. Nichol of Edinburgh,
and, though on the shady side of eighty, is still active in all the reforms of the day.

It surprised us very much at first, when driving into the grounds of some of these beautiful
Quaker homes, to have the great bell rung at the lodge, and to see the number of liveried servants
on the porch and in the halls, and then to meet the host in plain garb, and to be welcomed
in plain language, "How does thee do, Henry?" "How does thee do Elizabeth?" This sounded peculiarly
sweet to me--a stranger in a strange land. The wealthy English Quakers we visited at that time,
taking them all in all, were the most charming people I had ever seen. They were refined and
intelligent on all subjects, and though rather conservative on some points, were not aggressive
in pressing their opinions on others. Their hospitality was charming and generous, their homes
the beau ideal of comfort and order, the cuisine faultless, while peace reigned over all. The
quiet, gentle manner and the soft tones in speaking, and the mysterious quiet in these well-ordered
homes were like the atmosphere one finds in a modern convent, where the ordinary duties of
the day seem to be accomplished by some magical influence.

Before leaving London we spent a delightful day in June at the home of Samuel Gurney, surrounded
by a fine park with six hundred deer roaming about--always a beautiful feature in the English
landscape. As the Duchess of Sutherland and Lord Morpeth had expressed a wish to Mrs. Fry to
meet some of the leading American abolitionists, it was arranged that they should call at her
brother's residence on this occasion. Soon after we arrived, the Duchess, with her brother
and Mrs. Fry, in her state carriage with six horses and outriders, drove up to the door. Mr.
Gurney was evidently embarrassed at the prospect of a lord and a duchess under his roof. "Rustic seats,
a woven mat of corn husks to kneel on when weeding, a bit of nice trellis work, a little tool house
are all possible pieces of work."

I saw once what a boy called his handy boxes.

These were wooden boxes, with hinged covers and handles, so that they might be carried about. One
was for seeds. This box had partitions inside, and all the different envelopes of seeds were arranged
in the different cubby holes. Another box had garden accessories. The word sounds interesting. It
means all the little extras needed in the work. Labels, small stakes, a garden reel, measure,
knife, cord, note book, pencil-- all were in the box, all were things which the boy often used.
You can make variations on these. But a box which may be carried about has advantages over
one that is screwed up in the tool house.

"I believe the flower-gathering basket would sell well. It is not that it is a rather picturesque
sort of Englishy custom to go out and pick flowers with a pretty basket tucked under one's
arm, but it is very inconvenient, very hot work, and very mussy, to have to hold bunches of
flowers in the hand as one gathers."

In some places where there are summer colonies it is possible to
sell bunches of flowers.

I knew of a case where big bunches of sweet peas were brought to
the hotel every morning.

These sold for ten and fifteen cents the bunch and went like hot
cakes.

"The girls may think of all sorts of wicker mats and trays that would make the garden tea more
attractive. One ought to think of the aesthetic side."

I have not mentioned working for others. Hire yourself out. Let it be known that you can and
will weed, mow lawns, plant and transplant for so much per hour. Someone may be going off for a few
weeks; see to it that you are the boy or girl to be employed. Prove
yourself faithful.

"In the winter make garden utensils and also attend
to the bulb end of it. At Christmas time you could do a big business."

Someone might
make and bottle kerosene emulsion. Paste on each bottle directions for using.
Print very neatly, so it will look well.

"There are doubtless
many other ways of making money. But, above all, do not neglect the
other side; give away some things from your garden and some of your
labour, too. It was a sad interview, arranged chiefly for the daughter's satisfaction,
though Lady Byron listened with a painful interest. As the colonel was a warm admirer of the
great poet, he no doubt represented him in the best possible light, and his narration of his
last days was deeply interesting. Lady Byron had a quiet, reserved manner, a sad face, and
a low, plaintive voice, like one who had known deep sorrow. I had seen her frequently in the
convention and at social teas, and had been personally presented to her before this occasion.
Altogether I thought her a sweet, attractive-looking woman.

We had a pleasant interview with Lord Brougham also. The Philadelphia Anti-slavery Society
sent him an elaborately carved inkstand, made from the wood of Pennsylvania Hall, which was
destroyed by a pro-slavery mob. Mr. Birney made a most graceful speech in presenting the memento,
and Lord Brougham was equally happy in receiving it.

One of the most notable characters we met at this time was Daniel O'Connell. But I have lavished
out too many words of this play matter; I do it, because, as they are excelling parts of poesy, so
is there none so much used in England, and none can be more pitifully abused; which, like an unmannerly
daughter, showing a bad education, causeth her mother Poesy's honesty
to be called in question.

Other{ 90} sorts of poetry, almost, have we none, but that lyrical kind of songs and sonnets,
which, if the Lord gave us so good minds, how well it might be employed, and with how heavenly
fruits, both private and public, in singing the praises of the immortal beauty, the immortal goodness
of that God, who giveth us hands to write, and wits to conceive; of which we might well want
words, but never matter; of which we could turn our eyes to nothing, but we should ever have
new budding occasions.

But, truly, many of such writings as come under the banner of unresistible love, if I were a
mistress, would never persuade me they were in love; so coldly they apply fiery speeches, as
men that had rather read lover's writings, and so caught up certain swelling phrases, which
hang together like a man that once told me, "the wind was at north-west and by south," because
he would be sure to name winds enough; than that, in truth, they feel those passions, which
easily, as I think, may be bewrayed by the same forcibleness, or
"energia"

(as the Greeks call it), of the writer. But let this be a sufficient, though short note, that
we miss the right use of the material point of poesy.

Now{ 91} for the outside of it, which is words, or (as I may term it) diction, it is even well
worse; so is that honey-flowing matron eloquence, apparelled, or rather disguised, in a courtesan-like
painted affectation. One time with so far-fetched words, that many seem monsters, but most
seem strangers to any poor Englishman: another time with coursing of a letter, as if they were bound
to follow the method of a dictionary: another time with figures and
flowers, extremely winter-starved.

But
I would this fault were only peculiar to versifiers, and had not as large possession among
prose printers: and, which is to be marvelled, among many scholars, and, which is to be pitied,
among some preachers.

Truly, I could wish (if at least I might be so bold to wish, in a thing beyond the reach of
my capacity) the diligent imitators of Tully and Demosthenes, most worthy to be imitated, did
not so much keep Nizolian paper-books{ 92} of their figures and phrases, as by attentive translation,
as it were, devour them whole, and make them wholly theirs. For now they cast sugar and spice
upon every dish that is served at the table: like those Indians, not content to wear ear-rings
at the fit and natural place of the ears, but they will thrust jewels through their nose and lips,
because they will be sure to be fine.

Tully, when he was to drive out Catiline, as it were with a thunderbolt of eloquence, often
useth the figure of repetition, as "vivit et vincit, imo in senatum
venit, imo in senatum venit,"& c.{ 93} Indeed, inflamed with a well-grounded
rage, he would have his words, as it were, double out of his mouth;
and so do that artificially which we see men in choler do naturally.

And we, having noted the grace of those words, hale them in sometimes to a familiar epistle,
when it were too much choler to be choleric.

How well, store of "similiter cadences" doth sound with the gravity of the pulpit, I would
but invoke Demosthenes'soul to tell, who with a rare daintiness useth them. Truly, they have
made me think of the sophister, that with too much subtlety would prove two eggs three, and though
he may be counted a sophister, had none for his labour. So these men bringing in such a kind
of eloquence, well may they obtain an opinion of a seeming fineness,
but persuade few, which should be the end of their fineness.

Now for similitudes in certain printed discourses, I think all herbalists,
all stories of beasts, fowls, and fishes are rifled up, that they
may come in multitudes to wait upon any of our conceits, which certainly
is as absurd a surfeit to the ears as is possible.

For the force of a similitude not being to prove anything to a contrary
disputer, but only to explain to a willing hearer: when that is done,
the rest is a most tedious prattling, rather overswaying the memory
from the purpose whereto they were applied, than any whit informing
the judgment, already either satisfied, or by similitudes not to be
satisfied.

For my part, I do not doubt, when Antonius and Crassus, the great forefathers of Cicero in eloquence;
the one (as Cicero testifieth of them) pretended not to know art, the other not to set by
it, because with a plain sensibleness they might win credit of popular ears, which credit is
the nearest step to persuasion (which persuasion is the chief mark of oratory); I do not doubt,
I say, but that they used these knacks very sparingly; which who doth generally use, any man may see,
doth dance to his own music; and so to he noted by the audience, more careful to speak curiously
than truly. Undoubtedly (at least to my opinion undoubtedly) I have found in divers small-learned
courtiers a more sound style than in some professors of learning; of which I can guess no other cause,
but that the courtier following that which by practice he findeth fittest to nature, therein (though
he know it not) doth according to art, though not by art: where the other, using art to show
art, and not hide art (as in these cases he should do), flieth from nature, and indeed abuseth
art.

But what! methinks I deserve to be pounded{ 94} for straying from poetry to oratory: but both have
such an affinity in the wordish considerations, that I think this digression will make my meaning
receive the fuller understanding: which is not to take upon me to teach poets how they should
do, but only finding myself sick among the rest, to allow sonic one or two spots of the common
infection grown among the most part of writers; that, acknowledging ourselves somewhat awry,
we may bend to the right use both of matter and manner: whereto our language giveth us great
occasion, being, indeed, capable of any excellent exercising of it.{ 95} I know some will say,
it is a mingled language: and why not so much the better, taking the best of both the other?
Another will say, it wanteth grammar. Nay, truly, it hath that praise, that it wants not grammar;
for grammar it might have, but needs it not; being so easy in itself, and so void of those cumbersome
differences of cases, genders, moods, and tenses; which, I think, was a piece of the tower of
Babylon's curse, that a man should be put to school to learn his mother tongue. But for the
uttering sweetly and properly the conceit of the mind, which is the end of speech, that hath
it equally with any other tongue in the world, and is particularly happy in compositions of
two or three words together, near the Greek, far beyond the Latin;
which is one of the greatest beauties can be in a language.

Now,{ 96} of versifying there are two sorts, the one ancient, the other modern; the ancient marked
the quantity of each syllable, and according to that framed his verse; the modern, observing
only number, with some regard of the accent, the chief life of it standeth in that like sounding
of the words, which we call rhyme. Whether of these be the more excellent, would bear many
speeches; the ancient, no doubt more fit for music, both words and time observing quantity; and more
fit lively to express divers passions, by the low or lofty sound of the well-weighed syllable.
The latter, likewise, with his rhyme striketh a certain music to the ear; and, in fine, since
it doth delight, though by another way, it obtaineth the same purpose; there being in either,
sweetness, and wanting in neither, majesty. Truly the English, before any vulgar language I
know, is fit for both sorts; for, for the ancient, the Italian is so full of vowels, that it must
ever be cumbered with elisions.

The Dutch so, of the other side, with consonants, that they cannot yield the sweet sliding fit
for a verse. The French, in his whole language, hath not one word that hath his accent in the
last syllable, saving two, called antepenultima; and little more, hath the Spanish, and therefore
very gracelessly may they use dactiles. The English is subject to
none of these defects.

Now for rhyme, though we do not observe quantity, we observe the accent very precisely, which
other languages either cannot do, or will not do so absolutely. That "caesura," or breathing-place,
in the midst of the verse, neither Italian nor Spanish have, the French and we never almost fail
of. Lastly, even the very rhyme itself the Italian cannot put in the last syllable, by the
French named the masculine rhyme, but still in the next to the last, which the French call the
female; or the next before that, which the Italian calls "sdrucciola:" the example of the former
is, "buono," "suono;" of the sdrucciola is, "femina," "semina." The French, of the other side,
hath both the male, as "bon," "son," and the female, as "plaise," "taise;" but the "sdrucciola"
he hath not; where the English hath all three, as "due," "true," "father," "rather," "motion,"
"potion;" with much more which might be said, but that already I find the trifling of this
discourse is much too much enlarged.

So{ 97} that since the ever praiseworthy poesy is full of virtue,
breeding delightfulness, and void of no gift that ought to be in the
noble name of learning; since the blames laid against it are either
false or feeble; since the cause why it is not esteemed in England
is the fault of poet-apes, not poets; since, lastly, our tongue is
most fit to honour poesy, and to be honoured by poesy; I conjure you
all that have had the evil luck to read this ink-wasting toy of mine,
even in the name of the Nine Muses, no more to scorn the sacred mysteries
of poesy; no more to laugh at the name of poets, as though they were
next inheritors to fools; no more to jest at the reverend title of
"a rhymer;" but to believe, with Aristotle, that they were the ancient
treasurers of the Grecian's divinity; to believe, with Bembus, that
they were the first bringers in of all civility; to believe, with
Scaliger, that no philosopher's precepts can sooner make you an honest
man, than the reading of Virgil; to believe, with Clauserus, the translator
of Cornutus, that it pleased the heavenly deity by Hesiod and Homer,
under the veil of fables, to give us all knowledge, logic, rhetoric,
philosophy natural and moral, and "quid non?" to believe, with me,
that there are many mysteries contained in poetry, which of purpose
were written darkly, lest by profane wits it should be abused; to
believe, with Landin, that they are so beloved of the gods that whatsoever
they write proceeds of a divine fury.

Lastly, to believe themselves, when they tell you they will make
you immortal by their verses.

Thus doing, your names shall flourish in the printers'shops: thus doing, you shall be of kin
to many a poetical preface: thus doing, you shall be most fair, most rich, most wise, most all:
you shall dwell upon superlatives: thus doing, though you be "Libertino patre natus," you shall
suddenly grow "Herculea proles," "Si quid mea Carmina possunt:" thus
doing, your soul shall be placed with Dante's Beatrix, or Virgil's
Anchisis.

But if (fie of such a but!) you be born so near the dull-making cataract
of Nilus, that you cannot hear the planet-like music of poetry; if
you have so earth-creeping a mind, that it cannot lift itself up to
look to the sky of poetry, or rather, by a certain rustical disdain,
will become such a Mome, as to be a Momus of poetry; then, though
I will not wish unto you the ass's ears of Midas, nor to be driven
by a poet's verses, as Bubonax was, to hang himself; nor to be rhymed
to death, as is said to be done in Ireland; yet thus much curse I
must send you in the behalf of all poets; that while you live, you
live in love, and never get favour, for lacking skill of a sonnet;
and when you die, your memory die from the earth for want of an epitaph.

POEMS POEM: TWO PASTORALS Made by Sir Philip Sidney, upon his meeting with
his two worthy friends and fellow poets, Sir Edward Dyer and M. Fulke
Greville.

Join mates in mirth to me, Grant pleasure to our meeting; Let Pan, our good god, see How grateful
is our greeting. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one
mind in bodies three. Ye hymns and singing skill Of god Apollo's giving,
Be pressed our reeds to fill With sound of music living. Join hearts
and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three. Sweet
Orpheus'harp, whose sound The stedfast mountains moved, Let there thy skill
abound, To join sweet friends beloved. Join hearts and hands, so
let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three. My two and I be met,
A happy blessed trinity, As three more jointly set In firmest band
of unity. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in
bodies three.

Welcome my two to me, The number best beloved, Within my heart you
be In friendship unremoved.

Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies
three.

Give leave your flocks to range, Let us the while be playing; Within the elmy grange, Your flocks
will not be straying.

Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three. Cause all the mirth you can,
Since I am now come hither, Who never joy, but when I am with you
together.

Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three. Like lovers do their
love, So joy I in you seeing: Let nothing me remove From always with
you being.

Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three. And as the turtle
dove To mate with whom he liveth, Such comfort fervent love Of you
to my heart giveth.

Join
hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three. Now joined be our hands, Let
them be ne'er asunder, But link'd in binding bands By metamorphosed
wonder.

So should our severed bodies three As one for ever joined be. POEM: DISPRAISE OF A COURTLY LIFE
Walking in bright Phoebus'blaze, Where with heat oppressed I was,
I got to a shady wood, Where green leaves did newly bud; And of grass
was plenty dwelling, Decked with pied flowers sweetly smelling.

In this wood a man I met, On lamenting wholly set; Ruing change of wonted
state, Whence he was transformed late, Once to shepherds'God retaining,
Now in servile court remaining.

There he wand'ring malecontent, Up and down perplexed went, Daring
not to tell to me, Spake unto a senseless tree, One among the rest
electing, These same words, or this affecting: "My old mates I grieve
to see Void of me in field to be, Where we once our lovely sheep Lovingly
like friends did keep; Oft each other's friendship proving, Never
striving, but in loving."

But may love abiding be In poor shepherds'base degree? It belongs to such alone To whom art of
love is known: Seely shepherds are not witting What in art of love
is fitting.

"Nay, what need the art to those To whom we our love disclose? It is to be used then, When we
do but flatter men: Friendship true, in heart assured, Is by Nature's
gifts procured."

Therefore shepherds, wanting skill, Can Love's duties best fulfil; Since they know not how to feign,
Nor with love to cloak disdain, Like the wiser sort, whose learning
Hides their inward will of harming.

"Well was I, while under shade Oaten reeds me music made, Striving
with my mates in song; Mixing mirth our songs among.

Greater was the shepherd's treasure Than this false, fine, courtly
pleasure. A bonny lass who worked with him in the harvest field inspired his first
attempts at rhyme. Life, with Burns, was one long, hard struggle. With his natural love for
the beautiful, the terrible depression of spirits he suffered from his dreary surroundings
was inevitable. The interest great men took in him, when they awoke to his genius, came too
late for his safety and encouragement. In a glass of whisky he found, at last, the rest and
cheer he never knew when sober. Poverty and ignorance are the parents of intemperance, and
that vice will never be suppressed until the burdens of life are equally shared by all.

We saw Melrose by moonlight, spent several hours at Abbotsford, and lingered in the little
sanctum sanctorum where Scott wrote his immortal works. It was so small that he could reach
the bookshelves on every side. We went through the prisons, castles, and narrow streets of
Edinburgh, where the houses are seven and eight stories high, each story projecting a few feet
until, at the uppermost, opposite neighbors could easily shake hands and chat together. All
the intervals from active sight-seeing we spent in reading the lives of historical personages
in poetry and prose, until our sympathies flowed out to the real and ideal characters. Lady
Jane Grey, Anne Boleyn, Mary Queen of Scots, Ellen Douglas, Jeanie and Effie Deans, Highland
Mary, Rebecca the Jewess, Di Vernon, and Rob Roy all alike seemed real men and women, whose
shades or descendants we hoped to meet on their native heath.

Here among the Scotch lakes and mountains Mr. Stanton and I were traveling alone for the first
time since our marriage, and as we both enjoyed walking, we made many excursions on foot to
points that could not be reached in any other way. We spent some time among the Grampian Hills,
so familiar to every schoolboy, walking, and riding about on donkeys. We sailed up and down
Loch Katrine and Loch Lomond. My husband was writing letters for some New York newspapers on
the entire trip, and aimed to get exact knowledge of all we saw; thus I had the advantage of
the information he gathered. On these long tramps I wore a short dress, reaching just below
the knee, of dark-blue cloth, a military cap of the same material that shaded my eyes, and
a pair of long boots, made on the masculine pattern then generally worn--the most easy style
for walking, as the pressure is equal on the whole foot and the ankle has free play. Thus equipped,
and early trained by my good brother-in-law to long walks, I found no difficulty in keeping
pace with my husband.

Being self-reliant and venturesome in our explorations, we occasionally found ourselves involved
in grave difficulties by refusing to take a guide. For instance, we decided to go to the top
of Ben Nevis alone. It looked to us a straightforward piece of business to walk up a mountain
side on a bee line, and so, in the face of repeated warnings by our host, we started. We knew
nothing of zigzag paths to avoid the rocks, the springs, and swamps; in fact we supposed all
mountains smooth and dry, like our native hills that we were accustomed to climb. The landlord
shook his head and smiled when we told him we should return at noon to dinner, and we smiled,
too, thinking he placed a low estimate on our capacity for walking. But we had not gone far
when we discovered the difficulties ahead. Some places were so steep that I had to hold on
to my companion's coat tails, while he held on to rocks and twigs, or braced himself with a
heavy cane. By the time we were halfway up we were in a dripping perspiration, our feet were
soaking wet, and we were really too tired to proceed. But, after starting with such supreme
confidence in ourselves, we were ashamed to confess our fatigue to each other, and much more
to return and verify all the prognostications of the host and his guides. So we determined
to push on and do what we had proposed. With the prospect of a magnificent view and an hour's
delicious rest on the top, we started with renewed courage. A steady climb of six hours brought
us to the goal of promise; our ascent was accomplished. But alas! it was impossible to stop
there--the cold wind chilled us to the bone in a minute. So we took one glance at the world
below and hurried down the south side to get the mountain between us and the cold northeaster.

When your teeth are chattering with the cold, and the wind threatening to make havoc with your
raiment, you are not in a favorable condition to appreciate grand scenery. Like the king of
France with twice ten thousand men, we marched up the hill and then, marched down again. We
found descending still more difficult, as we were in constant fear of slipping, losing our
hold, and rolling to the bottom. We were tired, hungry, and disappointed, and the fear of not
reaching the valley before nightfall pressed heavily upon us. Neither confessed to the other
the fatigue and apprehension each felt, but, with fresh endeavor and words of encouragement,
we cautiously went on. We accidentally struck a trail that led us winding down comfortably
some distance, but we lost it, and went clambering down as well as we could in our usual way.
To add to our misery, a dense Scotch mist soon enveloped us, so that we could see but a short
distance ahead, and not knowing the point from which we started, we feared we might be going
far out of our way. The coming twilight, too, made the prospect still darker. Fortunately our
host, having less faith in us than we had in ourselves, sent a guide to reconnoiter, and, just
at the moment when we began to realize our danger of spending the night on the mountain, and
to admit it to each other, the welcome guide hailed us in his broad accent. His shepherd dog
led the way into the beaten path. As I could hardly stand I took the guide's arm, and when
we reached the bottom two donkeys were in readiness to take us to the hotel.

We did not recover from the fatigue of that expedition in several days, and we made no more
experiments of exploring strange places without guides. We learned, too, that mountains are
not so hospitable as they seem nor so gently undulating as they appear in the distance, and
that guides serve other purposes besides extorting money from travelers. If, under their guidance,
we had gone up and down easily, we should always have thought we might as well have gone alone.
So our experience gave us a good lesson in humility. We had been twelve hours on foot with
nothing to eat, when at last we reached the hotel. We were in no mood for boasting of the success
of our excursion, and our answers were short to inquiries as to how we had passed the day.

Being tired of traveling and contending about woman's sphere with the Rev. John Scoble, an
Englishman, who escorted Mr. Birney and Mr. Stanton on their tour through the country, I decided
to spend a month in Dublin; while the gentlemen held meetings in Cork, Belfast, Waterford,
Limerick, and other chief towns, finishing the series with a large, enthusiastic gathering
in Dublin, at which O'Connell made one of his most withering speeches on American slavery;
the inconsistency of such an "institution" with the principles of a republican government giving
full play to his powers of sarcasm. On one occasion, when introduced to a slaveholder, he put
his hands behind his back, refusing to recognize a man who bought and sold his fellow-beings.
The Rev. John Scoble was one of the most conceited men I ever met. His narrow ideas in regard
to woman, and the superiority of the royal and noble classes in his own country, were to me
so exasperating that I grew more and more bellicose every day we traveled in company. He was
terribly seasick crossing the Channel, to my intense satisfaction. As he always boasted of
his distinguished countrymen, I suggested, in the midst of one of his most agonizing spasms,
that he ought to find consolation in the fact that Lord Nelson was always seasick on the slightest
provocation.

The poverty in Ireland was a continual trial to our sensibilities; beggars haunted our footsteps
everywhere, in the street and on the highways, crouching on the steps of the front door and
on the curbstones, and surrounding our carriage wherever and whenever we stopped to shop or
make a visit. The bony hands and sunken eyes and sincere gratitude expressed for every penny
proved their suffering real. As my means were limited and I could not pass one by, I got a
pound changed into pennies, and put them in a green bag, which I took in the carriage wherever
I went. It was but a drop in the ocean, but it was all I could do to relieve that unfathomed
misery. The libretto, by the Abbé Giambattista Varesco, was modelled upon an earlier French work which
had already been set to music by Campra. Idomeneo, King of Crete, on his way home from the siege of
Troy, is overtaken by a terrific storm.

In despair of his life, he vows that, should he reach the shore alive, he will sacrifice the
first human being he meets to Neptune. This proves to be his son Idamante, who has been reigning
in his stead during his absence. When he finds out who the victim is-- for at first he does
not recognise him-- he tries to evade his vow by sending Idamante away to foreign lands. Electra
the daughter of Agamemnon, driven from her country after the murder of her mother, has taken
refuge in Crete, and Idomeneo bids his son return with her to Argos, and ascend the throne of the
Atreidæ. Idamante loves Ilia, the daughter of Priam, who has been sent to Crete some time before
as a prisoner from Troy, and is loved by her in return. Nevertheless he bows to his father's
will, and is preparing to embark with Electra, when a storm arises, and a frightful sea monster issues
from the waves and proceeds to devastate the land. The terror-stricken people demand that
the victim shall be produced, and Idomeneo is compelled to confess that he has doomed his son
to destruction. All are overcome with horror, but the priests begin to prepare for the sacrifice.
Suddenly cries of joy are heard, and Idamante, who has slain the monster single-handed, is brought
in by the priests and people.

He is ready to die, and his father is preparing to strike the fatal blow, when Ilia rushes
in and entreats to be allowed to die in his place. The lovers are still pleading anxiously with each
other when a subterranean noise is heard, the statue of Neptune rocks, and a solemn voice pronounces
the will of the gods in majestic accents. Idomeneo is to renounce the throne, and Idamante is
to marry Ilia and reign in his stead. Every one except Electra is vastly relieved, and the
opera ends with dances and rejoicings.

The music of'Idomeneo'is cast for the most part in Italian form, though the influence of Gluck is
obvious in many points, particularly in the scene of the oracle. Here we find Mozart in his maturity
for the first time; he has become a man, and put away childish things. In two points'Idomeneo'is superior
to any opera that had previously been written-- in the concerted
music (the choruses as well as the trios and quartets), and in the
instrumentation.

The chorus is promoted from the part which it usually plays in Gluck, that of a passive spectator.
It joins in the drama, and takes an active part in the development of the plot, and the music
which it is called upon to sing is often finer and more truly dramatic than that allotted to the
solo singers. But the chorus had already been used effectively by Gluck and other composers;
it is in his solo concerted music that Mozart forges ahead of all possible rivals. The power
which he shows of contrasting the conflicting emotions of his characters
in elaborate concerted movements was something really new to the
stage.

The one quartet in Handel's'Radamisto'and the one trio in his'Alcina,'magnificent as they are,
are too exceptional in their occurrence to be quoted as instances, while the attempts of Rameau
and his followers to impose dramatic significance into their concerted music, though technically
interesting, do but faintly foreshadow the glory of Mozart. The orchestration of'Idomeneo,'too,
is something of the nature of a revelation. At Munich, Mozart had at his disposal an excellent and
well-trained band, and this may go far to explain the elaborate care which he bestowed upon the instrumental
side of his opera. The colouring of the score is sublime in conception and brilliant in detail.
Even now it well repays the closest and most intimate study.'Idomeneo'is practically the foundation
of all modern orchestration.

Mozart's next work was very different both in scope and execution. It has already been pointed out
that the two first works which the composer, as a child, wrote for the stage, followed respectively
the Italian and German models. Similarly, he signalised his arrival at the full maturity of
his powers by producing an Italian and German masterpiece side by
side.'Die Entführung aus dem Serail'was written for the Court Theatre
at Vienna, in response to a special command of the Emperor Joseph II.

It was produced on July 13, 1782. The original libretto was the work
of C. F. Bretzner, but Mozart introduced so many alterations and
improvements into the fabric of the story that, as it stands, much
of it is practically his own work.

The Pasha Selim has carried off a Christian damsel named Constanze,
whom he keeps in close confinement in his seraglio, in the hope that
she may consent to be his wife.

Belmont, Constanze's lover, has traced her to the Pasha's country house with the assistance of
Pedrillo, a former servant of his own, now the Pasha's slave and chief gardener. Belmont's
attempts to enter the house are frustrated by Osmin, the surly major-domo.

At last, however, through the good offices of Pedrillo, he contrives to gain admission in the
character of an architect. Osmin has a special motive for disliking Pedrillo, who has forestalled
him in the affections of Blondchen, Constanze's maid; nevertheless he is beguiled by the wily
servant into a drinking bout, and quieted with a harmless narcotic. This gives the lovers
an opportunity for an interview, in which the details of their flight are arranged. The next night
they make their escape. Belmont gets off safely with Constanze, but Pedrillo and Blondchen
are seen by Osmin before they are clear of the house. The hue and cry is raised, and both couples
are caught and brought back. They are all condemned to death, but the soft-hearted Pasha is
so much overcome by their fidelity and self-sacrifice that he pardons them and sends them away in
happiness. Much of'Die Entführung'is so thoroughly and characteristically German, that at first sight it
may be thought surprising that it should have succeeded so well in a city like Vienna, which was
inclined to look upon the Singspiel as a barbarian product of Northern
Germany.

     But there is a reason for this, and it is one which goes to the root
of the whole question of comic opera. Mozart saw that Italian comic
operas often succeeded in spite of miserable libretti, because the
entire interest was concentrated upon the music, and all the rest
was forgotten.

     
     
     The German Singspiel writers made the mistake of letting their music be,
     for the most part, purely incidental, and conducting all the dramatic
     part of their plots by dialogue. Mozart borrowed the underlying
     idea of the opera buffa, applied it to the form of the Singspiel, which
     he kept intact, and produced a work which succeeded in revolutionising
     the history of German opera. But, apart from the question of form, the
     music of'Die Entführung'is in itself fine enough to be the foundation
even of so imposing a structure as modern German music. The orchestral
forces at Mozart's disposal were on a smaller scale than at Munich;
but though less elaborate than that of'Idomeneo,'the score of'Die
Entführung'is full of the tenderest and purest imagination.

     But the real importance of the work lies in the vivid power of characterisation,
     which Mozart here reveals for the first time in full maturity. It is by the
     extraordinary development of this quality that he transcends all other
     writers for the stage before or since. It is no exaggeration to say
that Mozart's music reveals the inmost soul of the characters of his opera
as plainly as if they were discussed upon a printed page.

     In his later works the opportunities given him of proving this magical
power were more frequent and better. The libretto of'Die Entführung'is
a poor affair at best, but, considering the materials with which
he had to work, Mozart never accomplished truer or more delicate work
than in the music of Belmont and Constanze, of Pedrillo, and greatest
of all, of Osmin.

     In 1786 Mozart wrote the music to a foolish little one-act comedy
entitled'Der Schauspieldirektor,'describing the struggles of two rival
singers for an engagement. A sparkling overture and a genuinely comic
trio are the best numbers of the score; but the libretto gave Mozart
little opportunity of exercising his peculiar talents.

     Since his original production various attempts have been made to fit'Der Schauspieldirektor'with
new and more effective libretti, but in no case has its performance
attained any real success.

     For the sake of completeness it may be well to mention the existence of a
     comic opera entitled'L'Oie du Caïre,'which is an exceedingly clever combination
     of the fragments left by Mozart of two unfinished operas,'L'Oca del
     Cairo'and'Lo Sposo Deluso,'fitted to a new and original libretto
     by the late M. Victor Wilder. In its modern form, this little opera,
     in which a lover is introduced into his mistress's garden inside
     an enormous goose, has been successfully performed both in France and England.
     Not even the success of'Die Entführung'could permanently establish
German opera in Vienna. The musical sympathies of the aristocracy were
entirely Italian, and Mozart had to bow to expediency.

     
     
     His next work,'Le Nozze de Figaro'(1786), was written to an adaptation
of Beaumarchais's famous comedy'Le Mariage de Figaro,'which had been
produced in Paris a few years before.

     Da Ponte, the librettist, wisely omitted all the political references,
which contributed so much to the popularity of the original play, and left
only a bustling comedy of intrigue, not perhaps very moral in tendency,
but full of amusing incident and unflagging in spirit.

     It speaks volumes for the ingenuity of the librettist that though
the imbroglio is often exceedingly complicated, no one feels the least
difficulty in following every detail of it on the stage, though it
is by no means easy to give a clear and comprehensive account of all
the ramifications of the plot.

     

The scene is laid at the country-house of Count Almaviva. Figaro, the Count's valet, and Susanna,
the Countess's maid, are to be married that day; but Figaro, who is well aware that the Count
has a penchant for his fiancée, is on his guard against machinations in that quarter. Enter the
page Cherubino, an ardent youth who is devotedly attached to his mistress. He has been caught
by the Count flirting with Barberina, the gardener's daughter, and promptly dismissed from his service,
and now he comes to Susanna to entreat her to intercede for him with
the Countess.

While the two are talking they hear the Count approaching, and Susanna hastily hides Cherubino
behind a large arm-chair. The Count comes to offer Susanna a dowry if she will consent to meet him that
evening, but she will have nothing to say to him. Basilio, the music-master, now enters, and the
Count has only just time to slip behind Cherubino's arm-chair, while the page creeps round to the
front of it, and is covered by Susanna with a cloak. Basilio, while repeating the Count's proposals,
refers to Cherubino's passion for the Countess. This arouses the Count,
who comes forward in a fury, orders the immediate dismissal of the page,
and by the merest accident discovers the unlucky youth ensconced
in the arm-chair.

As Cherubino has heard every word of the interview, the first thing to do is to get him out of the way.
The Count therefore presents him with a commission in his own regiment,
and bids him pack off to Seville post-haste. Figaro now appears with
all the villagers in holiday attire to ask the Count to honour his
marriage by giving the bride away.

The Count cannot refuse, but postpones the ceremony for a few hours in the hope of gaining time to
prosecute his suit. Meanwhile the Countess, Susanna, and Figaro are maturing a plot of their own
to discomfit the Count and bring him back to the feet of his wife. Figaro writes an anonymous
letter to the Count, telling him that the Countess has made an assignation with a stranger for
that evening in the garden, hoping by this means to arouse his jealousy and divert his mind from the wedding.
He assures him also of Susanna's intention to keep her appointment in the garden, intending that
Cherubino, who has been allowed to put off his departure, shall
be dressed up as a girl and take Susanna's place at the interview.

The page comes to the Countess's room to be dressed, when suddenly the conspirators hear the Count
approaching. Cherubino is hastily locked in an inner room, while Susanna slips Into an alcove.
While the Count is plying his wife with angry questions, Cherubino clumsily knocks over a chair.
The Count hears the noise, and quickly jumps to the conclusion that the page is hiding in the inner
room. The Countess denies everything and refuses to give up the key, whereupon the Count drags
her off with him to get an axe to break in the door. Meanwhile Susanna liberates Cherubino,
and takes his place in the inner room, while the latter escapes by jumping down into the garden.
When the Count finally opens the door and discovers only Susanna within, his rage is turned to
mortification, and he is forced to sue for pardon. The Countess is triumphant, but a change is
given to the position of affairs by the appearance of Antonio, the gardener, who comes to complain
that his flowers have been destroyed by someone jumping on them from the window. The Count's
jealous fears are returning, but Figaro allays them by declaring that he is the culprit, and
that he made his escape by the window in order to avoid the Count's anger. Antonio then produces
a paper which he found dropped among the flowers. This proves to be Cherubino's commission.
Once more the secret is nearly out, but Figaro saves the situation by declaring that the page
gave it to him to get the seal affixed. The Countess and Susanna are beginning to congratulate themselves
on their escape, when another diversion is created by the entrance
of Marcellina, the Countess's old duenna, and Bartolo, her ex-guardian.
Marcellina has received a promise in writing from Figaro that he
will marry her if he fails to pay a sum of money which he owes her
by a certain date, and she comes to claim her bridegroom.

The Count is delighted at this new development, and promises Marcellina that she shall get her
rights. The second act (according to the original arrangement) is mainly devoted to clearing up the
various difficulties. Figaro turns out to be the long-lost son of Marcellina and Bartolo, so the great
impediment to his marriage is effectually removed, and by the happy plan of a disguise the Countess
takes Susanna's place at the assignation, and receives the ardent declarations of her husband. When
the Count discovers his mistake he is thoroughly ashamed of himself, and his vows of amendment
bring the piece to a happy conclusion. It seems hardly possible to write critically of the music
of'Le Nozze di Figaro,'Mozart had in a superabundant degree that power which is characteristic
of our greatest novelists, of infusing the breath of life into his characters. We rise from seeing
a performance of'Le Nozze,'with no consciousness of the art employed, but with a feeling of having assisted
in an actual scene in real life. It is not until afterwards that the knowledge is forced upon us that
this convincing presentment of nature is the result of a combination of the purest inspiration
of genius with the highest development of art. Mozart knew everything that was to be known
about music, and'Le Nozze di Figaro,'in spite of its supreme and unapproachable beauty, is really
only the legitimate outcome of two centuries of steady development. Perhaps the most striking feature
of the work is the absolute consistency of the whole. In spite of the art with which the composer
has Individualised his characters, there is no clashing between the different types of music allotted
to each. As for the music itself, if the exuberant youthfulness of'Die Entführung'has been toned down
to a serener flow of courtliness, we are compensated for the loss by the absence of the mere
bravura which disfigures many of the airs in the earlier work. The dominant characteristic of the music
is that wise and tender sympathy with the follies and frailties of
mankind, which moves us with a deeper pathos than the most terrific
tragedy ever penned.

It is perhaps the highest achievement of the all-embracing genius of Mozart that he made an
artificial comedy of intrigue, which is trivial when it is not squalid, into one of the great
music dramas of the world. Mozart's next work,'Don Giovanni'(October 29, 1787), was written
for Prague, a city which had always shown him more real appreciation than Vienna. It was adapted by
Da Ponte from a Spanish tale which had already been utilised by Molière. Although, so far as incident
goes, it is not perhaps an ideal libretto, it certainly contains
many of the elements of success.

The characters are strongly marked and distinct, and the supernatural part of the story, which
appealed particularly to Mozart's imagination and indeed determined him to undertake the opera,
is managed with consummate skill. Don Giovanni, a licentious Spanish nobleman, who is attracted by
the charms of Donna Anna, the daughter of the Commandant of Seville, breaks into her palace under
cover of night, in the hope of making her his own. She resists him and calls for help. In the struggle which
ensues the Commandant is killed by Don Giovanni, who escapes unrecognised. Donna Elvira, his
deserted wife, has pursued him to Seville, but he employs his servant Leporello to occupy her
attention while he pays court to Zerlina, a peasant girl, who is about to marry an honest clodhopper named
Masetto. Donna Anna now recognises Don Giovanni as her father's assassin, and communicates her discovery
to her lover, Don Ottavio; Elvira joins them, and the three vow vengeance against the libertine. Don
Giovanni gives a ball in honour of Zerlina's marriage, and in the course of the festivities
seizes an opportunity of trying to seduce her. He is only stopped by the interference of Anna,
Elvira, and Ottavio, who have made their way into his palace in masks and dominoes. In the next
act the vengeance of the three conspirators appears to hang fire
a little, for Don Giovanni is still pursuing his vicious courses,
and employing Leporello to beguile the too trustful Elvira.

After various escapades he finds himself before the statue of the murdered Commandant. He jokingly
invites his old antagonist to sup with him, an invitation which the statue, to his intense surprise,
hastens to accept. Leporello and his master return to prepare for the entertainment of the evening.
When the merriment is at its height, a heavy step is heard in the corridor, and the marble man enters.
Don Giovanni is still undaunted, and even when his terrible visitor
offers him the choice between repentance and damnation, yields not
a jot of his pride and insolence.

Finally the statue grasps him by the hand and drags him down, amid flames and earthquakes,
to eternal torment. The taste of Mozart's time would not permit the drama to finish here.
All the other characters have to assemble once more. Leporello gives them an animated description
of his master's destruction, and they proceed to draw a most edifying moral from the doom of
the sinner. The music to this finale is of matchless beauty and interest, but modern sentiment will
not hear of so grievous an anti-climax, and the opera now usually ends with Don Giovanni's disappearance.
The music of'Don Giovanni'has so often been discussed, that brief
reference to its more salient features will be all that is necessary.

Gounod has written of it:'The score of "Don Giovanni" has influenced my life like a revelation.
It stands in my thoughts as an incarnation of dramatic and musical impeccability,'and lesser
men will be content to echo his words. The plot is less dramatically coherent than that of'Le Nozze
di Figaro,'but it ranges over a far wider gamut of human feeling. From the comic rascality of Leporello
to the unearthly terrors of the closing scene is a vast step, but Mozart is equally at home in
both. His incomparable art of characterisation is here displayed in even more consummate perfection
than in the earlier work. The masterly way in which he differentiates the natures of his three
soprani-- Anna, a type of noble purity; Elvira, a loving and long-suffering
woman, alternating between jealous indignation and voluptuous tenderness;
and Zerlina, a model of rustic coquetry-- may especially be remarked,
but all the characters are treated with the same profound knowledge
of life and human nature.

Even in his most complicated concerted pieces he never loses grip
of the idiosyncrasies of his characters, and in the most piteous and tragic
situations he never relinquishes for a moment his pure ideal of intrinsic
musical beauty.

If there be such a thing as immortality for any work of art, it must
surely be conceded to'Don Giovanni.'' Così fan tutte,'his next work,
was produced at Vienna in January, 1790.

It has never been so successful as its two predecessors, chiefly on account of its libretto, which, though
a brisk little comedy of intrigue, is almost too slight to bear a
musical setting.

The plot turns upon a wager laid by two young officers with an old cynic of their acquaintance to
prove the constancy of their respective sweethearts. After a touching leave-taking they return disguised
as Albanians and proceed to make violent love each one to the other's fiancée. The ladies
at first resist the ardent strangers, but end by giving way, and the last scene shows their
repentance and humiliation when they discover that the too attractive foreigners are their own
lovers after all. There is much delightful music in the work, and
it is greatly to be regretted that it should have been so completely
cast into the shade by'Le Nozze di Figaro,'Mozart's next opera,'La
Clemenza di Tito,'was hastily written, while he was suffering from
the illness which in the end proved fatal.

The libretto was an adaptation of an earlier work by Metastasio. Cold and formal, and almost
totally devoid of dramatic interest, it naturally failed to inspire
the composer.

The form in which it was cast compelled him to return to the conventions of opera seria, from
which he had long escaped, and altogether, as an able critic remarked at the time, the work might rather
be taken for the first attempt of budding talent than for the product of a mature mind. The story
deals with the plotting of Vitellia, the daughter of the deposed Vitellius, to overthrow the
Emperor Titus. She persuades her lover Sextus to conspire against
his friend, and he succeeds in setting the Capitol on fire.

Titus, however, escapes by means of a disguise, and not only pardons all the conspirators, but rewards
Vitellia with his hand. The opera was produced at Prague on the 6th of September, 1791, and the
cold reception which it experienced did much to embitter the closing years of Mozart's life.'Die
Zauberflöte,'his last work, was written before'La Clemenza di Tito,'though not actually produced
until September 30, 1791. The libretto, which was the work of Emanuel Schikaneder, is surely
the most extraordinary that ever mortal composer was called upon to set. At the opening of the
opera, the Prince Tamino rushes in, pursued by a monstrous serpent, and sinks exhausted on the steps
of a temple, from which three ladies issue in the nick of time and despatch the serpent with their
silver spears. They give Tamino a portrait of Pamina, the daughter of their mistress, the Queen of
Night, which immediately inspires him with passionate devotion. He is informed that Pamina has been stolen
by Sarastro, the high-priest of Isis, and imprisoned by him in his palace. He vows to rescue
her, and for that purpose is presented by the ladies with a magic flute, which will keep him safe in
every danger, while Papageno, a bird-catcher, who has been assigned to him as companion, receives
a glockenspiel. Three genii are summoned to guide them, and the
two champions thereupon proceed to Sarastro's palace.

Tamino is refused admittance by the doorkeeper, but Papageno in some unexplained way contrives
to get in, and persuades Pamina to escape with him.

They fly, but are recaptured by Monostatos, a Moor, who has been appointed to keep watch over
Pamina. Sarastro now appears, condemns Monostatos to the bastinado, and decrees that the two
lovers shall undergo a period of probation in the sanctuary. In the second act the ordeal of silence
is imposed upon Tamino.

"Thank you, gentlemen, there was no instinct about it. I did some hard thinking before I saw
how I could get a pressure on the shoulder without impeding the circulation, as you did."

Thus, in the supreme moment of a young mother's life, when I needed tender care and support,
I felt the whole responsibility of my child's supervision; but though uncertain at every step
of my own knowledge, I learned another lesson in self-reliance. I trusted neither men nor books
absolutely after this, either in regard to the heavens above or the earth beneath, but continued
to use my "mother's instinct," if "reason" is too dignified a term to apply to woman's thoughts.
My advice to every mother is, above all other arts and sciences, study first what relates to
babyhood, as there is no department of human action in which there is such lamentable ignorance.

At the end of six weeks my nurse departed, and I had a good woman in her place who obeyed my
orders, and now a new difficulty arose from an unexpected quarter. My father and husband took
it into their heads that the child slept too much. If not awake when they wished to look at
him or to show him to their friends, they would pull him out of his crib on all occasions.
When I found neither of them was amenable to reason on this point, I locked the door, and no
amount of eloquent pleading ever gained them admittance during the time I considered sacred
to the baby's slumbers. At six months having, as yet, had none of the diseases supposed to
be inevitable, the boy weighed thirty pounds. Then the stately Peter came again into requisition,
and in his strong arms the child spent many of his waking hours. Peter, with a long, elephantine
gait, slowly wandered over the town, lingering especially in the busy marts of trade. Peter's
curiosity had strengthened with years, and, wherever a crowd gathered round a monkey and hand
organ, a vender's wagon, an auction stand, or the post office at mail time, there stood Peter,
black as coal, with "the beautiful boy in white," the most conspicuous figure in the crowd.
As I told Peter never to let children kiss the baby, for fear of some disease, he kept him
well aloft, allowing no affectionate manifestations except toward himself.

My reading, at this time, centered on hygiene. I came to the conclusion, after much thought
and observation, that children never cried unless they were uncomfortable. A professor at Union
College, who used to combat many of my theories, said he gave one of his children a sound spanking
at six weeks, and it never disturbed him a night afterward. Another Solomon told me that a
very weak preparation of opium would keep a child always quiet and take it through the dangerous
period of teething without a ripple on the surface of domestic life. As children cannot tell
what ails them, and suffer from many things of which parents are ignorant, the crying of the
child should arouse them to an intelligent examination. To spank it for crying is to silence
the watchman on the tower through fear, to give soothing syrup is to drug the watchman while
the evils go on. Parents may thereby insure eight hours' sleep at the time, but at the risk
of greater trouble in the future with sick and dying children. Tom Moore tells us "the heart
from love to one, grows bountiful to all." I know the care of one child made me thoughtful
of all. I never hear a child cry, now, that I do not feel that I am bound to find out the reason.

In my extensive travels on lecturing tours, in after years, I had many varied experiences with
babies. One day, in the cars, a child was crying near me, while the parents were alternately
shaking and slapping it. First one would take it with an emphatic jerk, and then the other.
At last I heard the father say in a spiteful tone, "If you don't stop I'll throw you out of
the window." One naturally hesitates about interfering between parents and children, so I generally
restrain myself as long as I can endure the torture of witnessing such outrages, but at length
I turned and said:

"Let me take your child and see if I can find out what ails it."

"Nothing ails it," said the father, "but bad temper."

The child readily came to me. I felt all around to see if its clothes pinched anywhere, or
if there were any pins pricking. I took off its hat and cloak to see if there were any strings
cutting its neck or choking it. Then I glanced at the feet, and lo! there was the trouble.
The boots were at least one size too small. I took them off, and the stockings, too, and found
the feet as cold as ice and the prints of the stockings clearly traced on the tender flesh.
We all know the agony of tight boots. I rubbed the feet and held them in my hands until they
were warm, when the poor little thing fell asleep. I said to the parents, "You are young people,
I see, and this is probably your first child." They said, "Yes." "You don't intend to be cruel,
I know, but if you had thrown those boots out of the window, when you threatened to throw the
child, it would have been wiser. This poor child has suffered ever since it was dressed this
morning." I showed them the marks on the feet, and called their attention to the fact that
the child fell asleep as soon as its pain was relieved. The mother said she knew the boots
were tight, as it was with difficulty she could get them on, but the old ones were too shabby
for the journey and they had no time to change the others.

"Well," said the husband, "if I had known those boots were tight, I would have thrown them
out of the window."

"Now," said I, "let me give you one rule: when your child cries, remember it is telling you,
as well as it can, that something hurts it, either outside or in, and do not rest until you
find what it is. Neither spanking, shaking, or scolding can relieve pain."

I have seen women enter the cars with their babies' faces completely covered with a blanket
shawl. I have often thought I would like to cover their faces for an hour and see how they
would bear it. In such circumstances, in order to get the blanket open, I have asked to see
the baby, and generally found it as red as a beet. Ignorant nurses and mothers have discovered
that children sleep longer with their heads covered. They don't know why, nor the injurious
effect of breathing over and over the same air that has been thrown off the lungs polluted
with carbonic acid gas. This stupefies the child and prolongs the unhealthy slumber.

One hot day, in the month of May, I entered a crowded car at Cedar Rapids, Ia., and took the
only empty seat beside a gentleman who seemed very nervous about a crying child. I was scarcely
seated when he said:

"Mother, do you know anything about babies?"

"Oh, yes!" I said, smiling, "that is a department of knowledge on which I especially pride myself."

"Well," said he, "there is a child that has cried most of the time for the last twenty-four
hours. What do you think ails it?"

Making a random supposition, I replied, "It probably needs a bath."

He promptly rejoined, "If you will give it one, I will provide the necessary means."

I said, "I will first see if the child will come to me and if the mother is willing."

I found the mother only too glad to have a few minutes' rest, and the child too tired to care
who took it. She gave me a suit of clean clothes throughout, the gentleman spread his blanket
shawl on the seat, securing the opposite one for me and the bathing appliances. Then he produced
a towel, sponge, and an india-rubber bowl full of water, and I gave the child a generous drink
and a thorough ablution. It stretched and seemed to enjoy every step of the proceeding, and,
while I was brushing its golden curls as gently as I could, it fell asleep; so I covered it
with the towel and blanket shawl, not willing to disturb it for dressing. The poor mother,
too, was sound asleep, and the gentleman very happy. He had children of his own and, like me,
felt great pity for the poor, helpless little victim of ignorance and folly. I engaged one
of the ladies to dress it when it awoke, as I was soon to leave the train. It slept the two
hours I remained--how much longer I never heard.

A young man, who had witnessed the proceeding, got off at the same station and accosted me, saying:

"I should be very thankful if you would come and see my baby. It is only one month old and
cries all the time, and my wife, who is only sixteen years old, is worn out with it and neither
of us know what to do, so we all cry together, and the doctor says he does not see what ails it."

So I went on my mission of mercy and found the child bandaged as tight as a drum. When I took
out the pins and unrolled it, it fairly popped like the cork out of a champagne bottle. I rubbed
its breast and its back and soon soothed it to sleep. I remained a long time, telling them
how to take care of the child and the mother, too. I told them everything I could think of
in regard to clothes, diet, and pure air. I asked the mother why she bandaged her child as
she did. For, in its highest development, opera is most nearly akin to lyrical utterances in
poetry, and the most important musical revolution of the present century has been in the direction
of increasing, not diminishing, the lyrical quality of operatic work. The Elizabethan writers-- not
only the dramatists, but the authors of romances-- interspersed their blank verse or their prose
narration with short lyrical poems, just as in the days of Mozart the airs and concerted pieces in an
opera were connected by wastes of recitative that were most aptly called'dry'; and as it was left to
a modern poet to tell, in a series of lyrics succeeding one another without interval, a dramatic
story such as that of Maud, so was it a modern composer who carried to completion, in'Tristan
und Isolde', the dramatic expression of passion at the highest point of lyrical utterance.
It is no more unnatural for the raptures of Wagner's lovers, or the swan-song of ecstasy, to
be sung, than for the young man whose character Tennyson assumes,
to utter himself in measured verse, sometimes of highly complex structure.

The two works differ not in kind, but in degree of intensity, and
to those whose ears are open to the appeal of music, the power of
expression in such a case as this is greater beyond all comparison
than that of poetry, whether declaimed or merely read.

That so many people recognise the rational nature of opera in the
present day is in great measure due to Wagner, since whose reforms
the conventional and often idiotic libretti of former times have entirely
disappeared.

In spite of the sneers of the professed anti-Wagnerians, which were based as often as not
upon some ineptitude on the part of the translator, not upon any inherent defect in the original,
the plots invented by Wagner have won for themselves an acceptance that may be called world-wide. And
whatever be the verdict on his own plots, there can be no question as to the superiority of the
average libretto since his day. No composer dare face the public of the present day with one
of the pointless, vapid sets of rhymes, strung together with intervals of bald recitative, that
pleased our forefathers, and equally inconceivable is the re-setting of libretti that have served
before, in the manner of the eighteenth century composers, a prodigious number of whom employed
one specially admired'book'by Metastasio.

Unfortunately those who take an intelligent interest in opera do not even yet form a working majority
of the operatic audience in any country. While the supporters of orchestral, choral, or chamber music
consist wholly of persons, who, whatever their degree of musical culture, take a serious view
of the art so far as they can appreciate it, and therefore are unhampered by the necessity
of considering the wishes of those who care nothing whatever about
the music they perform.

In connection with every operatic enterprise the question arises of how to cater for a great class
who attend operatic performances for any other reason rather than that of musical enjoyment,
yet without whose pecuniary support the undertaking must needs fail at once. Nor is it only in England
that the position is difficult. In countries where the opera enjoys a Government subsidy, the
influences that make against true art are as many and as strong as they are elsewhere. The taste
of the Intendant in a German town, or that of the ladies of his family, may be on such a level
that the public of the town, over the operatic arrangement of which he presides, may very well
be compelled to hear endless repetitions of flashy operas that have long passed out of every respectable
repertory; and in other countries the Government official within whose jurisdiction the opera
falls may, and very often does, enforce the engagement of some musically
incompetent prima donna in whom he, or some scheming friend, takes
a particular interest.

The moral conditions of the operatic stage are no doubt far more satisfactory than they were,
and in England the general deodorisation of the theatre has not been unfelt in opera; but even
without the unworthy motives which too often drew the bucks and the dandies of a past day
to the opera-house, the influence of the unintelligent part of the audience upon the performers is
far from good in an artistic sense. It is this which fosters that mental condition with which
all who are acquainted with the operatic world are only too familiar. Now, just as in the days
when Marcello wrote his Teatro alla moda, there is scarcely a singer who does not hold, and extremely
few who do not express, the opinion that all the rest of the profession is in league against
them; and by this supposition, as well as by many other circumstances, an atmosphere is created
which is wholly antagonistic to the attainment of artistic perfection. All honour is due to
the purely artistic singers who have reached their position without intrigue, and whose influence
on their colleagues is the best stimulus to wholesome endeavour.

It is beyond question that the greater the proportion of intelligent hearers in any audience or set
of subscribers, the higher will the standard be, not only in vocalisation, but in that combination
which makes the artist as distinguished from the mere singer. For every reason, too, it is desirable
that opera should be given, as a general rule, in the language of the country in which the performance
takes place, and although the system of giving each work with its own original words is an ideally
perfect one for trained hearers, yet the difficulties in the way of its realisation, and the
absurdities that result from such expedients as a mixture of two or more languages in the
same piece, render it practically inexpedient for ordinary operatic undertakings. The recognition
of English as a possible medium of vocal expression may be slow, but it is certainly making
progress, and in the last seasons at Covent Garden it was occasionally employed even before the
fashionable subscribers, who may be presumed to have tolerated it, since they did not manifest
any disapproval of its use. Since the first edition of this book was published, the Utopian
idea, as it then seemed, of a national opera for London has advanced considerably towards realisation,
and it is certain that when it is set on foot, the English language
alone will be employed.

While opera is habitually performed in a foreign language, or, if in English, by those who have not
the art of making their words intelligible, there will always be
a demand for books that tell the story more clearly than is to be
found in the doggerel translations of the libretti, unless audiences
return with one accord to the attitude of the amateurs of former days,
who paid not the slightest attention to the plot of the piece, provided
only that their favourite singers were taking part.

Very often in that classic period the performers themselves knew nothing and cared less about the dramatic
meaning of the works in which they appeared, and a venerable anecdote is current concerning a certain
supper party, the guests at which had all identified themselves with one or other of the principal
parts in'Il Trovatore'. A question being asked as to the plot of the then popular piece, it
was found that not one of the company had the vaguest notion what it was all about. The old lady
who, during the church scene in'Faust', asked her grand-daughter, in a spirit of humble inquiry,
what the relationship was between the two persons on the stage, is no figment of a diseased
imagination; the thing actually happened not long ago, and one is left to wonder what impression
the preceding scenes had made upon the hearer.

Of books that profess to tell the stories of the most popular operas there is no lack, but,
as a rule, the plots are related in a'bald and unconvincing'style, that leaves much to be desired, and
sometimes in a confused way that necessitates a visit to the opera itself in order to clear up
the explanation. There are useful dictionaries, too, notably the excellent'Opern-Handbuch'of Dr
Riemann, which gives the names and dates of production of every opera of any note; but the German
scientist does not always condescend to the detailed narration of the stories, though he gives the
sources from which they may have been derived. Mr Streatfeild has hit upon the happy idea of
combining the mere story-telling part of his task with a survey of the
history of opera from its beginning early in the seventeenth century to the
present day.

In the course of this historical narrative, the plots of all operas that made a great mark in
the past, or that have any chance of being revived in the present, are related clearly and succinctly,
and with a rare and delightful absence of prejudice. The author finds much to praise in every
school; he is neither impatient of old opera nor intolerant of new developments which have yet
to prove their value; and he makes us feel that he is not only an enthusiastic lover of opera
as a whole, but a cultivated musician. The historical plan adopted, in contradistinction to
the arrangement by which the operas are grouped under their titles in alphabetical order, involves
perhaps a little extra trouble to the casual reader; but by the aid of the index, any opera
concerning which the casual reader desires to be informed can be found in its proper place, and
the chief facts regarding its origin and production are given there as well as the story of its action.
Even in music, the youngest of the arts, the precise origin of many modern developments is largely
a matter of conjecture. The history of opera, fortunately for the historian, is an exception
to the rule. All the circumstances which combine to produce the idea of opera are known to
us, and every detail of its genesis is established beyond the possibility
of doubt.

The invention of opera partook largely of the nature of an accident. Late in the sixteenth century
a few Florentine amateurs, fired with the enthusiasm for Greek art which was at that time the
ruling passion of every cultivated spirit in Italy, set themselves the task of reconstructing
the conditions of the Athenian drama.

The result of their labours, regarded as an attempted revival of the lost glories of Greek
tragedy, was a complete failure; but, unknown to themselves, they produced the germ of that
art-form which, as years passed on, was destined, in their own country at least, to reign
alone in the affections of the people, and to take the place, so far as the altered conditions
permitted, of the national drama which they had fondly hoped to recreate.

The foundations of the new art-form rested upon the theory that the drama of the Greeks was throughout
declaimed to a musical accompaniment.

The reformers, therefore, dismissed spoken dialogue from their drama, and employed in its place
a species of free declamation or recitative, which they called musica parlante. The first work
in which the new style of composition was used was the'Dafne'of Jacopo Peri, which was privately performed
in 1597. No trace of this work survives, nor of the musical dramas by Emilio del Cavaliere and Vincenzo
Galilei to which the closing years of the sixteenth century gave birth. But it is best to regard
these privately performed works merely as experiments, and to date the actual foundation of
opera from the year 1600, when a public performance of Peri's'Euridice'was
given at Florence in honour of the marriage of Maria de'Medici and Henry
IV. of France.

A few years later a printed edition of this work was published at Venice, a copy of which is now in
the library of the British Museum, and in recent times it has been reprinted, so that those
who are curious in these matters can study this protoplasmic opera
at their leisure.

Expect for a few bars of insignificant chorus, the whole work consists
of the accompanied recitative, which was the invention of these Florentine
reformers.

The voices are accompanied by a violin, chitarone (a large guitar), lira grande, liuto grosso,
and gravicembalo or harpsichord, which filled in the harmonies indicated
by the figured bass.

The instrumental portions of the work are poor and thin, and the chief beauty lies in the
vocal part, which is often really pathetic and expressive. Peri evidently tried to give musical
form to the ordinary inflections of the human voice, how successfully may be seen in the Lament
of Orpheus which Mr. Morton Latham has reprinted in his'Renaissance of Music,'The original edition of'Euridice'contains
an interesting preface, in which the composer sets forth the theory upon which he worked, and the
aims which he had in view. It is too long to be reprinted here, but should be read by all interested
in the early history of opera.

With the production of'Euridice'the history of opera may be said to begin; but if the new art-form had
depended only upon the efforts of Peri and his friends, it must soon have languished and died. With
all their enthusiasm, the little band of Florentines had too slight an acquaintance with the
science of music to give proper effect to the ideas which they originated. Peri built the ship,
but it was reserved for the genius of Claudio Monteverde to launch it upon a wider ocean than
his predecessor could have dreamed of. Monteverde had been trained in the polyphonic school of Palestrina,
but his genius had never acquiesced in the rules and restrictions in which the older masters
delighted. He was a poor contrapuntist, and his madrigals are chiefly interesting as a proof of how
ill the novel harmonies of which he was the discoverer accorded with the
severe purity of the older school But in the new art he found the
field his genius required.

What had been weakness and license in the madrigal became strength and beauty in the opera.
The new wine was put into new bottles, and both were preserved. Monteverde produced his'Arianna'in
1607, and his'Orfeo'in 1608, and with these two works started opera upon the path of development which
was to culminate in the works of Wagner.'Arianna,'which, according to Marco da Gagliano, himself
a rival composer of high ability,'visibly moved all the theatre to tears,'is lost to us save
for a few quotations; but'Orfeo'is in existence, and has recently been reprinted in Germany.
A glance at the score shows what a gulf separates this work from Peri's treatment of the same story.
Monteverde, with his orchestra of thirty-nine instruments-- brass, wood, and strings complete-- his
rich and brilliant harmonies, sounding so strangely beautiful to ears accustomed only to the severity
of the polyphonic school, and his delicious and affecting melodies, sometimes rising almost to the
dignity of an aria, must have seemed something more than human to the
eager Venetians as they listened for the first time to music as rich
in colour as the gleaming marbles of the Cà d'Oro or the radiant
canvases of Titian and Giorgione.

The success of Monteverde had its natural result. He soon had pupils and imitators by the score.
The Venetians speedily discovered that they had an inherent taste for opera, and the musicians
of the day delighted to cater for it. Monteverde's most famous pupil was Cavalli, to whom may
with some certainty be attributed an innovation which was destined to affect the future of
opera very deeply. In his time, to quote Mr. Latham's'Renaissance of Music,'' the musica parlante of
the earliest days of opera was broken up into recitative, which was less eloquent, and aria,
which was more ornamental. The first appearance of this change is to be found in Cavalli's operas, in which
certain rhythmical movements called "arias" which are quite distinct from the musica parlante,
make their appearance. The music assigned by Monteverde to Orpheus when he is leading Eurydice
back from the Shades is undoubtedly an air, but the situation is one to which an air is appropriate,
and musica parlante would be inappropriate. If the drama had been a play to be spoken and not
sung, there would not have been any incongruity in allotting a song
to Orpheus, to enable Eurydice to trace him through the dark abodes of
Hades.

But the arias of Cavalli are not confined to such special situations, and recur frequently,'Cavalli
had the true Venetian love of colour. In his hands the orchestra began to assume a new importance.
His attempts to give musical expression to the sights and sounds of nature-- the murmur of
the sea, the rippling of the brook and the tempestuous fury of the winds-- mark an interesting step
in the history of orchestral development. With Marcantonio Cesti appears another innovation of scarcely
less importance to the history of opera than the invention of the aria itself-- the da capo
or the repetition of the first part of the aria in its entirety after the conclusion of the second
part.

However much the da capo may have contributed to the settlement of form in composition, it must
be admitted that it struck at the root of all real dramatic effect, and in process of time degraded
opera to the level of a concert. Cesti was a pupil of Carissimi, who is famous chiefly for his
sacred works, and from him he learnt to prefer mere musical beauty to dramatic truth. Those of his
operas which remain to us show a far greater command of orchestral and vocal resource than
Monteverde or Cavalli could boast, but so far as real expression
and sincerity are concerned, they are inferior to the less cultured
efforts of the earlier musicians.

It would be idle to attempt an enumeration of the Venetian composers of the seventeenth century
and their works. Some idea of the musical activity which prevailed may be gathered from the
fact that while the first public theatre was opened in 1637, before the close of the century
there were no less than eleven theatres in the city devoted to the
performance of opera alone.

Meanwhile
the enthusiasm for the new art-form spread through the cities of Italy. According to an extant letter
of Salvator Rosa's, opera was in full swing in Rome during the Carnival of 1652. The first opera
of Provenzale, the founder of the Neapolitan school, was produced in 1658. Bologna, Milan,
Parma, and other cities soon followed suit. France, too, was not behindhand, but there the development
of the art soon deserved the name a new school of opera, distinct in many important particulars
from its parent in Italy.

The French nobles who saw the performance of Peri's'Euridice'at the marriage of Henry IV. may have
carried back tales of its splendour and beauty to their own country, but Paris was not as yet
ripe for opera. Not until 1647 did the French Court make the acquaintance of the new art which
was afterwards to win some of its most brilliant triumphs in their city. In that year a performance
of Peri's'Euridice'(which, in spite of newer developments, had not lost its popularity) was given in Paris
under the patronage of Cadinal Mazarin. This was followed by Cavalli's'Serse,'conducted by the composer himself.
These performances quickened the latent genius of the French people, and Robert Cambert, the
founder of their school, hastened to produce operas, which, though bearing traces of Italian
influence, were nevertheless distinctively French in manner and method. His works, two of which are
known to us,'Pomone'and'Les Peines et les Plaisirs de l'Amour,'were to a certain extent a development
of the masques which had been popular in Paris for many years. They are pastoral and allegorical
in subject, and are often merely a vehicle for fulsome adulation of the'Roi Soleil.'But in construction
they are operas pure and simple. There is no spoken dialogue, and the music is continuous from
first to last. Cambert's operas were very successful, and in conjunction with his librettist Perrin
he received a charter from the King in 1669, giving him the sole right of establishing opera-houses
in the kingdom. Quarrels, however, ensued. Cambert and Perrin separated. The charter was revoked,
or rather granted to a new-comer, Giovanni Battista Lulli, and Cambert, in disgrace, retired to
England, where he died. Lulli (1633-1687) left Italy too young to be much influenced by the
developments of opera in that country, and was besides too good a man of business to allow
his artistic instinct to interfere with his chance of success. He found Cambert's operas popular
in Paris, and instead of attempting any radical reforms, he adhered to the form which he found ready
made, only developing the orchestra to an extent which was then unknown, and adding dignity and passion
to the airs and recitatives. Lulli's industry was extraordinary. During
the space of fourteen years he wrote no fewer than twenty operas,
conceived upon a grand scale, and produced with great magnificence.

His treatment of recitative is perhaps his strongest point, for in spite of the beauty of one
or two isolated songs, such as the famous'Bois épais'in'Amadis'and Charon's wonderful air in'Alceste,'his
melodic gift was not great, and his choral writing is generally of the most unpretentious description.
But his recitative is always solid and dignified, and often impassioned and pathetic. Music, too,
owes him a great debt for his invention of what is known as the French form of overture, consisting of
a prelude, fugue, and dance movement, which was afterwards carried to the highest conceivable pitch
of perfection by Handel. Meanwhile an offshoot of the French school, transplanted to the banks of the
Thames, had blossomed into a brief but brilliant life under the fostering care of the greatest musical
genius our island has ever produced, Henry Purcell.

Charles II. was not a profound musician, but he knew what sort of music he liked, and on one point his
mind was made up-- that he did not like the music of the elderly composers who had survived the
Protectorate, and came forward at his restoration to claim the posts which they had held at
his father's court. Christopher Gibbons, Child, and other relics of the dead polyphonic school were
quietly dismissed to provincial organ-lofts, and Pelham Humphreys, the most promising of the'Children
of the Chapel Royal,'was sent over to Paris to learn all that was newest in music at the feet
of Lulli. Humphreys came back, in the words of Pepys,'an absolute Monsieur,'full of the latest theories
concerning opera and music generally, and with a sublime contempt for
the efforts of his stay-at-home colleagues. His own music shows the
French influence very strongly, and in that of his pupil Henry Purcell
(1658-1695) it may also be perceived, although coloured and transmuted
by the intensely English character of Purcell's own genius.

For many years it was supposed that Purcell's first and, strictly speaking, his only opera,'Dido
and Æneas,'was written by him at the age of seventeen and produced in 1675. Mr. Barclay Squire has now
proved that it was not produced until much later, but this scarcely lessens the wonder of it, for
Purcell can never have seen an opera performed, and his acquaintance with the new art-form must
have been based upon Pelham Humphrey's account of the performances which he had seen in Paris.
Possibly, too, he may have had opportunities of studying the engraved scores of some of Lulli's operas,
which, considering the close intercourse between the courts of France and England, may have found
their way across the Channel.'Dido and Æneas'is now universally spoken of as the first English opera.
Masques had been popular from the time of Queen Elizabeth onwards, which the greatest living
poets and musicians had not disdained to produce, and Sir William Davenant had given performances
of musical dramas'after the manner of the Ancients'during the closing
years of the Commonwealth, but it is probable that spoken dialogue
occurred in all these entertainments, as it certainly did in Locke's'Psyche,'Banister's'Circe,'in
fact, in all the dramatic works of this period which were wrongly
described as operas.

In'Dido and Æneas,'on the contrary, the music is continuous throughout. Airs and recitatives,
choruses and instrumental pieces succeed each other, as in the operas
of the Italian and French schools. Whittier's love
and reverence for his mother and sister, so marked in every word and look, were charming features
of his home life. All his poems to our sex breathe the same tender, worshipful sentiments.

Soon after this visit at Amesbury, our noble friend spent a few days with us in Chelsea, near
Boston. One evening, after we had been talking a long time of the unhappy dissensions among
anti-slavery friends, by way of dissipating the shadows I opened the piano, and proposed that
we should sing some cheerful songs. "Oh, no!" exclaimed Mr. Stanton, "do not touch a note;
you will put every nerve of Whittier's body on edge." It seemed, to me, so natural for a poet
to love music that I was surprised to know that it was a torture to him.

From our upper piazza we had a fine view of Boston harbor. Sitting there late one moonlight
night, admiring the outlines of Bunker Hill Monument and the weird effect of the sails and
masts of the vessels lying in the harbor, we naturally passed from the romance of our surroundings
to those of our lives. I have often noticed that the most reserved people are apt to grow confidential
at such an hour. It was under such circumstances that the good poet opened to me a deeply interesting
page of his life, a sad romance of love and disappointment, that may not yet be told, as some
who were interested in the events are still among the living.

Whittier's poems were not only one of the most important factors in the anti-slavery war and
victory, but they have been equally potent in emancipating the minds of his generation from
the gloomy superstitions of the puritanical religion. Oliver Wendell Holmes, in his eulogy
of Whittier, says that his influence on the religious thought of the American people has been
far greater than that of the occupant of any pulpit.

As my husband's health was delicate, and the New England winters proved too severe for him,
we left Boston, with many regrets, and sought a more genial climate in Central New York.

CHAPTER IX.

THE FIRST WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.

In the spring of 1847 we moved to Seneca Falls. Here we spent sixteen years of our married
life, and here our other children--two sons and two daughters--were born.

Just as we were ready to leave Boston, Mr. and Mrs. Eaton and their two children arrived from
Europe, and we decided to go together to Johnstown, Mr. Eaton being obliged to hurry to New
York on business, and Mr. Stanton to remain still in Boston a few months. At the last moment
my nurse decided she could not leave her friends and go so far away. Accordingly my sister
and I started, by rail, with five children and seventeen trunks, for Albany, where we rested
over night and part of the next day. We had a very fatiguing journey, looking after so many
trunks and children, for my sister's children persisted in standing on the platform at every
opportunity, and the younger ones would follow their example. This kept us constantly on the
watch. We were thankful when safely landed once more in the old homestead in Johnstown, where
we arrived at midnight. As our beloved parents had received no warning of our coming, the whole
household was aroused to dispose of us. But now in safe harbor, 'mid familiar scenes and pleasant
memories, our slumbers were indeed refreshing. How rapidly one throws off all care and anxiety
under the parental roof, and how at sea one feels, no matter what the age may be, when the
loved ones are gone forever and the home of childhood is but a dream of the past.

After a few days of rest I started, alone, for my new home, quite happy with the responsibility
of repairing a house and putting all things in order. I was already acquainted with many of
the people and the surroundings in Seneca Falls, as my sister, Mrs. Bayard, had lived there
several years, and I had frequently made her long visits. We had quite a magnetic circle of
reformers, too, in central New York. At Rochester were William Henry Channing, Frederick Douglass,
the Anthonys, Posts, Hallowells, Stebbins,--some grand old Quaker families at Farmington,--the
Sedgwicks, Mays, Mills, and Matilda Joslyn Gage at Syracuse; Gerrit Smith at Peterboro, and
Beriah Green at Whitesboro.

The house we were to occupy had been closed for some years and needed many repairs, and the
grounds, comprising five acres, were overgrown with weeds. My father gave me a check and said,
with a smile, "You believe in woman's capacity to do and dare; now go ahead and put your place
in order." Who list may read in Plutarch the discourses of Isis and Osiris, of the cause why
oracles ceased, of the Divine providence, and see whether the theology of that nation stood
not upon such dreams, which the poets indeed superstitiously observed; and truly, since they had
not the light of Christ, did much better in it than the philosophers, who, shaking off superstition,
brought in atheism.

Plato, therefore, whose authority I had much rather justly construe than unjustly resist, meant
not in general of poets, in those words of which Julius Scaliger saith, "qua authoritate,
barbari quidam atque insipidi, abuti velint ad poetas e republica exigendos{ 71}:" but only
meant to drive out those wrong opinions of the Deity, whereof now, without farther law, Christianity
hath taken away all the hurtful belief, perchance as he thought nourished by then esteemed poets.
And a man need go no farther than to Plato himself to know his meaning; who, in his dialogue
called "Ion,"{ 72} giveth high, and rightly, divine commendation unto poetry. So as Plato, banishing
the abuse, not the thing, not banishing it, but giving due honour
to it, shall be our patron, and not our adversary.

For, indeed, I had much rather, since truly I may do it, show their mistaking of Plato, under
whose lion's skin they would make an ass-like braying against poesy, than go about to overthrow
his authority; whom, the wiser a man is, the more just cause he shall find to have in admiration;
especially since he attributeth unto poesy more than myself do, namely, to be a very inspiring
of a divine force, far above man's wit, as in the fore-named dialogue
is apparent.

Of the other side, who would show the honours have been by the best sort of judgments granted
them, a whole sea of examples would present themselves; Alexanders, Caesars, Scipios, all favourers
of poets; Laelius, called the Roman Socrates, himself a poet; so as part of Heautontimeroumenos,
in Terence, was supposed to be made by him. And even the Greek Socrates, whom Apollo confirmed to
be the only wise man, is said to have spent part of his old time in putting AEsop's Fables
into verse; and, therefore, full evil should it become his scholar
Plato to put such words in his master's mouth against poets.

But what needs more? Aristotle writes the "Art of Poesy;" and why, if it should not be written?
Plutarch teacheth the use to be gathered of them; and how, if they should not be read? And who reads
Plutarch's either history or philosophy, shall find he trimmeth both their garments with guards{
73} of poesy.

But I list not to defend poesy with the help of his underling historiographer. Let it suffice to
have showed it is a fit soil for praise to dwell upon; and what dispraise may be set upon it is
either easily overcome, or transformed into just commendation. So that since the excellences
of it may be so easily and so justly confirmed, and the low creeping objections so soon trodden
down{ 74}; it not being an art of lies, but of true doctrine; not of effeminateness, but of notable
stirring of courage; not of abusing man's wit, but of strengthening man's wit; not banished,
but honoured by Plato; let us rather plant more laurels for to ingarland the poets'heads (which
honour of being laureate, as besides them only triumphant captains
were, is a sufficient authority to show the price they ought to be
held in) than suffer the ill-favoured breath of such wrong speakers
once to blow upon the clear springs of poesy.

But{ 75} since I have run so long a career in this matter, methinks, before I give my pen a
full stop, it shall be but a little more lost time to inquire, why England, the mother of excellent
minds, should be grown so hard a step-mother to poets, who certainly
in wit ought to pass all others, since all only proceeds from their
wit, being, indeed, makers of themselves, not takers of others.

How can I but exclaim, "Musa, mihi causas memora, quo numine laeso?"{
76} Sweet poesy! that hath anciently had kings, emperors, senators,
great captains, such as, besides a thousand others, David, Adrian,
Sophocles, Germanicus, not only to favour poets, but to be poets;
and of our nearer times can present for her patrons, a Robert, King
of Sicily; the great King Francis of France; King James of Scotland;
such cardinals as Bembus and Bibiena; such famous preachers and teachers
as Beza and Melancthon; so learned philosophers as Fracastorius and
Scaliger; so great orators as Pontanus and Muretus; so piercing wits
as George Buchanan; so grave councillors as, besides many, but before
all, that Hospital{ 77} of France, than whom, I think, that realm
never brought forth a more accomplished judgment more firmly builded
upon virtue; I say these, with numbers of others, not only to read
others'poesies, but to poetise for others'reading: that poesy, thus
embraced in all other places, should only find in our time a hard
welcome in England, I think the very earth laments it, and therefore
decks our soil with fewer laurels than it was accustomed.

For heretofore poets have in England also flourished; and, which
is to be noted, even in those times when the trumpet of Mars did sound
loudest.

And now that an over-faint quietness should seem to strew the house for poets, they are almost in
as good reputation as the mountebanks at Venice. Truly, even that, as of the one side it giveth
great praise to poesy, which, like Venus (but to better purpose), had rather be troubled
in the net with Mars, than enjoy the homely quiet of Vulcan; so serveth it for a piece of a
reason why they are less grateful to idle England, which now can scarce endure the pain of a pen.
Upon this necessarily followeth that base men with servile wits undertake it, who think it enough
if they can be rewarded of the printer; and so as Epaminondas is said, with the honour of his virtue,
to have made an office by his exercising it, which before was contemptible,
to become highly respected; so these men, no more but setting their names
to it, by their own disgracefulness, disgrace the most graceful poesy.
For now, as if all the Muses were got with child, to bring forth bastard
poets, without any commission, they do post over the banks of Helicon,
until they make their readers more weary than post-horses; while,
in the meantime, they, "Queis meliore luto finxit praecordia Titan,"{
78} are better content to suppress the outflowings of their wit, than
by publishing them to be accounted knights of the same order.

But I that, before ever I durst aspire unto the dignity, am admitted into the company of the paper-blurrers,
do find the very true cause of our wanting estimation is want of desert, taking upon us to be
poets in despite of Pallas. Now, wherein we want desert, were a thankworthy labour to express. But
if I knew, I should have mended myself; but as I never desired the title so have I neglected
the means to come by it; only, overmastered by some thoughts, I yielded an inky tribute unto them. Marry,
they that delight in poesy itself, should seek to know what they do, and how they do, especially
look themselves in an unflattering glass of reason, if they be inclinable unto it. For poesy must
not be drawn by the ears, it must be gently led, or rather it must lead; which was partly the cause
that made the ancient learned affirm it was a divine, and no human skill, since all other knowledges
lie ready for any that have strength of wit; a poet no industry can make, if his own genius
be not carried into it. And therefore is an old proverb, "Orator fit, poeta nascitur."{ 79} Yet
confess I always, that as the fertilest ground must be manured, so must the highest flying wit
have a Daedalus to guide him. That Daedalus, they say, both in this
and in other, hath three wings to bear itself up into the air of
due commendation; that is art, imitation, and exercise.

But these, neither
artificial rules, nor imitative patterns, we much cumber ourselves
withal.

Exercise, indeed, we do, but that
very forebackwardly; for where we should exercise to know, we exercise
as having known; and so is our brain delivered of much matter which
never was begotten by knowledge.

For there being two principal parts, matter to be expressed by words, and words to express the matter, in neither
we use art or imitation rightly. Our matter is "quodlibet,"{ 80} indeed, although wrongly,
performing Ovid's verse, "Quicquid conabor dicere, versus erit;"{ 81} never marshalling it into any
assured rank, that almost the readers cannot tell where to find themselves. Chaucer, undoubtedly,
did excellently in his Troilus and Cressida; of whom, truly, I know not whether to marvel more, either
that he in that misty time could see so clearly, or that we in this clear age go so stumblingly
after him. Yet had he great wants, fit to be forgiven in so reverend antiquity. I account
the Mirror of Magistrates meetly furnished of beautiful parts.

And in the Earl of Surrey's Lyrics, many things tasting of a noble birth, and worthy of a noble mind.
The "Shepherds'Kalendar" hath much poesy in his eclogues, indeed, worthy
the reading, if I be not deceived. That same framing of his{ 82} style
to an old rustic language, I dare not allow; since neither Theocritus
in Greek, Virgil in Latin, nor Sannazaro in Italian, did affect it.

Besides these, I do not remember to have seen but few (to speak boldly) printed that have poetical
sinews in them. For proof whereof, let but most of the verses be put in prose, and then ask
the meaning, and it will be found that one verse did but beget another, without ordering at the
first what should be at the last; which becomes a confused mass of words, with a tinkling sound of rhyme,
barely accompanied with reason. Our{ 83} tragedies and comedies, not without cause, are cried out against,
observing rules neither of honest civility nor skilful poetry. Excepting Gorboduc (again I say of
those that I have seen), which notwithstanding, as it is full of stately speeches, and well-sounding
phrases, climbing to the height of Seneca his style, and as full of notable morality, which it
does most delightfully teach, and so obtain the very end of poesy; yet, in truth, it is very defectuous
in the circumstances, which grieves me, because it might not remain
as an exact model of all tragedies.

For it is faulty both in place and time, the two necessary companions
of all corporal actions.

For where the stage should always represent but one place; and the uttermost time presupposed
in it should be, both by Aristotle's precept, and common reason,
but one day; there is both many days and many places inartificially
imagined.

But if it be so in Gorboduc, how much more in all the rest? where you shall have Asia of the
one side, and Afric of the other, and so many other under kingdoms, that the player, when he comes in, must
ever begin with telling where he is,{ 84} or else the tale will not
be conceived.

Now shall you have three ladies walk to gather flowers, and then we must believe the stage
to be a garden. By and by, we hear news of shipwreck in the same place, then we are to blame if we
accept it not for a rock. Upon the back of that comes out a hideous monster with fire and smoke,
and then the miserable beholders are bound to take it for a cave;
while, in the meantime, two armies fly in, represented with four swords
and bucklers, and then, what hard heart will not receive it for a
pitched field?

Now of time they are much more liberal; for ordinary it is, that two young princes fall in love; after
many traverses she is got with child; delivered of a fair boy; he is lost, groweth a man, falleth
in love, and is ready to get another child; and all this in two hours'space; which, how absurd
it is in sense, even sense may imagine; and art hath taught and all ancient examples justified,
and at this day the ordinary players in Italy will not err in.

Yet will some bring in an example of the Eunuch in Terence, that containeth matter of two days, yet
far short of twenty years. True it is, and so was it to be played in two days, and so fitted
to the time it set forth. And though Plautus have in one place done amiss, let us hit it with him, and
not miss with him. But they will say, How then shall we set forth a story which contains both many
places and many times? And do they not know, that a tragedy is tied to the laws of poesy, and not of history;
not bound to follow the story, but having liberty either to feign a quite new matter, or to frame
the history to the most tragical convenience? Again, many things may be told, which cannot
be showed: if they know the difference betwixt reporting and representing. As for example, I
may speak, though I am here, of Peru, and in speech digress from that to the description of
Calicut; but in action I cannot represent it without Pacolet's horse.

And so was the manner the ancients took by some "Nuntius,"{ 85} to recount things done in former
time, or other place. Lastly, if they will represent an history, they
must not, as Horace saith, begin "ab ovo,"{ 86} but they must come to
the principal point of that one action which they will represent.

By example this will be best expressed; I have a story of young Polydorus, delivered, for
safety's sake, with great riches, by his father Priamus to Polymnestor, King of Thrace, in the
Trojan war time. He, after some years, hearing of the overthrow of Priamus, for to make the
treasure his own, murdereth the child; the body of the child is taken up; Hecuba, she, the same day,
findeth a sleight to be revenged most cruelly of the tyrant. Where, now, would one of our tragedy-writers
begin, but with the delivery of the child?

Then should he sail over into Thrace, and so spend I know not how many years, and travel numbers
of places. But where doth Euripides? Even with the finding of the body; leaving the rest to be
told by the spirit of Polydorus. This needs no farther to be enlarged;
the dullest wit may conceive it. But, besides these gross absurdities,
how all their plays be neither right tragedies nor right comedies, mingling
kings and clowns, not because the matter so carrieth it, but thrust
in the clown by head and shoulders to play a part in majestical matters,
with neither decency nor discretion; so as neither the admiration
and commiseration, nor the right sportfulness, is by their mongrel
tragi-comedy obtained.

I know Apuleius did somewhat so, but that is a thing recounted with space of time, not represented
in one moment: and I know the ancients have one or two examples of tragi-comedies as Plautus hath
Amphytrio. But, if we mark them well, we shall find, that they never, or very daintily, match
horn-pipes and funerals.

So falleth it out, that having indeed no right comedy in that comical part of our tragedy, we have
nothing but scurrility, unworthy of any chaste ears; or some extreme show of doltishness, indeed
fit to lift up a loud laughter, and nothing else; where the whole tract of a comedy should
be full of delight; as the tragedy should be still maintained in a well-raised admiration.
But our comedians think there is no delight without laughter, which
is very wrong; for though laughter may come with delight, yet cometh
it not of delight, as though delight should be the cause of laughter;
but well may one thing breed both together.

Nay, in themselves, they have, as it were, a kind of contrariety. For delight we scarcely do,
but in things that have a conveniency to ourselves, or to the general nature. Laughter almost ever
cometh of things most disproportioned to ourselves and nature: delight hath a joy in it either
permanent or present; laughter hath only a scornful tickling.

For example: we are ravished with delight to see a fair woman, and yet are far from being
moved to laughter; we laugh at deformed creatures, wherein certainly we cannot delight; we delight
in good chances; we laugh at mischances; we delight to hear the happiness of our friends
and country, at which he were worthy to be laughed at that would laugh: we shall, contrarily,
sometimes laugh to find a matter quite mistaken, and go down the hill against the bias,{ 87}
in the mouth of some such men, as for the respect of them, one shall
be heartily sorrow he cannot choose but laugh, and so is rather pained than
delighted with laughter.

Yet deny I not, but that they may go well together; for, as in Alexander's picture well set out, we
delight without laughter, and in twenty mad antics we laugh without delight: so in Hercules, painted
with his great beard and furious countenance, in a woman's attire, spinning at Omphale's commandment,
it breeds both delight and laughter; for the representing of so strange
a power in love procures delight, and the scornfulness of the action
stirreth laughter.

But
I speak to this purpose, that all the end of the comical part be not upon such scornful matters as
stir laughter only, but mix with it that delightful teaching which is the end of poesy. And the great
fault, even in that point of laughter, and forbidden plainly by Aristotle, is, that they stir
laughter in sinful things, which are rather execrable than ridiculous; or in miserable, which
are rather to be pitied than scorned.

The reports of the conventions held in Seneca Falls and Rochester, N.Y., in 1848, attracted
the attention of one destined to take a most important part in the new movement--Susan B. Anthony,
who, for her courage and executive ability, was facetiously called by William Henry Channing,
the Napoleon of our struggle. At this time she was teaching in the academy at Canajoharie,
a little village in the beautiful valley of the Mohawk.

"The Woman's Declaration of Independence" issued from those conventions startled and amused
her, and she laughed heartily at the novelty and presumption of the demand. But, on returning
home to spend her vacation, she was surprised to find that her sober Quaker parents and sister,
having attended the Rochester meetings, regarded them as very profitable and interesting, and
the demands made as proper and reasonable. She was already interested in the anti-slavery and
temperance reforms, was an active member of an organization called "The Daughters of Temperance,"
and had spoken a few times in their public meetings. But the new gospel of "Woman's Rights,"
found a ready response in her mind, and, from that time, her best efforts have been given to
the enfranchisement of women.

As, from this time, my friend is closely connected with my narrative and will frequently appear
therein, a sketch of her seems appropriate.

This bit of Baconian philosophy, as alike applicable to women, was the subject, not long since,
of a conversation with a remarkably gifted Englishwoman. She was absorbed in many public interests
and had conscientiously resolved never to marry, lest the cares necessarily involved in matrimony
should make inroads upon her time and thought, to the detriment of the public good. "Unless,"
said she, "some women dedicate themselves to the public service, society is robbed of needed
guardians for the special wants of the weak and unfortunate. There should be, in the secular
world, certain orders corresponding in a measure to the grand sisterhoods of the Catholic Church,
to the members of which, as freely as to men, all offices, civic and ecclesiastical, should
be open." That this ideal will be realized may be inferred from the fact that exceptional women
have, in all ages, been leaders in great projects of charity and reform, and that now many
stand waiting only the sanction of their century, ready for wide altruistic labors.

The world has ever had its vestal virgins, its holy women, mothers of ideas rather than of
men; its Marys, as well as its Marthas, who, rather than be busy housewives, preferred to sit
at the feet of divine wisdom, and ponder the mysteries of the unknown. All hail to Maria Mitchell,
Harriet Hosmer, Charlotte Cushman, Alice and Phoebe Gary, Louisa Alcott, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell,
Frances Willard, and Clara Barton! All honor to the noble women who have devoted earnest lives
to the intellectual and moral needs of mankind!

Susan B. Anthony was of sturdy New England stock, and it was at the foot of Old Greylock, South
Adams, Mass., that she gave forth her first rebellious cry. There the baby steps were taken,
and at the village school the first stitches were learned, and the A B C duly mastered. When
five winters had passed over Susan's head, there came a time of great domestic commotion, and,
in her small way, the child seized the idea that permanence is not the rule of life. The family
moved to Battenville, N.Y., where Mr. Anthony became one of the wealthiest men in Washington
County. Susan can still recall the stately coldness of the great house--how large the bare
rooms, with their yellow-painted floors, seemed, in contrast with her own diminutiveness, and
the outlook of the schoolroom where for so many years, with her brothers and sisters, she pursued
her studies under private tutors.

Mr. Anthony was a stern Hicksite Quaker. In Susan's early life he objected on principle to
all forms of frivolous amusement, such as music, dancing, or novel reading, while games and
even pictures were regarded as meaningless luxuries. Such puritanical convictions might have
easily degenerated into mere cant; but underlying all was a broad and firm basis of wholesome
respect for individual freedom and a brave adherence to truth. He was a man of good business
capacity, and a thorough manager of his wide and lucrative interests. He saw that compensation
and not chance ruled in the commercial world, and he believed in the same just, though often
severe, law in the sphere of morals. Such a man was not apt to walk humbly in the path mapped
out by his religious sect. He early offended by choosing a Baptist for a wife. For this first
offense he was "disowned," and, according to Quaker usage, could only be received into fellowship
again by declaring himself "sorry" for his crime in full meeting. He was full of devout thankfulness
for the good woman by his side, and destined to be thankful to the very end for this companion,
so calm, so just, so far-seeing. He rose in meeting, and said he was "sorry" that the rules
of the society were such that, in marrying the woman he loved, he had committed offense! He
admitted that he was "sorry" for something, so was taken back into the body of the faithful!
But his faith had begun to weaken in many minor points of discipline. His coat soon became
a cause of offense and called forth another reproof from those buttoned up in conforming garments.
The petty forms of Quakerism began to lose their weight with him altogether, and he was finally
disowned for allowing the village youth to be taught dancing in an upper room of his dwelling. But
Newton went on to another store. He received the same sort of treatment there. This time he
gave up discouraged and went home. His mother was not discouraged. She showed him how he should
have made his vegetables, wagon and all, look more attractive.

"So Newton went to work again. He scrubbed his radishes and new carrots until they shone. He bunched
them up into neat little bundles. Then the lettuce came in for its
washing and cleaning.

Thus he treated all the vegetables. Then he printed a sign'Fresh Vegetables For Sale'and started
off again. This time he went to the largest hotel in the little city in which he lived. There he was
sent to the cook. This big, good-natured fellow said that he would look at his stuff.'Looks
good to me,'said the cook,'it really looks like home-grown things,'Straightway he bought a good part
of what Newton had and there and then made arrangements for daily deliveries of certain vegetables."
The lesson from Newton's experience is this: in order to sell, you
must put your wares in attractive shape.

Who wishes to buy dirty radishes or droopy looking lettuce? No one is willing to pay decent prices. Putting
materials in such condition that all the good points speak loudly at first, is one way to attract
notice and sell later. If you find you can sell by shipping your goods the same points hold true.
"Another way to make money is to raise young plants for sale. Jack did this with his aster plants.
Lots of people wish their garden plants partly started.

They either do not have the interest, or else they have not the time for initial work. Asters, stock,
tomatoes, lettuce, cabbage, pepper, celery-- all of these may be started for market purposes."
Suppose you have planted tomato seed. You are bound to have more young plants than you wish.
Why not sell them? Suppose Mrs. Jones always buys hers.

Then go to her and ask if she will not buy of you. She may not believe you can be a very good
gardener, so she hesitates. Well, then just ask her if you cannot bring your little plants
around for her to see when the time comes. Get to work in your best style. Transplant in little
paper cups or strawberry baskets. Then the setting out of the plants will be very easy and quite
a scientific performance. I think you will sell to Mrs. Jones all right. "If you really intend
to go into this early market side then you should certainly have
a coldframe.

You could not blame your mother if she refused to have the kitchen
littered up with old tin cans and boxes all the spring.

Do not be a nuisance at home just to make money." I know a little girl who raised aster and stock plants,
also young vegetable plants. She had a coldframe. In the spring, when people were starting their
gardens and wondering where they should go for plants, she fixed
up an attractive basket filled with her plants.

She asked no exorbitant price, but a fair one for a little girl's good work. One year she bought
herself a dressing table from her garden earnings. I think that well worth while. Don't you?
"Another way to make money from your garden is to sell your seed. I do not think any of you will be at
all likely to try to rival the seed houses. But I am sure that you can supply certain seeds for your
own fathers and mothers." Such seed as those of radish, lettuce and
turnip you would not save.

It is better to buy them. But surely you can make some pretty good selections for seed corn. I believe
you can manage beans, peas, melons, pumpkins, potatoes and squash. Then we have, I believe,
learned from the school flower garden how to select seed.

Nasturtium seed may always be saved, dried and put into its own envelope. This will be found to
be true, that seeds saved from our own flower garden often do not give satisfactory results as time
goes on. The plants and flowers after a few seasons seem to spindle out.
In the large seed gardens the varieties of flowers raised are either
many or cross-pollination is carried on. "In putting up your seeds
in envelopes give a few cultural directions on them; that is, tell how
to plant the special seed. Also, put on when to plant and the proper
soil conditions under which planting should go on. If the seeds are
those of flowers add information concerning height, colour of blossom, and time of
blossoming.

Someone might like to know also if the seed was that
of an annual, biennial or perennial plant. Think out a neat, attractive
way to fix these envelopes. If you do not wish to sell them, they will
serve as nice Christmas gifts.

For the arduous work that awaited Miss Anthony her years of young womanhood had given preparation.
Her father, though a man of wealth, made it a matter of conscience to train his girls, as well
as his boys, to self-support. Accordingly Susan chose the profession of teacher, and made her
first essay during a summer vacation in a school her father had established for the children
of his employés. Her success was so marked, not only in imparting knowledge, but also as a
disciplinarian, that she followed this career steadily for fifteen years, with the exception
of some months given in Philadelphia to her own training. Of the many school rebellions which
she overcame, one rises before me, prominent in its ludicrous aspect. This was in the district
school at Center Falls, in the year 1839. Bad reports were current there of male teachers driven
out by a certain strapping lad. Rumor next told of a Quaker maiden coming to teach--a Quaker
maiden of peace principles. The anticipated day and Susan arrived. She looked very meek to
the barbarian of fifteen, so he soon began his antics. He was called to the platform, told
to lay aside his jacket, and, thereupon, with much astonishment received from the mild Quaker
maiden, with a birch rod applied calmly but with precision, an exposition of the argumentum
ad hominem based on the a posteriori method of reasoning. Thus Susan departed from her principles,
but not from the school.

But, before long, conflicts in the outside world disturbed our young teacher. The multiplication
table and spelling book no longer enchained her thoughts; larger questions began to fill her
mind. About the year 1850 Susan B. Anthony hid her ferule away. Temperance, anti-slavery, woman
suffrage,--three pregnant questions,--presented themselves, demanding her consideration. Higher,
ever higher, rose their appeals, until she resolved to dedicate her energy and thought to the
burning needs of the hour. Owing to early experience of the disabilities of her sex, the first
demand for equal rights for women found echo in Susan's heart. And, though she was in the beginning
startled to hear that women had actually met in convention, and by speeches and resolutions
had declared themselves man's peer in political rights, and had urged radical changes in State
constitutions and the whole system of American jurisprudence; yet the most casual review convinced
her that these claims were but the logical outgrowth of the fundamental theories of our republic.

At this stage of her development I met my future friend and coadjutor for the first time. How
well I remember the day! George Thompson and William Lloyd Garrison having announced an anti-slavery
meeting in Seneca Falls, Miss Anthony came to attend it. These gentlemen were my guests. I
liked her thoroughly, and why I did not at once invite her home with me to dinner, I do not
know. She accuses me of that neglect, and has never forgiven me, as she wished to see and hear
all she could of our noble friends. I suppose my mind was full of what I had heard, or my coming
dinner, or the probable behavior of three mischievous boys who had been busily exploring the
premises while I was at the meeting.

That I had abundant cause for anxiety in regard to the philosophical experiments these young
savages might try the reader will admit, when informed of some of their performances. Henry
imagined himself possessed of rare powers of invention (an ancestral weakness for generations),
and so made a life preserver of corks, and tested its virtues on his brother, who was about
eighteen months old. Accompanied by a troop of expectant boys, the baby was drawn in his carriage
to the banks of the Seneca, stripped, the string of corks tied under his arms, and set afloat
in the river, the philosopher and his satellites, in a rowboat, watching the experiment. The
baby, accustomed to a morning bath in a large tub, splashed about joyfully, keeping his head
above water. He was as blue as indigo and as cold as a frog when rescued by his anxious mother.
The next day the same victimized infant was seen, by a passing friend, seated on the chimney,
on the highest peak of the house. Without alarming anyone, the friend hurried up to the housetop
and rescued the child. Another time the three elder brothers entered into a conspiracy, and
locked up the fourth, Theodore, in the smoke-house. Fortunately, he sounded the alarm loud
and clear, and was set free in safety, whereupon the three were imprisoned in a garret with
two barred windows. They summarily kicked out the bars, and, sliding down on the lightning
rod, betook themselves to the barn for liberty. The youngest boy, Gerrit, then only five years
old, skinned his hands in the descent. From 1840 onwards the word of command to all the lodges
went out from Berlin, [783] and in the revolution of 1848 the Freemasons of Germany showed themselves
the most ardent supporters of German unity under the ægis of Prussia. Later, Bismarck with
superb ingenuity enlisted not only Freemasons and members of secret societies but Socialists
and democrats in the same cause. Lassalle and Marx contributed powerfully to the cause of pan-Germanism.
Dammer, who succeeded Lassalle as head of the Socialist party, instructed his successor Fritsche
that "in the meetings which took place in Saxony, whilst putting
forward Socialist claims, they must not fail to demand the unity of
Germany under the domination of Prussia.

Fritsche was personally to render an account to Bismarck of the results
obtained at these meetings."

[784]
Even as far afield as Italy, Bismarck succeeded in imposing the policy of German autocracy on men
who were ostensibly marching in the vanguard of "liberty." "I believe in the unity of Germany,"
Mazzini wrote to Bismarck in 1867, "and I desire it as I desire that of my own country. I abhor
the empire and supremacy that France arrogates to herself over Europe."

[785] Before
1870 Freemasonry everywhere on the Continent helped the cause of
Germany.

"The Occult Power preached pacifism and humanitarianism in France by means of French Freemasonry
whilst it preached patriotism in Germany by means of German Freemasonry." [786] So although
throughout the nineteenth century the rulers of Germany permitted the dissemination of ideas
antagonistic to religion, until by the dawn of the following century the very idea of God was
rooted out of the minds of many German children, the Imperial Government was careful that nothing
should be allowed to weaken patriotism. Indeed, the Pan-German obsession into which German
patriotism became transformed under the influence of such men as Treitschke and Bernhardi was,
no less than revolutionary Socialism, fortified by irreligion because founded on the law of force
and the absence of all moral scruple.

It is thus not "militarism" in the accepted sense that has rendered Germany a menace to the world,
but the Machiavellian plan of using for export doctrines sternly
repressed within her own borders.

I
shall not enlarge here on the crime of the German Imperial Staff in sending Lenin and his fellow
Bolsheviks to Russia, because I have already dealt at length with this question in a controversy
that appeared in the Morning Post two years ago. [787] But whilst acknowledging the fair and courteous
line of argument adopted by my German opponent, with which on certain points I found myself completely
in agreement. I was obliged to recognize that the bar to any real understanding between us lay in the
impossibility of persuading him to recognize the principle that all means are not justifiable
in order to obtain one's ends.

This is how he expresses himself on the subject: If Mrs. Webster...
reproaches Germany for having employed seditious propaganda in the
countries of the Allies, it may simply be brought to mind that all
is fair in love and war.

In a war, in a fight concerning life and death, one does not look at the weapons which one takes,
nor at the values which are destroyed by using the arms. The only adviser [sic] is, first of
all, the success of the fight, the salvation of one's independence.

[788] Until Germany abandons this Machiavellian doctrine it will be impossible to treat her
as a civilized Power.

But Herr Kerlen accuses England of pursuing the same Machiavellian policy of encouraging sedition
abroad. Undoubtedly England did propagate Pacifism in Germany and other enemy countries and hoped
to bring about a political revolution, that is to say, a rising of the German people against
the rulers who had led them into war. (It should be remembered that all the friends of Germany
in this country always declared that the German people did not want the war and were dragged
into it unwillingly by the military caste.) But is there any evidence to show that England
ever attempted to engineer a social revolution, to undermine morality and all belief in ordered
government, in a word to promote Bolshevism in Germany or elsewhere?

Herr Kerlen cites the sympathy accorded in this country to the Kerensky
revolution.

But England, largely through the influence of the Liberals, had always
entertained an exaggerated idea of "Tzarist tyranny," and honestly
sympathized with all efforts, however misguided, to "liberate" the
Russian people.

Further, throughout the war the Tzar and Tzarina had been ceaselessly represented as faithless
to the Allies-- a story that we now know to have been an infamous calumny circulated doubtless
by enemy agents. This idea even obtained credence in Conservative circles, misled by false information
on the situation in Russia. One must have lived through the spring of 1917 in London to realize
how completely not only the public but the authorities were deluded. What else could be expected when
the opinion of Socialists was accepted on the matter? I know from personal experience that two
of the most important Government departments were completely mistaken
even on the subject of Bolshevism, with the result that measures were
not taken which might have checked its spread into this country.

In a word, then, the essential difference between the attitude of Germany and England to Russia was
that whilst England imagined that the Kerensky revolution would be for the good of Russia as
well as for the advantage of the Allies, Germany deliberately introduced into Russia what she
knew to be a poison.

Always faithful to the maxim of divide et impera, Germany, after bringing Russia to ruin, has at last
succeeded in causing dissensions between the Allies. This policy she pursued unremittingly throughout
the war.

Thus whilst on one hand she was assuring the French that "the English would fight to the last
breath of the last Frenchman," General Ludendorff was instructing the Imperial Chancellor that: "We
must again and again rub in the sentence in Kuhlmann's speech to the effect that the question
of Alsace-Lorraine is the only one which stands in the way of peace. And we must lay special
emphasis on the fact that the English people are shedding their blood
for an Imperialistic war-aim."

[789]
So skilfully was this propaganda carried on after the war had ended that whilst English officers
returning to England from the occupied areas were declaring that the friendliness of the Germans
convinced them that Germany was really our friend and that we should have an "entente" with her rather
than with France, French officers returning to France said that the Germans had assured them
that they were their best friends, that England was the real enemy, and that it would be better
to break the Entente and form an alliance with Germany. At the same time no less than three lines
of propaganda concerning the causes of the war were going out from Germany, one laying all
the blame on the English, one on the French, and one on the Jews, and pamphlets embodying these
conflicting theories were despatched broadcast to likely subjects
in the countries of the Allies.

[790]
The greatest triumph for Imperial Germany lay in her success in enlisting the very elements amongst
the Allies which might most be expected to oppose her. Although there was no country in the
world where monarchy was so adored, militarism so universally admired,
where rank and birth played so important a part, and the working classes,
though cared for, so rigidly kept in subjection, Germany from the
time of Bismarck onwards has always been the "spiritual home" of British
Socialists, democrats, and pacifists, just as in France she has always
found her principal allies in the masonic lodges.

And this although the German Socialists and Freemasons have never attempted to use their influence
in favour of the masonic and Socialist ideal of universal brotherhood and world-peace, but, on the
contrary, at every crisis have thrown in their lot with the military party. Thus before the Franco-Prussian
War, whilst French Freemasons of the Loge Concordia and the Socialists of the First Internationale were urging
their brothers to rely on German Socialism to avert a conflict, the Prussian lodges were shouting
Hoch! to the national colours and chanting the praises of King William and "the Prussian sword,"
and the German Social Democrats were applauding the cause of German
unity.

[791] Exactly the same thing happened before the recent war, when Jaurès assured his fellow-Socialists
that at the first sign of conflict he had only to communicate with Berlin in order to enlist
German Socialism in the interests of peace; yet on the declaration of war the German Socialists
voted solidly for war credits, whilst the British Socialists opposed participation in the war and
even in some instances expressed sympathy with Germany.

And let it never be forgotten, it was not Socialist Germany but Imperial Germany that won the
allegiance of our so-called democrats.

In spite of this betrayal by the Socialists of Germany, in spite of the fact that they have
contributed nothing to the cause of International Socialism or of world-peace, the British "Labour"
Party never until its accession to office wavered in its policy of publicly advocating the cause
of Germany. With the exception of the Social Democratic Federation, every Socialist body in
this country has proclaimed pro-German sentiments, and Justice alone, of all Socialist organs,
has expressed its sympathy for the sufferings of France. In fact, any Socialist who dared to
champion the cause of France immediately lost his influence and position in Socialist circles.
As to the Daily Herald, had it been edited in Berlin it could not more faithfully have supported
German interests. When Alsace Lorraine was restored to France, it published an article showing how
deeply the inhabitants of this province resented being transferred from the German Empire to
the French Republic [792]; when a general strike threatened this country,
it seized the opportunity to come out with an appeal in enormous capitals
to revise the Versailles Treaty; in the matter of reparations its
efforts to let Germany off altogether have been, as it itself observed,
"unceasing."

"The plain fact is," it declared on December 17, 1921, "that these fantastic reparation demands
cannot be met; and that every payment by which Germany attempts to meet them will only work
further havoc to our own commerce and our own industry. We have urged that ceaselessly for three
years. To-day even the Premier begins to see that we were right, that the interests of this country
demand the scrapping of the whole bad business of'making Germany
pay.'"

[793] Indeed, when the interests of Germany were concerned, this paper, which Lenin has described
as "our own organ," but which might still more truly be claimed by Ludendorff
and Stinnes, was quite ready to throw Socialism to the winds and plead
the cause of capital.

     At the very moment that it was advocating the Labour policy of a
capital levy on all fortunes exceeding£ 5,000 in this country, the
Daily Herald waxed almost tearful over the iniquity of France in attempting
to touch the pockets of German multi-millionaires whose profits, it
went on to explain elaborately, were not nearly as huge as might appear
in view of the decline in the purchasing power of the mark.

     The decline in the purchasing power of the pound had, however, never
been taken into account when assessing the profits of British employers
of labour.

[794] We have only to follow point by point the
policy of the British Labour Party since the war to recognize that
whilst the measures it advocated might be of doubtful benefit to the workers,
there could be no doubt whatever of the benefit they would confer
on Germany.

     With a million and a quarter unemployed and large numbers of the
working classes unable to find homes, the professed representatives
of Labour have persistently clamoured for the removal of restrictions
on alien immigration and alien imports.

     So although through the Trade Unions the British worker was to be
rigorously protected against competition from his fellow-Briton, no
obstacles were to be placed in the way of competition by foreign,
and frequently underpaid, labour.

     That this glaring betrayal of their interests should not have raised
a storm of resentment amongst the working classes is surely evidence
that the Marxian doctrine "the emancipation of the working classes
must be brought about by the working classes themselves" [795] has
so far led to no great results.

Emerson truly observed: "So far as a man thinks, he is free." The working classes can never be free
until they learn to think for themselves instead of allowing their thinking to be done for them by
the middle-class exploiters of Labour.

The hand of Germany behind Socialism must be apparent to all those who do not deliberately shut their
eyes to the fact, and it is significant to notice that the nearer Socialism approaches to Bolshevism
the more marked this influence becomes. Thus although certain Socialist groups, such as the
Social Democratic Federation in England and the Socialist Party in France, have not become Germanized,
the avowed Communists in all the Allied countries are strongly pro-German. This is the case
even in France, where the Bolsheviks find fervent supporters in the
group led by Marcel Cachin, Froissart, and Longuet, grandson of Karl
Marx.

The organization of the Bolshevist movement has indeed throughout owed a great deal of its efficiency
to German co-operation, provided not only by the Socialist but by the Monarchist elements in Germany.
It is necessary in this connexion to understand the dual character of the German Monarchist party
since the ending of the war. The great majority of its adherents, animated by nothing more reprehensible
than the spirit of militarism and an aggressive form of patriotism that clings to the old formula
of Deutschland über alles, are probably strangers to any intrigues,
but behind this mass of honest Imperialists, and doubtless unknown
to a great number, there lurk those sinister organizations the Pan-German
secret societies.

Many of these, as for example the Ostmarkenverein, ostensibly instituted for the defence of German
interests on the Russian frontier, existed before the war; indeed, there is little doubt that
they have continued without a break since the days of the Tugendbund and have always preserved
their masonic and "illuminized" character. But since the beginning of the Great War, and still
more since the Armistice, their numbers have increased until in 1921 they were estimated to run
into three figures. Moreover, as in the time of Weishaupt, Bavaria is still a centre for secret-society
intrigue, and it was here that Escherich founded the Einwohnerwehr sometimes known as the Orgesch
or Organization Escherich, with Munich as its headquarters. The Orgesch was followed by the
formidable murder club known to all the world as the Organization
C or "Consul," named after its founder, the famous Captain Ehrhardt,
whose nickname was "der Herr Consul."

During the year 1921 no less than 400 political assassinations were reported in Germany and
said to be the work of secret societies. Amongst the crimes attributed to the initiative of
Organization C were the murders of Herr Erzberger and the attempt on the life of Herr Scheidemann. Eighty
persons arrested for complicity in the murder of Herr Rathenau were also said to be members of the
same society.

[796] But as in the case of all secret societies, the visible leaders were not the real hierarchy;
behind this active body there existed an inner circle organised on masonic lines, the Druidenorden,
a name unknown to the public, and behind this again another and still more secret circle which appears
to be nameless. It is these inner rings which, whilst remaining Monarchist in Germany, work
for other ends abroad, and are connected with the world-revolutionary
movement.

This alliance between the two extremes of ardent Monarchism and revolutionary Socialism existed
at the beginning of the war or even earlier, and, as is now well known, it was the Jewish Social
Democrat, Israel Lazarewitch, alias Helphandt alias Parvus, who arranged with the German General
Staff for the passage of Lenin from Switzerland to Russia, accompanied by Karl Radek, the Austrian
Jew deserter, and a number of other Jews.

Now, Switzerland has been for hundreds of years a centre of revolutionary
and secret-society intrigue.

As early as the sixteenth century the Pope, writing to the Kings of France and Spain, warned
them that Geneva was "un foyer éternel de révolution," and Joseph de Maistre, quoting this
letter in 1817, declared Geneva to be the metropolis of the revolutionaries, whose art of deception
he describes as "the great European secret." [797] Elsewhere, a year earlier, he had referred to
Illuminism as the root of all the evil at work. It is now known that at the moment de Maistre
wrote these words an inner ring of revolutionaries, claiming direct descent from Weishaupt and
even from an earlier sect existing at the end of the fifteenth century, profited by the fall of
Napoleon I to reconstruct its organization and took up its headquarters in Switzerland with branch
offices in London and Paris. The same secret ring of Illuminati is believed to have been intimately
connected with the organization of the Bolshevist revolution, although none of the leading Bolsheviks
are said to have been members of the innermost circle, which is understood to consist of men
belonging to the highest intellectual and financial classes whose names remained absolutely unknown.
Outside this absolutely secret ring there existed, however, a semi-secret circle of high initiates
of subversive societies drawn from all over the world and belonging to various nationalities-- German,
Jewish, French, Russian, and even Japanese. This group, which might be described as the active
ring of the inner circle, appears to have been in touch with, if not in control of, a committee
which met in Switzerland to carry out the programme of the Third
Internationale.

It was thus in Switzerland that at the same time high initiates of Pan-German secret societies
foregathered and that an active centre of pro-German, anti-Entente, and even Bolshevist propaganda
was established. These Germans, although Monarchists themselves, co-operated with the secret revolutionary
forces in stirring up trouble in the countries of the Allies. At the same time the conferences of the
Second Internationale, attended by members of the British I. L.
P. took place in Switzerland, and at one of these-- the Berne Conference
of 1919-- the delegates were entertained by a mysterious "American"
millionaire, John de Kay, living himself in great style, paying for
press service at the rate of 2,000 francs a day, lavishing money on
the conference, and at the same time subsidizing a Pacifist and Defeatest
paper named La Feuille.

It is impossible, then, to ignore the role of Germany in the present outbreak of world revolution.
In the British White Paper on Bolshevism in Russia we find it stated by an Englishman who had
been through the whole of the Revolution in that country that: The
Germans initiated disturbances in order to reduce Russia to chaos.

They printed masses of paper money to finance their schemes; the notes, of which I possess specimens,
can be easily recognized by a special mark. [798] What has Germany to say to all this? Simply that the
promotion of Bolshevism was a military "necessity" in order to bring
about the downfall of her opponents, but that the propaganda utilized
by her was in reality of Jewish origin, and that Jewry, not Germany,
was the real author of world revolution.

It is easy to see how such a theory can be made to serve the cause of Pan-Germanism. For if Germany can
persuade us that the Jews alone were responsible for the war and were also the sole authors of
Bolshevism, we shall naturally be led to the conclusion that Germany
is, after all, innocent of the crimes attributed to her, and that
our only safety lies in forgoing reparations, restoring her to her
former power, and coalescing with her against a common enemy.

We
shall therefore do well to accept with extreme caution advice on the
Jewish question emanating from German sources, and to test the sincerity
of the spirit in which it is offered by considering the relations
which have hitherto existed between the Germans and the Jews.

Now, Germany has long been the home of modern "anti-Semitism." Although in every country and
at every period, but more particularly in the East of Europe during the last century, the Jews
have suffered from unpopularity, it was Germany that organized this aversion into a definite plan
of campaign. If in Russia, Galicia, and Poland the Jews have met with sporadic violence at the
hands of the peasants, in Germany they have been systematically held up by the authorities to hatred
and contempt. Luther, Kant, Fichte, Schopenhauer, Treitschke, successively inveighed against the Jewish
race.

Jews were denied admission to masonic lodges and to the rank of officers in the army, whilst society
excluded them up to the outbreak of war. Yet the extraordinary fact
remains that of all nations the Germans have always been the favourites
of the Jews.

Throughout the whole movement for the unification of Germany under the ægis of Prussia, Jews
played a leading part, and in the recent war Germany found in them some of her most valuable allies.
As Maximilian Harden recently pointed out: "The services of the Jews to Germany during the war
were enormous. The patriotism of the Jews was beyond reproach, in many cases even ludicrous and offensive
in its intensity."

And in spite of "anti-Semitism," Harden declares: "There is a strong affinity between the German and
the Jew." [799] To the Ashkenazim Germany even more than Palestine has appeared the Land of Promise.
Thus some years before the war Professor Ludwig Geiger, leader of the Liberal Jews of Berlin, denounced
"Zionist sophisms" in the words: "The German Jew who has a voice in German literature must, as
he has been accustomed to for the last century and a half, look upon Germany alone as his
fatherland, upon the German language as his mother-tongue, and the future of that nation must remain
the only one upon which he bases his hopes." [800] How are we to
explain this unrequited devotion? Simply by the German policy of
enlisting every dynamic force in her service.

She has known how to use the Jews just as she has known how to use the Freemasons, the Illuminati,
and the Socialists for the purpose of Pan-Germanism. From Frederick the Great, who employed the Jew Ephraim
to coin false money, to William II, who kept in touch with Rathenau by means of a private telephone
wire, the rulers of Germany have always allowed them to co-operate in their schemes of world-domination.
As the allies of Bismarck, who used them freely to fill his war-chests,
the Jews directed the power of the secret societies in the interests
of Germany; in 1871 the Jew Bloechreider acted as adviser to the new
German Empire as to the best method of wresting indemnities from
France.

And Germany, whilst heaping insults on the Jews, nevertheless fulfils certain conditions essential
to Jewish enterprise. Unlike England and France, she has never allowed herself to be seriously weakened
by democratic ideas, and therefore to the Jews-- as to British believers in autocracy-- she represents
the principle of stability. Moreover, Germany as the home of militarism offers a wide field for Jewish speculation.
We have only to couple together an aphorism of Mirabeau's with one of Werner Sombart's to perceive
the bond of union between the two races, thus: "War is the national industry of Prussia" and "Wars
are the Jews'harvests." As long ago as 1793 Anacharsis Clootz, the apostle of universal brotherhood
and defender of the Jewish race, declared that if Germany were to be prevented from going to
war the Jews must be persuaded to withdraw their support from her military adventures: War could not
begin or last in Germany without the activity, the intelligence,
and the money of the Jews. There is recognition on
these pages of more than one thousand dollars obtained by soliciting advertisements, but no
note is made of the weary, burning July days spent in the streets of New York to procure this
money, nor of the ready application of the savings made by petty economies from her salary
from the Hovey Committee.

It would have been fortunate for my brave friend, if cash-books 1868, 1869, and 1870 had never
come down from their shelves; for they sing and sing, in notes of debts, till all unite in
one vast chorus of far more than ten thousand dollars. These were the days of the Revolution,
the newspaper, not the war, though it was warfare for the debt-ridden manager. Several thousand
dollars she paid with money earned by lecturing, and with money given her for personal use.
One Thanksgiving was, in truth, a time for returning thanks; for she received, canceled, from
her cousin, Anson Lapham, her note for four thousand dollars. After the funeral of Paulina
Wright Davis, the bereaved widower pressed into Miss Anthony's hand canceled notes for five
hundred dollars, bearing on the back the words, "In memory of my beloved wife." One other note
was canceled in recognition of her perfect forgetfulness of self-interest and ready sacrifice
to the needs of others. When laboring, in 1874, to fill every engagement, in order to meet
her debts, her mother's sudden illness called her home. Without one selfish regret, the anxious
daughter hastened to Rochester. When recovery was certain, and Miss Anthony was about to return
to her fatiguing labors, her mother gave her, at parting, her note for a thousand dollars,
on which was written, in trembling lines, "In just consideration of the tender sacrifice made
to nurse me in severe illness." At last all the Revolution debt was paid, except that due to
her generous sister, Mary Anthony, who used often humorously to assure her she was a fit subject
for the bankrupt act.

There is something humorously pathetic in the death of the Revolution--that firstborn of Miss
Anthony. Mrs. Laura Curtis Bullard generously assumed the care of the troublesome child, and,
in order to make the adoption legal, gave the usual consideration--one dollar. The very night
of the transfer Miss Anthony went to Rochester with the dollar in her pocket, and the little
change left after purchasing her ticket. She arrived safely with her debts, but nothing more--her
pocket had been picked! Oh, thief, could you but know what value of faithful work you purloined!

From the close of the year 1876 Miss Anthony's accounts showed favorable signs as to the credit
column. Indeed, at the end of five years there was a solid balance of several thousand dollars
earned on lecturing tours. But alas! the accounts grow dim again--in fact the credit column
fades away. "The History of Woman Suffrage" ruthlessly swallowed up every vestige of Miss Anthony's
bank account. But, in 1886, by the will of Mrs. Eddy, daughter of Francis Jackson of Boston,
Miss Anthony received twenty-four thousand dollars for the Woman's Suffrage Movement, which
lifted her out of debt once more.

In vain will you search these telltale books for evidence of personal extravagance; for, although
Miss Anthony thinks it true economy to buy the best, her tastes are simple. Is there not something
very touching in the fact that she never bought a book or picture for her own enjoyment? The
meager personal balance-sheets show four lapses from discipline,--lapses that she even now
regards as ruthless extravagance,--viz.: the purchase of two inexpensive brooches, a much needed
watch, and a pair of cuffs to match a point-lace collar presented by a friend. Those interested
in Miss Anthony's personal appearance long ago ceased to trust her with the purchase-money
for any ornament; for, however firm her resolution to comply with their wish, the check invariably
found its way to the credit column of those little cash-books as "money received for the cause."
Now, reader, you have been admitted to a private view of Miss Anthony's financial records,
and you can appreciate her devotion to an idea. Do you not agree with me that a "bread-winner"
can be a conscientious reformer?

In finishing this sketch of the most intimate friend I have had for the past forty-five years,--with
whom I have spent weeks and months under the same roof,--I can truly say that she is the most
upright, courageous, self-sacrificing, magnanimous human being I have ever known. I have seen
her beset on every side with the most petty annoyances, ridiculed and misrepresented, slandered
and persecuted; I have known women refuse to take her extended hand; women to whom she presented
copies of "The History of Woman Suffrage," return it unnoticed; others to keep it without one
word of acknowledgment; others to write most insulting letters in answer to hers of affectionate
conciliation. And yet, under all the cross-fires incident to a reform, never has her hope flagged,
her self-respect wavered, or a feeling of resentment shadowed her mind. Oftentimes, when I
have been sorely discouraged, thinking that the prolonged struggle was a waste of force which
in other directions might be rich in achievement, with her sublime faith in humanity, she would
breathe into my soul renewed inspiration, saying, "Pity rather than blame those who persecute
us." His music proves that the French school had more influence upon his development than the Italian,
so it was only natural that he should wish to have an opportunity of introducing his works to
Paris. That opportunity came in 1774, when, after weary months of intrigue and disappointment,
his'Iphigéne en Aulide'was produced at the Académie Royale de Musique. After that time Gluck wrote
all his greatest works for the French stage, and became so completely identified with the country
of his adoption, that nowadays we are far more apt to think of him
as a French than as a German composer.'Iphigénie en Aulide'is founded
upon Racine's play, which in its turn had been derived from the tragedy
of Euripides.

The scene of the opera is laid at Aulis, where the Greek fleet is prevented by contrary winds
from starting for Troy. Diana, who has been unwittingly insulted by Agamemnon, demands a human
sacrifice, and Iphigenia, the guiltless daughter of Agamemnon, has
been named by the high priest Calchas as the victim.

     Iphigenia and her mother Clytemnestra are on their way to join the
     fleet at Aulis, and Agamemnon has sent a despairing message to bid them
     return home, hoping thus to avoid the necessity of sacrificing his
     child. Meanwhile the Greek hosts, impatient of delay, clamour for
     the victim, and are only appeased by the assurance of Calchas
     that the sacrifice shall take place that very day. Left alone
     with Agamemnon, Calchas entreats him to submit to the will of the
gods.

     Agamemnon, torn by conflicting emotions, at first refuses, but afterwards,
     relying upon the message which he has sent to his wife and daughter,
     promises that if Iphigenia sets foot in Aulis he will give her up
     to death. He has hardly spoken the words when shouts of joy announce
     the arrival of Clytemnestra and Iphigenia. The message has miscarried,
and they are already in the camp. As a last resource Agamemnon now tells
Clytemnestra that Achilles, the lover of her daughter, is false,
hoping that this will drive her from the camp.

     Clytemnestra calls upon Iphigenia to thrust her betrayer from her bosom,
     and Iphigenia replies so heroically that it seems as though Agamemnon's
     plot to save his daughter's life might actually succeed. Unfortunately
     Achilles himself appears, and, after a scene of reproach and recrimination,
     succeeds in dispelling Iphigenia's doubts and winning her to complete
reconciliation.

     The second act begins with the rejoicings over the marriage of Iphigenia.
     The general joy is turned to lamentation by the discovery of Agamemnon's
     vow and the impending doom of Iphigenia. Clytemnestra passionately entreats
     Achilles to save her daughter, which he promises to do, though Iphigenia
professes herself ready to obey her father. In the following scene Achilles
meets Agamemnon, and, after a long altercation, swears to defend
Iphigenia with the last drop of his blood.

He rushes off, and Agamemnon is left in anguish to weigh his love for his daughter against his dread
of the angry gods, Love triumphs and he sends Areas, his attendant, to bid Clytemnestra fly with Iphigenia
home to Mycenae. In the third act the Greeks are angrily demanding their
victim. Achilles prays Iphigenia to fly with him, but she is constant
to her idea of duty, and bids him a pathetic farewell.

Achilles, however, is not to be persuaded, and in an access of noble rage swears to slay the priest
upon the steps of the altar rather than submit to the sacrifice of his love. After another farewell scene
with her mother Iphigenia is led off, while Clytemnestra, seeing in imagination her daughter
under the knife of the priest, bursts forth into passionate blasphemy.

Achilles and his Thessalian followers rush in to save Iphigenia, and for a time the contest rages
fiercely, but eighteenth-century convention steps in. Calchas stops
the combat, saying that the gods are at length appeased; Iphigenia
is restored to Achilles, and the opera ends with general rejoicings.'Iphigénie
en Aulide'gave Gluck a finer opportunity than he had yet had.

The canvas is broader than in'Alceste'or'Orfeo,'and the emotions are more varied. The human
interest, too, is more evenly sustained, and the supernatural element, which played so important
a part in the two earlier works, is almost entirely absent. Nevertheless, fine as much of the music
is, the restraint which Gluck exercised over himself is too plainly perceptible, and the result
is that many of the scenes are stiff and frigid. I felt so nervous over
it, lest it should not be worthy the occasion, that Miss Anthony suggested that I should slip
up to Rochester and submit it to the Rev. William Henry Channing, who was preaching there at
that time. I did so, and his opinion was so favorable as to the merits of my speech that I
felt quite reassured. My father felt equally nervous when he saw, by the Albany Evening Journal,
that I was to speak at the Capitol, and asked me to read my speech to him also. Accordingly,
I stopped at Johnstown on my way to Albany, and, late one evening, when he was alone in his
office, I entered and took my seat on the opposite side of his table. On no occasion, before
or since, was I ever more embarrassed--an audience of one, and that the one of all others whose
approbation I most desired, whose disapproval I most feared. I knew he condemned the whole
movement, and was deeply grieved at the active part I had taken. Hence I was fully aware that
I was about to address a wholly unsympathetic audience. However, I began, with a dogged determination
to give all the power I could to my manuscript, and not to be discouraged or turned from my
purpose by any tender appeals or adverse criticisms. I described the widow in the first hours
of her grief, subject to the intrusions of the coarse minions of the law, taking inventory
of the household goods, of the old armchair in which her loved one had breathed his last, of
the old clock in the corner that told the hour he passed away. I threw all the pathos I could
into my voice and language at this point, and, to my intense satisfaction, I saw tears filling
my father's eyes. I cannot express the exultation I felt, thinking that now he would see, with
my eyes, the injustice women suffered under the laws he understood so well.

Feeling that I had touched his heart I went on with renewed confidence, and, when I had finished,
I saw he was thoroughly magnetized. With beating heart I waited for him to break the silence.
He was evidently deeply pondering over all he had heard, and did not speak for a long time.
I believed I had opened to him a new world of thought. He had listened long to the complaints
of women, but from the lips of his own daughter they had come with a deeper pathos and power.
At last, turning abruptly, he said: "Surely you have had a happy, comfortable life, with all
your wants and needs supplied; and yet that speech fills me with self-reproach; for one might
naturally ask, how can a young woman, tenderly brought up, who has had no bitter personal experience,
feel so keenly the wrongs of her sex? Where did you learn this lesson?" "I learned it here,"
I replied, "in your office, when a child, listening to the complaints women made to you. They
who have sympathy and imagination to make the sorrows of others their own can readily learn
all the hard lessons of life from the experience of others." "Well, well!" he said, "you have
made your points clear and strong; but I think I can find you even more cruel laws than those
you have quoted." He suggested some improvements in my speech, looked up other laws, and it
was one o'clock in the morning before we kissed each other good-night. How he felt on the question
after that I do not know, as he never said anything in favor of or against it. He gladly gave
me any help I needed, from time to time, in looking up the laws, and was very desirous that
whatever I gave to the public should be carefully prepared.

Miss Anthony printed twenty thousand copies of this address, laid it on the desk of every member
of the legislature, both in the Assembly and Senate, and, in her travels that winter, she circulated
it throughout the State. I am happy to say I never felt so anxious about the fate of a speech
since.

The first woman's convention in Albany was held at this time, and we had a kind of protracted
meeting for two weeks after. There were several hearings before both branches of the legislature,
and a succession of meetings in Association Hall, in which Phillips, Channing, Ernestine L.
Rose, Antoinette L. Brown, and Susan B. Anthony took part. He is the spirit incarnate of Monopoly
in its most aggressive form. Among the intrenched powers which have sapped the vitality and
are a menace to the existence of our form of republican government, he is strong with their
strength, dangerous with their power, perilous with the insolence of their courtesies, the blandishment
of their open or covert threats.

For nearly thirty years he has engendered broadcast political corruption
in order to enrich himself and his associate railroad magnates at
the public cost.

     The declared representative now of those who have been thus far
     successful conspirators against the general Treasury and ruthless
     oppressors of every vital interest of defenceless California,
     with resonant voice and open hand he is clearly visible upon parade,
     demanding attention from the elected servants of all the people, and
     easily dwarfing the lessor lobby by the splendor of his equipment.

The
     English Parliament would relegate such an intruder to the street; the
     French Deputies point to his credentials with infinite
     scorn; Italian statesmen would shrink from a perusal of his
     record, and the Spanish Cortes decline to listen to any plea that
     men who are at one and the same time known robbers and declared
     beggars have blended and vested rights as both such to millions of
public money.

     
     
     To the vision of thoughtful rulers and myriads of patriots throughout
     the world, reading history now as it is being created from day to
     day, the Anarchist naturally looms in the background of such a spectacle.

A
     Search-Light.
     

     In order that a proper side-light be flashed upon him; that his choice
     methods of dealing with men and accomplishing his purposes may pass
     in review; that some Californians and many national legislators may
     be informed of that which they never knew, or reminded of that which
     they may have forgotten; that the record of his accidental and forced
     confession in open Court of an appalling use of money in defending
     stolen millions and grasping after more shall be revived;
     that his low estimate of the honor and integrity of public men,
     and his essential contempt for the masses, may be contrasted
     with his high appreciation of the debauching power of money; that
     the enslavement by himself and his associates of the naturally
     great State of California and her indignant people may be once more
     proclaimed with bitter protest and earnest appeal to all the citizens
     of our sister States throughout our vast commonwealth; and to the end
     that no such palpable embodiment of political infamy may continue
     to stalk without rebuke through all the open ways and sacred recesses
of popular power crystallized at Washington-- I propose to revive the
recollection of-- and to briefly comment on-- the whilom notorious Huntington-Colton
Letters which became public property as part of the records of the
Superior Court of Sonoma County in this State.

Huntington-Colton Letters.

Of an apparent nearly 600, only about 200 are in evidence. It is to be regretted that more did
not come to light. If the public could only be privileged to read what he wrote to Leland Stanford,
and to Charles Crocker, and to Mark Hopkins-- as well as to David D. Colton-- there there would
be much to reflect upon. But the public never will see such letters. The nature of them required
their immediate destruction.

As Huntington explains: "I am often asked by my associates in California
about my views in matters that I have written to the others of, and
allow me to say that all letters that I number consecutively, I have
supposed would be read by all, and then go into the basket together."

(No. 561. N. Y., April 7th, 1875.) That was the safest way. It is not wise to allow great numbers
of thinking people to read that they are victims of chicanery, corruption in high places, bribery,
hire and salary, and oppression through conspiracy. There might be
something more than a spice of danger in much carelessness.

Tone
of the Letters The letters under consideration, written during the four years from October, 1874,
to October, 1878, tell a plain enough, tale of their own. They abound
with cool and easy allusions to various men and things: to "convincing"
public servants; to "fixing" committees in Congress; to "persuading"
the most exalted officials; purchasing National legislators, as well
as Territorial Governors; to deceiving local communities, and the
United States generally, with well considered cunning; to working
noisily with blatant instruments and quietly through masked agents;
to creating public opinion by means of false showings; to electing
or defeating candidates for office; to smiting enemies and rewarding
friends.

Viewed as a contribution to the literature of fatal political infection
the letters are unique.

They embody an epitome of just such work as their writer is prepared
to now continue, if the temper of the American people will permit
him to do so.

The plane upon which his exertions will possibly be made may be justly imagined from the intimate
knowledge and implied approval of bribery on a collossal scale which he mentions frankly and carelessly
thus: "I returned from Washington last night. The sub-committee of the R. R. Committee of the House
have agreed to report Scott T. and P. Bills through to San Diego, and
I am disposed to think the full committee will report it to the House.
It can be hoped, but I doubt if it would be worth the cost, as I
do not think it can pass the House. Scott, no doubt, will promise all
the-- say$ 40,000,000 that the Act would give him." (No, 428. N. Y.,
Feb. 23, 1878.) And thus: "The T. and P. folks are working hard on their
bill.*** They offered one M. C. one thousand dollars cash down, five
thousand when the Bill passed and ten thousand of the bonds when they
got them, if he would vote for the Bill."

(No. 455. N. Y., May 3, 1878.) The thought naturally occurs here: If such matter-of-course mention
of appalling debauch cry of political honor and morality reflects the character of a conscience
and foreshadows the scope of a purpose,-- if such were his estimate
of Congress, and such his belief then-- how much are the Central Pacific
magnates disposed to promise now to soon evade and eventually escape
payment of, say,$ 67,000,000 now nearly due to the Government?

"The People Can Never Have an Open Highway." In 1874, Thomas A. Scott, of Pennsylvania, proposed
to build the Texas and Pacific Railway, and to secure subsidies for that purpose from the Southern
States, as well as from Congress.

[With the question of subsidies in the abstract, this writing has nothing to do.] If he succeeded,
the Southern Pacific would lose its early clutch on the throat of our commerce, an hundred thousand
voters would escape from political bondage-- its paralyzing grip would be weakened, if not broken.
There was deadly issue at once.

Scott wrote to Huntington Dec. 9, 1874: "We expect to build our road to San Diego, as already
pledged to the public to do so."

(No. 416.

N. Y., Dec. 10, 1874.) Later, Huntington wrote to Colton: "Scott is doing all he can to push his
Texas Pacific Road, and his strength all lies in one thing: The Southern
Pacific of California is controlled by the Central Pacific and Union
Pacific, and will be used only to help those great monopolies, and
if we are beat by Scott, it will be because our friends have persisted
in helping him to convince the public the above is true, and the people
can never have an open highway so long as the Central Pacific controls
all the roads that reach out to the Pacific."

(No. 267.

N. Y., April 3, 1877.) Behind the Scenes. These Colton letters emphasize Huntington's opinions,
and expose his methods during the struggle. Not completely, of course. One must read between
the lines occasionally. When he speaks of Mr. Justice Field not sitting in a certain suit (No.
475. N. Y., Sept. 30th, 1878), and, just how he "got the Secretary of War out of all ugly idea in
about twenty minutes," saw three other Cabinet members shortly after,
and caused a President to abandon being "cross" and to "laugh heartily"

(No. 361.

N. Y., Oct. 10th, 1877), is not precisely clear; nor are details given as to how the Railroad
Committee was sure to be "convinced" (No, 59.

N. Y.,
Nov. 30, 1879) or exactly what he did before writing: "I stayed in
Washington two days to fix up R. R. Committee in Senate.**** The Committee
is just as we want it."

(No. 261. N. Y., March 7th, 1877.) And it should be remembered, too, that the writer prided himself
in confessing to deliberate wariness in bribery and, caution in corrupting, occupying in, "high ground"
and preparing in advance to defy investigators.

As, witness: "I returned from Washington this morning; shall go back
next Monday night.*** Scott is working mostly among the commercial
men.

He switched Senator Spencer
of Alabama and Walker of Virginia this week, but you know they can
be switched back with the proper arrangements when they are wanted;
but Scott is asking for so much that he can promise largely to pay
when he wins, and you know I keep on high ground."

(No. 110.

N. Y., Jan. 29th, 1876.) And again: "When I see you I shall have
much to tell you of Washington matters that I have not time to write,
but I keep on high ground so that we cannot be hurt by any investigation."

(No. 138. N. Y., March 23d, 1876.) No just inference can be drawn from such confidential utterances
that the "high ground" of safety was fertile soil bearing the flowers and fruits of political
purity, rather than a chosen rock of refuge from continuous danger; and the allusion to possible
"investigation" involves the confession that it was deserved and the dread that it might occur. Use
of Influence, and Power of Money. But, there is no obscurity of meaning, nor is there much room
for doubt, that there is the expression of mature judgment based
upon wide experience and ample practice, in the following: "I think
this coming session of Congress will be composed of the hungriest
set of men that ever got together."

(No. 389.

N. Y., Nov. 30th, 1874.) "I sent a man to Richmond, Va., on Saturday, and one to Albany to-day, to
get resolutions passed by the legislatures against subsidies.

I think it will control two members of the R. R. Committee."

(No. 117. N. Y., Feb. 14th, 1876.) "I left Washington on Friday, the 11th. I think our matters
are safe there for the Session." (No. 218. N. Y., Aug. 4th, 1876).
"I think our land matters in Washington have been fixed." (No. 366. N.
Y., Oct. 29th, 1877.) "I think the R. R. Committee is right," (as made
up for the 45th Congress), "but the Com. on Territories I do not
like.

A different one was promised me." (No. 373. N. Y., Oct. 30th, 1877.) "I do not think we can get
any legislation this session for extension of land grants unless we pay more for it than it
is worth." (No. 378. N. Y., Nov. 9th, 1877.) "If we are not hurt this session it will be because
we pay much money to prevent it." (No. 381.

N. Y., Nov. 15th, 1877.) "This Congress is nothing but an agrarian camp." (No. 449. N. Y., April
19th, 1878). "I have done all I can to prevent certain bills from being reached, and do not
think any bills can be that will hurt us."

(No. 468. N. Y., June 15th, 1878.) "I have received several letters and telegrams from Washington to-day,
all calling me there, as Scott will certainly pass his Texas Pacific bill if I do not come over;
and I shall go over to-night.*** It cost money to fix things so that I would know his bill would
not pass. I believe that with$ 200,000 I can pass our bill." (No. 107. N. Y., Jan. 17, 1876.)
A Low Estimate of Congressional Brains and Public Interest.

The alarm evidently felt and certainly shown that the Central Pacific
and Southern Pacific were apt to be commonly considered and treated
as being one concern, and not as distinct and separate things-- incestuous
and eager lovers instead of alien rivals and natural foes-- conspirators
rather than competitors-- would be simply amusing were it less offensive
and more in accordant vibration with the pulsations of common sense
amongst a people not wholly fools.

That it was thought possible to foster the idea and expand it into
a belief, that Stanford, Huntington, the Crockers and Hopkins-- Janus
faced-- looking northerly along monopoly lines, were the implacable
enemies of the Crockers, Stanford, Hopkins and Huntington gazing along
monopoly lines southerly; and that the interests of the government
and the good of the people required the tender coddling of that nursling
until it became strong enough to sit up and take nourishment in the
shape of meaty millions of dollars, involves a sarcastic comment upon
measured law makers and estimated victims.

Yet the improbable becomes at times the possible and the actual.

Mark the plaintive wailing in the letters: "On account of this legislation I think it important that
the S. P. should be disconnected from the Central as much as it well can be." (No. 416. N.
Y., Dec. 10, 1874.) "Governor S. said some good things to the Chronicle interviewer; but I think
it unfortunate that he should so closely connect the C. P. with the
S. P., as that is the only weapon our enemies have to fight us with
in Congress."

(No. 590.

N. Y., May 28, 1875.) "If it was known that the C. P. does not control the S. P., I think we could beat
(Scott) all the time." (No. 157.

N. Y., April 27, 1876.) "Stanford, Tom Scott and many others have been trying for so long to convince
the country that the Central Pacific is building the S. P. that I
am not able now to convince Congress that it is not true."

(No. 24. N. Y., Dec. 25, 1876.) "I have little or no fears of his (Scott) doing anything at the
extra session, but if he can convince Congress that the S. P. is controlled by the C. P.**** I believe
he can pass his bill to build on the direct line between Ft. Yuma
and San Diego, and I think I know enough of Washington to know how
he to can do it."

(No. 268. N. Y., March 20, 1877.) "His (Scott) strength all lies in one thing: The S. P. of Cal.
is controlled by the C. P. and U. P.; and will be used only to help
those great monopolies."

(No. 276.

N.
Y., April 3, 1877.) "What you say about our stopping at Ft. Yuma is well, and would be almost conclusive
if the S. P. was not owned and controlled by the C. P.; but when
we tell Congress we are willing to build this road, the answer is
always the same: Of course you are to protect the Central, but what
the country wants is a competing road."

(No. 307. N. Y., May 17, 1877.) "The fact is, he has nearly convinced the country that the
C. P. is building the S. P. to prevent competition; and I find it
very hard to It make them believe anything else."

(No. 425.

N. Y., Feb. 25, 1878.) Wrongs of California. So much for the United States. Let us now glance
at California, as mangled by the showing of the letters.

And it may as well be stated just here, that Leland Stanford and
his associates, having first in mind and at heart the design to eventually
defraud the United States Government of many millions of dollars,
bent all their energies next to the maintaining of their ownership
of California and her citizens, and all their property; and to keeping
under control their rights, privileges, hopes, fears, ambitions and
acts ever and ever.

A competing line-- "an open highway"-- across the continent would balk
their purposes. The Union Pacific was dangerous in that respect.

Therefore, it was to be given 10/ 22 of the Southern Pacific stock,
and become a partner instead of a rival.

Jay Gould was to participate in the spoils of our bondage. Concerning
which the Letters say: "I will say here that I think well of this, as
it will have our interest in the Central greater than in the Southern
Pacific, which will satisfy the Union Pacific, which, in my opinion,
is very important.

Of course you will see the importance of the public not knowing anything of this arrangement." (No.
24. N. Y., December 25th, 1876.) Check to San Diego.

How neatly the San Diegans were induced to continue to tread out
the old measures of railroad corn for their masters, whose private
intentions were to lull them into silence with false hopes, fasten
them in commercial vassalage, and denounce, as well as keep comparatively
deserted, their splendid harbor, is quite clearly shown: "I should
infer from one of the newspaper clips that you sent that our San Diego
friends were displeased about something."

(No. 14. N. Y., Sept. 23, 1875.) That was intended to be facetious. "In
your interesting letter of the 5th you mention San Diego matters. Now
it is well to switch that people from the Texas Pacific road, but I would
suggest that you keep on asking them what they will do, but not make them
any definite proposition, for if you do, it will be sent East at once,
and I am working with the South and saying to them that our interest
lays with them; and that what San Francisco and Cal. wants is a direct
communication with New Orleans and other Gulf ports, and that our
interest lays that way; and we oppose the Texas Pacific because we
think if it is built it will prevent for many years our getting such
a connection."

(No. 37. N. Y., October 18, 1875.) That was not merrily written. "I
would much like a report of the harbor of San Diego, as I think it is,
but I would not care to pay much money for it. Hyde is a bright man,
and if he knows how worthless the harbor of San Diego is for an extensive
deep sea commerce, I would like a report from him." (No. 335. N. Y.,
August 18, 1877.) In California Politics. The dominating influence of the
railroad monopolists in California politics has been California politicians.
They are in the vein of the letters. The voters of California have for
many years been the playthings of a few political bandits.

They have been driven in the harness of their various parties to
the polls by "bosses" shrewdly selected and liberally paid.

The results may be seen in glittering heaps of spoils, concentrated
in a few hands, in disheartening displays of vast wealth by arrogant
possessors who are not properly the owners of it, and who are limited
alike in number as in intelligent patriotism; may be felt in unwarranted
tax taxation-- may be heard in the derision of insolent laughter from
lips merry with the delight of fancied security. What incredible freedom I enjoyed for two years! Like a
captive set free from his ball and chain, I was always ready for a brisk walk through sleet
and snow and rain, to climb a mountain, jump over a fence, work in the garden, and, in fact,
for any necessary locomotion.

Bloomer is now a recognized word in the English language. Mrs. Bloomer, having the Lily in
which to discuss the merits of the new dress, the press generally took up the question, and
much valuable information was elicited on the physiological results of woman's fashionable
attire; the crippling effect of tight waists and long skirts, the heavy weight on the hips,
and high heels, all combined to throw the spine out of plumb and lay the foundation for all
manner of nervous diseases. But, while all agreed that some change was absolutely necessary
for the health of women, the press stoutly ridiculed those who were ready to make the experiment.

A few sensible women, in different parts of the country, adopted the costume, and farmers'
wives especially proved its convenience. It was also worn by skaters, gymnasts, tourists, and
in sanitariums. But, while the few realized its advantages, the many laughed it to scorn, and
heaped such ridicule on its wearers that they soon found that the physical freedom enjoyed
did not compensate for the persistent persecution and petty annoyances suffered at every turn.
To be rudely gazed at in public and private, to be the conscious subjects of criticism, and
to be followed by crowds of boys in the streets, were all, to the very last degree, exasperating.
A favorite doggerel that our tormentors chanted, when we appeared in public places, ran thus:

    "Heigh! ho! in rain and snow,
    The bloomer now is all the go.
    Twenty tailors take the stitches,
    Twenty women wear the breeches.
    Heigh! ho! in rain or snow,
    The bloomer now is all the go."

The singers were generally invisible behind some fence or attic window. Those who wore the
dress can recall countless amusing and annoying experiences. The patience of most of us was
exhausted in about two years; but our leader, Mrs. Miller, bravely adhered to the costume for
nearly seven years, under the most trying circumstances. While her father was in Congress,
she wore it at many fashionable dinners and receptions in Washington. She was bravely sustained,
however, by her husband, Colonel Miller, who never flinched in escorting his wife and her coadjutors,
however inartistic their costumes might be. To tall, gaunt women with large feet and to those
who were short and stout, it was equally trying. Mrs. Miller was also encouraged by the intense
feeling of her father on the question of woman's dress. No cattle have ever been known to belong
to this man, and the purchaser had never been known to have any income
until this trial began.

The prisoner's name was on Mrs. Sproud's paper. The statement of one witness that he sat on a
stone and saw three other of the prisoners firing has been contradicted by a woman who described
herself as having run away at once; it is supported by two men who are admitted by all to have remained,
and in consequence been shot. Their statements have been assailed by no one. Their testimony stands
on the record unimpeached. They have identified five prisoners. If you believe them-- and remember
that not a word they said has been questioned-- "here the judge emphasized more and more clearly.
He concluded with the various alternatives of fact according to which the jury must find its
several possible verdicts. When he had finished, the room sat sullen and still, and the twelve
went out. I am told that they remained ten minutes away. It seemed
one to me.

When they had resumed their seats I noticed the same fishlike oracular eye in most of them unchanged."
Not guilty, "said the foreman."

What! "shouted the judge, startled out of all judicial propriety."
None of'em? ""

Not guilty, "monotonously repeated the foreman.

We were silent amid the din of triumph now raised by Tucson. In the laughter, the hand-shaking,
the shouting, and the jubilant pistol-shots that some particularly free spirit fired in the old
Cathedral Square, we went to our dinner; and not even Stirling could joke." There's a certain
natural justice done here in spite of them, "he said." They are not one cent richer for all
their looted twenty-eight thousand. They come out free, but penniless.

"" How about Jenks and that jury? "said I. And Stirling shrugged his
shoulders.

But we had yet some crowning impudence to learn. Later, in the street, the officers and I met
the prisoners, their witnesses, and their counsel emerging from a photographer's studio. The
Territorial Delegate had been taken in a group with his acquitted thieves. The Bishop had declined
to be in this souvenir."

That's a picture I want, "said I." Only
I'll be sorry to see your face there, "I added to black curly."

Indeed! "put
in Jenks."

Yes, "said I." You and he do not belong in the same
class. By-the-way, Mr. Jenks, I suppose you'll return their horses
and saddles now?

"Too many were listening for him to lose his temper,
and he did a sharp thing. He took this public opportunity for breaking
some news to his clients." I had hoped to, "he said;" that is, as
many as were not needed to defray necessary costs. But it's been an
expensive suit, and I've found myself obliged to sell them all. It's
little enough to pay for clearing your character, boys. " Evidently a new day of physical freedom is at last dawning for the most cribbed
and crippled of Eve's unhappy daughters.

It was while living in Seneca Falls, and at one of the most despairing periods of my young
life, that one of the best gifts of the gods came to me in the form of a good, faithful housekeeper.
She was indeed a treasure, a friend and comforter, a second mother to my children, and understood
all life's duties and gladly bore its burdens. She could fill any department in domestic life,
and for thirty years was the joy of our household. But for this noble, self-sacrificing woman,
much of my public work would have been quite impossible. If by word or deed I have made the
journey of life easier for any struggling soul, I must in justice share the meed of praise
accorded me with my little Quaker friend Amelia Willard.

There are two classes of housekeepers--one that will get what they want, if in the range of
human possibilities, and then accept the inevitable inconveniences with cheerfulness and heroism;
the other, from a kind of chronic inertia and a fear of taking responsibility, accept everything
as they find it, though with gentle, continuous complainings. The latter are called amiable
women. Such a woman was our congressman's wife in 1854, and, as I was the reservoir of all
her sorrows, great and small, I became very weary of her amiable non-resistance. Among other
domestic trials, she had a kitchen stove that smoked and leaked, which could neither bake nor
broil,--a worthless thing,--and too small for any purpose. Consequently half their viands were
spoiled in the cooking, and the cooks left in disgust, one after another.

In telling me, one day, of these kitchen misadventures, she actually shed tears, which so roused
my sympathies that, with surprise, I exclaimed: "Why do you not buy a new stove?" To my unassisted
common sense that seemed the most practical thing to do. "Why," she replied, "I have never
purchased a darning needle, to put the case strongly, without consulting Mr. S., and he does
not think a new stove necessary." "What, pray," said I, "does he know about stoves, sitting
in his easy-chair in Washington? If he had a dull old knife with broken blades, he would soon
get a new one with which to sharpen his pens and pencils, and, if he attempted to cook a meal--granting
he knew how--on your old stove, he would set it out of doors the next hour. Now my advice to
you is to buy a new one this very day!"

"Bless me!" she said, "that would make him furious; he would blow me sky-high." "Well," I replied,
"suppose he did go into a regular tantrum and use all the most startling expletives in the
vocabulary for fifteen minutes! What is that compared with a good stove 365 days in the year?
Just put all he could say on one side, and all the advantages you would enjoy on the other,
and you must readily see that his wrath would kick the beam." As my logic was irresistible,
she said, "Well, if you will go with me, and help select a stove, I think I will take the responsibility."

Accordingly we went to the hardware store and selected the most approved, largest-sized stove,
with all the best cooking utensils, best Russian pipe, etc. "Now," said she, "I am in equal
need of a good stove in my sitting room, and I would like the pipes of both stoves to lead
into dumb stoves above, and thus heat two or three rooms upstairs for my children to play in,
as they have no place except the sitting room, where they must be always with me; but I suppose
it is not best to do too much at one time." "On the contrary," I replied, "as your husband
is wealthy, you had better get all you really need now. Mr. S. will probably be no more surprised
with two stoves than with one, and, as you expect a hot scene over the matter, the more you
get out of it the better."

So the stoves and pipes were ordered, holes cut through the ceiling, and all were in working
order next day. The cook was delighted over her splendid stove and shining tins, copper-bottomed
tea kettle and boiler, and warm sleeping room upstairs; the children were delighted with their
large playrooms, and madam jubilant with her added comforts and that newborn feeling of independence
one has in assuming responsibility.

She was expecting Mr. S. home in the holidays, and occasionally weakened at the prospect of
what she feared might be a disagreeable encounter. At such times she came to consult with me,
as to what she would say and do when the crisis arrived. Having studied the genus homo alike
on the divine heights of exaltation and in the valleys of humiliation, I was able to make some
valuable suggestions.

"Now," said I, "when your husband explodes, as you think he will, neither say nor do anything;
sit and gaze out of the window with that far-away, sad look women know so well how to affect.
If you can summon tears at pleasure, a few would not be amiss; a gentle shower, not enough
to make the nose and eyes red or to detract from your beauty. Men cannot resist beauty and
tears. Never mar their effect with anything bordering on sobs and hysteria; such violent manifestations
being neither refined nor artistic. A scene in which one person does the talking must be limited
in time. No ordinary man can keep at white heat fifteen minutes; if his victim says nothing,
he will soon exhaust himself. Remember every time you speak in the way of defense, you give
him a new text on which to branch out again. If silence is ever golden, it is when a husband
is in a tantrum."

In due time Mr. S. arrived, laden with Christmas presents, and Charlotte came over to tell
me that she had passed through the ordeal. I will give the scene in her own words as nearly
as possible. "My husband came yesterday, just before dinner, and, as I expected him, I had
all things in order. He seemed very happy to see me and the children, and we had a gay time
looking at our presents and chatting about Washington and all that had happened since we parted.
It made me sad, in the midst of our happiness, to think how soon the current of his feelings
would change, and I wished in my soul that I had not bought the stoves. But, at last, dinner
was announced, and I knew that the hour had come. He ran upstairs to give a few touches to
his toilet, when lo! the shining stoves and pipes caught his eyes. He explored the upper apartments
and came down the back stairs, glanced at the kitchen stove, then into the dining room, and
stood confounded, for a moment, before the nickel-plated 'Morning Glory.' Then he exclaimed,
'Heavens and earth! Jeremiah's Call.

Josiah and Jeremiah passed through the first great and vital experience of their lives together and
the friendship between these two lads was thereby knit as closely
as was that of David and Jonathan.

From
the very beginning of Josiah's mounting the throne of Judah, this friendship promised even to outrival
that of the king's great ancestor and Saul's son. Every day Hilkiah had to bring Jeremiah to the
palace, because the young king was not permitted to leave Jerusalem
and go to Anathoth.

One of the very first official acts of the king was to make Ebed-melech a freedman; but the
young Ethiopian chose to remain at the palace in Jerusalem, to be at the right hand of his
master, even to put the young king to bed, for many years after he was crowned, as he had done
the baby prince.

This friendship of Josiah and Jeremiah had an unlooked-for effect upon the former; for, though
teachers in all the subjects that pertained to the education of the young king were appointed, Hilkiah,
the high priest, practically became the young monarch's guardian
and father.

In fact, the older Josiah grew the more he understood the love of Hilkiah for him and the heroic
act he had performed in saving him on that terrible night of the
conspiracy.

So it happened that while the boy king was instructed by special tutors in the laws and intricacies
of government, his religious and moral training came under the influence of Hilkiah. This meant
that the moral qualities that make for manhood and character, and the principles of religious
belief that were developed in Josiah, were identical with those that
Hilkiah taught his own son.

At the suggestion of Hilkiah, a cousin of the young king, named Zephaniah, a member of the Prophetic
Party and follower of the teachings of Isaiah, was appointed Josiah's religious instructor.
The king, therefore, grew up in total ignorance of the idolatrous religious beliefs and practices
introduced by his grandfather, Manasseh, and practiced by his father,
Amon.

Josiah was so busy with the many things relating to the government of his kingdom that he had
no time to study his religion very deeply, but the moral influence of Zephaniah and Hilkiah
was very apparent in his development and showed their effect in his
later years.

Jeremiah, on the other hand, received an education on much broader and more general lines. Not
burdened with cares of state, he studied first of all the history of his own people and his
own religion, and the history and religion of the other peoples with
whom his country came in contact.

In his religious training he was grounded deeply in the religious history of now almost forgotten
Israel as well as of Judah. He paid special attention to the moral and religious condition of his
country and of its people and made himself master of his father's ideals, which meant the ideals
and hopes of the older prophets.

As Jeremiah advanced in years and Josiah took the reins of government
more and more into his own hands, the former's visits to the palace
became less and less frequent.

Jeremiah delighted to stay in Anathoth. He spent many hours studying in his own room. He roamed
among the barren hills near his village from which, looking down the ravine, a view could be
had of the blue waters at the north end of the Dead Sea.

He often came across the many altars that had been erected on the high hills and in thick groves
in imitation of the heathen. Even in the city of Jerusalem, the religious legacy left by King
Manasseh had not been destroyed. The Temple Courts were desecrated by images and the Temple
itself defiled by idolatrous practices.

The teachings of his father and the religious influence of his home were great factors in turning
Jeremiah's mind to view these abominations with alarm for his people. Idolatry and heathen
worship led the people to practice vice and commit crimes that were abhorrent to the religious ideas
and ideals taught by such men as Amos, Hosea and Isaiah in the days
gone by, and by Zephaniah and Hilkiah in Jeremiah's time.

Now Jeremiah knew very well that when Josiah reached the age of manhood the influence of Zephaniah
and Hilkiah upon him would tell. He felt quite sure that, in due time, religious and moral reforms
would be introduced into the country by the king. He was convinced, nevertheless, that a movement
for reform of some kind must come from the people at large as well
as from the king.

Sometimes he thought that the people ought to be prepared for the reforms that Josiah would surely
introduce. Often, therefore, he felt the voice of God speaking within him, urging him on to
go down into the city and there speak to the people of the living God, of His love for them
and of His religious and moral demands upon them.

One day, in the early spring, while roaming among the hills, meditating upon the thoughts that
consumed all his waking hours, he stopped before an almond tree.

It was just beginning to shoot its earliest leaves. He contemplated this wonderful miracle of
nature. He saw the hand of God working through that tree; he saw that God must be very watchful
over the things He created; he saw in that tree a symbol-- God's message to him that the immoral
and ungodly people of Jerusalem and Judah could be awakened to a new life, even as the almond
tree was blooming into new life.

At another time he was watching carelessly a boiling caldron. A wind unexpectedly came up from
the north, so strong that Jeremiah thought the caldron would turn over and empty its contents
upon the ground. In this, too, Jeremiah saw a symbol-- a call from God to warn the people of
Judah against the oncoming of the Scythian hordes that were roaming at large over the once
great Assyrian empire, even reaching the little states along the
Mediterranean.

One night, in his room, Jeremiah was thinking over these and similar incidents that had been happening
to him quite frequently of late.

Though ready to retire, he knew that he could not sleep, because a terrible restlessness was consuming
his mind and heart.

Noiselessly, he stole out of the house into the open. It was one of those wonderful full-moon,
spring nights, when the sky is clear blue, unclouded and studded with myriads of stars, stars,
stars.

Jeremiah breathed in deeply and tramped out into the hills. He walked lightly, as on air, without
fatigue. A strange feeling, as if he wished to get away from himself, drove him on. Finally,
he reached a point from which he could discern the most northerly corner of the Dead Sea. For
awhile he stood in his favorite spot and meditated, though he could not, for the world of him, say what
was passing through his mind.

He pressed his temples with his open palms, hoping in that way to clear up the jumble of thoughts
tumbling about in his head.

He clenched his fists. He beat the palm of his left hand with the fist of his right. He raised
his arms to heaven, as if pleading for advice and guidance. He was, evidently, passing through
a great, inward struggle.

Then he heard a voice, clearly and distinctly, saying over and over
again: Before I formed thee, I knew thee; Before thou camest forth,
I sanctified thee.

I have appointed thee a prophet unto the nations. and he knew that God was speaking to him. A stifled
groan escaped his lips.

The muscles of his face and body, tense up to this moment, relaxed.

He dropped to his knees and gave up the fight. He buried his face in his arms and cried, in
a muffled voice: Alas, O Lord God! Behold, I do not know how to speak; I am only a youth.
This plea showed clearly what inward agonies Jeremiah had been through.

Timid by nature, he shrank from God's call to him to go out and prophesy
to the people of Judah and Jerusalem, and he struggled against it.

Although he was now a young man of twenty-four or five, he feared
to undertake this great task and to answer the call.

He felt that he was yet too young and unprepared to deliver the message
of God to his people.

But God answered him, saying: Do not say, "I am only a youth"; For to all to whom I shall
send thee, thou shalt go, And whatever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of them, For
I am with thee to deliver thee.

And Jeremiah tells us that God, having stretched out His hand toward
him and touched his lips to purify them, spoke to him further:-- Behold,
I have put my words in thy mouth; See, I have set thee this day over
the nations and kingdoms, To tear up, to break down and to destroy,
to build up and to plant.

Now that God had selected him for a distinct and set purpose in life,
no matter how incapable and unworthy he deemed himself, and being
assured of His help and protection, Jeremiah walked slowly homeward.

For the first time he noticed that the sun had risen big and bright
and warm.

His mind was calm and at rest, but his heart was filled with woe because of what the future held out for
him and his people. CHAPTER IV.

The Seething Caldron. An old Hebrew proverb says, "Train up a child in the way he should go, and even
when he is old he shall not depart from it."

If one should say that the man who wrote this proverb must have thought of King Josiah, the statement
could not be entirely denied. For the religious training he received at the hands of Zephaniah
and Hilkiah soon showed itself in the way he began to revolutionize the religious life of Judah.
When he was only eighteen years old he began to uproot the heathen worship that had been reintroduced
by his grandfather, after the death of Hezekiah and Isaiah.

His aim was to cleanse the land entirely of the foreign altars and
sanctuaries that Manasseh had erected to the gods of Babylonia and
Assyria.

It was at this time that the decline in the fortunes of Assyria set
in.

Esarhaddon and his successor, Ashurbanipal, preserved a semblance of holding the empire together;
but it was not for long. Built up by mercenaries, whose fighting was for pay and not for their
country, the weak rulers who followed Ashurbanipal on the throne in Nineveh hurled the empire
quickly to its fall. Even in the last days of the cultured and illustrious Ashurbanipal the
outlying provinces of Assyria became independent.

The Assyrian governors were slowly withdrawn from the tributaries
along the Mediterranean Sea, and Judah, always ready to resist a foreign
yoke, began to feel its independence.

Josiah added to his territory most of what had been the kingdom of Israel and reigned over a country
that nearly equalled in size that of David and Solomon.

This good fortune of Judah, perhaps more than anything else, convinced the king that God was again favoring
his nation, and that, therefore, it was time to remove from his dominions all those things that were
abominations in the sight of God. Now, it is one thing to cleanse a land of its outward show
of idolatrous worship and abominable practices and another to purge
the hearts and minds of a people that have been sotted with these
for more than two generations.

     

     

     To do the latter never entered into Josiah's calculations. He didn't
even give it a thought.

     But the uselessness of outward reforms, without inward chastening,
     did not escape the deep-thinking Jeremiah. It was evident to him that Josiah
     was only scratching the surface and he
     
     wanted to come to the well-meaning king's help. Notwithstanding his
call and his conviction that his life work as a prophet had been determined
upon even before his birth, Jeremiah was yet too timid to take up
his burden among the people until the word of God came to him a second
time, saying: "Gird up thy loins and arise, Speak to them all that
I command thee, Do not be terrified before them, lest I terrify thee
in their presence; For behold, I myself make thee this day a fortified
city, And a brazen wall against the kings of Judah, its princes, and
the common people.

     And they shall fight against thee, but they will not overcome thee, For
     I am with thee to deliver thee." So Jeremiah's course was not to be smooth
     and easy! He would encounter opposition from the common people,
     the princes, the king himself!
     

     But there was no turning back for him now! Though his heart was heavy, it
     was determined. Jeremiah went down to Jerusalem to preach. Jeremiah
     began his eventful career with the old cry of Amos and Hosea, against
     the widespread evil, the seething caldron of idolatry and wrongdoing
that threatened the destruction of the nation.

     It was far more serious, however, than in the days of the earlier prophets.
     Then the people worshiped idols and seemed to know no better; now
     the people employed all the ancient idolatrous practices for worshiping
the idols and the heavenly bodies and God at the same time.

Therefore,
     Jeremiah heard from the people at the idols'shrines, in reply to his
     pleadings, practically the same answer that greeted Amos at Bethel:
     "Behold, we have come unto thee, For thou art the Lord our God." To
     this false idea that God-worship and idol-worship are the
     same thing, Jeremiah gave answer patiently and kindly, as if reasoning
     with children, recalling what God had accomplished for Israel in
the past and the duty of obedience to His voice by Israel's descendants
in the present: "Truly in vain is the help that is looked for from
the hills, the tumult of the mountains; truly the Lord our God is
the salvation of Israel.
     

     Jeremiah aimed at first merely to arouse the people to a knowledge of
     their false point of view toward God; but he soon discovered that he was
on the wrong track. Pleading, persuasion, promises and prophecies of hope
had no more effect upon the daily life of the people than did Josiah's
destruction of the shrines and sanctuaries upon their religious practices.

     It was at this time that evil days came upon the Empire of Assyria.
It was crumbling to pieces.

     

From north of the Black Sea and from east of the Carpathian Mountains savage hordes of Scythians
were swarming over Assyria. Nomads, without any settled country whatever, they were sweeping eastward
and southward, down across the shores of the Mediterranean, creating
devastation everywhere.

They were not only eager for the far-famed riches of Assyria, but looked toward the south, even
as far as Egypt. And the little kingdom of Judah lay directly in their path, as it did during former
attempted conquests of Egypt. Jeremiah once more recalled the vision of the seething caldron, with the
strong wind from the north, threatening to pour out the hot contents over the land. Poor Judah!
The country was seething with destructive idolatry within, and the
seething hordes of Scythians were endangering its life from without.

Poor Jeremiah! What was there for him to do now? A double calamity was hanging over his people and his
beloved country. Even if he stood alone he must try to save them
both.

So he began a campaign, the burden of which was two-fold.

He undertook to warn the people against the danger which even King Josiah had recognized and
of the new danger that was threatening from the north. He felt sure, as had the other prophets before
him, that unless the people turned from their backsliding they would
lack the moral courage to withstand the foreign foe and could never
gain God's help and protection in fighting their enemies.

Once more he returned to his early methods of pleading with the people. He appealed to them to restore
the relationship of children and father that had existed between
them and God from the earliest days.

He recounted their history from the slavery of Egypt to his own day. He pointed to the wonderful
things that God had performed for them, but it all seemed of no
avail.

Then he turned to the people with the threats of the danger from
the north. He tried to impress them with the idea that God was sending
the Scythians as an instrument with which to punish the idolatrous
and immoral Judeans.

Their din is like the roaring of the sea, and they ride upon horses.

     Everyone is arrayed as a man for battle against thee, O daughter
of Zion."

     We have heard the report of it, our hands become feeble; Anguish taketh
     hold upon us; Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the highway,
     For there is the sword of the enemy, terror on every side. From Dan
     and Mount Ephraim in the north the evil tidings announcing the approach
     of the Scythians had already been brought to Jerusalem. These savages
     were approaching Judea like a destructive hot wind and a whirlwind
from the wilderness, like a lion gone up from his lair "to lay waste
the earth."

"Announce
     in Jerusalem,'There they are!'Robber bands are coming from a far
     distant land; Yea, they are raising their cry against the cities
of Judah, Lying in wait in the field over against her on every side,
Because she hath rebelled against me, saith the Lord."

     
     
     The farmers were deserting their lands and the villagers in the outlying
     parts of the country their homes, rushing south to the protecting
     walls of Jerusalem. The roads
     
     were filled with frightened men, women and children. They were
     not the happy pilgrims who went down to Jerusalem for the great holidays.
     In their fear they
     
     jostled each other and even fought to get ahead of each other. They
     cared nothing for their fellows.

     Everyone aimed to reach the capital first. Jeremiah saw
     
     all this, and knew exactly what the result would be when the robber bands
     came to besiege the city. Already the farthest outlying sections had been ravaged,
     towns destroyed, fields laid waste, and the inhabitants driven
     
     in all directions. No wonder that Jeremiah was filled with woe. He
     tried very hard to restrain himself, not to pronounce the doom of his
people. But a great force within him urged him to speak: "My anguish, my anguish!
I am pained to the depths of my heart.

     
     
     My heart is in a tumult within me, I cannot keep silent, For
     I have heard the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war! Destruction
     succeeds destruction, for the whole land is laid waste. How long must
     I see the signal, hear the sound of the trumpet! For my people are
senseless, they know me not, They are foolish children, and they
have no understanding; They are skilled! in doing evil, but they know
not how to do right!"

     In Jerusalem there were many who believed that they were innocent of
     any wrong-doing because they were
     
     worshiping God the only way they knew; but what they knew was the same
     old heathen way. There were many, indeed, who continued their wicked
     practices secretly even in places where, by King Josiah's orders,
     the idolatrous shrines and sanctuaries had been destroyed. What brought
     pain and sorrow to Jeremiah more than anything else was the fact that
     the people insisted that they were not sinning, that they were living
in accordance with the laws of God.

To them Jeremiah answered: "Run to and fro
through the streets of Jerusalem and see and know, And seek in its
open spaces, if ye can find a man, If there is any who does right and
seeks after the truth!

And though they say,'As the Lord liveth,'surely
they swear to a falsehood. O Lord, do not thine eyes look upon truth?"
Always wanting to be fair and honest in his condemnation of the people,
Jeremiah bethought himself that perhaps only the common people who
"know not the way of the Lord and the law of their God" were at fault.

Therefore he
turned himself to the nobles, to the princes of the realm, to the wealthy
and exalted, saying to himself, they "know the way of the Lord and
the law of their God." But to his great dismay he found that these,
too, "have all broken the yoke and burst the bonds" that made them
the beloved of God in the ways of their righteousness.

"Therefore I am full of the
wrath of the Lord; I am weary of restraining myself. And their houses
shall be turned over to others, their fields to robbers. For from the
least even to the greatest of them, each greedily robs, And from the
prophet even to the priest, each deals deceitfully. They heal the hurt of
my people as though it were slight, Saying,'Peace, peace,'when there
is no peace." This condition was reason enough for Jeremiah to point
out, regretfully, "Thy conduct and thy acts have procured these things
for thee!

This is the cause of thy calamity; verily
it is bitter, for it toucheth thy heart." Yet hopefully he pleaded,
"Cleanse thy heart, O Jerusalem, from wickedness, that thou mayest be
delivered. How long shall thy evil thoughts stay within thee?"

This
preaching, pleading, threatening, in which Jeremiah was assisted greatly
by Zephaniah, King Josiah's teacher, and the little crowd of men, "the
remnant" of Isaiah's days, whom Hilkiah had gathered about him, now
known as the Prophetic Party was not a matter of days or months, but
of years.

Josiah, standing practically single-handed
among the nobles and the Court Party, the legacy fron his grandfather
Manasseh, continued his reforms to the best of his ability. At last
the work was having its effect. The constant hammering away began to
tell. Great progress was actually being made in the religious and moral
awakening of the people. Kent
     further says: 'The disability of the wife to contract, so as to
     bind herself, arises not from want of discretion, but because she
     has entered into an indissoluble connection by which she is placed
     under the power and protection of her husband.' She is possessed of
     certain rights until she is married; then all are suspended, to
     revive, again, the moment the breath goes out of the husband's
     body. (See 'Cowen's Treatise,' vol. 2, p. 709.)

     "If the contract be equal, whence come the terms 'marital power,'
     'marital rights,' 'obedience and restraint,' 'dominion and
     control,' 'power and protection,' etc., etc.? Many cases are
     stated, showing the exercise of a most questionable power over the
     wife, sustained by the courts. (See 'Bishop on Divorce,' p. 489.)

     "The laws on divorce are quite as unequal as those on marriage;
     yea, far more so. The advantages seem to be all on one side and the
     penalties on the other. In case of divorce, if the husband be not
     the guilty party, the wife goes out of the partnership penniless.
     (Kent, vol. 2, p. 33; 'Bishop on Divorce,' p. 492.)

     "In New York, and some other States, the wife of the guilty husband
     can now sue for a divorce in her own name, and the costs come out
     of the husband's estate; but, in the majority of the States, she is
     still compelled to sue in the name of another, as she has no means
     for paying costs, even though she may have brought her thousands
     into the partnership. 'The allowance to the innocent wife of ad
     interim alimony and money to sustain the suit, is not regarded as
     a strict right in her, but of sound discretion in the court.'
     ('Bishop on Divorce,' p. 581.)

     "'Many jurists,' says Kent, 'are of opinion that the adultery of
     the husband ought not to be noticed or made subject to the same
     animadversions as that of the wife, because it is not evidence of
     such entire depravity nor equally injurious in its effects upon the
     morals, good order, and happiness of the domestic life. The
     ideal of Communism as formulated by Lenin, wherein "the getting of
     food and clothing shall be no longer a private affair," [731] would
     meet with stronger opposition from working men-- and still
     more from working women, to whom "shopping" is as the breath
     of life-- than from any other section of the population. Even such
     apparently benign Socialist schemes as "communal dining-rooms" or
"communal kitchens" appeal less to the working-class mentality than
to the upper-class mind that devises them.

     
     
     Turning to the "revolutionary proletariat," we shall find this individualistic
     instinct quite as strongly developed. It is not the Socialist
     idea of placing all wealth and property in the hands of the
     State, but the Anarchist plan of "expropriation," of plunder on a
     gigantic scale for the benefit of the revolutionary masses, which
     really appeals to the disgruntled portion of the proletariat. The
     Socialist intellectual may write of the beauties of nationalization,
of the joy of working for the common good without hope of personal
gain; the revolutinary working man sees nothing to attract him in
all this.

     Question him on his ideas of social transformation, and he will generally
     express himself in favour of some method by which he will acquire
     something he has not got; he does not want to see the rich man's
motor-car socialized by the State-- he wants to drive about in it
himself.

     The revolutionary working man is thus in reality not a Socialist but
     an Anarchist at heart. Nor in some cases is this unnatural. That
     the man who enjoys none of the good things of life should wish to
     snatch his share must at least appear comprehensible. What is not comprehensible
     is that he should wish to renounce all hope of ever possessing anything.
     Modern Socialist propagandists are very well aware of this attitude
     of the working classes towards their schemes, and therefore that
     as long as they explain the real programme they mean to put into
     operation, which is nothing but the workhouse system on a gigantic
     scale, they can meet with no success. As a life-long Socialist has
     frequently observed to me, "Socialism has never been a working-class
     movement; it was always we of the middle or upper classes who sought
     to instil the principles of Socialism into the minds of working
     men." Mr. Hyndman's candid confessions of the failures to enlist
     the sympathies even of slum-dwellers in his schemes of social
     regeneration bear out this testimony.
     
     Less honest Socialist orators as the result of long experience have
therefore adopted the more effectual policy of appealing to the predatory
instincts of the crowd.

     From Babeuf onwards, Socialism has only been able to make headway
     by borrowing the language of Anarchy in order to blast its way to
     power.
     

     Socialism is thus essentially a system of deception devised
     by middle-class theorists and in no sense a popular creed.

     Had the revolutionary movement of the past 150 years really proceeded
from the people, it would inevitably have followed the line laid down
by one of the two sections of the proletariat indicated above, that
is to say, it would either have taken the form of a continuous and
increasing agitation for social reforms which would have enlisted
the sympathy of all right-thinking men and must therefore in the end
have proved irresistible, or it would have followed the line of Anarchy,
organizing brigandage on a larger and yet larger scale, until, all
owners of wealth having been exterminated and their expropriators
in their turn exterminated by their fellows, the world would have
been reduced to a depopulated desert.

     

But the world revolution has followed neither of these lines. Always the opponent of sane social
reforms which Socialists deride as "melioration" or as futile attempts to shore up an obsolete
system, it has consistently disassociated itself from such men as Lord Shaftesbury, who did
more to better the conditions of the working classes than anyone who has ever lived. Anarchy,
on the other hand, has been used by them merely as a means to an end; for genuine revolutionary
sentiment they have no use at all. In Russia the Anarchists became the first objects of Soviet
vengeance. She was a very refined, attractive woman, and a large circle of warm friends
stood by her through the fierce ordeal of her husband's trial.

Though McFarland did not deny that he killed Richardson, yet he was acquitted on the plea of
insanity, and was, at the same time, made the legal guardian of his child, a boy, then, twelve
years of age, and walked out of the court with him, hand in hand. N. Y., Oct. 29, 1877.) Corruption and Bribery.

Such in part, is the story of the Letters.

If it is not one of appalling corruption and unhesitating bribery
often repeated, what else is it?

Why should it cost a specific$ 200,000 to pass any proper bill through Congress?$ 25,000 to
convene a Territorial Legislature?$ 10,000 to$ 20,000 a year to influence justly a few Californians?
Influence thus exercised is as, palpable as it is direct. Nature and Value of Picnics. But ends are sometimes
attained by indirection. The Letters tell how.

For example: "I have been working for the last two month to get a
party, of say, 25 Southern members of Congress to go out to California
and over the line of the Southern Pacific and see what we have done
and our ability to do.*** I told Senator Gordon of Georgia if he could
get up a party of the best men of the South we would pay all their
expenses, which.

I suppose would not be less than$ 10,000, and I think it would be
money well expended."

(No. 208. N. Y., July 26th, 1876.) But these Southern gentlemen seem to have been somewhat hesitating,
as attest: "I have telegraphed to-day to you to get some of the prominent men of San Francisco
to telegraph to Gordon, Senator from Georgia, with other Southern
men to go.

While Gordon and some others are not afraid to go, G. tells me, that some of his friends do not
like to go on an invitation from the R. R. Co." (No. 213. N. Y., Aug. 7th, 1876.) And the fear
of a thoughtful constituency appears to have resulted in "some doubts."

"You must have had a lively time in getting so many good names signed
and sent on in so short a time, inviting our Southern brethren to
come to Cal.

My latest thought on this question I gave in The Arena of April, 1894, from which I quote the
following:

     "There is a demand just now for an amendment to the United States
     Constitution that shall make the laws of marriage and divorce the
     same in all the States of the Union. As the suggestion comes
     uniformly from those who consider the present divorce laws too
     liberal, we may infer that the proposed national law is to place
     the whole question on a narrower basis, rendering null and void the
     laws that have been passed in a broader spirit, according to the
     needs and experiences, in certain sections, of the sovereign
     people. Peaceful Communism is thus simply a matter of population; the
     conditions under which men can sit in the sun and enjoy the fruits
     of the earth with little effort must be transformed with the multiplication
     of the human species into a system which recognizes private property,
or a communal State which enforces compulsory labour by means of overseers
with whips.

     It was perhaps an appreciation of this truth that impelled the practical
     exponents of Rousseau's doctrines, the Terrorists of 1793, to embark
     on their "plan of depopulation" by way of establishing Communism
     on a peaceful basis.
     
     But our Intellectual Socialists deny this necessity on the ground that
     under the benign régime of Socialism all men would be good and happy
     and would work joyfully for the welfare of the community. The fact
     that this has not proved the case even in voluntary Communist
     settlements does not daunt them, because, as has been said, their
     creed is founded not on practical experiment, but on theory, and
     it is here that we again find the inspiration of Grand Orient
     Freemasonry. The assumption that under an ideal social order
     all human failings would vanish derives directly from the two masonic
doctrines which the Grand Orient, under the influence of Illuminism,
has brought to a reductio ad absurdum-- the perfectibility of human
nature and universal brotherhood.

     The whole philosophy of Socialism is built upon these false premises.

     "There are many advantages in leaving all these questions, as now,
     to the States. Unfortunately Robinson prefers Carolina, and proposes
     himself as son-in-law to Geronimo, who is of course delighted that
     his daughter should have secured so unexceptionable a parti, while
     the horrified Paolino discovers to his great dissatisfaction that
     the elderly Fidalma, Geronimo's sister, has cast languishing eyes
     upon himself. There is nothing for the young couple but flight, but
     unfortunately as they are making their escape they are discovered,
     and their secret is soon extorted. Geronimo's wrath is tremendous,
     but in the end matters are satisfactorily arranged, and the
     amiable Robinson after all expresses himself content with the charms
     of Elisetta.'Il Matrimonio Segreto'was produced at Vienna in 1792, and
     proved so very much to the taste of the Emperor Leopold, who was
present at the performance, that he gave all the singers and musicians a magnificent
supper, and then insisted upon their performing the opera again from
beginning to end.

     Cimarosa was a prolific writer, the number of his operas reaching
     the formidable total of seventy-six; but, save for'Il Matrimonio
     Segreto,'they have all been consigned to oblivion. Although he was
     born only seven years before Mozart, and actually survived him for
     ten years, he belongs entirely to the earlier school of opera
     buffa. His talent is thoroughly Italian, untouched by
     German influence, and he excels in portraying the gay superficiality
     of the Italian character without attempting to dive far below
     the surface.

     
     Even more prolific than Cimarosa was Paisiello (1741-1815), a composer
     whose works, though immensely popular in their day, did not possess
     individuality enough to defy the ravages of time. Paisiello deserves
     to be remembered as the first man to write an opera on the
     tale of'Il Barbiere di Siviglia.'This work, though coldly received when
     it was first performed, ended by establishing so firm a hold upon
the affections of the Italian public, that when Rossini tried to produce
his opera on the same subject, the Romans refused to give it a hearing.
Paer (1771-1839) belongs chronologically to the next generation,
but musically he has more in common with Paisiello than with Rossini.

     
     
     His principal claim to immortality rests upon the fact that a performance
     of his opera'Eleonora'inspired Beethoven with the idea of writing'Fidelio';
     but although his serious efforts are comparatively worthless, many of
     his comic operas are exceedingly bright and attractive.'Le Maître de
     Chapelle,'which was written to a French libretto, is still performed
     with tolerable frequency in Paris. It is hardly likely that the
     whirligig of time will ever bring Paisiello and his contemporaries
     into popularity again in England, but in Italy there has been of
late years a remarkable revival of interest in the works of the eighteenth
century.

Some
     years ago the Argentina Theatre in Rome devoted its winter season almost
     entirely to reproductions of the works of this school. While the Magnificat to the Virgin is chanted in
     all our cathedrals round the globe on each returning Sabbath day,
     and her motherhood extolled by her worshipers, maternity for the
     rest of womankind is referred to as a weakness, a disability, a
     curse, an evidence of woman's divinely ordained subjection. Yet
     surely the real woman should have some points of resemblance in
     character and position with the ideal one, whom poets, novelists,
     and artists portray.

     "It is folly to talk of the sacredness of marriage and maternity,
     while the wife is practically regarded as an inferior, a subject, a
     slave. Having decided that companionship and conscientious
     parenthood are the only true grounds for marriage, if the relation
     brings out the worst characteristics of each party, or if the home
     atmosphere is unwholesome for children, is not the very raison
     d'être of the union wanting, and the marriage practically
     annulled? It cannot be called a holy relation,--no, not a desirable
     one,--when love and mutual respect are wanting. And let us bear in
     mind one other important fact: the lack of sympathy and content in
     the parents indicates radical physical unsuitability, which
     results in badly organized offspring. If, then, the real object of
     marriage is defeated, it is for the interest of the State, as well
     as the individual concerned, to see that all such pernicious unions
     be legally dissolved. Left to himself, Orpheus discusses the question
     of the rescue in a recitative of great intrinsic power, which shows
     at a glance how far Gluck had already distanced his predecessors
in variety and dramatic strength.

     The second act takes place in the underworld. The chorus of Furies
     is both picturesque and effective, and the barking of Cerberus
     which sounds through it is a touch, which though its naïveté may
     provoke a smile, is characteristic of Gluck's strenuous struggle
     for realism. Orpheus appears and pleads his cause in accents of touching
     entreaty. Time after time his pathetic song is broken by a sternly
     decisive'No,'but in the end he triumphs, and the Furies grant him passage.
     The next scene is in the Elysian fields. After an introduction of charming
     grace, the spirits of the blessed are discovered disporting themselves
     after their kind. Orpheus appears, lost in wonder at the magical
     beauty of all around him. Here again is a remarkable instance of Gluck's
     pictorial power. Simple as are the means he employs, the effect is extraordinary.
     The murmuring of streams, the singing of birds, and the placid beauty
of the landscape are depicted with a touch which, if light, is infallibly
sure.

     Then follows the famous scene in which Orpheus, forbidden to look at
     the face of his beloved, tries to find her by touch and instinct among the
     crowd of happy spirits who pass him by. At last she approaches, and
     he clasps her in his arms, while a chorus of perfect beauty bids him farewell
     as he leads her in triumph to the world above. The third act shows the two
     wandering in a cavern on their way to the light of day. Eurydice
     is grieved that her husband should never look into her eyes, and
     her faith is growing cold. After a scene in which passionate beauty
     goes side by side with strange relapses into conventionality, Orpheus
     gives way to her prayers and reproaches, and turns to embrace her. In
     a moment she sinks back lifeless, and he pours forth his despair in
     the immortal strains of'Che farò senza Euridice.'Eros then appears, and
tells him that the gods have had pity upon his sorrow.

     He transports him to the Temple of Love, where Eurydice, restored to
     life, is awaiting him, and the opera ends with conventional rejoicings.
     Beautiful as'Orfeo'is-- and the best proof of its enduring beauty is
     that, after nearly a hundred and fifty years of change and development,
     it has lost none of its power to charm-- we must not be blind
     to the fact that it is a strange combination of strength and weakness.

     

     Strickly speaking, Gluck was by no means a first-rate musician, and
     in 1762 he had not mastered his new gospel of sincerity and truth so fully
     as to disguise the poverty of his technical equipment. Much of the
     orchestral part of the work is weak and thin. Berlioz even went
     so far as to describe the overture as une niaiserie incroyable,
     and the vocal part sometimes shows the influence of the empty formulas
     from which Gluck was trying to escape. Throughout the opera there are
     unmistakable traces of Rameau's influence, indeed it is plain that Gluck
     frankly took Rameau's'Castor et Pollux'as his model when he sat down
     to compose'Orfeo.'The plot of the earlier work, the rescue of Pollux
     by Castor from the infernal regions, has of course much in common
     with that of'Orfeo'and it is obvious that Gluck took many hints from
Rameau's musical treatment of the various scenes which the two works
have in common. In spite, however, of occasional weaknesses,'Orfeo'is
a work of consummate loveliness. Compared to the tortured complexity
of our modern operas, it stands in its dignified simplicity like the
Parthenon beside the bewildering beauty of a Gothic cathedral; and its
truth and grandeur are perhaps the more conspicuous because allied
to one of those classic stories which even in Gluck's time had become
almost synonymous with emptiness and formality.

     
     
     Five years elapsed between the production of'Orfeo'and of Gluck's
     next great opera,'Alceste'; but that these years were not wasted
     is proved by the great advance which is perceptible in the score
     of the later work. The libretto of'Alceste'is in many ways superior
to that of'Orfeo,'and Gluck's share of the work shows an incontestable
improvement upon anything he had yet done. While the nation's life hung in the balance, and the dread artillery of war
drowned, alike, the voices of commerce, politics, religion, and reform, all hearts were filled
with anxious forebodings, all hands were busy in solemn preparations for the awful tragedies
to come.

At this eventful hour the patriotism of woman shone forth as fervently and spontaneously as
did that of man; and her self-sacrifice and devotion were displayed in as many varied fields
of action. While he buckled on his knapsack and marched forth to conquer the enemy, she planned
the campaigns which brought the nation victory; fought in the ranks, when she could do so without
detection; inspired the sanitary commission; gathered needed supplies for the grand army; provided
nurses for the hospitals; comforted the sick; smoothed the pillows of the dying; inscribed
the last messages of lave to those far away; and marked the resting places where the brave
men fell. The labor women accomplished, the hardships they endured, the time and strength they
sacrificed in the War that summoned three million men to arms, can never be fully appreciated.

Indeed, we may safely say that there is scarcely a loyal woman in the North who did not do
something in aid of the cause; who did not contribute time, labor, and money to the comfort
of our soldiers and the success of our arms. Rinaldo's proud spirit has at length been subdued,
and he is completely the slave of the enchantress. The duet between the lovers is of the most
bewitching loveliness, and much of it curiously anticipates the romantic element which was to
burst forth in a future generation. Armida tears herself from Rinaldo's arms, and leaves him
to be entertained by a ballet of spirits, while she transacts some
business with the powers below.

Ubaldo and the Danish knight now burst in, and soon bring Rinaldo to a proper frame of mind.
He takes a polite farewell of Armida, who in vain attempts to prevent his going, and is walked
off by his two Mentors. Left alone, Armida calls on her demons to
destroy the palace, and the opera ends in wild confusion and tumult.

To say that'Armide'recalls the romantic grace of'Paride ed Elena,'is but half the truth. The lyrical grace
of the earlier work is as it were concentrated and condensed in a series of pictures which for voluptuous
beauty surpass anything that had been written before Gluck's day. Against the background formed by the
magical splendour of the enchanted garden, the figure of Armida stands out in striking relief. The mingled
pride and passion of the imperious princess are drawn with wonderful art. Even while her passion brings
her to the feet of her conqueror, her haughty spirit rebels against her fate. Such weaknesses
as the opera contains are principally attributable to the libretto, which is ill-constructed,
and cold and formal in diction. Rinaldo is rather a colourless person, and the other characters
are for the most part merely lay-figures, though the grim figure of Hate is drawn with extraordinary
power. But upon Armida the composer concentrated the full lens of his genius, and for her he
wrote music which satisfies every requirement of dramatic truth, without losing touch of the
lyrical beauty and persuasive passion which breathes life into soulless
clay.

In'Iphigénie en Tauride,'the last of his great works, which was produced in 1778, Gluck reached his
highest point. Here he seems for the first time thoroughly to fuse and combine the two elements which
are for ever at war in his earlier operas, musical beauty and dramatic
truth. Throughout the score of'Iphigénie en Tauride'the declamation
is as vivid and true as in'Alceste,'while the intrinsic loveliness of
the music yields not a jot to the passion-charged strains of'Armide.'The
overture paints the gradual awakening of a tempest, and when the storm
is at its height the curtain rises upon the temple of Diana at Tauris,
where Iphigenia, snatched by the goddess from the knife of the executioner
at Aulis, has been placed as high priestess. Seeing the political
significance of the war, they urged the emancipation of the slaves as the sure, quick way of
cutting the Gordian knot of the Rebellion. To this end they organized a national league, and
rolled up a mammoth petition, urging Congress so to amend the Constitution as to prohibit the
existence of slavery in the United States. From their headquarters in Cooper Institute, New
York city, they sent out the appeals to the President, Congress, and the people at large; tracts
and forms of petition, franked by members of Congress, were scattered like snowflakes from
Maine to Texas. A Protest and a Petition.

From a Citizen of California to the United States Congress by Joseph
H. Moore.

The Lobbyist.

If a persistent intermeddler without proper warrant in Government
affairs, an unscrupulous dealer in threats and promises amongst public
men, a constant menace to sworn servants of the people in their offices
of trust, a tempter of the corrupt and a terror to the timid who are
delegated to power a remorseless enemy to wholesome legislation, a
constant friend to conspirators against the common welfare for private
gain-- if such a compound of dangerous and insolent qualities merged
in one personality, active, vigilant, unblushing, be a Lobbyist--
then Collis P. Huntington is a Lobbyist at the doors of Congress,
in its corridors and in its councils, at Washington. He did much to develop the concerted finale, which before his
day had been used with caution, not to say timidity, and was so constant in his devotion to the
loftiest ideal of art that he died in poverty and starvation. Cimarosa (1749-1801) is the brightest
name of the next generation. He shone particularly in comedy. His'Gli Orazi e Curiazi,'which moved
his contemporaries to tears, is now forgotten, but'Il Matrimonio Segreto'still delights us with
its racy humour and delicate melody.

The leading journals vied with each other in praising the patience and prudence, the executive
ability, the loyalty, and the patriotism of the women of the League, and yet these were the
same women who, when demanding civil and political rights, privileges, and immunities for themselves,
had been uniformly denounced as "unwise," "imprudent," "fanatical," and "impracticable." During
the six years they held their own claims in abeyance to those of the slaves of the South, and
labored to inspire the people with enthusiasm for the great measures of the Republican party,
they were highly honored as "wise, loyal, and clear-sighted." The defence was scarcely more than a sham.
The flimsy alibis were destroyed even by the incompetent, unready Rocklin, and when the charge
came blackness fell upon the citizens of Tucson. The judge's cold statements struck them as
partisan, and they murmured and looked darkly at him. But the jury, with its Meakums, wore no
expression at all during any of his remarks. Their eyes were upon him, but entirely fishlike.
He dismissed the cumbersome futilities one by one.

