Bonnet fixed his eyes upon the floor. "Ben Greenway," he said, "I cannot. How I have longed
to see my daughter, and how, time and again and time and again, I have pictured our meeting!
I have seen her throw herself into the arms of that noble officer, her father; I have heard
her, bathed in filial tears, forgive me everything because of the proud joy with which she
looked on me and knew I was her father. Greenway, I cannot go; I have dropped too low, and
I am ashamed to meet her."

"Ashamed that ye are honest?" cried the Scotchman. "Ashamed that sin nae longer besets ye,
an' that ye are lifted above the thief an' the cutpurse! Master Bonnet, Master Bonnet, in good
truth I am ashamed o' ye."

"Very well," said the captain of the Belinda, "I have no time to waste; if you will not go
to her, she e'en must come to you. I will send my boat for her and the others, and you shall
wait for them here."

"I will not wait!" exclaimed Bonnet. "I don't dare to look into her eyes. Behold these clothes,
consider my mean employment. Shall I abash myself before my daughter?"

"Master Bonnet," exclaimed Greenway, hastily stepping to the doorway through which the captain
had departed, "ye shallna tie yoursel' to the skirts o' the de'il; ye shallna run awa' an'
hide yoursel' from your daughter wha seeks, in tears an' groans, for her unworthy father. Sit
down, Master Bonnet, an' wait here until your good daughter comes."

The Belinda's captain had intended to send his boat back to his vessel, but now he determined
to take her himself. This was such a strange situation that it might need explanation.

Kate screamed when he made known his errand. "What!" she cried, "my father in the town, and
did he not come back with you? Is he sick? Is he wounded? Is he in chains?"

"And my Dickory," cried Dame Charter, "was he not there? Has he not yet returned to the town?
It must now be a long time since he went away."

"I know not anything more than I have told you," said the captain. "And if Mr. Delaplaine and
the two ladies will get into my boat, I will quickly take you to the town and show you where
you may find Captain Bonnet and learn all you wish to know."

"And Dickory," cried Dame Charter, "my son Dickory! Did they give you no news of him?"

"Come along, come along," said the captain, "my men are waiting in the boat. I asked no questions,
but in ten minutes you can ask a hundred if you like."

When the little party reached the town it attracted a great deal of attention from the rough
roisterers who were strolling about or gambling in shady places. When the captain of the Belinda
mentioned, here and there, that these newcomers were the family of Blackbeard's factor, who
now had charge of that pirate's interests in the town, no one dared to treat the elderly gentleman,
the pretty young lady, or the rotund dame with the slightest disrespect. The name of the great
pirate was a safe protection even when he who bore it was leagues and leagues away.

At the door of the storehouse Ben Greenway stood waiting. He would have hurried down to the
pier had it not been that he was afraid to leave Bonnet; afraid that this shamefaced ex-pirate
would have hurried away to hide himself from his daughter and his friends. Kate, running forward,
grasped the Scotchman by both hands.

"And where is he?" she cried.

"He is in there," said Ben, pointing through the storeroom to the open door at the back. In
an instant she was gone.

"And Dickory?" cried Dame Charter. "Oh, Ben Greenway, tell me of my boy."

They went inside and Greenway told everything he knew, which was very much, although it was
not enough to comfort the poor mother's heart, who could not readily believe that because Dickory
had sailed away with a great and powerful pirate, that eminent man would be sure to bring him
back in safety; but as Greenway really believed this, his words made some impression on the
good dame's heart. She could see some reason to believe that Blackbeard, having now so much
property in the town, might make a short cruise this time, and that any day the Revenge, with
her dear son on board, might come sailing into port.

With his face buried in his folded arms, which rested on the table, Stede Bonnet received his
daughter. At first she did not recognise him, never having seen him in such mean apparel; but
when he raised his head, she knew her father. Closing the door behind her, she folded him in
her arms. After a little, leaving the window, they sat together upon a bale of goods, which
happened to be a rug from the Orient, of wondrous richness, which Bonnet had reserved for the
floor of his daughter's room.

"Never, my dear," he said, "did I dream you would see me in such plight. I blush that you should
look at me."

"Blush!" she exclaimed, her own cheeks reddening, "and you an honest man and no longer a freebooter
and rover of the sea? My heart swells with pride to think that your life is so changed."

Bonnet sadly shook his head.

"Ah!" he said, "you don't know, you cannot understand what I feel. Kate," he exclaimed with
sudden energy, "I was a man among men; a chief over many. I was powerful, I was obeyed on every
side. I looked the bold captain that I was; my brave uniform and my sword betokened the rank
I held. And, Kate, you can never know the pride and exultation with which I stood upon my quarter-deck
and scanned the sea, master of all that might come within my vision. How my heart would swell
and my blood run wild when I beheld in the distance a proud ship, her sails all spread, her
colours flying, heavily laden, hastening onward to her port. How I would stretch out my arm
to that proud ship and say: 'Let down those sails, drop all those flaunting flags, for you
are mine; I am greater than your captain or your king! If I give the command, down you go to
the bottom with all your people, all your goods, all your banners and emblazonments, down to
the bottom, never to be seen again!'"

Kate shuddered and began to cry. "Oh, father!" she exclaimed, "don't say that. Surely you never
did such things as that?"

"No," said he, speaking more quietly, "not just like that, but I could have done it all had
it pleased me, and it was this sense of power that made my heart beat so proudly. I took no
life, Kate, if it could be helped, and when I had stripped a ship of her goods, I put her people
upon shore before I burned her."

Kate bowed her head in her hands. "And of all this you are proud, my father, you are proud of it!"

"Indeed am I, daughter," said he; "and had you seen me in my glory you would have been proud
of me. Perhaps yet--"

In an instant she had clapped her hand over his mouth. "You shall not say it!" she exclaimed.
"I have seized upon you and I shall hold you. No more freebooter's life for you; no more blood,
no more fire. I shall take you away with me. Not to Bridgetown, for there is no happiness for
either of us there, but to Spanish Town. There, with my uncle, we shall all be happy together.
You will forget the sea and its ships; you will again wander over your fields, and I shall
be with you. You shall watch the waving crops; you shall ride with me, as you used to ride,
to view your vast herds of cattle--those splendid creatures, their great heads uplifted, their
nostrils to the breeze."

"Truly, my Kate," said Bonnet, "that was a great sight; there were no cattle finer on the island
than were mine."

"And so shall they be again, my father," said Kate, her arms around his neck.

It was then that Ben Greenway knocked upon the door.

Stede Bonnet's mind had been so much excited by what he had been talking about that he saluted
his brother-in-law and Dame Charter without once thinking of his clothes. They looked upon
him as if he were some unknown foreigner, a person entirely removed from their customary sphere.

"Was this the once respectable Stede Bonnet?" asked Dame Charter to herself. "Did such a man
marry my sister!" thought Mr. Delaplaine. They might have been surprised had they met him as
a pirate, but his appearance as a pirate's clerk amazed them.

Towards the end of the day Mr. Delaplaine and his party returned to the Belinda, for there
was no fit place for them to lodge in the town. Although urged by all, Stede Bonnet would not
accompany them. When persuasion had been exhausted, Ben Greenway promised Kate that he would
be responsible for her father's appearance the next day, feeling safe in so doing; for, even
should Bonnet's shame return, there was no likely way in which he could avoid his friends.

CHAPTER XXV

WISE MR. DELAPLAINE

Early in the next forenoon Kate and her companions prepared to make another visit to the town.
Naturally she wanted to be with her father as much as possible and to exert upon him such influences
as might make him forget, in a degree, the so-called glories of his pirate life and return
with her and her uncle to Spanish Town, where, she believed, this misguided man might yet surrender
himself to the rural joys of other days. Nay, more, he and she might hope for still further
happiness in a Jamaica home, for Madam Bonnet would not be there.

As she came up from below, impatient to depart, Kate noticed, getting over the side, a gentleman
who had just arrived in a small boat. He was tall and good-looking, and very handsomely attired
in a rich suit such as was worn at that day by French and Spanish noblemen. A sword with an
elaborate hilt was by his side, and on his head a high cocked hat. There was fine lace at his
wrists and bosom, and he wore silk stockings, and silver buckles on his shoes.

Kate started at meeting here a stranger, and in such an elaborate attire. She had read of the
rich dress of men of rank in Europe, but her eyes had never fallen upon such a costume. The
gentleman advanced quickly towards her, holding out his hand. She shrank back. "What did it mean?"

Then in a second she saw her father's face. This fine gentleman, this dignified and graceful
man, was indeed Stede Bonnet.

He had been so thoroughly ashamed of his mean attire on the preceding day that he had determined
not again to meet his daughter and Mr. Delaplaine in such vulgar guise. So, from the resources
of the storehouses he had drawn forth a superb suit of clothes sent westward for the governor
of one of the French colonies. He excused himself for taking it from Blackbeard's treasure-house,
not only on account of the demands of the emergency, but because he himself had taken it before
from a merchantman.

"Father!" cried Kate, "what has happened to you? I never saw such a fine gentleman."

Bonnet smiled with complacency, and removed his cocked hat.

"I always endeavour, my dear," said he, "to dress myself according to my station. Yesterday,
not expecting to see you, I was in a sad plight. I would have preferred you to meet me in my
naval uniform, but as that is now, to say the least, inconvenient, and as I reside on shore
in the capacity of a merchant or business man, I attire myself to suit my present condition.
Ah! my good brother-in-law, I am glad to see you. I may remark," he added, graciously shaking
hands with Dame Charter, "that I left my faithful Scotchman in our storehouse in the town,
it being necessary for some one to attend to our possessions there. Otherwise I should have
brought him with me, my good Dame Charter, for I am sure you would have found his company acceptable.
He is a faithful man and an honest one, although I am bound to say that if he were less of
a Presbyterian and more of a man of the world his conversation might sometimes be more agreeable."

Mr. Delaplaine regarded with much earnestness and no little pleasure his transformed brother-in-law.
Hope for the future now filled his heart. If this crack-brained sugar-planter had really recovered
from his mania for piracy and had a fancy for legitimate business, his new station might be
better for him than any he had yet known. Sugar-planting was all well enough and suitable to
any gentleman, provided Madam Bonnet were not taken with it. She would drive any man from the
paths of reason unless he possessed an uncommonly strong brain, and he did not believe that
such a brain was possessed by his brother-in-law Bonnet. The good Mr. Delaplaine rubbed his
hands together in his satisfaction. Such a gentleman as this would be welcome in his counting-house,
even if he did but little; his very appearance would reflect credit upon the establishment.
Dame Charter kept in the background; she had never been accustomed to associate with the aristocracy,
but she did not forget that a cat may look at a king, and her eyes were very good.

"There were always little cracks in his skull," she said to herself. "My husband used to tell
me that. Major Bonnet is quick at changing from one thing to another, and it needs sharp wits
to follow him."

After a time Major Bonnet proposed a row upon the harbour--he had brought a large boat, with
four oarsmen, for this purpose. Mr. Delaplaine objected a little to this, fearing the presence
of so many pirate vessels, but Bonnet loftily set aside such puerile objections.

"I am the business representative of the great Blackbeard," he said, "the most powerful pirate
in the world. You are safer here than in any other port on the American coast."

When they were out upon the water, moving against the gentle breeze, Bonnet disclosed the object
of his excursion. "I am going to take you," said he, "to visit some of the noted pirate ships
which are anchored in this harbour. There are vessels here which are quite famous, and commanded
by renowned Brethren of the Coast. I think you will all be greatly interested in these, and
under my convoy you need fear no danger."

Dame Charter and Kate screamed in their fright, and Mr. Delaplaine turned pale. "Visit pirate
ships!" he cried. "Rather I would have supposed that you would keep away from them as far as
you could. For myself, I would have them a hundred miles distant if it were possible."

Bonnet laughed loftily. "It will be visits of ceremony that we shall pay, and with all due
ceremony shall we be received. Pull out to that vessel!" he said to the oarsmen. Then, turning
to the others, he remarked: "That sloop is the Dripping Blade, commanded by Captain Sorby,
whose name strikes terror throughout the Spanish Main. Ay! and in other parts of the ocean,
I can assure you, for he has sailed northward nearly as far as I have, but he has not yet rivalled
me. I know him, having done business with him on shore. He is a most portentous person, as
you will soon see."

"Oh, father!" cried Kate, "don't take us there; it will kill us just to look upon such dreadful
pirates. I pray you turn the boat!"

"Oh! if Dickory were here," gasped Dame Charter, "he would turn the boat himself; he would
never allow me to be taken among those awful wretches."

Mr. Delaplaine said nothing. It was too late to expostulate, but he trembled as he sat.

"I cannot turn back, my dear," said Bonnet, "even if I would, for the great Sorby is now on
deck, and looking at us as we approach."

As the boat drew up by the side of the Dripping Blade the renowned Sorby looked down over the
side. He was a red-headed man; his long hair and beard dyed yellow in some places by the sun.
He was grievous to look upon, and like to create in the mind of an imaginative person the image
of a sun-burned devil on a holiday.

"Good-day to you! Good-day, Sir Bonnet," cried the pirate captain; "come on board, come on
board, all of you, wife, daughter, father, if such they be! We'll let down ladders and I shall
feast you finely."

"Nay, nay, good Captain Sorby," replied Bonnet, with courteous dignity, "my family and I have
just stopped to pay you our respects. They have all heard of your great prowess, for I have
told them. They may never have a chance again to look upon another of your fame."

"Heaven grant it!" said Dame Charter in her heart. "If I get out of this, I stay upon dry land
forever."

"I grieve that my poor ship be not honoured by your ladies," said Sorby, "but I admit that
her decks are scarcely fit for the reception of such company. It is but to-day that we have
found time to cleanse her deck from the stain and disorder of our last fight, having lately
come into harbour. That was a great fight, Sir Bonnet; we lay low and let the fellows board
us, but not one of them went back again. Ha! ha! Not one of them went back again, good ladies."

Every pirate face on board that ill-conditioned sloop now glared over her rail, their eyes
fixed upon the goodly company in the little boat, their horrid hair and beards stained and
matted--it would have been hard to tell by what.

"Oh, father, father!" panted Kate, "please row away. What if they should now jump down upon us?"

"Good-day, good-day, my brave Captain Sorby," said Bonnet, "we must e'en row away; we have
other craft to visit, but would first do honour to you and your bold crew."

Captain Sorby lifted high his great bespattered hat, and every grinning demon of the crew waved
hat or rag or pail or cutlass and set up a discordant yell in honour of their departing visitors.

"Oh! go not to another, father," pleaded Kate, her pale face in tears; "visit no more of them,
I pray you!"

"Ay, truly, keep away from them," said Mr. Delaplaine. "I am no coward, but I vow to you that
I shall die of fright if I come close to another of those floating hells."

"And these," said Kate to herself, her eyes fixed out over the sea, "these are his friends,
his companions, the wretches of whom he is so proud."

"There are no more vessels like that in port," said Bonnet; "that's the most celebrated sloop.
Those we shall now call upon are commanded by men of milder mien; some of them you could not
tell from plain merchantmen were you not informed of their illustrious careers."

"If you go near another pirate ship," cried Dame Charter, "I shall jump overboard; I cannot
help it."

"Row back to the Belinda, brother-in-law," said Mr. Delaplaine in a strong, hard voice; "your
tour of pleasure is not fit for tender-hearted women, nor, I grant it, for gentlemen of my
station."

"There are other ships whose captains I know," said Bonnet, "and where you would have been
well received; but if your nerves are not strong enough for the courtesies I have to offer,
we will return to the Belinda."

When safe again on board their vessel, after the sudden termination of their projected tour
of calls on pirates, Kate took her father aside and entered into earnest conversation with
him, while Mr. Delaplaine, much ruffled in his temper, although in general of a most mild disposition,
said aside to Dame Charter: "He is as mad as a March hare. What other parent on this earth
would convey his fair young daughter into the society of these vile wild beasts, which in his
eyes are valiant heroes? We must get him back with us, Dame Charter, we must get him back.
And if he cannot be constrained by love and goodwill to a decent and a Christian life, we must
shut him up. And if his daughter weeps and raves, we must e'en stiffen our determination and
shut him up. It shall be my purpose now to hasten the return of the brig. There's room enough
for all, and he and the Scotchman must go back with us. The Governor shall deal with him; and,
whether it be on my estate or behind strong bars, he shall spend the rest of his days upon
the island of Jamaica, and so know the sea no more."

He was very much roused, this good merchant, and when he was roused he was not slow to act.

The captain of the Belinda was very willing to make a profitable voyage back to Jamaica, but
his vessel must be well laden before he could do this. Goods enough there were at Belize for
that purpose, for Blackbeard's supplies were all for sale, and his chief clerk, Bonnet, had
the selling of them. So, all parties being like-minded, the Belinda soon began to take on goods
for Kingston.

Stede Bonnet superintended everything. He was a good man of business, and knew how to direct
people who might be under him. There was a great stir at the storehouse, and, almost blithely,
Ben Greenway worked day and night to make out invoices and to prepare goods for shipment.

Bonnet wore no more the clothes in which his daughter had first seen him after so long and
drear a parting. On deck or on shore, in storehouse or on the streets of Belize, he was the
fine gentleman with the silk stockings and the tall cocked hat.

One day, a fellow, fresh from his bottle, forgetting the respect which was due to fine clothes
and to Blackbeard's factor, called out to Bonnet: "What now, Sir Nightcap, how call you that
thing you have on your head?"

In an instant a sword was whipped from its scabbard and a practised hand sent its blade through
the arm of the jester, who presently fell backward. Bonnet wiped his sword upon the fellow's
sleeve and, advising him to get up and try to learn some manners, coolly walked away.

After that fine clothes were not much laughed at in Belize, for even the most disrespectful
ruffians desired not the thrust of a quick blade nor the ill-will of that most irascible pirate,
Blackbeard.

A few days before it was expected that the Belinda would be ready to sail Bonnet came on board,
his mind full of an important matter. Calling Mr. Delaplaine and Kate aside, he said: "I have
been thinking a great deal lately about my Scotchman, Ben Greenway. In the first place, he
is greatly needed here, for many of Blackbeard's goods will remain in the storehouse, and there
should be some competent person to take care of them and to sell them should opportunity offer.
Besides that, he is a great annoyance to me, and I have long been trying to get rid of him.
When I left Bridgetown I had not intended to take him with me, and his presence on board my
ship was a mere accident. Since then he has made himself very disagreeable."

"What!" cried Kate, "would you be willing that we should all sail away and leave poor Ben Greenway
in this place by himself among these cruel pirates?"

"He'll represent Blackbeard," said Bonnet, "and no one will harm him. And, moreover, this enforced
stay may be of the greatest benefit to him. He has a good head for business, and he may establish
himself here in a very profitable fashion and go back to Barbadoes, if he so desires, in comfortable
circumstances. All we have to do is to slip our anchor and sail away at some moment when he
is busy in the town. I will leave ample instructions for him and he shall have money."

"Father, it would be shameful!" said Kate.

Mr. Delaplaine said nothing; he was too angry to speak, but he made up his mind that Ben Greenway
should be apprised of Bonnet's intentions of running away from him and that such a wicked design
should be thwarted. This brother-in-law of his was a worse man than he had thought him; he
was capable of being false even to his best friend. He might be mad as a March hare, but, truly,
he was also as sly and crafty as a fox in any month in the year.

Wise Mr. Delaplaine!

The very next morning there came a letter from Stede Bonnet to his daughter Kate, in which
he told her that it was absolutely impossible for him to return to the humdrum and stupid life
of sugar-planting and cattle-raising. Having tasted the glories of a pirate's career, he could
never again be contented with plain country pursuits. So he was off and away, the bounding
sea beneath him and the brave Jolly Roger floating over his head. He would not tell his dear
daughter where he was gone or what he intended to do, for she would be happier if she did not
know. He sent her his warmest love, and desired to be most kindly remembered to her uncle and
to Dame Charter. He would make it his business that a correspondence should be maintained between
him and his dear Kate, and he hoped from time to time to send her presents which would help
her to know how constantly he loved her. He concluded by admitting that what he had said about
Ben Greenway was merely a blind to turn their suspicions from his intended departure. If his
good brother-in-law, out of kindness to the Scotchman, had brought him to the Belinda and had
insisted on keeping him there, it would have made his, Bonnet's, secret departure a great deal
easier.

Kate had never fainted in her life, but when she had finished this letter she went down flat
on her back.

Leaving his niece to the good offices of Dame Charter, Mr. Delaplaine, breathing hotly, went
ashore, accompanied by the captain. When they reached the storehouse they found it locked,
with the key in the custody of a shop-keeper near-by. They soon heard what had happened to
Blackbeard's business agent. He had gone off in a piratical vessel, which had sailed for somewhere,
in the middle of the night; and, moreover, it was believed that the Scotchman who worked for
him had gone with him, for he had been seen running towards the water, and afterward taking
his place among the oarsmen in a boat which went out to the departing vessel.

"May that unholy vessel be sunk as soon as it reaches the open sea!" was the deadly desire
which came from the heart of Mr. Delaplaine. But the wish had not formed itself into words
before the good merchant recanted. "I totally forgot that faithful Scotchman," he sighed.

CHAPTER XXVI

DICKORY STRETCHES HIS LEGS

There were jolly times on board the swift ship Revenge as she sped through the straits of Florida
on her way up the Atlantic coast. The skies were bright, the wind was fair, and the warm waters
of the Gulf Stream helped to carry her bravely on her way. But young Dickory Charter, with
the blood-stained letter of Captain Vince tucked away in the lining of his coat, ate so little,
tossed about so much in his berth, turned so pale and spoke so seldom, that the bold Captain
Blackbeard declared that he should have some medicine.

"I shall not let my fine lieutenant suffer for want of drugs," he cried, "and when I reach
Charles Town I shall send ashore a boat and procure some; and if the citizens disturb or interfere
with my brave fellows, I'll bombard the town. There will be medicine to take on one side or
the other, I swear." And loud and ready were the oaths he swore.

A pirate who carries with him an intended son-in-law is not likely, if he be of Blackbeard's
turn of mind, to suffer all his family plans to be ruined for the want of a few drugs.

When Dickory heard what the captain had to say on this subject his heart shrank within him.
He had never taken medicine and he had never seen Blackbeard's daughter, but the one seemed
to him almost as bad as the other, and the thought of the cool waves beneath him became more
attractive than ever before. But that thought was quickly banished, for he had a duty before
him, and not until that was performed could he take leave of this world, once so bright to him.

An island with palm-trees slowly rose on the horizon, and off this island it was that, after
a good deal of tacking and close-hauling, the Revenge lay to to take in water. Far better water
than that which had been brought from Belize.

"Do you want to go ashore in the boat, boy?" said Blackbeard, really mindful of the health
of this projected member of his family. "It may help your appetite to use your legs."

Dickory did not care to go anywhere, but he had hardly said so when a revulsion of feeling
came upon him, and turning away so that his face might not be noticed, he said he thought the
land air might do him good. While the men were at work carrying their pails from the well-known
spring to the water-barrels in the boat, Dickory strolled about to view the scenery, for it
could never have been expected that a first lieutenant in uniform should help to carry water.
At first the scenery did not appear to be very interesting, and Dickory wandered slowly from
here to there, then sat down under a tree. Presently he rose and went to another tree, a little
farther away from the boat and the men at the spring. Here he quietly took off his shoes and
his stockings, and, having nothing else to do, made a little bundle of them, listlessly tying
them to his belt; then he rose and walked away somewhat brisker, but not in the direction of
the boat. He did not hurry, but even stopped sometimes to look at things, but he still walked
a little briskly, and always away from the boat. He had been so used, this child of outdoor
life, to going about the world barefooted, that it was no wonder that he walked briskly, being
relieved of his encumbering shoes and stockings.

After a time he heard a shout behind him, and turning saw three men of the boat's crew upon
a little eminence, calling to him. Then he moved more quickly, always away from the boat, and
with his head turned he saw the men running towards him, and their shouts became louder and
wilder. Then he set off on a good run, and presently heard a pistol shot. This he knew was
to frighten him and make him stop, but he ran the faster and soon turned the corner of a bit
of woods. Then he was away at the top of his speed, making for a jungle of foliage not a quarter
of a mile before him. Shouts he heard, and more shots, but he caught sight of no pursuers.
Urged on even as they were by the fear of returning to the ship without Dickory, they could
not expect to match, in their heavy boots, the stag-like speed of this barefooted bounder.

After a time Dickory stopped running, for his path, always straight away, so far as he could
judge, from the landing-place, became very difficult. In the forest there were streams, sometimes
narrow and sometimes wide, and how deep he knew not, so that now he jumped, now he walked on
fallen trees. Sometimes he crossed water and marsh by swinging himself from the limbs of one
tree to those of another. This was hard work for a young gentleman in a naval uniform and cocked
hat, but it had to be done; and when the hat was knocked off it was picked up again, with its
feathers dripping.

Dickory was going somewhere, although he knew not whither, and he had solemn business to perform
which he had sworn to do, and therefore he must have fit clothes to wear, not only in which
to travel but in which to present himself suitably when he should accomplish his mission. All
these things Dickory thought of, and he picked up his cocked hat whenever it dropped. He would
have been very hungry had he not bethought himself to fill his pockets with biscuits before
he left the vessel. And as to fresh water, there was no lack of that.

CHAPTER XXVII

A GIRL WHO LAUGHED

It was towards nightfall of the day on which Dickory had escaped from the pirates at the spring
that he found himself on a piece of high ground in an open place in the forest, and here he
determined to spend the night. With his dirk he cut a quantity of palmetto leaves and made
himself a very comfortable bed, on which he was soon asleep, fearing no pirates.

In the morning he rose early from his green couch, ate the few biscuits which were left in
his pockets, and, putting on his shoes and stockings, started forth upon, what might have been
supposed to be, an aimless tramp.

But it was not aimless. Dickory had a most wholesome dread of that indomitable apostle of cruelty
and wickedness, the pirate Blackbeard. He believed that it would be quite possible for that
savage being to tie up his beard in tails, to blacken his face with powder, to hang more pistols
from his belt and around his neck, and swear that the Revenge should never leave her anchorage
until her first lieutenant had been captured and brought back to her. So he had an aim, and
that was to get away as far as possible from the spot where he had landed on the island.

He did not believe that his pursuers, if there were any upon his track, could have travelled
in the night, for it had been pitchy black; and, as he now had a good start of them, he thought
he might go so far that they would give up the search. Then he hoped to be able to keep himself
alive until he was reasonably sure that the Revenge had hoisted anchor and sailed away, when
it was his purpose to make his way back to the spring and wait for some other vessel which
would take him away.

With his shoes on he travelled more easily, although not so swiftly, and after an hour of very
rough walking he heard a sound which made him stop instantly and listen. At first he thought
it might be the wind in the trees, but soon his practised ear told him that it was the sound
of the surf upon the beach. Without the slightest hesitation, he made his way as quickly as
possible towards the sound of the sea.

In less than half an hour he found himself upon a stretch of sand which extended from the forest
to the sea, and upon which the waves were throwing themselves in long, crested lines. With
a cry of joy he ran out upon the beach, and with outstretched arms he welcomed the sea as if
it had been an old and well-tried friend.

But Dickory's gratitude and joy had nothing to found itself upon. The sea might far better
have been his enemy than his friend, for if he had thought about it, the sandy beach would
have been the road by which a portion of the pirate's men would have marched to cut off his
flight, or they would have accomplished the same end in boats.

But Dickory thought of no enemy and his heart was cheered. He pressed on along the beach. The
walking was so much better now that he made good progress, and the sun had not reached its
zenith when he found himself on the shore of a small stream which came down from some higher
land in the interior and here poured itself into the sea. He walked some distance by this stream,
in order to get some water which might be free from brackishness, and then, with very little
trouble, he crossed it. Before him was a knoll of moderate height, and covered with low foliage.
Mounting this, he found that he had an extended view over the interior of the island. In the
background there stretched a wide savanna, and at the distance of about half a mile he saw,
very near a little cluster of trees, a thin column of smoke. His eyes rounded and he stared
and stared. He now perceived, from behind the leaves, the end of a thatched roof.

"People!" Dickory exclaimed, and his heart beat fast with joy. Why his heart should be joyful
he could not have told himself except that there was no earthly reason to believe that the
persons who were making that fire near that thatched-roof house were pirates. To go to this
house, whatever it might be, to take his chances there instead of remaining alone in the wide
forest, was our young man's instant determination. But before he started there was something
else he thought of. He took off his coat, and with a bunch of leaves he brushed it. Then he
arranged the plumes of his hat and brushed some mud from them, gave himself a general shake,
and was ready to make a start. All this by a fugitive pursued by savage pirates on a desert
island! But Dickory was a young man, and he wore the uniform of a naval officer.

After a brisk walk, which was somewhat longer than he had supposed it would be, Dickory reached
the house behind the trees. At a short distance burned the fire whose smoke he had seen. Over
the fire hung an iron pot. Oh, blessed pot! A gentle breeze blew from the fire towards Dickory,
and from the heavenly odour which was borne upon it he knew that something good to eat was
cooking in that pot.

A man came quickly from behind the house. He was tall, with a beard a little gray, and his
scanty attire was of the most nondescript fashion. With amazement upon his face, he spoke to
Dickory in English.

"What, sir," he cried, "has a man-of-war touched at this island?"

Dickory could not help smiling, for the man's countenance told him how he had been utterly
astounded, and even stupefied, by the sight of a gentleman in naval uniform in the interior
of that island, an almost desert region.

"No man-of-war has touched here," said Dickory, "and I don't belong to one. I wear these clothes
because I am compelled to do so, having no others. Yesterday afternoon I escaped from some
pirates who stopped for water, and since leaving them I have made my way to this spot."

The man stepped forth quickly and stretched out his hand.

"Bless you! Bless you!" he cried. "You are the first human being, other than my family, that
I have seen for two years."

A little girl now came from behind the house, and when her eyes fell upon Dickory and his cocked
hat she screamed with terror and ran indoors. A woman appeared at the door, evidently the man's
wife. She had a pleasant face, but her clothes riveted Dickory's attention. It would be impossible
to describe them even if one were gazing upon them. It will be enough to say that they covered
her. Her amazement more than equalled that of her husband; she stood and stared, but could
not speak.

"From the spring at the end of the island," cried the man, "to this house since yesterday afternoon!
I have always supposed that no one could get here from the spring by land. I call that way
impassable. You are safe here, sir, I am sure. Pirates would not follow very far through those
forests and morasses; they would be afraid they would never get back to their ship. But I will
find out for certain if you have reason, sir, to fear pursuit by boat or otherwise."

And then, stepping around to the other end of the house, he called, "Lucilla!"

"You are hungry, sir," said the woman; "presently you shall share our meal, which is almost
cooked."

Now the man returned.

"This is not a time for questions, sir," he said, "either from you or from us. You must eat
and you must rest, then we can talk. We shall not any of us apologize for our appearance, and
you will not expect it when you have heard our story. But I can assure you, sir, that we do
not look nearly so strange to you as you appear to us. Never before, sir, did I see in this
climate, and on shore, a man attired in such fashion."

Dickory smiled. "I will tell you the tale of it," he said, "when we have eaten; I admit that
I am famished."

The man was now called away, and when he returned he said to Dickory: "Fear nothing, sir; your
ship is no longer at the anchorage by the spring. She has sailed away, wisely concluding, I
suppose, that pursuit of you would be folly, and even madness."

The dinner was an exceedingly plain one, spread upon a rude table under a tree. The little
girl, who had overcome her fear of "the soldier" as she considered him, made one of the party.

During the meal Dickory briefly told his story, confining it to a mere statement of his escape
from the pirates.

"Blackbeard!" exclaimed the man. "Truly you did well to get away from him, no matter into what
forests you plunged or upon what desert island you lost yourself. At any moment he might have
turned upon you and cut you to pieces to amuse himself. I have heard the most horrible stories
of Blackbeard."

"He treated me very well," said Dickory, "but I know from his own words that he reserved me
for a most horrible fate."

"What!" exclaimed the man, "and he told you? He is indeed a demon!"

"Yes," said Dickory, "he said over and over again that he was going to take me to England to
marry me to his daughter."

At this the wife could not refrain from a smile. "Matrimony is not generally considered a horrible
fate," said she; "perhaps his daughter may be a most comely and estimable young person. Girls
do not always resemble their fathers."

"Do not mention it," exclaimed Dickory, with a shudder; "that was one reason that I ran away;
I preferred any danger from man or beast to that he was taking me to."

"He is engaged to be married," thought the woman; "it is easy enough to see that."

"Now tell me your story, I pray you," said Dickory. "But first, I would like very much to know
how you found out that Blackbeard's ship was not at her anchorage?"

"That's a simple thing," said the man. "Of course you did not observe, for you could not, that
from its eastern point where lies the spring, this island stretches in a long curve to the
south, reaching northward again about this spot. Consequently, there is a little bay to the
east of us, across which we can see the anchoring ground of such ships as may stop here for
water. Your way around the land curve of the island was a long one, but the distance straight
across the bay is but a few miles. Upon a hill not far from here there is a very tall tree,
which overtops all the other trees, and to the upper branches of this tree my daughter, who
is a great climber, frequently ascends with a small glass, and is thus able to report if there
is a vessel at the anchorage."

"What!" exclaimed Dickory, "that little girl?"

"Oh, no!" said the man; "it is my other daughter, who is a grown young woman."

"She is not here now," said the mother. And this piece of unnecessary information was given
in tones which might indicate that the young lady had stepped around to visit a neighbour.

"It is important," said the man, "that I should know if vessels have anchored here, for if
they be merchantmen I sometimes do business with them."

"Business!" said Dickory. "That sounds extremely odd. Pray tell me how you came to be here."

"My name is Mander," said the other, "and about two years ago I was on my way from England
to Barbadoes, where, with my wife and two girls, I expected to settle. We were captured by
a pirate ship and marooned upon this island. I will say, to the pirate captain's credit, that
he was a good sort of man considering his profession. He sailed across the bay on purpose to
find a suitable place to land us, and he left with us some necessary articles, such as axes
and tools, kitchen utensils, and a gun with some ammunition. Then he sailed away, leaving us
here, and here we have since lived. Under the circumstances, we have no right to complain,
for had we been taken by an ordinary pirate it is likely that our bones would now be lying
at the bottom of the ocean.

"Here I have worked hard and have made myself a home, such as it is. There are wild cattle
upon the distant savannas, and I trap game and birds, cultivate the soil to a certain extent,
and if we had clothes I might say we would be in better circumstances than many a respectable
family in England. Sometimes when a merchantman anchors here and I have hides or anything else
which we can barter for things we need, I row over the bay in a canoe which I have made, and
have thus very much bettered our condition. But in no case have I been able to provide my family
with suitable clothes."

"Why did you not get some of these merchant ships to carry you away?" asked Dickory.

The man shook his head. "There is no place," he said sadly, "to which I can in reason ask a
ship to carry me and my family. We have no money, no property whatever. In any other place
I would be far poorer than I am here. My children are not uneducated; my wife and I have done
our best for them in that respect, and we have some books with us. So, as you see, it would
be rash in me to leave a home which, rude as it is, shelters and supports my family, to go
as paupers and strangers to some other land."

The wife heaved a sigh. "But poor Lucilla!" she said. "It is dreadful that she should be forced
to grow up here."

"Lucilla?" asked Dickory.

"Yes, sir," she said, "my eldest daughter. But she is not here now."

Dickory thought that it was somewhat odd that he should be again informed of a fact which he
knew very well, but he made no remarks upon the subject.

Still wearing his cocked hat--for he had nothing else with which to shield his head from the
sun--and with his uniform coat on, for he had not yet an opportunity of ripping from it the
letter he carried, and this he would not part from--Dickory roamed about the little settlement.
Mander was an industrious and thrifty man. His garden, his buildings, and his surroundings
showed that.

Walking past a clump of low bushes, Dickory was startled by a laugh--a hearty laugh--the laugh
of a girl. Looking quickly around, he saw, peering above the tops of the bushes, the face of
the girl who had laughed.

"It is too funny!" she said, as his eyes fell upon her. "I never saw anything so funny in all
my life. A man in regimentals in this weather and upon a desert island. You look as if you
had marched faster than your army, and that you had lost it in the forest."

Dickory smiled. "You ought not to laugh at me," he said, "for these clothes are really a great
misfortune. If I could change them for something cool I should be more than delighted."

"You might take off your heavy coat," said she; "you need not be on parade here. And instead
of that awful hat, I can make you one of long grass. Do you see the one I have on? Isn't that
a good hat? I have one nearly finished which I am making for my father; you may have that."

Dickory would most gladly have taken off his coat if, without observation, he could have transferred
his sacred letter to some other part of his clothes, but he must wait for that. He accepted
instantly, however, the offer of the hat.

"You seem to know all about me," he said; "did you hear me tell my story?"

"Every word of it," said she, "and it is the queerest story I ever heard. Think of a pirate
carrying a man away to marry him to his daughter!"

"But why don't you come from behind that bush and talk to me?"

"I can't do it," said she, "I am dressed funnier than you are. Now I am going to make your
hat." And in an instant she had departed.

Dickory now strolled on, and when he returned he seated himself in the shade near the house.
The letter of Captain Vince was taken from his coat-lining and secured in one of his breeches
pockets; his heavy coat and waistcoat lay upon the ground beside him, with the cocked hat placed
upon them. As he leaned back against the tree and inhaled the fragrant breeze which came to
him from the forest, Dickory was a more cheerful young man than he had been for many, many
days. He thought of this himself, and wondered how a man, carrying with him his sentence of
lifelong misery, could lean against a tree and take pleasure in anything, be it a hospitable
welcome, a sense of freedom from danger, a fragrant breeze, or the face of a pretty girl behind
a bush. But these things did please him; he could not help it. And when presently came Mrs.
Mander, bringing him a light grass hat fresh from the manufacturer's hands, he took it and
put it on with more evident pleasure than the occasion seemed to demand.

"Your daughter is truly an artist," said Dickory.

"She does many things well," said the mother, "because necessity compels her and all of us
to learn to work in various ways."

"Can I not thank her?" said Dickory.

"No," the mother answered, "she is not here now."

Dickory had begun to hate that self-evident statement.

"She's looking out for ships; her pride is a little touched that she missed Blackbeard's vessel
yesterday."

"Perhaps," said Dickory, with a movement as if he would like to make a step in the direction
of some tall tree upon a hill.

"No," said Mrs. Mander, "I cannot ask you to join my daughter. I am compelled to state that
her dress is not a suitable one in which to appear before a stranger."

"Excuse me," said Dickory; "and I beg, madam, that you will convey to her my thanks for making
me such an excellent hat."

A little later Mander joined Dickory. "I am sorry, sir," said he, "that I am not able to present
you to my daughter Lucilla. It is a great grief to us that her attire compels her to deny herself
other company than that of her family. I really believe, sir, that it is Lucilla's deprivations
on this island which form at present my principal discontent with my situation. But we all
enjoy good health, we have enough to eat, and shelter over us, and should not complain."

As soon as he was at liberty to do so, Dickory walked by the hedge of low bushes, and there,
above it, was the bright face, with the pretty grass hat.

"I was waiting for you," said she. "I wanted to see how that hat fitted, and I think it does
nicely. And I wanted to tell you that I have been looking out for ships, but have not seen
one. I don't mean by that that I want you to go away almost as soon as you have come, but of
course, if a merchant ship should anchor here, it would be dreadful for you not to know."

"I am not sure," said Dickory gallantly, "that I am in a hurry for a ship. It is truly very
pleasant here."

"What makes it pleasant?" said the girl.

Dickory hesitated for a moment. "The breeze from the forest," said he.

She laughed. "It is charming," she said, "but there are so many places where there is just
as good a breeze, or perhaps better. How I would like to go to some one of them! To me this
island is lonely and doleful. Every time I look over the sea for a ship I hope that one will
come that can carry us away."

"Then," said Dickory, "I wish a ship would come to-morrow and take us all away together."

She shook her head. "As my father told you," said she, "we have no place to go to."

Dickory thought a good deal about the sad condition of the family of this worthy marooner.
He thought of it even after he had stretched himself for the night upon the bed of palmetto
leaves beneath the tree against which he had leaned when he wondered how he could be so cheerful
under the shadow of the sad fate which was before him.

CHAPTER XXVIII

LUCILLA'S SHIP

As soon as Dickory had left off his cocked hat and his gold-embroidered coat, the little girl
Lena had ceased to be afraid of him, and the next morning she came to him, seated lonely--for
this was a busy household--and asked him if he would like to take a walk. So, hand in hand,
they wandered away. Presently they entered a path which led through the woods.

"This is the way my sister goes to her lookout tree," said the little girl. "Would you like
to see that tree?"

"Oh, yes!" said Dickory, and he spoke the truth.

"She goes up to the very top," said Lena, "to look for ships. I would never do that; I'd rather
never see a ship than to climb to the top of such a tree. I'll show it to you in a minute;
we're almost there."

At a little distance from the rest of the forest and upon a bluff which overlooked a stretch
of lowland, and beyond that the bay, stood a tall tree with spreading branches and heavy foliage.

"Up in the top of that is where she sits," said the child, "and spies out for ships. That's
what she's doing now. Don't you see her up there?"

"Your sister in the tree!" exclaimed Dickory. And his first impulse was to retire, for it had
been made quite plain to him that he was not expected to present himself to the young lady
of the house, should she be on the ground or in the air. But he did not retire. A voice came
to him from the tree-top, and as he looked upward he saw the same bright face which had greeted
him over the top of the bushes. Below it was a great bunch of heavy leaves.

"So you have come to call on me, have you?" said the lady in the tree. "I am glad to see you,
but I'm sorry that I cannot ask you to come upstairs. I am not receiving."

"He could not come up if he wanted to," said Lena; "he couldn't climb a tree like that."

"And he doesn't want to," cried the nymph of the bay-tree. "I have been up here all the morning,"
said she, "looking for ships, but not one have I seen."

"Isn't that a tiresome occupation?" asked Dickory.

"Not altogether," she said. "The branches up here make a very nice seat, and I nearly always
bring a book with me. You will wonder how we get books, but we had a few with us when we were
marooned, and since that my father has always asked for books when he has an opportunity of
trading off his hides. But I have read them all over and over again, and if it were not for
the ships which I expect to come here and anchor, I am afraid I should grow melancholy."

"What sort of ships do you look for?" asked Dickory, who was gazing upward with so much interest
that he felt a little pain in the back of his neck, and who could not help thinking of a framed
engraving which hung in his mother's little parlour, and which represented some angels composed
of nothing but heads and wings. He saw no wings under the head of the charming young creature
in the tree, but there was no reason which he could perceive why she should not be an angel
marooned upon a West Indian island.

"There are a great many of them," said she, "and they're all alike in one way--they never come.
But there's one of them in particular which I look for and look for and look for, and which
I believe that some day I shall really see. I have thought about that ship so often and I have
dreamed about it so often that I almost know it must come."

"Is it an English ship?" asked Dickory, speaking with some effort, for he found that the girl's
voice came down much more readily than his went up.

"I don't know," said she, "but I suppose it must be, for otherwise I should not understand
what the people on board should say to me. It is a large ship, strong and able to defend itself
against any pirates. It is laden with all sorts of useful and valuable things, and among these
are a great many trunks and boxes filled with different kinds of clothes. Also, there's a great
deal of money kept in a box by itself, and is in charge of an agent who is bringing it out
to my father, supposing him to be now settled in Barbadoes. This money is generally a legacy
for my father from a distant relative who has recently died. On this ship there are so many
delightful things that I cannot even begin to mention them."

"And where is it going to?" asked Dickory.

"That I don't know exactly. Sometimes I think that it is going to the island of Barbadoes,
where we originally intended to settle; but then I imagine that there is some pleasanter place
than Barbadoes, and if that's the case the ship is going there."

"There can be no pleasanter place than Barbadoes," cried Dickory. "I come from that island,
where I was born; there is no land more lovely in all the West Indies."

"You come from Barbadoes?" cried the girl, "and it really is a pleasant island?"

"Most truly it is," said he, "and the great dream of my life is to get back there." Then he
stopped. Was it really the dream of his life to get back there? That would depend upon several
things.

"If, then, you tell me the truth, my ship is bound for Barbadoes. And if she should go, would
you like to go there with us?"

Dickory hesitated. "Not directly," said he. "I would first touch at Jamaica."

For some moments there was no answer from the tree-top, and then came the question: "Is it
a girl who lives there?"

"Yes," said Dickory unguardedly, "but also I have a mother in Jamaica."

"Indeed," said she, "a mother! Well, we might stop there and take the mother with us to Barbadoes.
Would the girl want to go too?"

Dickory bent his head. "Alas!" said he, "I do not know."

Then spoke the little Lena. "I would not bother about any particular place to go to," said
she. "I'd be so glad to go anywhere that isn't here. But it is not a real ship, you know."

"I don't think I will take you," called down Lucilla. "I don't want too many passengers, especially
women I don't know. But I often think there will be a gentleman passenger--one who really wants
to go to Barbadoes and nowhere else. Sometimes he is one kind of a gentleman and sometimes
another, but he is never a soldier or a sailor, but rather one who loves to stay at home. And
now, sir, I think I must take my glass and try to pick out a ship from among the spots on the
far distant waves."

"Come on," said Lena, "do you like to fish! Because if you do, I can take you to a good place."

The rest of the day Dickory spent with Mr. Mander and his wife, who were intelligent and pleasant
people. They talked of their travels, their misfortunes and their blessings, and Dickory yearned
to pour out his soul to them, but he could not do so. His woes did not belong to himself alone;
they were not for the ears of strangers. He made up his mind what he would do. Until the morrow
he would stay as a visitor with these most hospitable people, then he would ask for work. He
would collect firewood, he would hunt, he would fish, he would do anything. And here he would
support himself until there came some merchant ship bound southward which would carry him away.
If the Mander family were anyway embarrassed or annoyed by his presence here, he would make
a camp at a little distance and live there by himself. Perhaps the lady of the tree would kindly
send him word if the ship he was looking for should come.

It was about the middle of the afternoon, and Lena had dropped asleep beneath the tree where
Dickory and her parents were conversing, when suddenly there rushed upon the little group a
most surprising figure. At the first flash of thought Dickory supposed that a boy from the
skies had dropped among them, but in an instant he recognised the face he had seen above the
bushes. It was Lucilla, the daughter of the house! Upon her head was a little straw hat, and
she wore a loose tunic and a pair of sailor's trousers, which had been cut off and were short
enough to show that her feet and ankles were bare. Around her waist she had a belt of skins,
from which dangled a string of crimson sea-beans. Her eyes were wide open, her face was pale,
and she was trembling with excitement.

"What do you think!" she cried, not caring who was there or who might look at her. "There's
a ship at the spring, and there's a boat rowing across the bay. A boat with four men in it!"

All started to their feet.

"A boat," cried Mander, "with four men in it? Run, my dear, to the cave; press into its depths
as far as you can. There is nothing there to be afraid of, and no matter how frightened you
are, press into its most distant depths. You, sir, will remain with me, or would you rather
escape? If it is a pirate ship, it may be Blackbeard who has returned."

"Not so," cried Lucilla, "it is a merchant vessel, and they are making straight for the mouth
of our stream."

"I will stay here with you," said Dickory, "and stand by you, unless I may help your family
seek the cave you speak of."

"No, no," said Mander, "they don't need you, and if you will do so we will go down to the beach
and meet these men; that will be better than to have them search for us. They will know that
people live here, for my canoe is drawn up on the beach."

"Is this safe?" cried Dickory; "would it not be better for you to go with your family and hide
with them? I will meet the men in the boat."

"No, no," said Mander; "if their vessel is no pirate, I do not fear them. But I will not have
them here."

Now, after Mander had embraced his family, they hurried away in tears, the girl Lucilla casting
not one glance at Dickory. Impressed by the impulse that it was the proper thing to do, Dickory
put on his coat and waistcoat and clapped upon his head his high cocked hat. Then he rapidly
followed Mander to the beach, which they reached before the boat touched the sand.

When the man in the stern of the boat, which was now almost within hailing distance, saw the
two figures run down upon the beach, he spoke to the oarsmen and they all stopped and looked
around. The stop was occasioned by the sight of Dickory in his uniform; and this, under the
circumstances, was enough to stop any boat's crew. Then they fell to again and pulled ashore.
When the boat was beached one of its occupants, a roughly dressed man, sprang ashore and walked
cautiously towards Mander; then he gave a great shout.

"Heigho, heigho!" he cried, "and Mander, this is you!"

Then there was great hand-shaking and many words.

"Excuse me, sir," said the man, raising his hat to Dickory, "it is now more than two years
since I have seen my friend here, when he was marooned by pirates. We were all on the same
merchantman, but the pirate took me along, being short of hands. I got away at last, sir" (all
the time addressing Dickory instead of Mander, this being respect to his rank), "and shipping
on board that brig, sir, I begged it of the captain that he would drop anchor here and take
in water, although I cannot say it was needed, and give me a chance to land and see if my old
friend be yet alive. I knew the spot, having well noted it when Mander and his family were
marooned."

"And this is Lucilla's ship," said Dickory to himself. But to the sailor he said: "This is
a great day for your friend and his family. But you must not lift your hat to me, for I am
no officer."

For a long time, at least it seemed so to Dickory, who wanted to run to the cave and tell the
good news, they all stood together on the sands and talked and shook hands and laughed and
were truly thankful, the men who had come in the boat as much so as those who were found on
the island. It was agreed, and there was no discussion on this point, that the Mander family
should be carried away in the brig, which was an English vessel bound for Jamaica, but the
happy Mander would not ask any of the boat's crew to visit him at his home. Instead, he besought
them to return to their vessel and bring back some clothes for women, if any such should be
included in her cargo.

"My family," said he, "are not in fit condition to venture themselves among well-clad people.
They are, indeed, more like savages than am I myself."

"I doubt," said Mander's friend, "if the ship carries goods of that description, but perhaps
the captain might let you have a bale of cotton cloth, although I suppose--" and here he looked
a little embarrassed.

"Oh, we can buy it," cried Dickory, taking some pieces of gold from his pocket, being coin
with which Blackbeard had furnished him, swearing that his first lieutenant could not feel
like a true officer without money in his pocket; "take this and fetch the cloth if nothing
better can be had."

"Thank you," cried Mander; "my wife and daughters can soon fashion it into shape."

"And," added Dickory, reflecting a little and remembering the general hues of Lucilla's face,
"if there be choice in colours, let the cloth be pink.