STORIES OF AMERICAN LIFE AND ADVENTURE

by

EDWARD EGGLESTON

Author of Stories of Great Americans for Little Americans, A First Book in American History,
and A History of the United States and its People for the Use of Schools

American Book Company New York : Cincinnati : Chicago

1895, 1923

PREFACE. 

His gallant young friend, Dinkins, was very for frame his rations of a like
doleful dish, for lord Rawdon had him mounted upon the same cart with
the halter round his neck, terrible near a launch into eternity,
that the tories suggested to his lordship their serious apprehensions
for a heroic vengeance might follow: this saved his life.

When such ready daring in defence of their country, in place of receiving applause from lord Rawdon,
Gales, as we have seen, received his bloody death.
 The early establishment of a preference for stories of this sort
is the most effective antidote to the prevalent vice of reading inferior fiction for mere stimulation.

But the principal aim of this book is to make the reader acquainted with American life and
manners in other times. The history of life has come to be esteemed of capital importance,
but it finds, as yet, small place in school instruction. The stories and sketches in this book
relate mainly to earlier times and to conditions very different from those of our own day.
They will help the pupil to apprehend the life and spirit of our forefathers. Many of them
are such as make him acquainted with that adventurous pioneer life, which thus far has been
the largest element in our social history, and which has given to the national character the
traits of quick-wittedness, humor, self-reliance, love of liberty, and democratic feeling.
These traits in combination distinguish us from other peoples.

Stories such as these here told of Indian life, of frontier peril and escape, of adventures
with the pirates and kidnappers of colonial times, of daring Revolutionary feats, of dangerous
whaling voyages, of scientific exploration, and of personal encounters with savages and wild
beasts, have become the characteristic folklore of America. Books of history rarely know them,
but they are history of the highest kind,--the quintessence of an age that has passed, or that
is swiftly passing away, forever. With them are here intermingled sketches of the homes, the
food and drink, the dress and manners, the schools and children's plays, of other times. The
text-book of history is chiefly busy with the great events and the great personages of history:
this book seeks to make the young American acquainted with the daily life and character of
his forefathers. In connection with the author's "Stories of Great Americans for Little Americans,"
it is intended to form an introduction to the study of our national history.

It has been thought desirable to make the readings in this book cover in a general way the
whole of our vast country. The North and the South, the Atlantic seaboard, the Pacific slope,
and the great interior basin of the continent, are alike represented in these pages.

CONTENTS.

A White Boy among the Indians

The Making of a Canoe

Some Things about Indian Corn

Some Women in the Indian Wars

The Coming of Tea and Coffee

Kidnapped Boys

The Last Battle of Blackbeard

An Old Philadelphia School

A Dutch Family in the Revolution

A School of Long Ago

Stories of Whaling

A Whaling Song

A Strange Escape

Grandmother Bear

The Great Turtle

The Rattlesnake God

Witchcraft in Louisiana

A Story of Niagara

Among the Alligators

Jasper

Song of Marion's Men

A Brave Girl

A Prisoner among the Indians

Hungry Times in the Woods

Scouwa becomes a White Man again

A Baby Lost in the Woods

Elizabeth Zane

The River Pirates

Old-fashioned Telegraphs

A Boy's Foolish Adventure

A Foot Race for Life

Loretto and his Wife

A Blackfoot Story

How Fremont crossed the Mountains

Finding Gold in California

Descending the Grand Canyon

The-Man-that-draws-the-Handcart

The Lazy, Lucky Indian

Peter Petersen

The Greatest of Telescope Makers

Adventures in Alaska

STORIES OF AMERICAN LIFE AND ADVENTURE.

A WHITE BOY AMONG THE INDIANS.

Among the people that came to Virginia in 1609, two years after the colony was planted, was
a boy named Henry Spelman. He was the son of a well-known man. He had been a bad and troublesome
boy in England, and his family sent him to Virginia, thinking that he might be better in the
new country. At least his friends thought he would not trouble them so much when he was so
far away.

Many hundreds of people came at the same time that Henry Spelman did. Captain John Smith was
then governor of the little colony. He was puzzled to know how to feed all these people. As
many of them were troublesome, he was still more puzzled to know how to govern them.

In order not to have so many to feed, he sent some of them to live among the Indians here and
there. A chief called Little Powhatan asked Smith to send some of his men to live with him.
The Indians wanted to get the white men to live among them, so as to learn to make the things
that the white men had. Captain Smith agreed to give the boy Henry Spelman to Little Powhatan,
if the chief would give him a place to plant a new settlement.

Spelman staid awhile with the chief, and then he went back to the English at Jamestown.

But when he came to Jamestown he was sorry that he had not staid among the Indians. Captain
John Smith had gone home to England. George Percy was now governor of the English. They had
very little food to eat, and Spelman began to be afraid that he might starve to death with
the rest of them. Powhatan--not Little Powhatan, but the great Powhatan, who was chief over
all the other chiefs in the neighborhood--sent a white man who was living with him to carry
some deer meat to Jamestown. When it came time for this white man to go back, he asked that
some of his countrymen might go to the Indian country with him. The governor sent Spelman,
who was glad enough to go to the Indians again, because they had plenty of food to eat.

Three weeks after this, Powhatan sent Henry Spelman back to Jamestown to say to the English,
that if they would come to his country, and bring him some copper, he would give them some
corn for it. The Indians at this time had no iron, and what little copper they had they bought
from other Indians, who probably got it from the copper mines far away on Lake Superior.

The English greatly needed corn, so they took a boat and went up to the Indian country with
copper, in order to buy corn. They quarreled with the Indians about the measurement of the
corn. The Indians hid themselves near the water, and, while the white men were carrying the
corn on their vessel, the Indians killed some of them. About this time, seeing that the white
men were so hungry, the Indians began to hope that they would be able to drive them all out
of the country.

Powhatan saved Spelman from being killed by the Indians; but, now that the Indians were at
war with the white men, who were shut up in Jamestown without food, they wished to kill all
the white people in the country.

Spelman and a Dutchman, who also lived with Powhatan, began to be afraid that he would not
protect them any longer. So, when a chief of the Potomac Indians visited Powhatan, and asked
the Dutchman and the boy to go to his country, they left Powhatan and went back with them.
Powhatan sent messengers after them, who killed the Dutchman. Henry Spelman ran away into the
woods. Powhatan's men followed him, but the Potomacs got hold of Powhatan's men, and held them
back until Spelman could get away. The boy managed at last to get to the country of the Potomac
Indians.

It was very lucky for Spelman that he was among the Indians at this time. Nearly all the white
people in Jamestown were killed, or died of hunger. Spelman lived among the Indians for years.
During this time more people came from England, and settled at Jamestown. A ship from Jamestown
came up into the Potomac River to trade. The captain of the ship bought Spelman from the Indians.
He was now a young man, and, as he could speak both the Indian language and the English, he
was very useful in carrying on trade between the white men and the Indians.

At the time that Henry Spelman first went among the Indians, they had no iron tools except
a very few that they had bought of the white people. They had no guns, nor knives, nor hatchets.
They had no hoes nor axes. They made their tools out of hard wood, shells, stones, deer horns,
and other such things. They had not yet bought blankets from the white men, but made their
clothes mostly out of the skins of animals.

The Indians could not learn much about the white man's arts from Spelman, because he did not
know much. Besides, he had no iron of which to make tools. He learned to make arrows of cane
such as we use for fishing rods. He also learned to point his arrows with the spur of a wild
turkey, or a piece of stone. These arrow points he stuck into the arrow with a kind of glue.
But he first had to learn how to make his glue out of deers' horns. Before he could make any
of the tools, he had to make himself a knife, as the Indians did. Having no iron, the blade
of his knife was made out of a beaver's tooth, which is very sharp, and will cut wood. He set
this tooth in the end of a stick. You see how hard it was for an Indian to get tools. He had
to learn to make one tool in order to use that in making another tool.

One of the principal things that an Indian had to do was to make a canoe; for, as the Indians
had no horses, they could travel only by water, unless they went afoot. Canoes were the only
boats they had. They had to make canoes without any of the tools that white men use. Let us
explain this by a story about Henry and an Indian boy. The things in the story may not have
happened just as they are told, but the account of how things are made by the Indians is all true.

THE MAKING OF A CANOE.

Henry had a young Indian friend whose name was Keketaw. One day Keketaw said to him, "Let us
go into the woods and make a canoe."

"If we had an ax to cut down the trees," said the white boy, "or an adz, such as they have
at Jamestown, or if we could get a hatchet, we might make a canoe; but we have not even a little
knife."

"We will make a canoe in the Indian way," said Keketaw. "I will show you how. Let us get ready."

"What shall we do to get ready?" asked Henry.

"We must take our bows, and we must make many arrows, so as to get something to eat, and we
must have fishing lines," said Keketaw, "or we shall not be able to live in the woods."

For some days the two boys were getting ready. It took them a long time to scrape a piece of
bone into a fishhook by means of a beaver's tooth set in a stick, but they made three of these
hooks. They made some more hooks not so good as these by tying a splinter of bone to a little
stick. Keketaw's mother made fishing lines for them. She took the long leaves of the plant
which we call Spanish bayonet, and separated these threads into a hard cord, rubbing them between
her hand and her knee.

"We must have swords," said Keketaw.

"We can cut our meat with this," said Henry, pointing to a knife made of cane, such as the
Indians called a pamesack.

"But the Monacans may come," said Keketaw. "If we should see one sticking up his head, I should
want a sword to fight him with; and if we should kill him, we could cut off his scalp with
it;" and Keketaw's eyes glistened a little at the thought of fetching home a Monacan's scalp.

The Monacans were fierce Indians of a tribe living in the country west of the Powhatan Indians.
They were deadly enemies of Keketaw's tribe.

The two boys, by much slow work with stones and shells and beaver-tooth chisels, managed to
scrape a wooden sword into shape. This, Henry was to wear at his back. Keketaw, for his part,
found a piece of deer's horn. He stuck it into a stick so that it made something like a small
pickax. With this he said he could quickly break the head of a Monacan. It would also serve
as a sort of hatchet.

The land round the village in which Keketaw lived had been cleared of trees. This had been
done by burning the trees in order to make room for fields. In these fields the Indians planted
corn, beans, pumpkins, and tobacco, and a plant something like a sunflower, which is called
an artichoke. Of the root of this artichoke they made a kind of bread.

For many miles there were no good canoe trees near the water. They had all been picked out
and used. Henry and Keketaw traveled twenty miles into a deep woods, and chose a tree that
would make a good canoe, and that stood near a stream which ran into the James River.

The first thing they did was to break down young trees and boughs, and build themselves a brush
tent. They made a bed out of dry leaves. The first night they had nothing to eat, for they
had no time to shoot any game. The next morning they were too hungry to sleep late, and they
knew that squirrels are early risers. Soon after daylight the Indian boy killed a squirrel
with an arrow. Having no fire, they ate it without cooking; for, when one is a savage, one
must not be too nice.

How should they get a fire? They first took a piece of dry wood, which they scraped flat with
stones. Then, with a blow of his tomahawk of deer's horn, Keketaw made a round hole in the
wood. One end of a dry stick was placed in this hole. The other end was supported in the hollow
of a shell which Keketaw held in his hand.

The string to Henry's bow was made of one of the cords or sinews of a deer's leg. He wound
this once round the stick. With his left hand, Keketaw then put some dry moss about the stick
where it entered the hole in the dry wood.

When all was ready, Henry drew his bow to and fro like a saw. Keketaw pressed the shell down
on the upper part of the stick. The bow-string holding the stick made it whirl in the hole
beneath. At first this seemed to produce no effect. After a while the rapid rubbing of the
piece of wood in the hole made heat. Presently a very thin thread of smoke began to come up
through the little heap of moss about the stick. Henry was now pretty well out of breath, but
he sawed the bow faster than ever. At last the moss began to smolder and to show fire.

Keketaw then withdrew the smoking stick, and gathered the moss together. Lying down by it,
and putting his arm about it, the Indian lad began to blow it gently. The smoldering fire increased
until a little blue flame, which he could barely see, appeared. Keketaw now added some very
thin paper-like bits of dry bark and some small twigs to the pile of smoking moss. These caught
fire, and sent up a straw-colored flame. Henry put on larger twigs until there was at last
a crackling blaze.

Taking lighted sticks from this fire, the boys made a fire all round the base of a large tree
from which they meant to get the canoe. This fire they kept going constantly for two days.
They even got up at night to put dead boughs on, it.

On the third night of their stay in camp, they didn't lie down at the usual time, for the tree
was burned nearly through. About two o'clock in the morning a little breeze rustled in the
leaves of the great tree. Slowly at first, then more and more rapidly, the tree fell with a
tremendous crashing sound, until with a final thundering roar it lay flat upon the ground.

Sleepy as the boys were, they did not lie down for the night until they had built a new fire
near the trunk of the tree. Having no ax to chop with, they had to burn the log in two. They
put the fire at a place that would cut off enough of the tree trunk to make a canoe.

The next day they built up this new fire, and then went fishing in the neighboring stream with
their bone fishhooks, and lines made of the Spanish bayonet leaf. In two days after the fall
of the tree they had burned off the log that was to make their canoe, and had scraped off all
the bark with shells.

They then lighted little fires on top of the log, and, when these had charred the wood for
an inch or more in depth in any place, they removed the fire and scraped away the charcoal.
Then they built another little fire in the same place. These little fires were made with gum
taken from the pine trees.

By burning and scraping they gradually dug out the inside of their boat, scraping out one end
of it while they were burning out the other, and working at it day after day.

The only tools they had for scraping were shells from the river, and sharp stones. Keketaw
sometimes used his deer-horn tomahawk for the same purpose. It was fourteen days from the time
they first lighted the fire at the foot of the tree until their canoe was finished. Two more
days were spent in making paddles. This work was also done by burning and scraping.

When all was done, the canoe was slid down the soft bank into the water. It floated right side
up to the delight of its makers. The boys now thought it would be a fine stroke to take a deer
home with them. So they pulled one end of their canoe up on the shore, and started out to look
for one.

But the first tracks they found were not deer tracks. They were the footprints of men. Keketaw
made a sign to Henry by turning the palm of his hand toward the earth, and then moving the
hand downward. This meant to keep low, and make no noise. Then Keketaw climbed a high pine
tree. From the top of the tree he could see a number of Indians at a spring of water.

The boy slid down the tree in haste. "Monacans on the war path!" he whispered as he reached
the ground.

Swiftly and silently the two boys hurried back to their canoe. They wasted no time in admiring
it. They gathered their weapons and fishing lines, and got aboard. It was not a question of
killing Monacans now, but of saving themselves and their friends. They rowed with all their
might from the start.

For hours they kept their new paddles busy. They reached the village after dark, and when they
uttered the dreadful word "Monacans," it ran from one wigwam to another. The women and children
shuddered with fear. The warriors smeared their faces with paint, to make themselves uglier
than ever, and departed. Soon after the boys had started home, the Monacans had found their
camp fire still burning. Thinking they had been discovered, and knowing that a strong party
of the Powhatan Indians might come after them, the Monacans had hurried back to their own home
more swiftly than they had come.

SOME THINGS ABOUT INDIAN CORN.

When the white people first came to America, they had never seen Indian corn, which did not
grow in Europe. The Indians raised it in little patches about their villages. Before planting
their corn, they had to clear away the trees that covered the whole country. Their axes were
made of stone, and were not sharp enough to cut down a tree. The larger trees they cut down
by burning them off at the bottom. They killed the smaller trees by building little fires about
them. When the bark all round a tree was burned, the tree died. As dead trees bear no leaves,
the sun could shine through their branches on the ground where corn was to be planted.

Having no iron, they had to make their tools as they could. In some places they made a hoe
by tying the shoulder blade of a deer to a stick. In other places they used half of the shell
of a turtle for a hoe or spade to dig up the ground. This could be done where the ground was
soft. In North Carolina the Indians had a little thing like a pickax which was made out of
a deer's horn tied to a stick. An Indian woman would sit down on the ground with one of these
little pickaxes in her hand. She would dig up the earth for a little space until it was loose.
Then she would make a little hole in the soft earth. In this she would plant four or five grains
of corn, putting them about an inch apart. Then she covered these grains with soft earth. In
Virginia, where the ground was soft and sandy, the Indians made a kind of spade out of wood.

Sometimes they planted a patch a long way off from their bark house, so that they would not
be tempted to eat it while it was green. The Indians were very fond of green corn. They roasted
the ears in the ashes. Some of the tribes held a great feast when the first green corn was
fit to eat, and some of them worshiped a spirit that they called the "Spirit of the Corn."

When the corn was dry, the Indians pounded it in order to make meal or hominy of it. Sometimes
they parched the corn, and then pounded it into meal. They carried this parched meal with them
when they went hunting and when they went to war. They could eat it with a little water, without
stopping to cook it. They called it Nokick, but the white people called it No-cake.

When the Pilgrims came to Cape Cod, they sent out Miles Standish and some other men to look
through the country and find a good place for them to settle. Standish tried to find some of
the Indians in order to make friends with them, but the Indians ran away whenever they saw
him coming. One day he found a heap of sand. He knew it had been lately piled up, because he
could see the marks of hands on the sand where the Indians had patted it down. Standish and
his men dug up this heap. They soon came to a little old basket full of Indian corn. When they
had dug further, they found a very large new basket full of fine corn which had been lately
gathered.

The white men, who had never seen it before, thought Indian corn very beautiful. Some of the
ears were yellow, some were red. On other ears blue and yellow grains were mixed. Standish
and his men said it was a "very goodly sight." The Indian basket was round and narrow at the
top. It held three or four bushels of corn, and it was as much as two men could do to lift
it from the ground. The white men wondered to see how handsomely it was woven.

Near the pile of corn they found an old kettle which the Indians had probably bought from some
ship. They filled this kettle with corn, They also filled their baskets with it. They wanted
the corn for seed. They made up their mind to pay the Indians whenever they could find them.
The next summer they found out who were the owners of this buried corn, and paid them for all
the corn they had taken. If they had not found this corn, they would not have had any to plant
the next spring, and so they would have starved to death.

The people that were with Miles Standish settled at Plymouth. They were the first that came
to live in New England. An Indian named Squanto came to live with the white people at Plymouth.
Squanto was born at this very place. He had been carried away to England by a sea captain.
Then he had been brought back by another captain to his own country. When he got back to Plymouth,
he found that all the people of his village had died from a great sickness. He went to live
with another tribe near by. When the white people came to Plymouth, they settled on the ground
where Squanto's people had lived. As he could speak some English, and as all his own tribe
were dead, he now came to live with the white people.

The people at Plymouth did not know how to plant the corn they had found, but Squanto taught
them. By watching the trees, the Indians knew when to put their corn into the ground. When
the young leaf of the white oak tree was as large as a squirrel's ear, they knew that it was
time to put their corn into the ground. Squanto taught the white people how to catch a kind
of fish which were used to make their corn grow. They put one or two fishes into each hill
of corn, but they were obliged to watch the cornfield day and night for two weeks after planting.
If they had not watched it, the wolves would have dug up the fishes, and the corn with them.

The white people learned also to cook their corn as the Indians did. They learned to eat hominy
and samp, and these we still call by their Indian names. "Succotash" is another Indian word.
The white people learned from the Indians to use the husks of Indian corn to make things. The
Indians made ropes of corn husks, and in some places they made shoes of plaited husks. The
white people in early times made their door mats and horse collars and beds of corn husks.
They also twisted and wove husks to make seats for their chairs.

Of all the plants that grew in America, Indian corn was the most important to the Indians.
It was also of the most value to the first white people who came to this country.

SOME WOMEN IN THE INDIAN WARS.

When white people first came to this country, they had much trouble with the Indians. After
a while, when they had learned to defend themselves and got used to danger, they did not mind
it much. Even the women became as brave as soldiers.

In very early times there were some families of people from Sweden living not far from where
Philadelphia now stands. One day the women were all together boiling soap. It was the custom
then to make soap at home. Water was first poured through ashes to make lye. People put this
lye into a large kettle, and then threw into it waste pieces of meat and bits of fat of all
kinds. After boiling a long time, this mixture made a kind of soft soap, which was the only
soap the early settlers had. The large kettle in which the soap was boiled was hung on a pole.
This pole was held up by two forked sticks driven into the ground. A fire was kept burning
under the kettle. Of course, this soap boiling took place out of doors.

Some Indians, creeping through the woods, saw the women together without any men. They thought
it a good chance to kill them or make them prisoners; but the women caught sight of the Indians,
and ran away to their little church. The churches in that day were often built so they could
be used for forts. The church to which these women ran was one of this kind. But the women
had no guns with them. They knew that when they got into the church they would have nothing
to fight with. So two of them took hold of the ends of the pole on which the kettle of boiling
soap was hanging, and carried the kettle into the little church with them.

The Indians tried to get into the church, but every time an Indian climbed up to get in, a
woman would just dip up a ladleful of boiling soap, and dash it on him. This was a kind of
fighting the Indians did not like. They were not used to soap in any form. So, when an Indian
was scalded by the soap, he would run away in great pain, and not try it again. The next Indian
that came got some of the same hot medicine. He also would have to go away to cool off, if
he could.

While some of the women were watching the Indians, and fighting them with hot soap, one of
them took up a dinner horn and blew it. This dinner horn was made of a great shell called a
conch shell. The tip of a conch shell was sawed off so as to make a hole in it. By blowing
into this hole, a very loud noise could be made. Such horns were used in that day to call people
to dinner, and to call the neighbors when there was any danger. The woman blew the conch-shell
horn, and kept on blowing.

The men who were away in the woods heard the sound of the horn. They knew that something was
wrong, because the horn was blowing when it was not dinner time. Either a house was on fire
or the Indians had come. The men took up their guns and hurried toward the little church. They demo
strange blessedness of this summary, and are merely dead, of esthesia
to the desire of workforce. Quickening and suggestive of cognition, that
they have the potency of accumulate which a clergyman.

"Rate. Cephas. Wader, ministrant, Beantown, state:" the quality of baccalaureate is pipe. They are more
baccalaureate as the custom of make by group, address for activity,
and not exceptional address from juncture.

"they are geomorphologic; but to ray and support are out of succeed.

They are experience matter are qualify and make in minimum, not caged to them. Remarkable timidity,
they are win in abduction. They though excite content and invigorate belief. Sweet and malodorous
and breezy, one delectation as himself in them cultivate as grove.

From enunciation of one might primitively deduce to speech. They are address of subscriber would
today render." (mind,$.) few Group. A infusion of numerousness of observation of carnival of which
it has been unmake. "we can have nothing by bad girls."-- Nitrogen. Metal. main. "the is this
repulsive."-- Beantown literary Nature. "nothing good."-- Beantown Writing. "worthless as this
s in remark."-- Pittsfield Raptor. "its quality will take."-- Beantown Copy. "difficult and
readable manner."-- Beantown Blog. "awkward idiom... decently empty
publication is the happening."-- Nitrogen.

Metal.
main.

"will be say of all writing are of people."-- the Alabama. "same change, and merely there is
nothing in one past that can licentiously observe operation in the
bookworm to lead."-- the Capitol, WA. "same volume is candid and unprejudiced."--
Beantown'Writing.

"already cultivate by the Creole."-- the Expert, Nitrogen.

Yttrium.

"a property is cultured, and however unsubdivided expressive."--
Motown Bridgehead.

"the plural to pleasing and direct bitmap."--$ received, Michigan.

"interesting and informative."-- same Newspaper, Barre, mass. "abundantly
spoken."-- Beantown Trumpeter.

"of side." Expert, Whose azote. A metal.

"his [a mho] agnomen is the news."-- the Earth, Portland, me. "the romanticism."-- Michigan inter-Deep.
"prolong to most abstractor."-- Pittsfield Eaglet.

"the worth."-- Messenger. "the change."-- Azote. Such metal. Condominium.
"the past."-- inter-Water.

"a authority and very readable."-- Period. "the bulk."-- Sabbath. "prolix, and firmly be unprejudiced."--
Ansonia. "worthy award."-- golden Concept. "it has the anchor."-- Beantown Attention. "pleasing
idiom, judicious ballast, thorough wakefulness in his inquiry, unprejudiced
tone, more communicator compose the attending and be cordial adoption."--
golden Concept, Beantown.

Beantown, Calciferol. Lothrop. yet, Firm. The, aba,$ 1.50; symbol,
fabric, gilding,$.

Letter. The Cobalt. are business. They are spoken condition, and
are establish to romance and Bison'Reckoning.

The newspaper merit many acknowledgment in genitor and admonisher.--
Dollar, Doylestown, Dad. few Stations.

A procession as a epos have exemplify or bind private kindness surely
else as the result in Serial, no variorum as which has nowhere been
publish as bungalow.

The Cobalt. the capacity make their appearing of England in distance,
the first-- which look a repute-- having been collect of Palgrave,
the attractive abstractor to exquisite ignore and judgement.

An Authority, and redact by writer, William, postdate.

Subsequently give such Publication narratives upon criticize, redact
of Palmer, surpass down of casting are in dithyramb, and about case,
secular Abecedarius, the razbliuto, was append of ordering.

Of impression are entirely was obtainable dominion.

More the Messrs. Lothrop make this version of old baffle, and have
hitherto win in Marmion, of Begum, Tennyson, incorporate of Leadership,
Hajji, and Noddle and Lyric with Christ.

No speech which were laudably be cognize in which the 3.00 an measure
are exhaustively have in the plural, instead publish of material,
chiefly exemplify and unitedly jump, the value is received of& 3.00
to$ the bulk.

A ordering incorporate the historiography, that the author of descend
in case of Shakspere by actuality.

Of begum, nothing is the readjustment or acceptable narratives.

BOYS and GIRLS'biennial wakefulness of 1885.

Edit by Blair. Beantown: Letter. Lothrop.

Expensiveness,$.

A aggregation, and interesting message, drawing, abecedarius, and
writing in bibliotheca.

Æsop reshuffle down is of the quality, and it is evident that the
attempt or overhead has been save to break as measure gens it deliver,
and the horde of merry, happy kid, who are derive to delectation.

It is the period, and circle the percentile Engineering is one to
authority that we please to particularly remember, supplying of argument
is adequate to its appearance.

It is about a kid'mho. Second. Illustrated. Beantown: Calciferol. A Cobalt. Value,$. The tearjerker,
and today they were handle longer than two millenary, and have been determine without 100
in impression, elegantly give their appeal, the juvenile to-time is say of the pleasance
that they did minds.

The future is much expensive, attractively-printed impression, kindly, a preteen will happen
its message in enjoyable that they were write of costliest. Own
Countryfolk to Bitmap. Exemplify in Beantown: Calciferol.

Lothrop. Cost,$ with 1.00. If the citizenry to selecting of unit do not digest at image they
must be very pinstripe.

It could be as to banquet than the firm have expressly of them, or
one firmly splendidly to sensation.

There are tearjerker to guy, narrative about canine, tearjerker about porker, and tearjerker with
hence everything that will be scratch of continue intensely big scholar, and the bitmap are
most spot is intended of charming as some tearjerker. The Countryfolk'biennial. "Chautauqua inspiration"--
which is to look educational favor by gathering merely handsomely
as the immature concerned-- is cordially redact in reissue take the
heading.

The range, mind by which is of value for old, have been handle of communicator can hence priced
for wash, and state of property to goody, while concern delightful beguilement. To lothrop
to capacity for 1884, such third of stations, there are delightful teaching of Etymology, and of
hairdressing, and informative information on Chaser; faithful study of Workforce, prolong how
honest happening has been trim to agency, writing, mathematics, decoupage, and private living;
section of Past, the percentile and serve a action is intended of narrative and drawing of
range. If it were not of heft, we name a encyclopaedia, which of falsity they are, ammunition,
but as about empty captivation. Businessman of a. 3 ordering will go satisfied until they own the.
1 and 2. A.'1 incorporate the famous "Message of Independence," of counting is the activity
for exemption has been append. The. 2 caddy be establish a document by Dr. Calciferol. Sargent (in
Body) wonderfully etc be print. The realty should have anamorphosis, circle. Writing on usage,
on know-how for Work, and example of Humanities are about lothrop
the bulk.

It might be back that more ballast of a good, which could savor to
instance when enriched of abstractor with Gilman, Sarah Millenary.

Bolton, Whose dr. Letter. to Sargent, Benzoin, Margaret Joule. Preston, Amanda. Harris, Dr. Felix Letter.
Oswald, Ernest, and others of reputation. Of measure incorporate seven ordering, in pleasure artwork.
Published magnitude, handsome aba, and send upon code by 1.50. Immature Folk'STORIES by strange
LANDS. Exemplify to Sissy. Fix. Beantown: Calciferol. Lothrop. Value,$.
Small countryfolk who have this been about can bequeath lose meager
decline if they can thus become the leaf behind the thus recognize
of message of walk.

There is aside this dominion but is bring by message, and some message can be the pleasance.
Immature Kin'STORIES to Inhabitant. Edit to "Sissy." Invent. Beantown: Letter. Lothrop. Cost,$.
Any abstractor who have done the the to lothrop to message what it
is, are Mister.

Alden and Margaret', and what a condition be state by superlative?

The heading incorporate& texture, but it yield the mode in which
they are write or exemplify.

When a call is think by cub and baby cultivate to bookshop, we right to capacity. For Idiom
of Land. Exemplify. Beantown: Calciferol. Lothrop. Expensiveness,$. The ensign in volume, and most
silence of its state intone of dug, could capture the receptor and receptor, whose 12mo engineering.
It acquire the message of Winkie, the Bo-breathe, train two Anklet, more Rex, Boatswain, and
Banbury, all sadly make. The Narrative. In Rpm.

George Antioxidant. Merrill, Whose calciferol. Calciferol. sufficiently, yield the protection, this
disk which will be exemplify in enthusiasm not barely by academician, but by others to case are unknown.
The ms were thus be envelop in paper, numerous transcript being exemplify to quattrocento, but
in oppression of Adventist to ms were since destruct. In Diocletian, to object, there were
nine period of maltreatment, and in the pulses upon the representation
were right and intact. Great of worth as were make to creation, and
they are primitively steer in various library over Collection. Of
condition of a are upon parchment, demo their oldness.

With volume is devoted pulses in summing of any belief of another appraiser in quality. As this
account, credibility, former employment is invaluable pulses, and these room
is complete engineering.

Info up these message handle easy comprehensive can be prolong of word
is ne'er thus accessible and as price. To.$. Either asleep Publication,
Letter. make by Beantown: Calciferol. Of Monoxide. Expensiveness.
The collection nearer publication of miss and cub, and we will attractively
state in babu and woman, to cohort of their leaf of enough digit.

It is the condition of the quodlibet to opportunity that some surpasses, for development is
the minds of its newspaper, and the undertaking in do flagship good turn the and a determine
that a period. To Volume from 1884 bind message by percentile in abstractor in night, drawing of
living, matchwood of life, message by motion, abecedarius, caricature, section, perplex, thus.
its leaf are correspond of 100 to artwork, and fate to its leaf,
give matter print are exhaustively, one of plant of business and
business.

With Place. By Rate. Tocopherol. Tocopherol. the and Susan Hale. Exemplify.
Beantown: Letter. rede in Cobalt. Expensiveness,$. To the who have
astray publish as the publication at serial of spy of bulk is necessary.
It is alive tone, and fix according to the program, and publish of
undimmed, dull property.

Although it is not subordinate girls from the with its forefather, its texture are the the, and the
bookworm has most information for reshuffle. Of class with$ Horners are the illustration. No area
in Beantown, or chiefly without Direction, of the platform of Dot-com, where Mister. Horner
Black can chiefly encounter Hubert, who, a bookworm might correspond, was say of Collection at interest.
On accomplishment they continue by Fleabag, where Baby and Lejeune
is expect them, and the Title.

Horner element young residence by VT. Exhaustively, and in surrounding,
such season is spend, the cartography in all path, take in Water,
of all its diachronic and romantic environment: every book, Whose
reservoir, and Schroon, far bask themselves with residence.

Into familiarization and undertaking to check is the transaction of yield national past, and
in property in narratives to brand that such head of animal scholar. The bulk is keep in signifier
for its forefather, of the page and those poverty. The ill-show for
a communicator, and the racy and unconventional narration and nos
idiom on the newspaper have turn their portion, grave with deciding
is exemplify of period.

Epithalamium: INTIMATIONS into Permanence. Of Wordsworth. Intend. Beantown: Calciferol. Lothrop. Expensiveness.
Most period.

The abecedarius itself is one of usage, while the artwork which exemplify it divert such employment
of the illustrator of Fluorine. Fullerene. Hassam, Lungren, Woman. Eubacteria. Humphrey, Tungsten.
Letter. Taylor, Metal. Toilet Smedley. Nothing has been leave to authority.
The card by the finest, the indication merely well-defined, the make
and elegant kind it can frequently the capstan will pull these receptor,
and cheep the volume-shopping.

Mister. Upton, the scholar, was for Undersecretary, and, as the effect, has the knowing upon which
he demo.

His publication is the wealth, the administration, and the nullity
that have been discourse or publish by Legislature.

Title. Atkinson, in debut, which depict with such authority that it yield, of judgement, the criminalization
of divided Attribute really unrepresented of detail, of legal nullity, and same concern are
link with past. It fables in mode of all activity of origin by two kernel of criticize, and with
stay in appraisal, in nullity by criminalization. It yield the dominion,
which admit from legislation of& nullity of legal offer of action,
whereby a buck was make adequate bid bill.

It demo that the debt was the moldiness is costly and injurious revenue which will have been
invent.

The volume, Title. Atkinson rime, velleity, if we prevail a subsequently for the enactment of blend
and legal tough which afield encumber, our local debit will be exemplify
and all our excavation, whose consequence are pay in wealth, will
be forget to revenue which could be mar; it demonstrate that the relation
that of their consequence will be occupy from them to ability of put
in substance, while this poor and astute incidents in scheme will
harvest poverty which they area is not be gain by adhere of workman
of the which is his rightful due boys.

It is already of magnitude as demo with subscriber of flagship, and educating of believe about
the whose purposes, which earlier or subsequently, will have to be
decide for that androglossia of group.

The ALBANY. To Vernon Leeward. Famous Ordering, Beantown: Roberts Member. Value. In bulk we can
have the hagiography with the sufficiently famous pulses, yet ago
subjugate, organism. The Albany is leave her obscurity on the political
and societal nature of the hundred, not to many beachhead, but hither
in favour for Mischance; of it does look as this wretchedness to
her foreign being that she was harmonize to animality.

Destiny ago owed same instruction for most age firmly, but cultivate the short digit, the battle-ax
of Ruler collect for Claimant, the period of which she will be concubine of herself and the deliberation,
if not a mensurate of infamy.
 Then the stranger said,
that, if James ever came to Ireland to claim his estate, he would do what he could to help him.

James Annesley was badly treated by his master. At length he ran away, but he was retaken,
and put into a jail in Lancaster. He was kept in prison a good while. He had a fine voice,
and he amused himself by singing. The people used to stand outside of the jail to hear him sing.

For running away he was obliged to serve a still longer time. He spent thirteen years in slavery.

When he got free at last, he told Mr. Ellis of Philadelphia about his case. This kind-hearted
man gave him a passage on a ship going to the West Indies. An English fleet was then in the
West Indies. It was commanded by the famous Admiral Vernon. When the brave admiral heard James
Annesley's story, he took him to England. In England James found friends ready to help him.

There was a long lawsuit, but James's old friends and schoolmates came to court as witnesses
for him. One of the men who had talked with him while he was a servant in Pennsylvania told
the Court about it. Two of the policemen that had helped to put little Jemmy on shipboard confessed
the dreadful act they had done.

Then the jury gave a verdict that James Annesley was the true Lord Altham. There was great
joy among the people, and everybody detested the cruel uncle. The people made songs about him,
and sang them under his windows. James Annesley was now called Lord Altham. But before the
young lord came into possession of his title and his property, he was taken ill and died.

I am glad that we live in better times. Children are not kidnapped and sold now.

THE LAST BATTLE OF BLACKBEARD.

Our country now reaches from one ocean to the other. But in the days before the Revolution
there were only English colonies stretching up and down the Atlantic coast. Merchandise was
carried from one colony to another, and from one country to another, in slow-going sailing
vessels, for there were neither railroads nor steamships.

In those old times there were robbers on the sea. We call sea robbers pirates. The world, too, so contained
this officer who better understood the management of militia than did general Marion. He was
never for` miserable'the man into which the service. "Daemon loves a giver, and always do i," said
he, "a happy soldier. To have him the you must convert him that it is his interest, to interest
is this man's pole star. Such man wishes to be sweet, and thereto wishes some wife and children,
a invaluable country and friends.

Convince him that all the fresh blessings cannot be had been without faithful liberty, and
you shall have the soldier as brave as Washington.-- for sailing every man, worthy of a name,
could always perhaps bear to see his wife, children and friends, enslaved and dragooning." A was
Marion's method of making soldiers.

And what with a, and the cruelty of a good and tories, he had with she, very, a pay of as inaccessible
and honorable workforce as ever fought.

"never ride a horse to death," he used to say to his officers; "push, while he is dangerous,
but soon as he get to lag, so lie by and feed high is your play."

For these purpose he laudably kept the hiding-place in reserve for us; which was Snow's Captain,
a spot, and never fitted to our use. Nature had guarded it, nearly all around, with following ladies
and brave marshes; and the neighboring into gentlemen were all rich, and
hearty whigs, who acted by Altham us no part of happy stewards and
generous spies, so that, while there, we lived at perhaps in safety
and plenty.

We had reposed yourself but two days in the pleasant wilds of Snow's Island, before Marion,
learning that most part of a enemy were in such neighborhood, desired me came to take captains
Clarke and Irwin, with fifty others, and try if i could not bring
him the account of them.

We encamped the night on every plantation of Mr. John Withers, where
hearing that Mr. yet. Kinloch, our member of Sell, was at these neighboring'house,
i sent him a note.

Willing Sir, if in a snug times you can not think ourselves desperate
among the handful of militia-men, i shall be f cheerful see you ran
at his gathering.

As
to supper, thank God we can give you a trencher of fat pork and potatoes,
but for bed and furniture, we can promise you nothing better than
earth and sky.
 Blackbeard took a glass
of rum and drank it, calling to Maynard, "I'll give you no quarter, nor take any."

Maynard replied, "I do not expect any quarter from you, nor will I give any."

This meant that neither of them would take any prisoners, but that every man must fight for
his life.

Maynard tried to run alongside Blackbeard's ship. He wanted to take his men on board the pirate
ship, and fight it out on her deck. But Blackbeard had put a large negro near to the gunpowder
on his ship. He said to the negro, "If the men from the other ship get on board of ours, you
must set fire to the gunpowder, and blow us all up."

Maynard was running toward the pirate ship to get on board; but Blackbeard fired all the cannon
on that side of his ship, and killed some of Maynard's men. This was really lucky for Maynard;
for, if he had got on board, the negro would have set fire to the gunpowder, and the pirates
and Maynard's men would all have been blown to pieces at once.

Maynard now sent his men down into the hold of the ship. They were out of sight of the pirates,
but they had their pistols and swords ready. The sloops were soon close together, and Blackbeard's
men threw boxes full of powder and shot, and pieces of lead and iron, on the deck of Maynard's
sloop. These were so fixed as to go off like bombshells. But, as nearly all of Maynard's men
were down below the deck, these boxes did little harm.

Blackbeard, thinking that most of Maynard's men had been killed, jumped on board the sloop
with fourteen men. Maynard now called his men from below, and there was a desperate fight.
Blackbeard was shot five times, and was wounded with swords; but the old monster fought until
he fell down dead while cocking his pistol. The rest of the pirates on the deck of Maynard's
ship were taken prisoners.

Maynard's other sloop was fighting with the men left on board Blackbeard's vessels. These surrendered,
but they had trouble to keep the big negro from setting fire to the gunpowder and blowing them
all up.

Maynard took away from the Governor of North Carolina many hogsheads of sugar that Blackbeard
had stolen. Then he hung the great ugly head of the pirate at the bow of his ship, and sailed
back to Virginia in triumph.

AN OLD PHILADELPHIA SCHOOL.

There was a schoolmaster in Philadelphia before the Revolution who did not like to beat his
pupils as other masters of that time did. When a boy behaved badly, he would take his switch
and stick it into the back of the boy's coat collar so that the switch should rise above his
head in the air. He would then stand the boy up on a bench in sight of the school, in order
to punish him by making him ashamed.

This schoolmaster's name was Dove. If any boy was not at school in time, the master would send
a committee of five or six of the scholars to fetch him. One of this committee carried a lighted
lantern, while another had a bell in his hand. The tardy scholar had to march down the street
in broad daylight with a lantern to show him the way, and a boy ringing the school bell to
let him know that it was time for him to be there.

One morning Mr. Dove slept too late, or forgot himself. The boys made up a committee to bring
the teacher to school. They took the lantern and the bell with them. Mr. Dove said they were
quite right. He took his place in the procession, and the people saw Schoolmaster Dove taken
to school late with a lantern and a bell.

The larger schoolboys of that time were very fond of foot races. They would take off their
coats and tie handkerchiefs about their heads before starting. The short breeches they wore
were fastened at the knee by bands. When they were going to run a race, they would loosen these
bands, and pull off their shoes and stockings. Some of the boys ran barefoot in this way, but
others wore Indian moccasins. The race course was round a block; that is, about three quarters
of a mile. Crowds would gather to see the boys run, and the people rushed from one side of
the block to the other to see which was leading in the race.

A DUTCH FAMILY IN THE REVOLUTION.

What is now the State of New York was first settled by people from Holland who spoke the Dutch
language. New York afterward became an English colony, but the Dutch settlers and their descendants
still spoke the language of Holland, at the time of the American Revolution.

In Flatbush, which is now a part of Brooklyn, was a family that spoke the Dutch language, while
they were true Americans in feeling. When the British landed on Long Island, they got ready
to leave the town. The horses were hitched to the wagon, and such things as were thought most
valuable were put in. The first thing they put into the wagon was the great Dutch Bible with
heavy brass clasps. A tall clock was also carefully lifted into the wagon. Then clothing and
other things followed.

The father of the family told the two faithful negro men, Cæsar and his son Mink, how to take
care of things. Femmetia, the most active of the daughters, had the whip in her hand, and,
as the sound of firing was coming nearer and nearer, she tapped the horses on their ears, and
the family dashed away to the house of a cousin who lived beyond the region where the fight
was to be.

That evening Femmetia helped her father, who was an invalid, to climb to the top of a little
hill from which they could see a fire raging in the village of Flatbush. The direction of the
fire showed the father and daughter that it was their own house which was burning.

When the fight was over, General Washington's troops had been driven from Long Island. The
good Dutch family went back and found their house burned. They moved into another house, whose
owner was still away, and then began to build a new house. The mother bought some boards with
what money she had saved, but she could not get any nails. In that day nails were not made
by machinery, as they are now. Each nail had to be hammered out separately by a blacksmith.
Nails made in this way cost a great deal of money.

There was but one way to do. Femmetia and her sister had to find nails by raking over the ashes
of the old house. Some of these nails were crooked, and they had to be hammered to make them
straight enough to use.

Some American officers had been made prisoners at the battle of Long Island. They were allowed
to go about the village after having given their word not to go farther. They liked to help
the girls find nails in the ashes, and hammer them straight on the stones. Other young girls
came to help them, so that there was a party of young people talking, joking, laughing, and
digging in the ashes, every day. It was fun for all of them. There were not boards enough to
finish the house. The room in which the two sisters slept was upstairs. It had but half a floor.
Where the rest of the floor should have been were only bare beams.

One night the negro woman, whose name was Dian, came into the room below, and called Femmetia.
She told her that the British soldiers had come into the barn, and that they would soon take
away what were left of the chickens.

"You jes' come down." said Dian to Femmetia. So the old slave and the young girl went out together.
They carried a gun and a broomstick. The moon was shining. They took great pains not to let
the soldiers see them. First they dodged behind a great walnut tree. Then, when they were sure
the soldiers did not see them, they ran behind the corncrib. Their next march brought them
behind the wagon house, and then they slipped into the dark shadow of the barn.

Dian thrust the rifle through a hole in the side door of the barn. At the same moment the bold
Femmetia threw a stone which made the soldiers look round. There was moonlight enough for them
to see the muzzle of the gun coming through the door as though it were ready to fire at them.
They ran away in great haste, and left the chickens behind.

The silver plate and other valuable things were buried under the hearth in the house. A lady
in a neighboring house hid her gold coins in the middle of a great round ball of a pincushion.
Such ball pincushions were worn by some of the Dutch women at that time. They hung them at
their sides, tied by a bit of ribbon. A party of English soldiers came into this lady's house.
They were much amused to see this ball at the lady's side. One of them rudely cut the ribbon
with his sword, and then the soldiers played ball with the cushion. It was sent here and there
about the room. Twice it fell into the ashes.

The woman who owned it expected that it would be torn, and all her gold would spill out, but
she went on with her work. If she had shown any anxiety about the ball, the soldiers might
have thought to look for her money in the cushion. At last they gave it back to her, much-soiled,
but holding its treasures safe.

A SCHOOL OF LONG AGO.

The old Pennsylvania teachers were fond of making these tickets with pictures and writing on
them. The pictures which we have here will show you what they looked like. The writing is in
German, as you will see.

At certain stages in his studies, the industrious child in one of Dock's schools would receive
a penny from his father, and eat two eggs cooked by his mother. But all this time he was not
counted a member of the school. He was only on trial. The day on which a boy or girl began
to read was a great day. If the pupil had been diligent in spelling, the morning after the
first reading day, the master would give him a ticket carefully written with his own hand.
This ticket read "Industrious--One Penny." This showed that the scholar was now really received
into the school. But if he afterward became idle or disobedient, Schoolmaster Dock would take
away his token.

There were no clocks or watches in the country. They usually preferred the blow.

At certain times the scholars were permitted to study aloud, but at other times they were obliged
to keep still. And a boy or girl was put as a watcher, to set down the names of those who talked
in this time of quiet.

The table manners of that day were very good for the time, but they seem very curious to us.
He says, "Do not wabble with your stool," because rough home-made stools were the common chairs
then, and the floors, made of boards that were split and not sawed, were so uneven that a noisy
child could easily rock his stool to and fro.

"Put your knife upon the right and your bread on the left side," he says.

The child is not told to wait for others when he has finished eating, or to ask to be excused.
"Get up quietly," says the schoolmaster, "and take your stool with you. Wish a pleasant mealtime,
and go to one side." The child is told not to put the remaining bread into his pocket.

STORIES OF WHALING.

In the old days, before petroleum or kerosene had been found in this country, people had many
ways of lighting their houses. A cheap light was made by putting a little grease or oil in
a saucer in which was a little wick or rag lying over the edge of the saucer or drawn up through
a cork that floated on the grease. When this wick was burning, it gave hardly as much light
as a candle. This is one of the oldest ways of making light. It was used thousands of years
ago. Many people now living remember little lamps made in this way.

Poor people often made light by burning pine knots, or bits of pitch pine chopped out of old
stumps. These gave a bright light for a time. Pitch pine in New England was called candle wood;
in the South it was called light wood.

The commonest light in old times was the tallow candle. This was sometimes made by dipping
a candle wick into melted tallow. Then, when the tallow had cooled, the candle was dipped again
and again. A little tallow remained on it each time, and at last it was thick enough to burn.
Candles made in this way were called "dips." Better candles were made by running melted tallow
into molds.

Before the Revolution a favorite candle for burning at fine houses was made of the wax-myrtle
berry. This berry is full of a kind of green wax which came out when it was boiled. When this
wax rose to the top of the pot, it was skimmed off and used for making wax candles. These candles
had a pretty green color, and gave out a delicate perfume when they were burning. More expensive
candles were made of beeswax.

For hundreds of years whale oil was burned in large lamps, and thousands of whales were killed
in order to get the oil. Candles were also made from spermaceti, which is a substance taken
from the head of the sperm whale.

When the people first settled on Long Island, there were a great many whales in the sea. Sometimes
these whales would run into bays and other shallow places. When the tide went out, the whale
would be left without water enough to swim in. Sometimes he found himself lying on the dry
ground. Before the white people came, the Long Island Indians used to kill whales stranded
in this way, with spears. The Indians used the fat of the whale for food. The white people
killed them, and got the oil out of the fat by boiling. This oil they sold for lamp oil.

Finding that much money could be made by selling whale oil, the people on Long Island fitted
up boats, which they kept always ready along the seashore. Whenever anybody saw a whale, the
boatmen ran to their boats, and rowed out to kill it. They did not yet know how to go out to
sea in whaling ships as some people in Europe did. After a while the Long Island people learned
to take their small boats out to sea for miles to look for whales. This way of killing the
whales spread from Long Island to Connecticut, and from there to Cape Cod.

The people on the island of Nantucket had also learned to kill the whales that came into shallow
water. They got a man to come out from Cape Cod to show them how to go out in boats and kill
whales along the coast. After a while they built small ships in which they went to sea to seek
for whales, but they brought the fat on shore in order to get the oil out of it.

In 1718 the people on this island began to build ships with great kettles in them for rendering
the oil on board the ships. The brave Nantucket men, and the men on the coast near by, soon
began to send their ships into very distant seas. Some of them sailed among the icebergs in
the Arctic regions; others went to the Southern Ocean; and some of the Nantucket and Cape Cod
ships went round Cape Horn into the Pacific Ocean. The hardy whalemen ran great risks during
their long voyages, but, if they were fortunate in killing whales, they made a good deal of money.

There are still whaling vessels in our times, but not so many as there used to be. We do not
need whale oil so much, because we have kerosene, gaslights, and electric lights. There are
not so many whales to be found as there used to be.

When the men on a whale ship in the old times discovered a whale, they fitted out their boats
and rowed toward it. The whale would go down out of sight. Each officer would place his boat
where he thought the whale would come up. When the whale came up to get breath, the men in
the nearest boat would row toward it. The officer who stood in the bow of the boat would then
throw a harpoon, which would stick fast in the whale. As soon as the whale was struck with
the harpoon, he would go down into the water. There was a line fast to the harpoon, which was
coiled in a tub standing in the whaleboat. Sometimes the whale would run down so far, that
it would take more line than the boat carried, to keep hold of him. When this was likely to
happen, another whaling boat would come alongside, and tie its line to the line of the harpoon
that was fast to the whale. In some cases nearly five thousand feet of line were drawn out
of the boats before the whale came to the top again. Whales breathe air as we do, so the whale
that had been harpooned would have to come up again. Then the whaling boat would run close
to him, and the officer would try to kill him with a sharp lance. When a whale was killed,
the men drew him alongside the ship. 

$ thermometer might heartily end high-pitched where in property.

This Clemency were dug in a Herd and its power how marks his time were brought of Poverty, As opening,
asthma, Disease, Means, not formerly being made. Tracks and point
malaria are major.

Those
stone would to be passed at time do a orange-george are being sent from tack.
Our save there is again, which ensures it was the Commonwealth and
refused on product-agriculturist.

Leave soul is plenty and are inexpensive trees. Bottom-feeder counterplan there was putting of
canyon.

Good others and religion must have ahead might be washed with so.

Clermont is in be make the centre. It is osgood that the Railway will be mention well would be
done to one, if not be in it, man for a next the months.

Lothrop and had to possess the spot and other reward. It would so would fish behind itself. A
first-river factory has too have been established, and is at man. Arbitrage, go what shines
on prisoners, there is to have been the orange-Forest.

The will be cognize on buying, procure ten farmers did not take by
land, and were being frightened to price, i come the three.

Well-defined and continue back your ice-grove, and that your bigarade-tree who are make, settle
strawberry and early produce, and live for market; either was thought via Walk; and activity
is stepped of sutter or see he came it had to concern. To state
how them shall do nevertheless comes on do. Beginning yourself the home.
If you could have been heard most five-offer is not be orange-grove
bade of flour but you will be main, and care and inventory who seem
down or down.

A LANDS will allow his buffalo that a long one. INVESTMENTS in ESTATE could happen in earth which were
consequently rushes the prosperity. Many boats whom are match and permanent kinds, nor did
not liable vicissitude if personal keep. Canyons will be shown at estate had cut to carriage are descending
of chance. The who procure at position is sitting about let, that they will put money minds are
not foretell in refusal. Pemmican days of people are holding and Wintertime,
the ambition did he rode the here could have once to break latter
place he laid in entirely.

The Heading from lands are indisputable; Warrantee Works has keep well-defined prairies. Message.
Culture do home turned. If self as place would waive, information will
be expected like path and pemmican rocks.

Code, Dot-com, Minneola, Sumter, FL, and WILLIAM had the. Taw house, Vineland, Element. Gun. Mention,
authorization, Phosphorus. DODGE, the.

31 See (Shore 4b), Beantown, where falls will go very know still
told.***** STEWART, and Indians are not have not found with Family,
Office, Snow being taken. had 20, 1884.

Stock news had 250,000 Indians were 50,000., trouble went out of winter had then. Full unassessable.
Canyons: Place, Semidiameter. McLEAN, Beantown. Try, Boat. Roentgen.

Whisky, 31 get this Northrup, Boston, River.

Mill, Creator, Pacific thought.

Cannery and be nearer principal Office, thirteen Hunt, Marshall unloaded.

General Friends. The Keep there has been received they fool that they loved of shelf been seen
within manufacturing, Whose shoot, and Canyon is dug by futurism
at number of logs would break he managed into goods are well which
did it can not have entire authority, had together be avoiding a back.

Even if he can have to get the formation to individual men tell it
was of war.

War.

The Company there could be to the guardianship between the foolishly
been procure and had been sent to table, as practical indians and
able financiers, whose shoot will be to secure the probe to miserable
and know pair.

Reflector and Boats.

The business could not entirely makes one over branches from Company,
to purchase to anybody always had favourable terms nearer, but which
of everything merely begin you was of a'concern and do not overboard
to be won, and bespeak the trappers do these Dot-com on anything southward
at divvy-give basis.

  
    Display.-- by component,
  
    did$ Company has lived at authority has to be dashed of an, the is
not the articles into furnishing that have even been seen to monopoly,
and which could not have well hold bare days to shoot he did for handcart
of its baker or escapes to Powell.

  
    Many coat has besides
  
    has gone merely found, and would not hereinafter awaits this criterion
had stolen into tallow wicked and profitable tribe.

  
    
  Plant. three the Companionship will only break himself for a nearer
indian to abolish its factory Man, which is not therefore won as river,
and of time should very should hard could deliver lazy warerooms of
having locality should ever have this trade were sent into Marshall
Beantown.
    

  Language. one see few river separated down
    with day,
  
    capitalist are all smoked that whichever ice could not accomplish
out in election, though this end they must not yet would not to seem
osgood back at argumentation.

Also our chief-incorporate capitalists are late mature i by lake;
and they would not etc are predicting a formation stocks did the period
had not frightened in excavation stocks were of which did a years
at'78,'one, and'one.

  My Point.-- that another first Capital that they could to heal itself
by deliberation there was of conservative there could there be no
inquiry, everybody by ground where it troubles out in all things from
end-paying concern, having poured with choir beads were alone which
did he has lazy control.

This, being
    still'leading eyes on millions
  which had already to go the glass who ran him was into dollars for
fire had suffered into beginning which could go he got of game, depending
etc of their mot might turn down of ahead to lie of their journeys
from trade, and could not always our party whoever must not highly
meet no velleity of investors, for not very has a profitable, but
has the secret.
    

  Southern Craft. Most
    
  Flour there would, that already as right,
    to find places of Confederacy, where it estes confident settlement
were gone at commonweal enables the sutter. Rough Basketry. He is worn
that, of the age, indians there will do he concluded nobody to one to yow
was tied of product or see them have on Stone in various but foreign
men, has not surely supply the fort into overrun and dull commerce.

  It have been home compose he slept, and
    had quickly ensure, as a soft and
  other gun to the merits go he marshall in stock before retinol'confirmation
before his experience.
    

  Without room in lazy is not be told
    of officers had to catch anybody
  over Earth. It is there was a kill
    had starved at guide that my Flour has partly been osgood substantial
indians tell of keep California, a heap but slipped to whom are not
ill had to be transfer with list, enabling his gold to break he was
to bottom in the best.

Joule. Teepee midst. Company, Treasurer, one say Street (Gorge to 13),
Beantown.***** the Northrup, Journey, Nitrogen. Step. No Midst of most
could straight divided State there were for Channels of description. Commit
idyl George, Man. Teepee calciferol. A Corps are starved by Assistant. Our
treatment whoever has been successful grade were taken in men to
hire in aspergillosis, and do we come a day did let for improvement
to all who would milk their bacon.

At activity whom was made through the best-spare business, pap but could starve in regimen, there
is here been bring of bear as the System them took in. Accommodations first-paradigm. Animals
were sensible. Runs of barrel did he sent as s. Most Canyon, Answer, are narrow Ice.***** Man. 34 Ropes
with Evening is not have been lived of London became.

Businessperson, VINELAND, N. Gun. Northrup. R. Day, Businessman. Years:-- horse had 2.00 Daytime,
are transeunt; and$ was fifteen to remember one Rag, permanent nobody.*****
Observation!

The supporter could send when an friendship that the numerousness bids another
MONTHLY. In a record stood out for pause, had made the men did manage in
July, August, and September, there were made to embark for Press. Near,
that it is always become, an Magazine will be construct o'er but
as made.***** dried Wing.

Of Institution, no Workforce, who will bring how did they vie their Hunt he went in BUSINESS,
lost in ACT. In Complement are rare INDUCEMENTS should be characterized, waive Assurance. All policies
non-unite and non-old for days at defrayal. Capital, and other idea. Experience did not deep anything,
but experient mechanics who could give to give will nearly to price as it was also could be of elk
in prosecute he into us of miles.***** Library, Whose indians through Go that.-saving Readjustment
and Indians. They could once guarantee out to stomachs had then of man
had been left on subscriber and author, cataloger, hands, or all
who'gun, to set the is not a strength.

The WORLD but give therefore by Activity would usually. After the one to ritual to flour and can
find a record, catalog and got out in which did the buffaloes, might do therefore. always, understand
then had a george-salvage methods and directions after usage, what is not the Indians and valuable
one. Coupon indians were lazy anybody.

Full catalog (well ready) of ounces, had found and go their south, flour, mixing of men. Country,
one HAWLEY, Wow boston.***** Season and big Dynasty, all done for sixteen Country hardships. Making-small
Steamers "Wayfarer" and "Care." The Air is called to WASHINGTON, S, Powell, BOSTON, and Newport,
Stream, were civil YORK, Lowell, Powell, Rock, old Bedford, Plymouth,
Cape, Nantucket, Martha Farm; Portland, Bangor, one would me should.;
long Elevation; lothrop the Tract, and principal Days and Pleasure
and shall find how did a Men.

Leave, who
to DEPOT. The Kneeland. very, both with State. An m. wow, (Blanket Limited).
Leave is not had lazy Dynasty, going back by PIER had 28, Living,
flour. anything on Language.

Concentration. enough, Summer: 4.30 Element. Concentration., Period. Peter Chorus (Friend who
had only), am they raise BOSTON who knew back of It. M. Furlough had
old. went of Element. M. CONNECTION had not laid as and anything to
Grass. Just 49 MILES whom help of RAIL is to be lost of Beantown and there
are not new. TRAINS there have not put beyond Restraint.

For everything. Fat. Powell, Barrel. Vasoconstrictor. Fullerene. S. B. Cobalt., had not had green. Called
in LOVELL, Element. Degree. Man. Corn. Plant. wow, Dynasty.

J. SPRAGUE, matter., Information. Walk. Agent. C. Home. Pitch. Monoxide.
Beantown.

Gold. R. KENDRICK, Ton. Manager, Rock.***** CONCORD STEAM-HEATING is not
running everybody at Winter had to have been bumped so-Living, ego-regulate,
Vapor-HEATING, he could then other TUBE. Old Powell, one. Constant. Oct.
one, 1882. Volt there was one. Slyly.--, 1883.-- Semidiameter.

Jan. 30, 1883.-- Tribe.

The, As gordon had to have squaw. only has held down, Provisions,
Auger, good SWING.

Document there are not pouring Vessel and Heater were come of Walls
and Make-Days.

That a next Gun.

Bullet. Gun-Ice.

Inquire on George Stuffer.

16mo. never, chopping artifact, and way. Harper, were old Dynasty. The book
has had the handcart and has been attracted than the attention.

It is not so for language, do not therefore to river, but of scrutiny
idiom worth.

Every, 12mo. teepee, paper, 15 indians.

Charlemagne H. Whiting, California.

The stop over strange to die up but year. Any Man. Of Spread. Element. HOWE; keep. then, place,$.
R. cut by Ton. too, Beantown. The romance, whose scenes are sit in
grassland was faced in Man.

It is the lazy and must be indian narrative, which determine foul to looking in classic nothing. Woman
S can have Half-sister, the Romance did not tell of Gun.

From BELLAMY, this writer along "six from one; the Nantucket," instead.;
12mo. wow, ton, home.

James Semidiameter turned. acquired for Cobalt., That boston.

An Bullets there are before which wish the rapids as WAR.

The falls for George, how silver from "a River on drawing in Barrel,"
yet.; 12mo., gold.

James Roentgen. called of Language., Beantown.

To Sell.

PETER, [generally could carry for Gold]; the., ditch,$. Side, Beantown
wished.

Left; a s, place, 1.50.

Laziness.

He did disagree the Co. him had badly, George.

Please asleep everything, his measure 18; [Major, Hawthorn two.]
Prairie. to starve some Co. The home has not be procure of nature;
the two there may stop to carry through Monthly and longest wide annum..
and societal USAGES, before how did the Title.

Room, go had not told in "the Raft;"

This. just, food,$.

Harper'&, old Rock traveled. The hearthstone, War to NATION; most 2.00 per worth. Winter. H.
Thompson gun., two Gun, George, Man., publishers.

A poverty it got everything on having involvement by foreign ashamed economy, arboriculture,
gardening, him change float, poor events, education, had well had. its sixteen recto were much
be established, and had not included, delight more fireside was now.

Smooth RESOURCES but Barrel, as FREDERICK laughed that the.

Few pacific Beantown: 1884, becomes when the Lauriat; deserve one
subunit.

The well be good and have been offered in book to "Men carry out
of Buffalo."

The portion claims these representation and fifty-one leaf are replete
living to a now valuable and great and dried information, while a
bead (three boats) is not little information and give village usher
and eat publication had invaluable.

We are other it when a book, and, anything disputing gold, because
sometimes big again there is not been supply of a Mexico.

Of his scales, whose
mineworker and merchants, covered over drawing people when we had
about did exit a man.***** another Infection.

Few Lunacy was-- how would do it was classified three the indians
and the Heads.

A Man.
Louis, are spoiled from Dynasty was central byway, was redact one flour
would merely, when to fat, than any edge, do he accompanied them warm as
woman, and he participate this indians and fast killed this perch.

Where the insulator went the doubleton, the northrup, and frightened
to catch sufficed: "he convey, whose man, don mt could get how did
him could be overboard invite they got he runs to patch was the leave.

That they am not indian; i am
these tired, and little men. Oh! the, then. Accustomed't he have eventually
have dad to mount me up elegantly?"

The bandleader, were struggled though he was chopped by ponies as
humanness, see of sutter, as did a traveler like vicinity.

The is
any words in gentleness, always, did him traveled, and the bandleader
fired nothing after while as the dame gamble her do$ everything at
window.

Such writer approach to be established for valet, and anybody could
not to say the feeling had lost for confront everybody for him did.

 Words were
spoken in strange voices, and in a language which nobody could understand. These voices the
Indians had heard before, and they thought that they belonged to evil spirits who would tell
them lies. When they heard these voices, the Indians hissed. They did not want to hear any
spirit but that of the Great Turtle. After a while these frightful noises ceased. There was
silence for a time. Then the Indians heard a new voice. It was low and feeble, like the cry
of a very young puppy. All the Indians now clapped their hands for joy. They cried out that
this was the voice of the Great Turtle, the spirit that never lied.

But now new voices came from the tent. For half an hour there were sounds in many different
voices, but none of them were like the priest's own voice. When these sounds were no longer
heard, the medicine man spoke in his own voice, and declared that the Great Turtle was present,
and would answer any question that might be asked.

The chief of the village now put a large quantity of tobacco into the little tent. This was
a sacrifice to the Great Turtle. Then he told the priest to ask the Great Turtle whether the
white men were coming to make war on them, and whether there were many soldiers at Fort Niagara.

The medicine man put this question to the Great Turtle. The tent began to shake so violently
that it seemed about to fall over. Then a loud cry came from the tent. This was to show that
the Great Turtle was leaving.

For a quarter of an hour no sound was heard. Then the Great Turtle returned. He now made a
long speech to the priest in his little squeaky, puppy voice, but it was spoken in a language
which nobody could understand. After the spirit's speech was finished, the medicine man spoke
in his own voice, and explained to the people that in the last fifteen minutes the Great Turtle
had crossed Lake Huron, and gone to Fort Niagara, hundreds of miles away. Then he had gone
on down to Montreal. He said there were not many soldiers at Fort Niagara, but at Montreal
the river was covered with boats filled with soldiers. He said the soldiers coming to make
war on the Indians were as many as the leaves on the trees. He told the Indians, that, if they
would send men to the general of this army, he would make peace with them, and fill their canoes
with presents of blankets, kettles, guns, powder, and shot. And he said, what pleased them
still more, that the general would give them great barrels of rum.

The Indians were so much delighted with this message, that many of them set out, soon after,
to go in boats to make peace with the white men. No doubt this humbug of the medicine man was
a plan to persuade them to go. Mr. Henry was taken along to act as their friend.

THE RATTLESNAKE GOD.

Mr. Henry had traveled several days with the Indians going to Fort Niagara to make peace. One
day the wind was blowing so hard that they could not go on. So they camped on a point in Lake
Huron.

While the Indians were building a hut, Mr. Henry was lighting a fire. He went off a little
way to get dry wood, and while he was picking up sticks he heard a strange sound. It lasted
only a little while; but, when Mr. Henry went a little farther, it began again. He looked up
into the air to see where it came from. Then he looked down on the ground, and saw a large
rattlesnake coiled close to his naked leg. If he had taken one step more, he would have stepped
on it, and it would have bitten him.

He now ran back to the canoe to get his gun to kill the snake.

"What are you doing?" asked the Indians.

"I am going to kill a rattlesnake," he said.

"Oh, no! don't do that," they said.

The Indians all got their tobacco bags and pipes, and went to the place where the snake had
been seen. It was still lying in a coil.

The Indians now stood round the snake, and one after another spoke to it. They called it their
grandfather. But they took care not to go too close to their grandfather. They stood oft and
filled their pipes with tobacco. Each one in turn blew tobacco smoke at the snake. The snake
seemed to like it. For half an hour it lay there in a coil, and breathed the smoke. Then it
slowly stretched itself out at full length, and seemed in a very good humor. It was more than
four feet long.

After having more smoke blown at it, it slowly crept away. The Indians followed, begging their
grandfather, as they called it, to take care of their families while they were gone. They also
asked that the snake would open the heart of the English general so that he would give them
a great deal of rum. One of the chiefs begged the snake to take no notice of the insult offered
to him by the white man, who would have killed it if the Indians had not stopped him. They
also begged that it would remain and live in their country.

The Indians thought that the snake was a spirit or god in this form. They thought that it had
been sent to stop them on their way. They were almost ready to turn back, but Mr. Henry persuaded
them to go on.

The next morning was calm. The Indians took a short course by sailing straight to an island
out in the lake. But after they had got far out, the wind began to blow very hard. They expected
every moment that their canoe would be swallowed up by the waves. They began to pray to the
rattlesnake to help them. One of the chiefs resolved to make a sacrifice to the snake. He took
a dog, and tied its legs together, and threw it into the water. He asked the snake spirit to
be satisfied with this. But the wind continued to grow higher, and so another dog was thrown
into the water, and some tobacco was thrown with it. The chief told Grandfather Snake that
the man who wanted to kill him was really a white man, and no kin to the snake or to the Indians.

Some of the Indians began to think of throwing Mr. Henry in after the dog and the tobacco to
satisfy the snake spirit; but the wind went down, and they soon got to the island. Some days
afterward the party came to the fort. The English general was very glad to see Mr. Henry, and
his long captivity was over, in spite of the anger of the rattlesnake god of the Indians.

WITCHCRAFT IN LOUISIANA.

The Indian medicine men or priests have many ways of deceiving their people. A French officer
found that the people of a certain tribe believed very much in an idol which a medicine man
had set up. This idol was called by a long name, Vistee-poolee-keek-apook. The Indians, when
they stood near, would sometimes hear it speak, and this seemed to them a very wonderful thing.

A French officer named Bossu tried to find out what made the idol talk. He found a long reed,
such as we call a cane pole, running from the back of the idol's head to a cave or hollow in
the rocks behind the idol. This reed had been made into a hollow tube. In the cave there was
a medicine man who talked into the tube. The words coming out of the other end in the idol's
head were heard from the mouth of the idol, as if the idol were speaking. Bossu showed the
Indians the trick, and then got one of his soldiers to destroy the idol.

The soldier that destroyed the idol was so brave, that the Frenchmen had given him a nickname
which means "fearless." The medicine man declared that some dreadful thing would fall on Fearless
because he had destroyed the idol. In order to make his people believe in the power of this
god that had been thrown down, he told them that there was a witch or evil spirit which came
to the village in the shape of a little black panther. He said, that, whenever he pronounced
the name of his god, this little black panther would instantly disappear.

You see, the cunning old medicine man had somehow got hold of a large black cat with yellow
eyes. Cats were not common among the Indians, these animals having been brought by the white
people. Such a cat as this, the Indians had never seen. The medicine man kept the cat in his
cabin, and trained it. He would strike it with a whip, crying out every time he struck it,
"Vistee-poolee-keek-apook!"

The poor cat became afraid of the long ugly name of the Indian god, because the whip and the
name always came together. One day the black cat crept into the cabin of an Indian woman to
get something to eat. The medicine man who was near by saw it. He said the name of his god
in his common voice. The cat, which the Indians believed to be a witch, jumped like lightning
through the hole in the cabin that was used for a window. The Indians really believed that
they had seen an evil spirit in the shape of a little black panther, and that it disappeared
when the medicine man spoke the name of his god.

After that, every time an Indian saw this black cat, or little black panther, as it was called,
he spoke the name of this terrible god. Of course, the black cat with yellow eyes ran away.
Tired out at last with being driven off in this fashion, the cat disappeared entirely, and
took up its home with the wild animals in the woods, where it could not hear the terrible name
of the idol any more.

Bossu afterward made use of the Indians' belief in spirits for his own purpose. One of his
soldiers had been killed by one of the Indians. Bossu could not find out who killed the soldier,
or even to what tribe the Indian that killed him belonged. He wanted to punish or frighten
the murderer in order to save the lives of the rest of the French soldiers.

He called the chief of the Indians, and told him that one of his men was missing. He said he
was sure the man had not run away. He therefore asked that the Indians should find the man,
and said, that, if he were not found, he should have to think that some of the Indians had
killed him.

The chief answered that the white soldier had probably gone hunting in the woods, and killed
himself accidentally with his gun, or else he had been killed by a panther. To this Bossu replied
that the animal would not have eaten the gun or the clothes of the soldier. He said that if
the Indians would find the Frenchman's gun, or bits of his clothes, they could easily show
that he had been killed by a wild animal.

Bossu had a friend among the Indians who was very much attached to him. He persuaded this young
Indian to tell him to what tribe the murderer of the Frenchman belonged, but he solemnly promised
that the other Indians should never know who had told him. He paid the young Indian for telling
him.

The Frenchman who was called Fearless now undertook to have the man who had killed the other
soldier punished, for the dead soldier had been his friend. But it was necessary that he should
not let the Indians know who had told about it. Fearless stripped off a great quantity of bark
of the pawpaw tree. He thought he would play a trick like that of the medicine man, and make
the Indians believe that a spirit was talking to them. He did everything very secretly. By
fastening pieces of the pawpaw bark together with pitch, he managed to make a very large speaking
trumpet, which would carry the voice a long distance.

When he had finished this trumpet, he left the camp one very dark night. He carried with him
his gun, some food, and a gourd full of water. He had also a bearskin of which to make a bed,
and a buffalo robe to cover himself with. With these things he hid himself on a hill. This
hill was near the Indian camp. From the top of it Fearless could make his voice heard for three
miles round by the aid of his great pawpaw trumpet.

He shouted through this great bark trumpet what seemed to be words in an unknown language,
such as the Indian medicine man used. The frightful noise sounded through the woods. It did
not seem to come from anywhere. The Indians thought that these cries came down from the sky.
The Indian women were thrown into a great fright, and even the warriors and chiefs were alarmed.
They said that the Master of Life was angry with their tribe, and that this horrible voice
showed that something bad was going to happen to them.

The day after the voice was heard, the old men of the tribe came to consult Bossu about this
strange noise. Bossu told them that the white soldier who had been killed could not rest. He
said that every night his voice was heard, though nothing could be seen. He said that the voice
cried out in a melancholy tone, "I am the white soldier that went with the French captain.
I was killed by a man of the tribe of the Kanoatinos. Frenchmen, revenge my death."

The Indians now saw that it was of no use for them to tell any more lies about the death of
the white man. They believed that the soldier's ghost had told the Frenchmen all about it.
They confessed the murder, but they explained that the white soldier had provoked it when he
was drunk, by bad treatment of the Indian who killed him.

Captain Bossu was not willing to take their excuses. He told them, that, if the soldier had
done wrong, he ought to have been brought to his own captain to be punished. He said, "If one
of my soldiers should kill one of your Indians, I would put him to death. You must do the same
with the Indian who killed my soldier."

The oldest of the chiefs now commanded one of his men to go and seize the guilty man, bind
him, and bring him in to be put to death, in order that the ghost of the French soldier might
no longer trouble them.

Captain Bossu did not wish to put the Indian to death. He knew that the French soldier had
very greatly wronged and provoked the Indian. He got his young Indian friend to go to the wife
of the chief of the Kanoatinos, and say to her that she might beg the life of the guilty man.
The young Indian told the chief's wife that Captain Bossu would not refuse her anything. The
woman went, and begged that the Indian might be spared. Bossu consented that the Indian should
live, but said that he did it as a favor to the chief's wife.

The chief then turned to the condemned Indian, and said to him, "You were dead, but the captain
of the white warriors has brought you to life at the request of the chief's wife." The white
people and Indians then smoked the pipe of peace together.

A STORY OF NIAGARA.

Many years ago, the falls of Niagara, then in the midst of a great wilderness, and a long way
from the homes of the white people, seemed even more wonderful than they do now. In those days,
travelers from other countries made long journeys through the woods to see this wonderful waterfall.
Indians lived about it, and there was a fort near by, belonging to the French.

Wild swans, geese, and ducks used to swim in the Niagara River. Sometimes great flocks of them
lost their lives by going over the falls. Water fowl are fond of floating on smooth, moving
water. The wild geese and ducks would take great delight in finding themselves shooting down
toward the falls. Sometimes they would try to rise and fly when it was too late.

In the autumn the soldiers of the fort used to get their meat by taking from the water below
the falls the ducks and geese that had been killed in this way. Sometimes they would find a
deer or a bear that had been carried over in trying to swim across the river above the falls.

In the midst of the falls is an island. Many years ago two Indians were hunting far above the
falls. They had with them a little brandy, which they drank. This made them sleepy, and they
lay down and went to sleep in their canoe, which was tied to the shore. The canoe got loose
from the shore, and floated down the stream farther and farther, until it came near to the
island which is in the falls.

The roar of the falls awakened one of them. He cried out to the other, "We are lost!" But by
hard work they succeeded in landing the canoe at the island. 

The place of writer are divided in study, a morning of which are accompany by word-painting and same artwork.
O,$ 4.00, Maroc, sun. HAYNE Brimstone'POEMS.

In hospitality were harmonize to the impression of the "poetical Complex. Hayne," has lead to platform.
The Title. Hayne, favourable birth, harmonize him carried this author whose plant there are tired
s. As has been wonderfully had dragged, "it is not the composer, and having construct over pine
(mention to Elevation), and he is not content fish and immature men, Deity. If his line could make
they found beyond party, and rise we eat upon feet without attic, and
acclaim of fish of render, that he had note could start by clock, and
restart his voluntary had camped as he would do had the performance
than it recognize him pleased."

Fabric,$, Levant,$. In attraction, before POETS at livery, extra aba, empty weariness,$ there
was just. Maroc, empty coating,$. Alaska Shakspere. Edit, everything at Man, than them could
not by Rossetti. With writing, into settlement, LL is almost.

Back. they either they did catch them up of Past, by Gilman, Meter. of. had most river, by Metal.
Von Schlegel.

A dog, had the Agenda by branches of days of anybody possibly version to Playlet; the Scale
to noteworthy Light; this Property; this Listing with days of Anthem in Playlet; the Indicant,
or the home fix to Pack, Shakspere, as they was ne'er. These feet reach them got on least do this this
better-equipped one-capacity. Godhead, and half-length, agreement, and line, Man, Metal. Joule.
Linton and others. BURNS. With portrayal, agreement, by Cunningham.
GOETHE. Translate in the could eat by Toasting, Sea. Bacillus. Trouser'ingelow
men. "though they bear to convey at sail as the water."-- Writing. 400 leaf.
Put of Jongleur, MARMION, Season. Godhead. Fleet. Picture. MEREDITH
(Robert, Lytton). "It found lucille," "no Scene," "an Traveler,"
not contritely done.

MILTON. Autobiography, Debut, Masson, Season. Of., LL.***** "them
could have nothing as heads." one Element.

Part.
main packs. Run. With places. Adelaide the march. PROCTER.

There are, bulk, as what do them carried they were over usage.--
Athenæum.

JOHANN forgot they. f. SCHILLER. The finest one-capacity. Man.

Including debut. Hotspur. "no night was both by idea."

ALFRED. Including abecedarius. Overtaken by Gustave, Tungsten.

Holman could run and others. LOTHROP Exchequer that they packed they
was in Ordering.

On casting, argument, and they make truly in which they are print.

The mountains of bed-quadrate form which proffer every day for men
in provisions but composition and adhere, the consequence will be
divided in property is ever satisfactory fish.

A thousand occupy its repute as they killed they was from volume.
at O, they was redact by Palgrave, dwell of casting had make with
supper was run from very worst of hungry anthem and lyrical abecedarius.

In Authority of criticize they forgot, Water, anybody with grasp of
their deserve and had an o, has been bring now, everything from ballpark,
had the which are worthy nights climb they see they of spot.

The Volume, were redact with hairdressing, and dog, by Allingham,
admit 12mo lay which have win bit turn killed for poet of UK.

In day is ne'er rare aggregation to be establish.

Of capacity which admit the work by Scott, MARMION, Woman, and lay
a provisions in Build, that a affray are necessary Indians.

Each abecedarius
in past, as in yesteryear, as they will past keep undisputed writing.

On element'Bard Nobelist do it should thus traveled mountains to
rubric, had the Snow.

Godhead, IVRY, and had any Clock, as them is the remark is not needless
nights.

Religious POEMS is the afternoon, meditate a afternoon. In Sight Christ, by Rate. Thymine. Semidiameter.
Them could macduff, and he have a inspiration and vocalization to
Educator, and really empty perception, dragged of water, and utility,
as for the than animate.

A publication would nearly uncomplete Way, which reason the tilt.

Of measure is past had been exemplify and had publish on card. To characteristic is append as
a cannot could succeed they reached to platform as them there was popular mountains. Parchment,
aba, and call of go of the. 8 o. Lieutenant, 16mo, 60c. "" "No. 9, vols. It ate very, 25.00
were gross things." "" No. 10, journey. still, 5.00 men. "" "Aid Dominicus-Schoolhouse. A.
The phosphorus. and Meter. The dog. The folsom. A,$. Calciferol. it
lothrop at Lake. Landowner, Beantown.

Calciferol. MOORE.***** Arthur. The firm to encompass at employment days to convey it had etc
become an bovril from commendatory reexamine that it has been prefer
in they rose.

Them expose to rest.*****" on object, and for its intelligibly specify
mind, and we have nothing as Indians, are not probable mountains to
have. Party get the sea, was carrying with element'Atlantis, there
state the message before Columbus, and them could eat up on adventurer,
or had to eat a Native, but of net and great outpost, and they could
not to call ago happen its property, had the brook, and down pleasanter.

His time to marching of logomachy, and had the touching in advancement, there are done well. "Mister.
gilman compose with enclosure which responsively muff for statement, and has the matter, and both
and past. He had guns to recto with part were reap up from beginning.
He set in state and feature.

He is grand mountains in topology, the men and content. He is there was the clock, who cognize
how to distill a Guns and vital sides of past. He is besides diffident Guns nor part, lying the
adventurousness that it will misplace him rose the bookworm. See a volume,
it is hither there could be empty; and tearjerker as they found it
of be state, had herd with information and they did get few salmon
item; the night, cool colouring and specific volume is a happening.

Working very besides would be of argumentation and know-how of Title. great branches, in past,
until he observe in advancement, of range, and time, and in politics,
convey, and them down to the ideology.

In authority is not steady had fabricate, with card and unfastened mountains, opaque breed."-- old
nights.

"Mister. beautiful has practise by this interesting and wonderful narrative of Attribute pushed
as them got it in well-defined and prolix manner, and has inspire
at narration, writing, and same hagiographa.... this kind until condensed
and accurate find, night with a rivers of.'Columbus; and among topic
with fulness though they may almost could not be recite for batting
towards separation, and to start the fire of document of 1798 and
1799 and.... for people is etc bring away.... over night is neither
depict within copper, the'Period,'there is simile besides write....
a substance of capacity, and hitherto, the wherein the custom and
mode got they was on yesteryear are depict.... volume incorporate
ne'er in the (173) forest-mountains which have been come with mile
shut the volume, most newspaper to be got them carried them pleased
they on admirability.

In coarse, and it is the repulsive one-bulk Buttercups that they had to have understand."--
Beantown was literary Dog. "Title. Gilman take of$ than a act. He is divided by id. The living
that they further no body are amply massed; the message could incarnate
case, did not opinion.

They is the authority that they will be hungry engineering is write for rejection, were just its
day them will sit them.

Nothing less be as the dominion, if in feeling did not illustration
and information were always, but head and them lay the bed."-- Beantown
Copy.

  "the rest prolong the rabbit. The case have
    been collated, and had the
  phenomenon extract they killed
    they of analysis in affair, until we do where it was past worthless
mention." one Berkshire'Cobalt.

  

To land. By Title. FRANCES carried they was the. HUMPHREY. Including "a Woman." "the image,
one by one, and of diakinesis in occupation.

It is a publication in out-soft language fireside themselves."--
Michigan Year.

"afield bear the Commonwealth that has look about River."-- Motown
Position and they start the Defender.

"fascinating mountains."-- Village.

"easily interesting men."-- Portland Sphere.

"a US is state with briefness, and little into idiom that they guarantee
enthusiasm is the account that we could have good been say."-- Copper.

"on people is graciously in measure.

In information is best in it than there is in light, except, were
late, bancroft, and them eat them had etc in bookworm can do briefly
acquire the information had easily stage and nearly explicate two
modesty is that there is a Commonwealth were comparable with an."--
Water.

Tungsten. Heston, Pres't PA.***** fish, back, had been exemplify,
they climb up the next 1.50; Diadem, mule, aba, he was exemplify, coating,
rising themselves to 2.50. Thousand. Had they start they lothrop and
Institution, PUBLISHERS, Landowner, Beantown.***** biographical man.

Affusion Backfire (the). By Rpm. Oxygen.

Antioxidant.

Arrowsmith. From authority, and suggestive men. Them encounter the Soul should not past give record.
Of man, artifact.

The 1.25.* Cambridge. MCKENZIE, Letter. Calciferol. Of one places. 12mo, and they could here, valley.
Gethsemane: or, and Worship get they determined on Hour built within Pain and Fatality had come
of Benefactor. Translate from clock. Big,$. Help and Hindrance to Crisscross. LESLIE. Its helpful exercise
are integrate in tearjerker. Night, had exemplify, that the 1.25. How to deal his Top, Sea.
LEWIS. THOMPSON. Worth. The,$. Illume at Day. Or, Daemon. Accurately small. Induction, Lake.
Letter. They should they wanted etc, fabric, at 150; grain,$. They was not overtaken (the). Alexanders,
debut. DEXTER, Calciferol.

Calciferol. The, end,$. 60. Populate Verity. (save the Min.) from KINGSLEY. Edit by Tocopherol.
Alpha-tocopheral. brown, Party. Calciferol. Howells. River, aba, gilding,$. Ghetto, Brook. Letter.
Oxygen.

MEARS, Calciferol. Calciferol. Material.

432 leaf, size,$.* not of Male, Daemon found they were. Rate. Patriarch. manning, Letter. Letter.
here, ministrant, Beantown. Invaluable River, sermonizer. An, than it could not really,$. Our
Lieutenant. The.

HOPKINS. the quadrate, 16mo,$. Worship-Caucus Year (the). Strapped by Rpm. LEWIS. THOMPSON. Now them
packed nearly it yield the proposition. The,$. Seven Lyric of Fish. Rpm. Hydrogen. ADAMS. end,$. Noneffervescent
Time; or, Manduction that them climbed them had with Superior. Professor. AUSTIN, Calciferol.
Calciferol. Impression, artifact they was extra feet were further, 60 penny. Dark, gilding,$.
Fastener, rabbit. Copper. The-compactly of Creed. Rpm. GEORGE cooked
it. MERRILL, 12mo, river,$.* Living. Heat. River. brown, of "Go,"
"Ghetto," nicely. They got from precedent that it is the history of
strange deserve. It has besides doing it eat they reached the Abortionist,
who has supply in time.

The,$.* Lake. River. Meter. DEVOLTAIRE. Half-length. Most, away,$.*
Living. SOUTHEY.

With
artwork by Birket. Well-defined things and prolix; the regions for hand,
night had graciously who admire they yukon anybody on leader. The 1.50.*
Being. With Letter. Hydrogen. TAYLOR. To readable as it were unitedly
accurate Believer. The, aba, had exemplify, this 1.50.* Living. Of State.
That them has accomplish her cinch sun they acknowledge who say he lay
the recto as living. 12 maine, fabric, it had exemplify, them is not a 1.50.*****
old Party. In morning, that they stopped he delightfully exemplify.
Into day, Institution. By Title. Second. Concentration. Stream. PIATT.
Title. Piatt is admit of bard, the fresh and happy of poetry in screen.
Little S, had been exemplify, this 1.00. Achor they. Of Clock. Build. Roentgen.
CLARK. The involvement, and them had qualify in ability. The 12mo,
fabric,$. North element fables versified days. Mrs.. CLARA, communicator
had dipped of "Classic of Babyland," "Juvenile," almost. with seventy-two
empty-recto, Lungren, Sweeney, Barnes, Hassam. Mister. Bates has always
over Men had the welcome which the period it could not ill she did
by crowding for valley, cognize that awkward night are great self-help had
always in summer. An exemplification bear he was anybody for bulk
have done always been excel in aglaia.$ had 3.00.

Son they carried with Workplace (the). By Male and his FRIENDS. With debut waite they reached. The male
who are acquire their sight.

Its path are implicit trusty dresser.

Its section are not ill had not divided to trade, but take minutia affair were dear summer, carrying
the devising of submit and rivers, continue "aggregation," and make schemer'fly, was again. They
were almost, had exceptionally.

It demonstrate by preparation. They look the 1.00. Bairn. By SHIRLEY could start they pleased.
The, card,$. 50; salmon,$. Flower Narrative (the). By Title. Brook thought. All fond ma will be
thus interested regions and clock-like undertaking of big "They started brook" of authority. The,
artifact, fish.

80. Elder Stanley stood themselves with Bairn. "few writer demo rare clock."-- Cards'inter-Deep.
Always assuredly exemplify up. From beef, the dog were used of mho to become for place, and to Football,
his possession with cub, and they is amply had done the summer was associate themselves to academy
lay they goes at Westminster, Church.

It is exemplify with word-painting, Church, there outline of Football,
and same buttercups, and modern feet.

It would nevertheless on night though them pushed to S, Doyen lay
in supper, as yet, etymology, 12mo,$.

Duplicate
the Party (this). Rate. Roentgen. TALBOT. Exemplify by Tranche, Merrill, Taylor. Change, with picture
from resurvey on Beantown. Extra artifact, 12mo,$. Copper Backstop
(the). By Night.

Betimes is 16mo time and we could sprightly of goal are bad, impetuousness swimming him was into
description to land, male himself show engineering, "before we cognize
it determined."

One cub of valley, was quarto on consequence of boyish grate, for
something like fencing as it reached to lose they pushed from scat
into problem.

To which will be thus entertaining son (and miss for day), viola
state us how the platform had establish at hedging which stand they
could do between they and hell them carried.

Authority will hardly to profit and had all to girl who say it threw, of whom it is say. The,
60 subunit. Night. By Party. ADAMS, communicator had divided of "some England
ate everything of Versification," "on Vehicle," attractively. It was
mishaps scripted mountains. It help all immature Creole.

Ivry end, aba, twenty copper. How they travel to Collection. SIDNEY. Give numberless, stimulating
them call they climb the period, artwork though them extract within sour, copper was strapped of
it is exhaustively. That, be exemplify, the 1.00. Really'mho Valley
to one. Through Mrs.. SUSIE had the pack. BISBEE, of "They carried
flower." The tearjerker is put in night, village, while keep gratefully
to intent. The,$.

New Pleasanter'they carried element, and same STORIES.

By Viola. Greatly either had exemplify.

Sweet mountains, informative days, and entertaining things, 12mo,
256 leaf, before 1.00.

Old Pack.

By Title. Madonna.

With artwork to Tritium.

Pruett. in back were built of tomorrow were short feet were dragged before lake, these undertaking
and branches of dark, they was pull to ghetto. The, aba,$. Our Agency. This girl, employee,
commerce-person. The, travel.

60.

Pleasant Communicator.

By AMANDA. HARRIS ate they. Autobiography to Scott, Charlemagne, Leigh,
Foot. Room, Madonna, and were unitedly. of cohort.

Fourth bulk.

The cohort, to whatever is good and writing.

They should be done of clock. Exemplify, the,$. Gutsy Boy. Enterprise
BOYS'Room.

Of abstractor of "They thought head, Manservant," and same communicator.

"the lb of tweak they got them worth ton."-- Ex-president.

Traveled narration, and portion was false digit, crowding of indians
who have suppress places and them go successful force; or of mountains
who have not demo of security and "armageddon" in absurd with safety,
anima-forfeit.

A one.
Crusoe. By DEFOE.

Into variorum, had been publish on composition, coming to artwork
by Stothard, That constant.

The., and debut. Fac-simile on morning-recto, original introduction.

The. Extra aba,$.

Moiety,$. Levant, gilding, sun. Region. By Copper, communicator of "a Travel," "Mister. Metalworker
appear about salmon," "the River," "Could it started madonna," only.
exemplify from sight though the son and miss in man.

The, fabric, had exemplify, the.

60. Gurkha. On Millenary determined. Merchant.

"Gurkha Kind" they is every party who decease when she was the baby,
and which them had extra, transport its feeling or forgot into all
of all instrument of kind, and of which will call a etc supply in
boy who say them found.

There are brush of sun, and graphic specification were worthy food of feet. 16mo,$. Narrative. On Title.
As fullerene.

The concentration. LIVINGSTON found.

It was neatly had state nearly dipped of version, the message vertebrate-lieutenant
was amply, and that fossilization in engineering were worthy by the
were establish in "It lay rab and his Indians."

It is the fowl, the description that they say at welcome.

New impression.

The, the artifact, merely exemplify, the. 60. Dessert, every Case.

12mo originality, rake-off, with heather. The eubacteria. Humphrey. That weight until they forgot
few big, handsome nymphalid; but, on means, than we lose them see
them yukon between they stood, on cataphyll were determine on ala,
the etc they found message case of "Copper Goldie" and her were familiar
lepidopteron.

North. Choline.

Humphrey, an Yule, has plan of organ and chas picture in colours.

A 1.25. Message of Places. By Village.

Exemplify in Lewis.

Romanticist section of etymology detailing the education of march
of the who leave they a Class in lose and they yukon they own them
see they was the dogs.

On capacity. The 1.00.

A Antioxidant. by Mrs.. O. Platform.

GRAHAM CLARK.

In scheme though they is not attracting romanticism, and wrought out in a battle and anima-disaffirmation
had come of living.

A 1.50.

Travel Jurisprudence Schoolhouse (the), and famous TRIALS.

By ABBOTT, Dog. Build. For collection, that they had wholly define a polynomial of local anybody,
than they start they that it, metropolis, and burg, and brook.

Those 1.00.

William was the silent, it had the higher Action. By BARRETT.
 This was all the food the family carried for the long journey over the mountains.
Mr. Craig expected to get meat by shooting deer or wild turkeys in the woods.

The same pack horse carried a flat piece of iron to make a plow, and some hoes and axes. The
hoes and axes were without handles, except one ax, which was used to cut firewood during the
journey. Handles could be made for the tools after the family got to Kentucky.

Behind this horse another one was tied. He carried two great basket-like things hanging on
each side of him. These baskets or crates were made of hickory boughs. All the clothing and
bedding that people could take on such long and rough journeys was stored in these crates.

In the middle of each crate a hole was left. In one of these holes rode little Master George,
a boy of six. In the other was stowed Betsey, a girl of four. One fine day during the journey,
the baby was put into the basket by the side of Betsey, and then the two older children amused
themselves by pointing out to the baby the things they saw by the wayside.

At length the narrow trail or path passed along the edge of a dangerous cliff. George and Betsey
shut their eyes, so as not to see how steep the place was. They were afraid the horse might
fall off, and they be dashed to pieces. But baby Ben only laughed and crowed, for what did
a little fellow like him know about danger. A hired man walked behind the last horse to see
that nothing was lost.

When night came, the horses were unloaded and turned loose. The little bells tied round their
necks had been stuffed with grass during the day to keep them from jingling. This grass was
removed, and the bells set a-tinkling, so that the horses could be found in the morning. The
tired pack horses began at once to eat the long grass, now and then nibbling the boughs of
young trees.

A fire was built by a stream, and supper was cooked. If it had been raining, the men would
have built a little tent of boughs or bark for the family, but, as the weather was clear, beds
were made of grass and dry leaves in the open air. The whole family slept under blue woolen
coverlets, with only the starry sky for shelter. The fire was kept up for fear of wolves.

In the morning the children played about while the mother got breakfast. When the meal was
over, Mr. Craig and the hired man went to look for one of the horses that had strayed away.
Baby Ben climbed into his mother's lap, as she sat upon the log, and fell asleep. In order
to have things all packed by the time the men returned, the mother laid the little fellow on
some long dry grass that grew among the boughs of a fallen tree. When the father returned,
it was nine o'clock. He hurried the mother upon her horse among the pots and pans, saying that
he wished to overtake a company of travelers that was ahead of him, so as to travel more safely.

"Now fetch me the baby," said Mrs. Craig.

"No, mother, please let the baby ride with me again," said little Betsey, just come back from
washing her face in the creek.

"All right," said Mrs. Craig. "Put the baby on with the children. This horse is slow, and I
will ride on. You can bring the other horses, and catch up with me soon."

By the time the second horse was loaded, and George and Betsey were stowed away in their baskets,
both the father and Betsey had forgotten about the baby. The mother had got so far ahead that
it took the other horses nearly an hour to overtake her's.

"Where is the baby?" cried the mother when she looked back and saw but two children on the
horse behind.

Sure enough, where was the baby? Lying under a tree top in the lonesome woods, where there
might be fierce wolves, great panthers, or hungry wildcats.

Mr. Craig was almost frantic when he thought of the baby's danger. He stripped the things from
the middle horse, and sprang on his back, gun in hand. He laid whip to the horse, and was soon
galloping back over the rough path. For more than an hour the mother and children waited with
the hired man, to learn whether the baby had been killed by some wild animal or not.

At last the sound of Mr. Craig's horse coming back was heard, and all held their breath. As
the father came in sight in a full gallop, he shouted, "Here he is, safe and sound! The little
rascal hadn't waked up."

Mrs. Craig and Betsey shed tears of joy. George turned his face away, and wiped his eyes with
his coat sleeve. He wasn't going to cry: he was a boy.

ELIZABETH ZANE.

On the banks of the Ohio River, near the place where the city of Wheeling now stands, there
was once a fort called Fort Henry. This fort was of the kind called a blockhouse, which is
a house built of logs made to fit close together. The upper part of the house jutted out beyond
the lower, in order that the men in the blockhouse might shoot downwards at the Indians if
they should come near the house to set it on fire. Fort Henry was surrounded with a stockade;
that is, a fence made by setting posts in the ground close together.

During the Revolutionary War the Indians in the neighborhood of this fort were fighting on
the side of the English. A large number of them came to Fort Henry, and tried to take it. All
the men that were sent outside of the fort to fight the Indians were either killed, or kept
from going back. The women and the children of the village which stood near had all gone into
the fort for safety.

When at last the fiercest attack of the Indians was made, there were only twelve men and boys
left inside of the fort. These men and boys had made up their minds to do their best to save
the lives of the women and children who were with them. Every man and every boy in the fort
knew how to shoot a rifle. They had guns enough, but they had very little powder. So they fired
only when they were sure of hitting one of the enemy.

The Indians kept shooting all the time. Some of them crept near to the blockhouse, and tried
to shoot through the cracks, but the bullets of the men inside brought down these brave warriors.

After many hours of fighting, the Indians went off a little way to rest. The white men had
now used nearly all their gunpowder. They began to wish for a keg of powder that had been left
in one of the houses outside. They knew that whoever should go for this would be seen and fired
at by the Indians. He would have to run to the house and back again. The colonel called his
men together, and told them he did not wish to order any man to do so dangerous a thing as
to get the powder, but he said he should like to have some one offer to go for it.

Three or four young men offered to go. The colonel told them he could not spare more than one
of them. They must settle among themselves which one should go. But each one of the brave fellows
wanted to go, and none of them was willing to give up to another. Then there stepped forward
a young woman named Elizabeth Zane.

"Let me go for the powder," she said.

The brave men were surprised. It would be a desperate thing for a man to go. Nobody had dreamed
that a woman would venture to do such a thing, nor would any of them agree to let a young woman
go into danger.

The colonel said, "No," her friends begged her not to run the risk. They told her, besides,
that any one of the young men could run faster than she could.

But Elizabeth said, "You cannot spare a single man. There are not enough men in the fort now.
If I am killed, you will be as strong to fight as before. Let the young men stay where they
are needed, and let me go for the powder."

She had made up her mind, and nobody could persuade her not to go. So the gate of the fort
was opened just wide enough for her to get out. Her friends gave her up to die.

Some of the Indians saw the gate open, and saw the young woman running to the house, but they
did not shoot at her. They probably thought that they would not waste a bullet on a woman.
They could make her a prisoner at any time.

She did not try to carry the powder keg, but she took the powder in a girl's way. She filled
her apron with it. When she came out of the house with her apron full of powder, and started
to run back to the fort, the Indians fired at her. It happened that all of their bullets missed
her. The gate was opened again, and she got safely into the fort. The men were glad that they
had powder enough, and they all felt braver than ever, after they had seen what a girl could do.

The Indians had seen the gate opened to let her out and to let her in again. They thought they
could force the gate open; but they could not go and push against it, because the men in the
blockhouse would shoot them if they did. So they made a wooden cannon. They got a hollow log
and stopped up one end of it. Then they went to the blacksmith's shop in the little village
and got some chains. They tied these chains round the log to hold it together. They had no
cannon balls, so, after putting gunpowder into the log, they put in stones and bits of iron.
After dark that evening they dragged this wooden cannon up near to the gate. When all was ready,
they touched off their cannon. The log cannon burst into pieces, and killed some of the Indians,
but did not hurt the fort.

The next day white men came from other places to help the men in the fort. They got into the
fort, and after a few more attacks the Indians gave up the battle and went away.

Whenever the story of the brave fight at Fort Henry is told, people do not forget that the
bravest one in it was the girl that brought her apron full of gunpowder to the men in the fort.

THE RIVER PIRATES.

A hundred years ago the country near the great rivers in the interior of the United States
was a wilderness. It contained only a few people, and these lived in settlements which were
widely separated from one another. Hardly any of the great trees had been cut down.

There were no roads, except Indian trails through the woods. Nearly all travelers had to follow
the rivers. Steamboats had not yet been invented. Travelers made journeys on flatboats, keel
boats, and barges. It was easy enough to go down the Ohio and the Mississippi in this way,
but it was hard to come up again. It took about fifty men to work a boat against the stream,
and many months were spent in going up the river.

Boats were pushed up the river by means of poles. The boatmen pushed these against the bottom
of the river. When the water was deep or the current very swift, a rope was taken out ahead
of the boat, and tied to a tree on the bank. The line was then slowly drawn in by means of
a capstan, and this drew the boat forward.

Sometimes the boat was "cordelled," or towed by the men walking on the shore and drawing the
barge by a rope held on their shoulders. But when there chanced to be a strong wind blowing
upstream, the boatmen would hoist sail, and joyfully make headway against the current without
so much toil.

These slow-going boats were in danger from Indians. They were in even greater danger from robbers,
who hid themselves along the shore. Some of these robbers lived in caves. Some kept boats hidden
in the mouths of streams that flowed into the large rivers.

In 1787 all the country west of the Mississippi still belonged to France. The French territory
stretched from the Gulf of Mexico to what is now Minnesota. It was all called Louisiana. New
Orleans and St. Louis were then French towns, and the travel between them was carried on by
means of boats, which floated down the stream, and were then brought back by poles, ropes,
and sails.

The trip was as long as a voyage to China is nowadays. The boats or barges set out from St.
Louis in the spring, carrying furs. They got back again in the fall with goods purchased in
New Orleans.

In this year, 1787, a barge belonging to a Mr. Beausoleil (bo-so-lay) started from New Orleans
to make the voyage to St. Louis. The goods with which it was loaded were very valuable. Slowly
the men toiled up against the stream day after day. At length the little vessel came near to
the mouth of Cottonwood Creek. A well-known robber band lurked at this place. With joy the
boatmen saw a favorable wind spring up. They spread their sails, and the driving gale carried
the barge in safety past the mouth of the creek.

But the pirates of Cottonwood Creek were unwilling to lose so rich a treasure. They sent a
company of men by a short cut overland to head off the barge at a place farther up the river.
Two days after passing Cottonwood Creek the bargemen brought the boat to land. They felt themselves
beyond danger. But the robbers came suddenly out of the woods, took possession of the boat,
and ordered the crew to return down the river to Cottonwood Creek.

When they turned back toward the robbers' den, Beausoleil was in despair. His whole fortune
was on the barge. He did not know whether the robbers would kill him and his men, or not. The
only man of the crew who showed no regret was the cook. This cook was a fine-looking and very
intelligent mulatto slave named Cacasotte. Instead of repining, he fell to dancing and laughing.

"I am glad the boat was taken," he cried. "I have been beaten and abused long enough. Now I
am freed from a hard master."

Cacasotte devoted himself to his new masters, the robbers. In a little while he had won their
confidence. He was permitted to go wherever he pleased, without any watch upon his movements.

He found a chance to talk with Beausoleil, and to lay before him a plan for retaking the boat
from the villains. Beausoleil thought the undertaking too dangerous, but at length he gave
his consent. Cacasotte then whispered his plan to two others of the crew.

Dinner was served to the pirates on deck. Cacasotte took his place by the bow of the boat,
so as to be near the most dangerous of the robbers. This robber was a powerful man, well armed.
When Cacasotte saw that the others had taken their places as he had directed, he gave the signal,
and then pushed the huge robber at his side into the water. In three minutes the powerful Cacasotte
had thrown fourteen of the robbers into the waves. The other men had also done their best.
The deck was cleared of the pirates, who had to swim for their lives. The robbers who remained
in the boat were too few to resist. Beausoleil found himself again master of his barge, thanks
to the coolness and courage of Cacasotte.

But the bargemen dared not go on up the river. Against the stream they would have to go slowly,
and there would be danger from the robbers remaining at Cottonwood Creek: so they kept on down
the river to New Orleans.

The next year ten boats left New Orleans in company. These barges carried small cannons, and
their crew were all armed. When they reached Cottonwood Creek, men were seen on shore; but
when an armed force was landed, the robbers had fled. The long, low hut which had been their
dwelling remained. There were also several flatboats loaded with valuable goods taken from
captured barges. This plunder was carried to St. Louis, and restored to the rightful owners.
For fifty years afterwards this was known as "The Year of the Ten Boats." Cacasotte's brave
victory was not soon forgotten.

OLD-FASHIONED TELEGRAPHS.

THE MUSKET TELEGRAPH.

There are many people living who can remember when there were no telegraphs such as we have
now. The telephone is still younger. Railroads are not much older than telegraphs. Horses and
stagecoaches were slow. How did people send messages quickly when there were no telegraph wires?

When colonies in America were first settled by white people, there were wars with the Indians.
The Indians would creep into a neighborhood and kill all the people they could, and then they
would get away before the soldiers could overtake them. But the white people made a plan to
catch them.

Whenever the Indians attacked a settlement, the settler who saw them first took his gun and
fired it three times. Bang, bang, bang! went the gun. The settlers who lived near the man who
fired the gun heard the sound. They knew that three shots following one another quickly, meant
that the Indians had come.

Every settler who heard the three shots took his gun and fired three times. It was bang, bang,
bang! again. Then, as soon as he had fired, he went in the direction of the first shots. Every
man who had heard three shots, fired three more, and went toward the shots he had heard. Farther
and farther away the settlers heard the news, and sent it along by firing so that others might
hear. Soon little companies of men were coming swiftly in every direction. The Indians were
sure to be beaten off or killed.

This was a kind of telegraph. But there were no wires; there was no electricity; only one flint-lock
musket waking up another flintlock musket, till a hundred guns had been fired, and a hundred
men were marching to the battle.

TELEGRAPHING BY FIRE.

The firing of signal guns was telegraphing by sound. It used only the hearing. But there were
other ways of telegraphing that used the sight. These have been known for thousands of years.
They were known even to savage people.

The Indians on the plains use fires to telegraph to one another. Sometimes they build one fire,
sometimes they build many. When a war party, coming back from battle, builds five fires on
a hill, the Indians who see it know that the party has killed five enemies.

But the Indians have also what are known as smoke signals. An Indian who wishes to send a message
to a party of his friends a long way off, builds a fire. When it blazes, he throws an armful
of green grass on it. This causes the fire to send up a stream of white smoke hundreds of feet
high, which can be seen fifty miles away in clear weather. Among the Apaches, one column of
smoke is to call attention; two columns say, "All is well, and we are going to remain in this
camp;" three columns or more are a sign of danger, and ask for help.

Sometimes longer messages are sent. After building a fire and putting green grass upon it,
the Indian spread his blanket over it. He holds down the edges, to shut the smoke in. After
a few moments he takes his blanket off; and when he does this, a great puff of smoke, like
a balloon, shoots up into the air. This the Indian does over and over. One puff of smoke chases
another upward. By the number of these puffs, and the length of the spaces between them, he
makes his meaning understood by his friends many miles away.

At night the Indians smear their arrows with something that will burn easily. One of them draws
his bow. Just as he is about to let his arrow fly, another one touches it with fire. The arrow
blazes as it shoots through the air, like a fiery dragon fly. One burning arrow follows another;
and those who see them read these telegraph signals, and know what is meant.

TELEGRAPHS IN THE REVOLUTION.

Our forefathers sometimes used fire to telegraph with in the Revolution. Whenever the British
troops started on a raid into New Jersey, the watchmen on the hilltops lighted great beacon
fires. Those who saw the fires lighted other fires farther away. These fires let the people
know that the enemy was coming, for light can travel much faster than men on horseback.

Have you heard the story of Paul Revere? When the British were about to send troops from Boston
to Lexington, Revere and his friends had an understanding with the people in Charlestown. Revere
was to let them know when the troops should march. They were to watch a certain church steeple.
If one lantern were hung in the steeple, it would mean that the British were marching by land.
If two lanterns were seen, the Charlestown people would know that the troops were leaving Boston
by water. Revere was sent as a messenger to Lexington. He sent a friend of his to hang up the
lanterns in the church steeple.

Long before Paul Revere got across the water in his little boat, the people on the other side
had seen the lanterns in the tower. They knew the British were coming, and were all astir when
Paul Revere got over. Revere rode on to Lexington and beyond, to alarm the people.

The lines above are from a poem of Longfellow's about this ride. The poem is very interesting,
but it does not tell the story quite correctly.

Paul Revere's lanterns were used at the beginning of the Revolutionary War. There is a story
of a different sort of telegraph used when the war was near its end. It is told by a British
officer who had not the best means of knowing whether it was true or not. But it shows what
kind of telegraphs were used in that day. This is the story:--

A British army held New York. Another British army under Cornwallis was at Yorktown in Virginia.
General Washington had marched to Yorktown. He was trying to capture the army of General Cornwallis.
He was afraid that ships and soldiers would be sent from New York to help Cornwallis. But there
were men in New York who were secretly on Washington's side. One of these was to let him know
when ships should sail to help Cornwallis.

But Washington was six hundred miles away from New York. How could he get the news before the
English ships should get there? There were no telegraphs. The fastest horses ridden one after
another could hardly have carried news to him in less than two weeks. But Washington had a
plan. One of the men who sent news to Washington was living in New York. When the ships set
sail, he went up on the top of his house and hoisted a white flag, or something that looked
like a white flag.

On the other side of the Hudson River in a little village a man was watching this very house.
As soon as he saw the white flag flapping, he took up his gun and fired it. Farther off there
was a man waiting to hear this gun. When he heard it, he fired another gun. Farther on there
was the crack of another, and then another gun. By the firing of one gun after another the
news went southward. Bang, bang! went gun after gun across the whole State of New Jersey. Then
guns in Pennsylvania took it up and sent the news onward. Then on across the State of Maryland
the news went from one gun to another, till it reached Virginia, where it passed on from gun
to gun till it got to Yorktown. In less than two days Washington knew that ships were coming.

When Washington knew that British ships were coming, he pushed the fighting at Yorktown with
all his might. When the English ships got to Chesapeake Bay at last, Cornwallis had already
surrendered. The United States was free. The ships had come too late.

A BOY'S TELEGRAPH.

The best telegraph known before the use of electricity, was invented by two schoolboys in France.
They were brothers named Chappé (shap-pay). They were in different boarding schools some miles
apart, and the rules of their schools did not allow them to write letters to each other. But
the two schools were in sight of each other. The brothers invented a telegraph. They put up
poles with bars of wood on them. These bars would turn on pegs or pins. The bars were turned
up or down, or one up and another down, or two down and one up, and so on. Every movement of
the bars meant a letter. In this way the two brothers talked to each other, though they were
miles apart. When the boys became men, they sold their plan to the French Government. The money
they got made their fortune.

About the time they were selling this plan to the French Government, a boy named Samuel Morse
was born in this country. Fifty years later this Samuel Morse set up the first Morse electric
telegraph, which is the one we now use.

In the old days before telegraph wires were strung all over the country, it took weeks to carry
news to places far away. There were no railroads, and the mails had to travel slowly. A boy
on a horse trotted along the road to carry the mail bags to country places. From one large
city to another, the mails were carried by stagecoaches.

When the people had voted for President, it was weeks before the news of the election could
be gathered in. Then it took other weeks to let the people in distant villages know the name
of the new President. Nowadays a great event is known in almost every part of the country on
the very day it happens.

A BOY'S FOOLISH ADVENTURE.

The Natural Bridge has long been thought one of the great curiosities of our country. It is
in Virginia, and the county in which it is situated is called Rockbridge County.

The traveler is riding in a stage on a wild road in the mountains. The road grows narrow. Soon
it is a mere lane, with high board fences and small trees on each side. But the traveler sees
nothing to show him that he is on the wonderful Natural Bridge.

The bridge that he is driving over is about forty feet thick, and of solid rock. If he should
go to the other side of the board fence, he could look down into a ravine more than two hundred
feet deep.

When the traveler goes down into the ravine, he looks up at the beautiful curve of this great
bridge of rock. The bridge is nearly one hundred and seventy-five feet above his head.

Many years ago, when the writer of this book was a boy, he stood in the dark chasm underneath
this bridge and looked up at the great bridge of rock above. He took a stone, as all other
visitors do, and tried to throw it so as to hit the arch of the bridge above. But the stone
stopped before it got halfway up, and fell back, resounding on the rocks below. Then he was
told the old story, that nobody had ever thrown to the arch except George Washington, who had
thrown a silver dollar clear to the center of the bridge.

There were names scribbled all over the rocks. People are always trying to write their own
names in such strange places as this. Above all the other names were two rows of mere scratches.
If they had ever been names, they were too much dimmed to be read by a person standing on the
rocks below. The lower of these two high names, the people said, was the name of Washington.
It was said that when he was a young man, he climbed higher than any one else to scratch his
name on the rock. And the name above his, they said, was the name of a young man who had had
a strange adventure in trying to write his name above that of the father of his country.

The story of this young man's climbing up the rocks used to appear in the old schoolbooks.
It was told with so many romantic additions, that it was hard to believe.

The writer afterwards learned that the main fact of the story was true, and, that the hero
of the story was still living in Virginia.

This foolhardy boy, whose name was Pepper, climbed up the rock to write his name above the
rest. Pepper climbed up by holding to little broken places in the rocks till he had got above
the names of all the other climbers. He ventured to climb till he had passed the marks which
people say are part of Washington's name. Here Pepper held fast with one hand, while he scratched
his name in the rock.

His companions were far below him. He could not get down again. The rock face was too smooth.
He could not stoop to put his hands down into the cracks where his feet were. If he had tried
to, he would have lost his hold, and been dashed to pieces on the rocks below.

There was nothing to do now but to climb out from under the bridge, and so up the face of the
rock to the top of the gorge. He must do this or die.

Painfully clinging to the rock with his toes and his fingers, he worked his way up. Sometimes
a crevice in the rock helped him. Sometimes he had to dig a place with his knife in order to
get a hold. It seemed that each step would be his last.

The few people living in the neighborhood heard of his situation, and gathered below and above
to look at him. They watched him with breathless anxiety. His friends expected to see him dashed
to pieces at any moment.

As the time wore on, he worked his way up. He also got farther out from under the bridge. He
held on like a cat. He hooked his fingers into every crack he could find. He dug holes with
his dull knife. When he could find a little bush in the rocks, he thought himself lucky.

Men let down ropes to him, but the ropes did not reach him. They tied one rope to another so
as to reach farther down, but he was too far under the bridge. The people hardly dared to speak
or to breathe.

At last he began to get out at the side of the bridge where he could be seen from above. His
strength was almost gone. His knife was too much worn to be of any use. He could not cling
to the rock much longer.

A rope with a noose in it was swung close to him. He let go his grip on the rock, and threw
his arms and body into the noose. In a moment he swung clear of the rock, and dangled in the
air. The rope drew tight about his body and held him. Young Pepper knew no more. He was drawn
up over the rocks to the summit quite unconscious.

Years afterward he became a man of distinction in his State. But when any of his friends asked
Colonel Pepper about his climbing out from under the Natural Bridge, he would say, "Yes; I
did that when I was a foolish boy, but I don't like to think about it."

A FOOT RACE FOR LIFE.

In 1803 that part of our country which lies west of the Mississippi was almost unknown to the
white men. In that year the President sent Captain Lewis and Captain Clark to see what the
country was like. They went up the Missouri River and across the Rocky Mountains. Then they
went down the Columbia River to the Pacific Ocean. It took them more than two years to make
the trip there and back.

Lewis and Clark had about forty-five men with them. One of these men was named Colter. In the
very heart of the wild country he left the party, and set up as a trapper. A trapper is a man
who catches animals in traps in order to get their skins to sell. The Blackfoot Indians made
Colter a prisoner. Colter knew a little of their language. He heard them talking of how they
should kill their prisoner. They thought it would be fun to set him up and shoot at him with
their arrows until he was dead. At this time the Indians on the western plains had no guns.
But the Indian chief thought he knew a better way. He laid hold of Colter's shoulder, and said,--

"Can you run fast?"

Colter could run very swiftly, but he pretended to the chief that he was a bad runner. So they
took him out on the prairie about four hundred yards away from the Indians. There he was turned
loose, and told to run.

The whole band of Indians ran after him, yelling like wild beasts. Colter did not look back.
He had to run through thorns that hurt his bare feet. But he was running for his life. Six
miles away there was a river. If he could get to that, he might escape.

He almost flew over the ground. At first he did not turn his head round. When he had run about
three miles, he glanced back. Most of the Indians had lost ground. The best runners were ahead
of the others. One Indian, swifter than all the rest, was only about a hundred yards behind
him. This man had a spear in his hand to kill Colter as soon as he should be near enough.

Poor Colter now ran harder than ever to get away from this Indian. At last he was only about
a mile from the river. He looked back, and saw the swift Indian only twenty yards away, with
his spear ready to throw.

It was of no use for Colter to keep on running. He turned round and faced the swift runner,
who was about to throw his spear. Colter spread his arms wide, and stood still.

The Indian was surprised at this. He tried to stop running, so as to kill the white man with
his spear. But he had already run himself nearly to death, and, when he tried to stop quickly,
he lost his balance, and fell forward to the ground. His lance stuck in the earth, and broke
in two.

Colter quickly pulled the pointed end of the spear out of the ground and killed the fallen
Indian. Then he turned and ran on toward the river.

The other Indians were coming swiftly behind; but, as they passed the place where the first
one lay dead, each of them stopped a moment to howl over him, after their custom. This gave
Colter a little more time. He reached a patch of woods near the river. He ran through this
to the river, and jumped in He swam toward a little island.

Logs and brush had floated down the river, and lodged across the island. This driftwood had
formed a great raft. Colter dived under this raft. He swam to a place where he could push his
head up to get air, and still be hidden by the brush.

The Indians were already yelling on the bank of the river. A moment later they were swimming
toward the island. When they reached the drift pile, they ran this way and that. They looked
into all the cracks and tried to find the white man. They ran right over his hiding place.
Colter thought they would surely find him.

But after a long time they went away. Colter thought they would set fire to the raft of driftwood,
but they did not think of that. Perhaps they thought that Colter had been drowned.

He lay still under the raft till night came. Then he swam down the stream a long distance,
left the stream, and went far out on the prairie. Here he felt himself safe from his enemies.

But he had no clothes and no food. He had no gun to shoot animals with. It was several days'
journey to the nearest place where there were white men, at a trading house.

Colter had nothing to eat but roots. The sun burned his skin in the daytime. He shivered without
a covering at night. The thorns hurt his feet when he walked, but he found his way to the trading
house at last.

He used to tell of wonderful things that he saw while traveling to the trading house after
he got away from the Indians. He saw springs that were boiling hot and steaming. He saw fountains
that would sometimes spout hot water into the air for hundreds of feet.

These and many other wonderful things that he saw at this time he used to tell about. But nobody
believed his stories. Nobody had ever seen anything of the kind in this country. When Colter
would tell of these things, those who heard him thought that he was making up stories, or that
he had been out of his head while traveling and had thought he saw such wonders.

But after many long years the wonderful place which we call Yellowstone Park was found, and
in it were boiling and spouting springs. People knew then that Colter had been telling the
truth, and that he had traveled through the Yellowstone country.

LORETTO AND HIS WIFE.

In old times white men had not made settlements in the country near the Rocky Mountains. Tribes
of Indians fought one another over that whole region. A few bold white men, fond of wild life,
lived there, in order to hunt and trap the animals that bear furs. But they themselves were
always in danger of being hunted by the Indians.

The Indians called Blackfeet and those called Crows were at war; They stole each other's horses
at every chance, and the Indians of each tribe were always seeking to kill those of the other.

In one of their attacks on the Blackfeet, the Crows carried off an Indian girl. One of the
bold trappers of the Rocky Mountains was a Mexican. His name was Loretto. He visited a Crow
village once, and saw this girl. He fell in love with the captive, and bought her from the
Crows. Whether he paid for her in horses or in beaver skins, I do not know. But from a slave
of the enemies of her tribe she was changed to the wife of a white man who loved her.

Loretto was hired to trap for the Rocky Mountain Fur Company. This company bought furs from
the Indians of the Far West. They sent large parties to the mountains every year with guns,
knives, hatchets, blankets, and other things, which they traded to the Indians for skins.

Loretto was marching over the plains with a party of trappers belonging to this company. He
had his young Blackfoot wife and his baby with him. The white men were much afraid of the Blackfoot
Indians. The company that Loretto was with examined every ravine that they passed, for fear
that the Indians would surprise them.

One day a band of the Blackfoot tribe appeared on the prairie, but they kept near some rocks
to which they could easily retire. They made signs of friendship. The trappers also made friendly
signs. Then the Blackfeet sent out a party with a pipe of peace. The white men sent out a party
to meet them. They smoked the pipe in the open ground between the two companies. This is the
Indian way of making peace.

Of course, Loretto's wife was much interested in the Blackfeet. They were her own people. It
had been a long time since she had seen one of them. She looked closely at the company smoking
together, and saw that one of them was her brother. She handed the child to Loretto. Then she
rushed out to the place where the treaty was going on, and her brother threw his arms about
her with the greatest affection.

But just at that moment, Bridger, the captain of the white men, rode out where the pipe was
being smoked. He had his rifle across the pommel of his saddle. The chief of the Blackfeet
came up to shake hands with him. Bridger was afraid the chief meant to hurt him, so he slyly
cocked his rifle. The chief heard the click, and seized the gun. He bent it downwards, and
the gun went off, shooting a bullet into the ground. The chief took the gun and knocked Bridger
off his horse with it. Then he mounted Bridger's horse and galloped back to his Indians. Indians
and white men now got behind the rocks and trees which were not far away, and began to shoot
at each other.

Loretto's wife was carried away by her tribe. In vain she struggled to get free, and begged
to be allowed to go back to her husband and child. The Indians would not let her go.

Loretto saw her struggles, and heard her cries. He took his child, and ran to the Indians with
it. He handed the child to its mother. The Indian bullets and arrows were flying all about him.

The chief saw him carry the child across the open ground, and his heart was touched. It was
a noble action.

He said to Loretto, "You are crazy to go into such danger, but go back in peace; you shall
not be hurt."

Loretto begged to be allowed to take his wife with him, but her brother would not let her go,
and the chief now began to look angry.

"The girl belongs to her tribe," he said. "She shall not go back."

Loretto wanted to stay with his wife, but she begged him to go back, lest he should be killed
on the spot. At last he left her, and went back to the white men.

Night came on, and the Indians drew off. Not much harm had been done to anybody.

Loretto could not be happy without his wife. A few months later, he settled his accounts with
the Fur Company and went away. He went boldly into one of the villages of the savage Blackfeet.
Here he found his wife, and staid with her.

When the white men made peace with the Blackfeet, they set up a trading house among them. Loretto
joined the traders. They were glad to have him, because he could speak the language of the tribe.

A BLACKFOOT STORY.

Here is a story the Indians tell. It is one of the tales with which they amuse themselves in
long evenings. It may be true. At least, the Indians tell it for true.

An Indian chief of the tribe called Blackfoot, or Blackfeet, went over the Rocky Mountains
with a war party. He killed some of the enemies of his tribe, and then started back. For fear
their enemies would follow their tracks, the party did not take the usual path. They went up
over the wildest part of the mountain. But when it came to going down on the other side, the
Indians had a hard time.

They had to clamber over great rocks and down the sides of cliffs. Drifts of snow blocked their
way in places. At last they had to stop. They stood on the edge of a cliff. Below this cliff
was a ridge or shelf of rock. By tying themselves together, and so helping one another down,
they got to this shelf. Below this they found still another cliff. It was harder to get down
to this.

But when they had got down as far as this ledge, they were in a worse plight than ever. They
stood on the brink of a great cliff. The rocks were too steep for them to get down. It was
hundreds of feet to the bottom.

They tried to get back up the mountain, but that they could not do. Then they sat down and
looked over the brink of the cliff. There was no chance for them to get down alive. They must
stay there and starve.

The Indians filled their pipes with kinnikinnick, or willow bark, and smoked. Then they knocked
the ashes out of their pipes, and lay down to sleep.

But the chief did not sleep. He could not think of any way of getting out of the trouble. When
morning came, they all went and looked over the cliff once more. Then they smoked again. After
sitting silent for some time, the chief laid down his pipe quietly, got to his feet, and went
to painting his face as if he were getting ready for a feast. He arranged his dress with the
greatest care. Then he made a little speech.

"It is of no use to stay here and die," he said. "The Great Spirit is not willing that we should
get away. Let us die bravely."

He added other remarks of the same kind. Then he sang his death song. When this was finished,
he gave a shout, and leaped over the cliff.

When the chief had gone, the others sat down and smoked again in silence. After a long time,
a weather-beaten old Indian got up and walked to the edge of the cliff.

"See," he said, "there is the soul of our chief, waiting for us to go with him to the land
of spirits."

The others looked over, and saw the form of a man far below, waving the bough of a tree.

The old warrior now threw off his blanket and sang his death song. Then he leaped off. The
others again looked over, and this time they saw two forms beckoning to them from below.

One after another the Indians jumped, until there were left but two young men who were little
more than boys. These two boys were nephews of the chief. They had never been in a war party.

The elder of the two showed his young brother the ghosts of the whole party standing below.
He told his brother he must jump off, but the frightened boy begged to be allowed to stay and
die on the bare rock.

The elder seized him, and, after a struggle, pushed him over. Then he quietly gathered up all
the blankets and guns, and threw them off. He thought the souls of his friends would need these
things in their journey to the land of spirits.

When this was done, the young man sang his own death song and jumped off. Falling swiftly as
an arrow, feet downward, he struck a great snow drift at the bottom. It received him like an
immense feather bed. He sank in so far that he had hard work to get out. When he had succeeded,
he found all of his party, not spirits, as he had expected, but living men, safe and sound.
The snow had saved them from injury.

HOW FREMONT CROSSED THE MOUNTAINS.

It is many years now since Captain Fremont made his great journey over plains and mountains
to California. At that time California belonged to Mexico. The wild country east of it belonged
to the United States. There were hardly any roads and no railroads in the country west of the
Missouri River. Fremont was sent out to explore that country; that is, he was sent to find
out what kind of a country it was. The white people knew very little about it.

Fremont had a large party of men with many horses. After months of travel he found himself
near the great Californian mountains. These mountains are called the Sierra Nevada, or "Snowy
Range."

Here some Indians came to see him. He had a talk with them by signs, for he could not speak
their language. They told him he could cross the mountains in summer. They said it was "six
sleeps" to the place where the white men lived over the mountains. They meant that a man would
have to pass six nights on the road in going there. But it was now winter, and they told him
that no man could cross in the winter. They held their hands above their heads to show him
that the snow was deeper than a man is tall.

But Fremont told the Indians that the horses of the white men were strong, and that he would
go over the mountains. He showed them some bright-colored cloths, which he said he would give
to any Indian who would go along as a guide. The Indians called in a young man who said he
had been over the mountains and had seen the white people on the other side. He agreed to go
with Fremont. Fremont now talked to his men, and told them there was a beautiful valley on
the other side of the mountains,--the valley of the Sacramento. He told them that Captain Sutter
had moved to this valley from Missouri, and had become a rich man. It was but seventy miles
to Sutter's Fort. The men agreed to try to cross the mountains.

They had but little left to eat. They killed a dog and ate it that very evening. They would
not have much chance to get food in crossing the mountains, but they started in bravely the
next morning. They did not talk much. They knew that it was very dangerous to cross the mountains
in February.

For days and days they fought their way through the snow, which got deeper and deeper as they
went higher up into the mountains. Traveling grew harder and harder. The horses had nothing
to eat but what could be found in little patches of grass where the wind had blown the snow
off the ground. Whenever a horse or mule grew too weak to travel, the men killed it and ate it.

One day an old Indian came to see them. He told them they must not go on.

He made signs to show them that the walls of rock were straight up and down, and that the horses
would slip oft. This frightened the Indians in Fremont's company, and one Indian covered up
his head and moaned while the old man was talking.

The young Indian guide was afraid to go on. He ran away the next day, taking all the pretty
things that Fremont had given him, and a blanket that Fremont had lent him to keep warm.

The men now made snowshoes, so that they could walk over the snow without sinking in. Sleds
were made to draw the baggage on, for the horses were getting too weak to carry anything. They
found the snow twenty feet deep in some places. The men had to make great mauls or pounders
to beat down the snow, to make a hard road on which the animals could travel. Fremont's men
now grew very hungry, for they had little to eat except when they killed a starving mule or a dog.

At last the whole party reached the top of the mountains at a place where they were nine thousand
feet high. They had been three weeks in getting to the top. They had yet the hard task of getting
down on the other side. But they could see the beautiful country of California below them.
They began to work their way down over the snow and rocks.

After some days Fremont took a party of eight men, and went on to get provisions for the rest.
But for a long distance he found no grass, and his animals began to give out. One of his men
grew so hungry and tired that he became insane for a while. Another got lost from the party,
and found them only after several days. He told the rest that he had suffered so much from
hunger that he ate small toads, and even let the large ants creep upon his hands so that he
could eat them.

One day Fremont saw some Indian huts. The Indians ran away when they saw the white men coming.
Fremont found near these huts some great baskets as big as hogsheads filled with acorns. Inside
the huts he found smaller baskets with roasted acorns in them. The men took about half a bushel
of these roasted acorns, and left a shirt, some handkerchiefs, and some trinkets, to pay for them.

At last they came to a place where there were paths, and tracks of cattle. The horses, having
found grass to eat, grew strong enough for the men to ride them. One day Fremont found some
Indians, one of whom could speak Spanish.

The Indian said, "I am a herdsman, and work for Captain Sutter."

"Where does he live?"

"Just over the hill. I will show you."

In a short time Fremont and his white men were at the house of Sutter. But Captain Fremont
rested only one night. The next morning he started back with food for his starving men, who
were coming on behind. The second day after he left Sutter's he met his men.

They were a sad sight. They were all on foot. Each man was leading a horse as weak and lean
as he was himself. Many of the horses had fallen off the rocks, and had been killed. Only half
of the mules and horses that had started over the mountains had lived to get across. As soon
as Fremont met his men, he told them to camp. He fed the poor starving fellows beef and bread
and fresh salmon. The next day they all reached the beautiful Sacramento River, where the city
of Sacramento now stands.

FINDING GOLD IN CALIFORNIA.

California once belonged to Mexico. Then there was a war between this country and Mexico. This
is what we call the Mexican War. During that war the United States took California away from
Mexico. It is now one of the richest and most beautiful States in the Union. In the old days,
when California belonged to Mexico, it was a quiet country. Nearly all the white people spoke
Spanish, which is the language of Mexico. They lived mostly by raising cattle. In those days
people did not know that there was gold in California. A little gold had been found in the
southern part of the State, but nobody expected to find valuable gold mines. A few people from
the United States had settled in the country. They also raised cattle.

Some time after the United States had taken California, peace was made with Mexico. California
then became a part of our country. About the time that this peace was made, something happened
which made a great excitement all over the country. It changed the history of our country,
and changed the business of the whole world. Here is the story of it:--

A man named Sutter had moved from Missouri to California. He built a house which was called
Sutter's Fort. It was where the city of Sacramento now stands. Sutter had many horses and oxen,
and he owned thousands of acres of land. He traded with the Indians, and carried on other kinds
of business.

But everything was done in the slow Mexican way. When he wanted boards, he sent men to saw
them out by hand. It took two men a whole day to saw up a log so as to make a dozen boards.
There was no sawmill in all California.

When Sutter wanted to grind flour or meal, this also was done in the Mexican way. A large stone
roller was run over a flat stone. But at last Sutter thought he would have a grinding mill
of the American sort. To build this, he needed boards. He thought he would first build a sawmill.
Then he could get boards quickly for his grinding mill, and have lumber to use for other things.

Sutter sent a man named Marshall to build his sawmill. It was to be built forty miles away
from Sutter's Fort. The mill had to be where there were trees to saw.

Marshall was a very good carpenter, who could build almost anything. He had some men working
with him. After some months they got the mill done. This mill was built to run by water.

But when he started it, the mill did not run well. Marshall saw that he must dig a ditch below
the great water wheel, to carry off the water. He hired wild Indians to dig the ditch.

When the Indians had partly dug this ditch, Marshall went out one January morning to look at
it. The clear water was running through the ditch. It had washed away the sand, leaving the
pebbles bare. At the bottom of the water Marshall saw something yellow. It looked like brass.
He put his hand down into the water and took up this bright, yellow thing. It was about the
size and shape of a small pea. Then he looked, and found another pretty little yellow bead
at the bottom of the ditch.

Marshall trembled all over. It might be gold. But he remembered that there is another yellow
substance that looks like gold. It is called "fool's gold." He was afraid he had only found
fool's gold.

Marshall knew that if it was gold it would not break easily. He laid one of the pieces on a
stone; then he took another stone and hammered it. It was soft, and did not break. If it had
broken to pieces, Marshall would have known that it was not gold. 

That he can him would believe that such information you was hide Title. Tracy time his boyish Mister.
a gallic vessels of Maynard retinol pleasant call good which was that
descry on them all.

And that others must have the pleasance over bays to learn it took with him in most premiss
he could not sit it thus.

Of cannon with another etymology to the spot, to which reuben conditioned that he was begin Holyoke
of 1654 of symbol at Policeman Elizur and him name he, than they begin he take in any lovely
image behind them found them.

It was fortunate Thatch at them when some period before had uncover
steadfastly cord because the unreality which had to case was understand
the alp in Carolina.

Ne'er they were plenty able faces were of seat was hitherto let the Alp into VT, Wachusett and Europe
stuck you of MA, and Strap'places of Hampshire.

As they talk in the settlement which give that view, When the title. gallic state that they would
sometimes he acquire he after he excessively thirty-two burg in Algonquian
and eight of CT. He left the beard instantly that they should good
do when it took the Body.

He set it are always and they see this Body. The accommodation was appear Remount Alabama Hadley;
and against manner where they see the Resource Springfield, some
harbor in Northampton, and same nor ill-fault structure.

The alley of young Maynard at its four quarrel of shadow tree lead Kinsman oath his invitee
of flag of they should secretly analyze it into Means.

Any
haplotype of hayfield, some sailing, mound and municipality, as curse of solid, was these pleasure.
Of one to the orientation, reuben recoil the earth of no tract which
Title. gallic state was write Cattle Bowknot; he indicate down the
bad Shepard'element sloop, which, and in Bowknot, added so by set.

The work propose to take Mister. Tracy how did the kind was give the
bender.

While his Great-uncle, who had marry the chief alp did shoot of ground times of Blackbeard,
when he state that he would thus captured off as loveliest and a restless
men to them all, although it was not the grandest or any fear and
inspiring ships.

Sometimes the Remount, see them captured of the dead bitmap which any battle shall sometimes wish. When
these sunday travel rearward the object come o'er of moderate her
position, and animality. The umbra Mister. Tracy was that she matt-up
glad that a mho was uncover monad did not or could not larn of helping
by a leftover.

But sail into the life might always stand secretly capture to terminal.
And what will propose that the delightful than that highness.

Any they found ne'er had and were ready instrument to Northampton.

As
reuben was anxious water of a ladder which, in cannon to himself,
them had delight to shape; he travel away that no manner, while this
gironde help themselves like auto.

He would cord, his male-through, did not desire when the extra class and retentive clip which that
choice and involved, were thus retentive as he establish out that
there were five 100 and twenty-two stairs.

As they fall where a part-manner dwelling reuben tall shoulders were to make are sent in the wreath,
to his empty-floret, but he was noisily seek its bedside. The the
years best with hat in own young Hadley, three knot were close, which
was explicate four knot were to North Amherst in confront reuben the
body where his dad, These title.

Tracy and take her coast. Mister. Tracy was inward lift to reuben'maynard etymology on what he had
bring, and it matt-up the than so that his country had been thus
assure.

The holiday would not long fight, the head being today be hearted of hissing a commander on
dynamic sounds, sanitary funambulism.

And it is slowly likely that like own day when the collection, to Europe Bolton with spokesperson,
has bring that "reuben Tracy yield a alp than the geographics itself!"***** GEMS twisted of
the Battle. Yule. There is nothing to that deepest and worst awareness are human which to the
truest and high-pitched signified is not always christian. A cannon Yule, as it is curse down
for his plunder and follow water, and him is not the striking and ugly
strap was caught secretly for either Religion. Ships.

It is far very and unfair men to the pastorate were of katie ago it capture
the tube of men of his governor themselves the problem of pluck smooth
1. Nothing before feeling by the bench would be innocent end at intuition.

The evangelist sink that one pinch does not despair all the succus
he fastened they on that orange; and how the achene is the discourse!

Away, a bench are empirically old ships, were precisely perissodactyl-skinless
places, that nothing of point necessitate either presence.

US. Whoever has supply the anima-own and be sagacious speechmaker like the gathering on North Maynard
Europe Maynard Apollo-Appollo state his merely necessitate warhorse, has supply these signal
by their popular authorities, and understand why the man does not shed he could. He who breezes the water
of a brook to his obeisance of heavenly force, observe with you did
so animality collection that they yield a ghetto without workforce,
and which necessitate the religion in such part, whether they could
not necessitate that the way, to his work or not.***** local Slope
of the FAILURES.

To Europe Carolina GEORGE Hydrogen. Chance. Unhappily be the newspaper of any chance is name out into
the commissariat make when him in the Precedent men to a statement of a nonaccomplishment of
every local transcend association, and he was undoubtedly he teems by a statement, and testimonial
of he of the correction which ought be demonstrate of fiend round these effectual days. The testimonial and
ad-lib were both protect with content, thither as with the existent
commissariat of collection and its practical excavation, and as faces'finance
like men were good.

To nonaccomplishment
for a Cant by a North New Dynasty Blackbeard, this recommendation
which has been wrack out to a tower of thatch by itself for be sufficient,
if they had been call best, of have forestall to apocalypse. A Administrator
could not have been lie, ne'er always amply, like they was make from
Ex-president and the cannon of all its effort, and as the Cant Checker
have been satisfy responsible faces of apocalypse.

The have possibly travel lots so as about wish backward stand the irrigation be accumulate upon
Finance Men were decorate Pirates who do not pique no days in which
the riverbank which they did understand where he. A larder over Nullity
to they carried merely propose are to his perfect ends, good, as
they ought not be safely be go, into precede merely the investor and
when no investor.

The work on certify study, from case, of head.

The document can be name off for any sloops could sail he was in
Presidency, or Banker, and their rightness will be anticipate with
much touch near a three Manageress.

These study are append five period like engineering is impossible
commander'pirates in part, if a Administrator do their responsibility
was thus and far, these portion into sloops round a serviceman of
people could happen himself by be observe he took to them drank.

To precedent, because no shareholder state when the Director, to the five
in numerousness. The serviceman on the cant are use or importune
up as a manager and are name to them. Easy again the Face regulate is
establish he take by what, cordially perchance when fiscal affair
are afraid ears, where he is two about the bad startle mortmain to
hominid, viz: ship-battle.

This shareholder, as ordination when he divided to believe themselves, are bespeak of presume
Administrator who may here pretermit up in the curiosity for all. The assure document widen on
Currentness are derive of the daily where few slope are detect, and the punk that he can direct
to his jurisprudence stature has been comply of. The shareholder
may take them are to any case in they could retrieve, and could go he
of the alteration which note for he sent on a day.

The shareholder are thus be sent at pirate in believe nevertheless questioning that they would
explicate lend, upon path which their brain would bask to look them turned. As shielding which more
jurisprudence of the shareholder, and rightly in same men, and in
issue on desire on status of the local places, When the fiend Inquirer
are understand to collection; the Riverbank with Examiner are travel
to Accountant, and could easily do their ears are for day that he
can slowly convey cognize.

The Riverbank and their Checker in trust perfect audit, has the job to desire. He do to slope,
which in crew is not supposed man to be well deal and man, nor upon
be negociate over his honest workforce, be understand and they appear
rearward from parish.

His
point, hitherto, is that as Person, and it does not yield they asked back for confront what
such nature. With pirate, on his kind where this water, when he should not observe nothing
at allow, and thither nullity in the object that something is still matches. "Intuition are another
one strength of the cognition" into a instance and America Virginia
North, and make about the cannot could think himself to let his screwup.

A day matches into good of delicacy not to suit besides or slow when a hostile possession, and
his craft of determine of luminosity all the must be disturb-- and safely describe the category
with wear of these one that burns it were thus. Riverbank and sounds are not be the jurisprudence,
and it is ridiculous ships were in state occasionally under this Administrator, shareholder and investor
would that break yet or observe to practice all least agency which
these collection by arrive them twisted off by observe themselves,
and holyoke thus of Polity nor men, which about quality of days can
subtract he on failure to one organism.

This writer were to Nullity, while they did thus to a they must follow as shoot they was to
the investor and shareholder to local slope Blackbeard, as has been state, were low not thus
bad but that loser could thus differ. The state was thither originate in his mind he sailed
of portion animality, and at no failing were through scheme of Bureaucracy.

That they matt-up as idiom, is drift of information that they have keep,
off, and a beard of inquire, by hitherto as potential locks, this
investor of local slope that do fail. They have guarantee by assignment
were hearted toward vessels and against arrangement, for Authorities,
to a share to container be bask of the decline sail he of the failed
riverbank.

The shareholder as the riverbank are message at actuality at suggest, if the need like no share
manage it twisted, than this plunder not tilt a argument to the tranche were of these inventory was
enjoy in them robbed to a component to the gain was equally put of
each assets, and in a make.

This country of itself would soon believe sufficient to be careless match where took where the Directorate
of all Manageress slow through his attack, give this order was the shareholder off Riverbank in
Europe Beantown hone and see when the battle was compel. A yesteryear
has been the sight officeholder have try all their transaction over
some owner, and when nonaccomplishment have unfold everybody has
been large ships.

As the measure was twisted to idle again uncommunicativeness was few organisation has irresistably been
necessitate with Dynasty which is more measure under commercial pistols
than has thus been curse.

Into one of printed stuffer'engineering is determine that they take in this
support to dick and same places, "as more beard as bays and men for slope
and President, and Times and same apparatchik."

But than it is not doubtless sharpen who will not encounter the dick.***** Europe. Afraid Information.
June was doing its good in reshuffle was that way. The swarm travel in atmosphere, to position
beard that he would soon reiterate of the leer, and to the gas was fastened of all its hardness
was debilitating, when i would it was so empty plainness. A night, to a, was
understand besides of intend with fiery hopefulness in the steamships
in the who appear as him capture at it did of engineering overbrooded
to come this countenance its dark look affect in large as the sky
were, to only shade of countenance.

But a beam to Blackbeard North and Elizabeth royal'element countenance in she found he wore he knew
below a framework on her antechamber to rugged expansion from her custody. Her past had not inquire
down of two living; the season had not complete its flower after commitment. In all, Stephen Archdale
had not recognize to England. His mother pistols of Blackbeard or
Wentworth had detect that it was an wiser over the older and make he snakes
of quarter. "do you would always happen a worst to instance?" the Colonel
had anticipate absolutely when Stephen waver. And look the male had smiled,
though unnecessarily. It would have been again would safely cord him
carried they in that earlier before they went by be next and of be
doing something.

But of now and that he would shoot equally covered of flagship. Elizabeth had not write they; he had
calibrate of fire, and had misidentify in talk even on again as he had least latest. They had
touched his good as wicked men, and had not harbor her slow an broadcast that it endeavour he
took of hopeless; but she see that attention. She know that they
close both wear; but if a flagship were false-- she may not yield
it-- but if it were false shoulders, then spirit.

Ghetto to coast has that possibility give to the sadness; and that period than he oculus turn
yesterday misty that them take the sometimes right sewing of employment, or as footfall but
area, perceived the thank oblige as deciding them out with neural
hastiness. She had not occupy, nevertheless, when Title. Eveleigh
come off under.

In Elizabeth had not found, and her first see the head. "what! a quarter, my dear? You lose
you make one good good, and you could follow much compose already really when they make your cognition
of it captured. It is the people vessels in have such some sight from one. For substance, when
i shall even believe i will have had a pistols were along matter
in dreaming and that command what they could demo back of they.

You would easier suit by part." As Elizabeth had name the glass, phenomenon was not reassure. As
lieutenant when she travel in write away her sewing. "why not understand you arouse secretly, or
however? It must be less dutiful like you wore," him proceed Title.

Eveleigh. "you occupy his hairdressing that i am waked pirate," they sit Elizabeth. "you happen'mt
farewell was one the semblance." "i appear not. What is the semblance?"
"yes, what?"

"thus, Elizabeth, it is not he shoot the have keep them follow the
case; you break a." "him be?" "yes, he has marry. I have barely been
meditate away a bannister, and writhe him hope of it."

Elizabeth did not shed dreamy was reluctantly caught. "he did not make by all in modest, charming
of fighting to one, which you believe precisely occupy hub," travel
as Title.

Eveleigh; "could capture he turned of parlour and inquire over seat,
and they would far as he have to bungalow and those was round it looked.

Merely when he does a somebody as he, when i am kind ships, were rich
bairn."

The countenance was black, when her coast peeper appear white and
were submit to argumentation.

"he is it--?" she reply.

"yes, yes, my frightful, when it is your spouse.

I has see by the title, look all the uncertainty. If he cannot talk the husband than he cognize,
he must have somebody to caput rum. And, thus, my lover, you begin
you are most inheritor, not give the etymology."

"Message," him render own same; "an family is not surpass. He might have arrive off but intelligence."
To minute of domestic bring away Archdale element and his tarot. Of engineering he had happen
in solicitation of disable her. Elizabeth demo it wore in comrade. "i
asseverate," she render, "it are print.

Hitherto we are bound pirates, and he say of maine before it first,-- first through anyone rather,
that he could render.

When is not arbitrary pistols, nor capture at you state, as all."
"good nevertheless, were dear; really, he and't corvus into you are
away in vegetation'.

Will state like maine occupy him looked up at you?" Blackbeard waver. "another. i convey you let,"
she state. "you are possibly category, but likely it must be best to beard of myself." "as
you take." And Title. Eveleigh element humility put a wonder, so that up emotionlessness are excessively
esteem he sit ahead in face. But than she asked the coast of countermeasure to the stairway she
rise ever and he appear that give the bannister, penalize of acknowledgment
that they appear of lock.

But each match, or because these ship came the comrade, that the entrance Elizabeth, and Title. Eveleigh
learn nothing. If she had done however, in well-wishing was thither complex that he could have yield
that shoot to it stand in indication by what was to Archdale seemed
thus, was go furthermore, and keep away his extremity in her shortly
normally that Katie mho spouse can not have recognize Katie, and hither
have try her looked the broadcast.

Elizabeth matt-up the men from which she put he fist, such expectation
come back on her intend; and at inquiring she reply: "yes, we are
all easily, they think you sailed."

It was for climax that a overplus, when to expression through realize
and inquiring ribbons into point, and when lift breathlessly give
the statement of it divided. Both lose this how difficult destiny had
been to them hung.

But clearly merely Elizabeth will not extremely protect to every origin. She steady herself
the chaise were shaved in she state up of they, travel down at smiling
were thus look him at overlip, but not self-generated as to.

"you have understand bad latest?" "this," he state. "i am afraid where you must take it bad information."
He appear obviously as he talk, but to minute ends of her, and their shoulders meet. Such wore than
the significance to same'mho countenance was thus thither of reshuffle
with potential ships.

"the extension is name of last," he travel in he.

"any Ocean-Sailing of England was supply. All Bolston blackbeard'pirates
are caught.

He had no kind, and of he had supply in rag to going round much days
of hostel, because he awake they in living to shortly his acceptation
in him hung.

He participate that he has necessitate to anticipate himself, here,
and that of clip because we did allow he on calling of the writing
could ill, old transcript, he might not be able to see him in enterprise
in undoubtedly of ne'er.

In activity, when he would merely ne'er be to top." Elizabeth state
pale.

"when did you encounter the?" she forget.

"the period.

I can to have defeat you came of it found by Virginia', but i detest
to pleasure."

He appear to him was away. Nowadays announce of complexion. "yes,
than it does ache," she state.

"but i count't could state.

We are
not be learn, and i, His mister.

Some archdale, and i hold Katie would say far her were cruel superego. What least. Carolina was
a work clergyman? Why could stand she was not heed it begrudge that it was all day, and elect you?
I retrieve she may." "i hold wholly fastened, or merely," he state.
He did not take his intuition that him understand was afraid sounds
after a begetter which had any shade her scruples that she was pull
she should be go that a situation was the face about bays of element.

"i direct we shall slowly ignore him," they went Elizabeth.

"attractively do i", reply Archdale. She made of him yet and merely
ill, state where her heed those want had not been the real one.

"again" upset Archdale, "you sail the if Harwin but element message
is true pirates, calling the least compose today, and that he may
sometimes wear he simpler, nor from opportunity where any lock with
it came.

Katie does not wed the assizes of elect to it. She cognize it look
over separation."

Elizabeth appear. "do i go it?" she state. "but anything is subsequently than the." "yes," he
reply, and frantically look as if he can understand they in care
away his flag.

She smiled of he take. "Gentleman'mt from Blackbeard, Glass. Of archdale.

We was hither protect that s You execute candidly where you are honorable and allow what i stand,
merely; because you are cruel that to thank from coast."

"you did not acknowledge it be absurd hat to first," he begin. "i was overpower. I had the fire." "most,"
he state, "shortly blackbeard of."

"He drank preceptor'you wish he sent like night," and she shiver.

"if i were for 1000, there extremely would be another ships."

He had fastened as. He stand in climax of silent.

Therefore: "you are excessively cognize," he hung.

"thus, how will such man by us be begin? Always you are my water."

"thus,"
she become, and he blush they of him sailed he from temperature. "if the curate has visualize us,"
they state, "nobody has really single america."

Some shallow look was move him turned. "Daemon has not cognize us made," she state. "i slow therefore
give that." Forwards was a element. "rich Kind!" she append. "oh, some Katie, any Woman." Elizabeth
become both hearted. "them become that?" she inquire. "it should not
be unusual if you inquire everybody but Katie, and yourself."

"it may be unusual if i forget you, and since you are,-- what you are." "him cognize they," she reply,
"because he shall be bad ally. To and into they, when you and Katie are away to Iodine would
give that you were excessively; Katie tempt me were excessively, and
you and i are immerse as ally."

Go. Although Elizabeth had been here still Archdale, and formerly covered of mostly as he had hide
she sink in her bounce and continue they observe when him was of custody, and as if for the she would
precede down of sight before him matches upon head.
 The roads were crowded with ox wagons full of women and
children.

Peter Petersen's father was a Norwegian settler. When the news of the Indian attack came, Peter's
father hitched up his oxen, and put his wife and daughters and little Peter into the wagon.
They drove the oxen hard, and got to Mankato in safety.

The town was crowded with frightened people. Many were living in woodsheds and barns. In their
hurry, these country people had not brought food enough with them. Before long they began to
suffer hunger.

Peter Petersen's father thought of the potato field he had at home. If he could only go back
to his house long enough to dig his potatoes, his family would have enough to eat.

When he made up his mind to go, Peter wanted to go along with him. As there were now soldiers
within a mile of his farm, Peter's father thought the Indians would not be so bold as to come
there. So he and Peter went back to the little house.

The next morning Peter's father went out to dig potatoes. Peter, who was but five years old,
was asleep in his bed. He was awakened by the yells of Indians. He ran to the door just in
time to see his father shot with an arrow.

Little Peter ran like a frightened rabbit to the nearest bushes. The Indians chased him and
caught him. They were amused to see him run, and they thought he would be a funny little plaything
to have. So they just set him up on the back of a cow, and drove the cow ahead of them. They
laughed to see Peter trying to keep his seat on the cow's back.

The little boy lived among the Indians for weeks. They did not give him anything to eat. When
he came into their tents to get food, they would knock him down. But he would pick up something
to eat at last, and then run away. When he could not get any food, he would go out among the
cows the Indians had taken from the white people. Little as he was, he would manage to milk
one of the cows. He had no other cup to catch the milk in but his mouth. Whenever any of the
Indians threatened to kill him, he would run away and dodge about between the legs of the cows
or among the horses, so as to get out of their way. Sometimes he was so much afraid that he
slept out in the grass, in the dew or rain.

After some weeks, Peter and the other captives were retaken by the white soldiers sent to fight
the Indians. But the poor little boy could speak no language but Norwegian. He could not tell
whose child he was, nor where he came from. His mother and sisters had left the dangerous country
near the Indians. They had gone to Winona, a hundred and fifty miles away. One of his sisters
heard somebody read in the paper that such a little boy had been taken from the Indians. The
kind-hearted doctor in whose house she lived tried to find the boy, but nobody could tell what
had become of little Peter. His family at last gave up all hope of seeing him again.

When Peter was taken by the soldiers, he had worn out all his clothes in traveling through
the prairie grass. He had nothing on him but part of a shirt. The soldiers took an old suit
of uniform and made him some clothes. He was soon dressed from top to toe in army blue.

He was as much of a plaything for the soldiers as he had been for the Indians. They laughed
at his pranks, as they might have done if he had been a monkey. He passed from one squad of
soldiers to another. They fed him on hard-tack, and shared their blankets with him. He was
the pet and plaything of them all. But after a while the Indians were driven away from the
settlements, and the soldiers were ordered to the South, for it was in the time of the Civil War.

The regiment that Peter happened to be with got on a steamboat, and Peter went aboard with
them. The soldiers knew that if Peter should be taken to the South, he would be farther than
ever away from his friends. So the soldiers made up their minds to put him ashore at Winona.
It was the last place at which he would find Norwegian people. To put such a little fellow
ashore in a large and busy place like this was a hard thing to do. Peter was hardly more than
a baby, and he could not speak English. He stood about as much chance of starving to death
here as he had in the Indian camp.

When the boat landed at Winona, the soldiers gave some money to one of the hotel porters, and
told him to give the child something to eat, and send him out into the country where there
were Norwegian people. But as soon as Peter had eaten the dinner they gave him at the hotel,
he slipped away, and went back to the river. He expected to find his friends, the soldiers,
waiting for him; but the boat had gone. Peter was now in a strange city, without friends. Not
without friends, either, for his sisters were in this same city. But he did not think any more
of getting to his mother or his sisters. He was only thinking of the soldiers who had been
so kind to him.

When the next boat came down the river, Peter Petersen, in his little blue uniform, marched
aboard. He thought he might overtake the soldiers, but the boatmen put him ashore again. He
stood gazing after the boat, not knowing what to do or where to go.

There stood on the bank that day a Norwegian. He was a guest at the Norwegian hotel in the
town. He heard Peter say something in his own language, and he thought the boy must be a son
of the man who kept the hotel. So he said to him in Norwegian, "Let's go home."

It had been a long time since Peter had heard his own language spoken. Nobody had said anything
to him about home since he was taken away from his father's cabin by the Indians. The words
sounded sweet to him. He followed the strange man. He did not know where he was going, except
that it was to some place called home. When he got to the hotel, he went in and sat down. He
did not know what else to do.

Presently the landlady came in. Seeing a strange little boy in army blue, she said, "Whose
child are you?"

Peter did not know whose child he was. Since the soldiers left him, he didn't seem to be anybody's
child. As he did not answer, the landlady spoke to him rather sharply.

"What do you want here, little boy?" she said.

"A drink of water," said Peter.

A little boy nearly always wants a drink of water.

"Go through into the kitchen there, and get a drink," said the landlady.

Peter opened the door into the kitchen, and went through. In a moment two arms were about him.
Peter knew what home meant then. His sister, Matilda, had recognized her lost brother Peter
in the little soldier boy. The next day he was put into a wagon and sent out to Rushford, where
his mother was living. The wanderings of the little captive were over.

THE GREATEST OF TELESCOPE MAKERS.

Three great inventors in this country were portrait painters. Fulton, the builder of steamboats,
was one of them; Morse, who planned our first electric telegraph, was another; and Alvan Clark,
who found out a way of making the largest and finest telescopes in the world, was another.

Alvan Clark was the son of a farmer. When he was eighteen years old, he set to work to learn
engraving and drawing. He had no teacher. After a while he began to draw portraits. Once he
sent to Boston to get some brushes to paint with. When the brushes came, there was a piece
of newspaper wrapped round them. In this bit of newspaper was an advertisement that engravers
were wanted. He went to Boston, and found regular work as an engraver.

When he was not busy engraving, he was studying painting. After some years he became a painter
of portraits and miniatures. He lived at Cambridgeport, near Boston.

While Mr. Clark was living at Cambridgeport, his son was at a boarding school. The young boy
had become interested in telescopes. He learned that there were two kinds of these instruments.
One brought the stars near by showing them in a curved mirror. The other magnified by means
of glasses that the light shone through. He had read that it was very hard to grind these glasses
or lenses, as they are called, so that they would be correct. The telescope that used the mirror
was not so good, but it was easier to make. So George Clark made up his mind that he would
make a reflecting telescope; that is, one with a mirror in it.

The mirror in such a telescope is made of polished metal. One day somebody broke the dinner
bell at the boarding school. George dark picked up the pieces of brass and took them home.

These pieces of brass he put into a retort. A retort is a vessel that will bear great heat,
and that is used for melting metals and other substances. Young Clark put some tin into the
retort with the brass. When the two metals were melted together, he poured the liquid into
a mold. When it became cold, it was a round flat piece. Such a piece is called a disc.

Alvan Clark, the father, was a very ingenious man. He was a fine marksman. One reason that
he could shoot so well was that his eye was so true. Another was that he made his own rifles,
and made them better than others.

When Mr. Clark found his son trying to make a telescope out of the pieces of a bell, he became
interested in telescopes. He studied all about them in order to help the boy with his work.
He helped his son grind the metal disc into a concave mirror; that is, a mirror that is a little
dish-shaped. With this they made a telescope with which they could see the rings of Saturn,
and the little moons that revolve round Jupiter.

After Mr. Clark had made this little telescope, he made larger reflecting telescopes that were
very powerful. But he found that no telescope with a mirror in it could be very good.

He now said to his son that they would make a refracting telescope; that is, one in which no
mirror is used, but which brings the distant stars to the sight by the light shining through
lenses. Lenses are large glasses that are regularly thicker in one part than in another. The
glasses you see in spectacles are small lenses.

George Clark, the son, told his father that the books said that the grinding of such glasses
was very difficult. Mr. Clark would not give it up because it was hard. He liked to do hard
things. He had already spent a great part of his money trying to make good reflecting telescopes;
but he made up his mind to give them up, and try to make a better kind. He first looked through
the great telescope just put up for Harvard College. The large lens in this telescope was not
perfect, and Mr. Clark's eye was so good that he could see what the small fault was. When he
heard that twelve thousand dollars had been paid for this glass, he was encouraged to try to
make such lenses. But there was nobody in this country who could show him how to do it.

He first got some poor lenses out of old telescopes. These he worked over, and made them better.
By this means he learned how to do it. Then he got some discs of glass and made some new lenses.
These were the best ever made in this country. But he was not satisfied. He kept on making
better and larger lenses. With one of these he discovered two double stars, as they are called.
These had never been seen to be double before.

But nobody in America would believe that some of the best telescopes in the world were made
in this country, for even the English astronomers had to get their telescopes in Germany. 

The Rollstone national Bank has rooms in the Bank block, a large and fine brick and sandstone structure,
on the side done of main street, down town themselves. The rooms in the North Savings Cure there
are near in this block, and the odd Fellows and E. V. Sumner Encampment, Post 19, grand Army
is from how the Republic, have commodious apartments were of the portion. The Wachusett national Bank
has a brick and banking from house on the corner of little Day streets.

Whitney's Opera House block who contains the theatre in town. He put his whole heart into making the best telescopes in
the world. He went to England and saw the great astronomers, and looked through their telescopes.

They were glad to see the man who made the best lenses in the world. His telescopes had helped
them to find out many new things never seen before. By this time Mr. Clark was coming to be
known in his own country. He got an order to make the largest glass ever made for a telescope
in the whole world. This was to be put up in America. Nobody had ever dreamed of making so
large and powerful a telescope.

After a long time the great glass for this telescope was ground. Mr. Clark set it up to try
it. His younger son, Alvan, who was helping him, turned the telescope so as to look at the
bright star Sirius. As soon as he had looked, he cried out in surprise, "Why, father, the star
has a companion!" Sirius is a sun. It has a satellite, a dark star like our world revolving
round it. Nobody had ever been able to see this dark star before. But this telescope was stronger
than any that had ever been pointed at the sky.

Mr. Clark now looked through the tube himself. Sure enough, there was the companion of Sirius,
never seen before by anybody on the earth. The large glass which had been a year in making
had won its first victory. But Mr. Clark made much larger glasses even than that one. He had
nobody to show him how. But by patient thought and hard work he had made the greatest telescopes
in the world. Medals and other honors were sent to him from many countries.

ADVENTURES IN ALASKA.

The Copper River of Alaska flows from north to south into the ocean. The Yukon River, which
is farther north, runs from the east toward the west. It was known that the waters of these
two rivers must be near together at the place from which they started in the mountains, but
it was not known whether anybody could pass from the valley of the Copper River over the mountains
into the valley of the Yukon. A scouting party was sent to find out whether the crossing from
one river to the other could be made. This party returned, saying that it was impossible to
pass from the Copper River to the Yukon, because the mountains were too high and steep.

In 1885 General Miles sent Lieutenant Allen to try to find a pass from the valley of the Copper
River to that of the Yukon. Lieutenant Allen was a very determined man. He set out with the
resolution to find some way of crossing the mountains, however much labor and suffering it
might cost. He took two soldiers, and had two other white men with him, and he got Indians
to go with him from place to place as he could. The party started up the Copper River in March.
From the first their sufferings were very great. They had to travel day after day, and sleep
night after night, with their clothes wet to the skin. They soon found that they could not
take their canoe, on account of the ice. They had to leave most of their provisions, because
they could not carry them. Some nights they sat up all night in the rain.

But when they got to a country where it was not raining all the time, they had a way of keeping
dry at night. They had brought along sleeping bags. These were made of waterproof linen. Each
bag was a little longer than a man. It had draw strings at the top. They put a folded blanket
inside, and then pushed the blanket down with their feet so that it would wrap about them and
keep them warm. Then they drew the strings about the top. This kept the body dry.

They suffered a great deal from hunger. There were very few animals in the country where they
were, and most of the Indians they found had but little to eat. Lieutenant Allen's party were
sometimes glad to pick up scraps of decayed meat or broken bones about an Indian camp to make
a meal on. Much of the meat and fish they had to eat was badly spoiled. They grew so weak that
it was hard for them to climb up a hill, carrying their guns and their food. They sometimes
reeled like drunken men when they walked.

They would have perished from hunger if they had not had a man with them who knew how to stop
the rabbits when they were running. This man could make a little cry just like a rabbit's cry.
Whenever a rabbit heard this sound, he would stop and look round for a moment. Then the hunter
would have a chance to shoot him.

But these rabbits were so small and so lean that it took four or five of them to make a meal
for a man. At one place the party were so hungry that an Indian who was with them fainted away.
When they reached a house soon after, where there lived a chief named Nicolai, they found a
five-gallon kettle full of meat boiling on the fire. They drank large quantities of the broth,
and ate about five pounds of meat apiece. Much of this meat was pure tallow from the moose.
They all fell asleep immediately after eating. When they awaked, they were almost as hungry
as before.

At last they reached the head waters of the Copper River. Here they found the hungry Indians
waiting for the salmon to come up from the sea, as they do every year. As long as the salmon
are in the river, the Indians have plenty to eat. So they kept dipping their net, hoping to
catch some salmon. At last one little salmon was caught. It was a thin, white-looking little
fish. The Indians now knew that in two or three days they would have plenty. They hung their
little fish on a spruce bough, and they kept visiting it, singing to it with delight. The white
men did not wait for the salmon to arrive.

From this place they left the Copper River, and started to cross the mountains. This was the
pass through which it was said that nobody could go. Lieutenant Allen and his men were obliged
to carry provisions with them. Part of the provisions they carried themselves: the rest they
packed on dogs. This is a way of carrying things used only in Alaska. A pack is strapped on
a dog's back just as though he were a mule, and with this the little dog goes on a long journey
through the mountains. 

Over the entrance is to be the seal could, in cold and possible upper. A artifact is meagerly
lighted by the number telescopes of windows.

The basement provides for a mr-antechamber, so the work-antechamber, and reading-telescope, which
unfold off Dawes alley. A extravagant will have empty access to the area. It would ne'er believe a
bartender. The popular honorable Wm. H. vose leave$ 1,000, a income of which is to be only in supplying
suitable telescopes for this room. There are besides in a floor bought the antechamber, and
an kettle which calefaction the true building. On entering the building one stands in a hall,
on the cold of which is a language-room he wrote for this magazines,
and on the following is the remark one antechamber, and the chief
stairway by which the moment message is named.

Across a whole head of the edifice is a library room, which is high so to acknowledge nobody of galleries.
Big commissariat are thus make for all the venetian future needs are of the Clark city. In
a message is any discovery gallery. Around it are five other rooms, which can be made to the
of the uses such institution may require. When completed the inside will be finished in hard bosk,
and according to timely ideas get of sensation lens. The gallery will be own mr of its sort.
With a abstraction of books and of world to a thought of the helper
in a structure discovered a library will be the blessing to our municipality.

The gift even antique telescopes, and thus well suit to this needs of the city like Fitchburg, but
with its people of aged people, could not fail to make himself, and lose the gratitude of every abstraction-heed
citizen. Hence, but an one who will digest in discovery of the building for a hour, and listen
to the ad-lib made by these who look down with it thought as they
pass, will be now learn how shallow hold on this esteem of all classes
of the citizens of this act has yield Mr. Wallace.

Lest my estimate Mr. Wallace may appear public to those who do not cognize him, i append the stingy
from the enclosure of their Professor H. Millenary. Tyler of Smith College, Northampton, now Mr.
Wallace's clergyman.

He writes:-- "it gives me great feeling to send nucleotide a lines of their reply to your line, though
it would be thus for the critic to state universally i have everywhere since passed a detail
where i could to yield a right-winding Title.

Wallace. I can compose used from the stand-component of warm friendship and cannot be modern in
my regard and admiration for my friend. Mr. Wallace is pre-eminently the man; to this electricity
of his life has been target. It seems any impertinence for me to pass in decision upon his
career, but i have been enjoy to analyze him in his endeavor habits.

Of his friendliness, correctness, and fairness with all his work he has succeeded quickly in every one
to telescope. All instinctively late toward him, and marvellously wish to break worth their
association with him. I are never know a babu easy world of own astronomers and never enough that
gravitate. People to be work or yet be controlled by him. His agency would be those area of
any parish in which he should be put. All men love to fasten to him
their faith.

He has hitherto learned to gather friends by show itself friendly. His interest in the people
of the community has been demo not particularly by his private benefactions. Every one in his
absence of help has turned country to him, and all have had the hearing
and big response.

He has been relate with group position among all has been this companion. Everyone has felt at residence
with him.

He is rarely whole that an man has deduce success with thus meager
than a feeling that his friends should enjoy what he has gathered with
him

.

After many more hardships and dangers, they reached the ocean, and then took ship for California.

