"Major Mallard exceeded his duty," said Blood, and because of the effort he made to steady
his voice it sounded harsh and unduly loud.

He saw her start, and stop, and instantly made amends. "You alarm yourself without reason,
Miss Bishop. Whatever may lie between me and your uncle, you may be sure that I shall not follow
the example he has set me. I shall not abuse my position to prosecute a private vengeance.
On the contrary, I shall abuse it to protect him. Lord Willoughby's recommendation to me is
that I shall treat him without mercy. My own intention is to send him back to his plantation
in Barbados."

She came slowly forward now. "I... I am glad that you will do that. Glad, above all, for your
own sake." She held out her hand to him.

He considered it critically. Then he bowed over it. "I'll not presume to take it in the hand
of a thief and a pirate," said he bitterly.

"You are no longer that," she said, and strove to smile.

"Yet I owe no thanks to you that I am not," he answered. "I think there's no more to be said,
unless it be to add the assurance that Lord Julian Wade has also nothing to apprehend from
me. That, no doubt, will be the assurance that your peace of mind requires?"

"For your own sake--yes. But for your own sake only. I would not have you do anything mean
or dishonouring."

"Thief and pirate though I be?"

She clenched her hand, and made a little gesture of despair and impatience.

"Will you never forgive me those words?"

"I'm finding it a trifle hard, I confess. But what does it matter, when all is said?"

Her clear hazel eyes considered him a moment wistfully. Then she put out her hand again.

"I am going, Captain Blood. Since you are so generous to my uncle, I shall be returning to
Barbados with him. We are not like to meet again--ever. Is it impossible that we should part
friends? Once I wronged you, I know. And I have said that I am sorry. Won't you... won't you
say 'good-bye'?"

He seemed to rouse himself, to shake off a mantle of deliberate harshness. He took the hand
she proffered. Retaining it, he spoke, his eyes sombrely, wistfully considering her.

"You are returning to Barbados?" he said slowly. "Will Lord Julian be going with you?"

"Why do you ask me that?" she confronted him quite fearlessly.

"Sure, now, didn't he give you my message, or did he bungle it?"

"No. He didn't bungle it. He gave it me in your own words. It touched me very deeply. It made
me see clearly my error and my injustice. I owe it to you that I should say this by way of
amend. I judged too harshly where it was a presumption to judge at all."

He was still holding her hand. "And Lord Julian, then?" he asked, his eyes watching her, bright
as sapphires in that copper-coloured face.

"Lord Julian will no doubt be going home to England. There is nothing more for him to do out here."

"But didn't he ask you to go with him?"

"He did. I forgive you the impertinence."

A wild hope leapt to life within him.

"And you? Glory be, ye'll not be telling me ye refused to become my lady, when...."

"Oh! You are insufferable!" She tore her hand free and backed away from him. "I should not
have come. Good-bye!" She was speeding to the door.

He sprang after her, and caught her. Her face flamed, and her eyes stabbed him like daggers.
"These are pirate's ways, I think! Release me!"

"Arabella!" he cried on a note of pleading. "Are ye meaning it? Must I release ye? Must I let
ye go and never set eyes on ye again? Or will ye stay and make this exile endurable until we
can go home together? Och, ye're crying now! What have I said to make ye cry, my dear?"

"I... I thought you'd never say it," she mocked him through her tears.

"Well, now, ye see there was Lord Julian, a fine figure of a...."

"There was never, never anybody but you, Peter."

They had, of course, a deal to say thereafter, so much, indeed, that they sat down to say it,
whilst time sped on, and Governor Blood forgot the duties of his office. He had reached home
at last. His odyssey was ended.

And meanwhile Colonel Bishop's fleet had come to anchor, and the Colonel had landed on the
mole, a disgruntled man to be disgruntled further yet. He was accompanied ashore by Lord Julian
Wade.

A corporal's guard was drawn up to receive him, and in advance of this stood Major Mallard
and two others who were unknown to the Deputy-Governor: one slight and elegant, the other big
and brawny.

Major Mallard advanced. "Colonel Bishop, I have orders to arrest you. Your sword, sir!"

"By order of the Governor of Jamaica," said the elegant little man behind Major Mallard. Bishop
swung to him.

"The Governor? Ye're mad!" He looked from one to the other. "I am the Governor."

"You were," said the little man dryly. "But we've changed that in your absence. You're broke
for abandoning your post without due cause, and thereby imperiling the settlement over which
you had charge. It's a serious matter, Colonel Bishop, as you may find. Considering that you
held your office from the Government of King James, it is even possible that a charge of treason
might lie against you. It rests with your successor entirely whether ye're hanged or not."

Bishop rapped out an oath, and then, shaken by a sudden fear: "Who the devil may you be?" he asked.

"I am Lord Willoughby, Governor General of His Majesty's colonies in the West Indies. You were
informed, I think, of my coming."

The remains of Bishop's anger fell from him like a cloak. He broke into a sweat of fear. Behind
him Lord Julian looked on, his handsome face suddenly white and drawn.

"But, my lord..." began the Colonel.

"Sir, I am not concerned to hear your reasons," his lordship interrupted him harshly. "I am
on the point of sailing and I have not the time. The Governor will hear you, and no doubt deal
justly by you." He waved to Major Mallard, and Bishop, a crumpled, broken man, allowed himself
to be led away.

To Lord Julian, who went with him, since none deterred him, Bishop expressed himself when presently
he had sufficiently recovered.

"This is one more item to the account of that scoundrel Blood," he said, through his teeth.
"My God, what a reckoning there will be when we meet!"

Major Mallard turned away his face that he might conceal his smile, and without further words
led him a prisoner to the Governor's house, the house that so long had been Colonel Bishop's
own residence. He was left to wait under guard in the hall, whilst Major Mallard went ahead
to announce him.

Miss Bishop was still with Peter Blood when Major Mallard entered. His announcement startled
them back to realities.

"You will be merciful with him. You will spare him all you can for my sake, Peter," she pleaded.

"To be sure I will," said Blood. "But I'm afraid the circumstances won't."

She effaced herself, escaping into the garden, and Major Mallard fetched the Colonel.

"His excellency the Governor will see you now," said he, and threw wide the door.

Colonel Bishop staggered in, and stood waiting.

At the table sat a man of whom nothing was visible but the top of a carefully curled black
head. Then this head was raised, and a pair of blue eyes solemnly regarded the prisoner. Colonel
Bishop made a noise in his throat, and, paralyzed by amazement, stared into the face of his
excellency the Deputy-Governor of Jamaica, which was the face of the man he had been hunting
in Tortuga to his present undoing.

The situation was best expressed to Lord Willoughby by van der Kuylen as the pair stepped aboard
the Admiral's flagship.

"Id is fery boedigal!" he said, his blue eyes twinkling. "Cabdain Blood is fond of boedry--you
remember de abble-blossoms. So? Ha, ha!"