She ran eagerly to a side-table, on which lay a book or two, one of which she opened, and reached
out a photograph, which had been laid there for security. When she brought it to me, she stood
leaning lightly against me as we both looked at the same picture. It was a clear, sharply-defined
photograph, with shadows so dark yet distinct as to show the clearness of the atmosphere in
which it had been taken. At the left hand stood a handsome house, with windows covered with
lace curtains, and provided with outer Venetian shutters. In the centre stood a large square
garden, with fountains, and arbors, and statues, in the French style of gardening, evidently
well kept; and behind this stood a long building of two stories, and a steep roof with dormer
windows, every casement of which was provided, like the house in the front, with rich lace
curtains and Venetian shutters. The whole place was clearly in good order and good taste, and
looked like a very pleasant home. It would probably be my home for a time, and I scrutinized
it the more closely. Which of those sunny casements would be mine? What nook in that garden
would become my favorite? If I could only get there undetected, how secure and happy I might be!

Above the photograph was written in ornamental characters, "Pensionnat de Demoiselles, à Noireau,
Calvados." Underneath it were the words, "Fondé par M. Emile Perrier, avocat, et par son épouse."
Though I knew very little of French, I could make out the meaning of these sentences. Monsieur
Perrier was an avocat. Tardif had happened to speak to me about the notaries in Guernsey, who
appeared to me to be of the same rank as our solicitors, while the avocats were on a par with
our barristers. A barrister founding a boarding-school for young ladies might be somewhat opposed
to English customs, but it was clear that he must be a man of education and position; a gentleman,
in fact.

"Isn't it a lovely place?" asked the child beside me, with a deep sigh of longing.

"Yes," I said; "I should like to go."

I had had time to make all these observations before the owner of the foreign voice, which
I had heard at the door, came in. At the first glance I knew her to be a Frenchwoman, with
the peculiar yellow tone in her skin which seems inevitable in middle-aged Frenchwomen. Her
black eyes were steady and cold, and her general expression one of watchfulness. She had wrapped
tightly about her a China crape shawl, which had once been white, but had now the same yellow
tint as her complexion. The light was low, but she turned it a little higher, and scrutinized
me with a keen and steady gaze.

"I have not the honor of knowing you," she said politely.

"I come from Ridley's agency-office," I answered, "about a situation as English teacher in
a school in France."

"Be seated, miss," she said, pointing me to a stiff, high-backed chair, whither the little
girl followed me, stroking with her hand the soft seal-skin jacket I was wearing.

"It is a great chance," she continued; "my friend Madame Perrier is very good, very amiable
for her teachers. She is like a sister for them. The terms are very high, very high for France;
but there is absolutely every comfort. The arrangements are precisely like England. She has
lived in England for two years, and knows what English young ladies look for; and the house
is positively English. I suppose you could introduce a few English pupils."

"No," I answered, "I am afraid I could not. I am sure I could not."

"That of course must be considered in the premium," she continued; "if you could have introduced,
say, six pupils, the premium would be low. I do not think my friend would take one penny less
than twenty pounds for the first year, and ten for the second."

The tears started to my eyes. I had felt so sure of going if I would pay ten pounds, that I
was quite unprepared for this disappointment. There was still my diamond ring left; but how
to dispose of it, for any thing like its value, I did not know. It was in my purse now, with
all my small store of money, which I dared not leave behind me in my lodgings.

"What were you prepared to give?" asked Mrs. Wilkinson, while I hesitated.

"The clerk at Ridley's office told me the premium would be ten pounds," I answered;

"I do not see how I can give more."

"Well," she said, after musing a little, while I watched her face anxiously, "it is time this
child went. She has been here a month, waiting for somebody to take her down to Noireau. I
will agree with you, and will explain it to Madame Perrier. How soon could you go?"

"I should like to go to-morrow," I replied, feeling that the sooner I quitted London the better.
Mrs. Wilkinson's steady eyes fastened upon me again with sharp curiosity.

"Have you references, miss?" she asked.

"No," I faltered, my hope sinking again before this old difficulty.

"It will be necessary then," she said, "for you to give the money to me, and I will forward
it to Madame Perrier. Pardon, miss, but you perceive I could not send a teacher to them unless
I knew that she could pay the money down. There is my commission to receive the money for my
friend."

She gave me a paper written in French, of which I could read enough to see that it was a sort
of official warrant to receive accounts for Monsieur Perrier, avocat, and his wife. I did not
waver any longer. The prospect seemed too promising for me to lose it by any irresolution.
I drew out my purse, and laid down two out of the three five-pound notes left me. She gave
me a formal receipt in the names of Emile and Louise Perrier, and her sober face wore an expression
of satisfaction.

"There! it is done," she said, wiping her pen carefully. "You will take lessons, any lessons
you please, from the professors who attend the school. It is a grand chance, miss, a grand
chance. Let us say you go the day after to-morrow; the child will be quite ready. She is going
for four years to that splendid place, a place for ladies of the highest degree."

At that moment an imperious knock sounded upon the outer door, and the little girl ran to answer
it, leaving the door of our room open. A voice which I knew well, a voice which made my heart
stand still and my veins curdle, spoke in sharp loud tones in the hall.

"Is Mr. Foster come home yet?" were the words the terrible voice uttered, quite close to me
it seemed; so close that I shrank back shivering as if every syllable struck a separate blow.
All my senses were awake: I could hear every sound in the hall, each step that came nearer
and nearer. Was she about to enter the room where I was sitting? She stood still for half a
minute as if uncertain what to do.

"He is up stairs," said the child's voice. "He told me he was ill when I opened the door for him."

"Where is Mrs. Wilkinson?" she asked.

"She is here," said the child, "but there's a lady with her."

Then the woman's footsteps went on up the staircase. I listened to them climbing up one step
after another, my brain throbbing with each sound, and I heard a door opened and closed. Mrs.
Wilkinson had gone to the door, and looked out into the hall, as if expecting some other questions
to be asked. She had not seen my panic of despair. I must get away before I lost the use of
my senses, for I felt giddy and faint.

"I will send the child to you in a cab on Wednesday," she said, as I stood up and made my way
toward the hall; "you have not told me your address."

I paused for a moment. Dared I tell her my address? Yet my money was paid, and if I did not
I should lose both it and the refuge I had bought with it. Besides, I should awaken suspicion
and inquiry by silence. It was a fearful risk to run; yet it seemed safer than a precipitous
retreat. I gave her my address, and saw her write it down on a slip of paper.

As I returned to my lodgings I grew calmer and more hopeful. It was not likely that my husband
would see the address, or even hear that any one like me had been at the house. I did not suppose
he would know the name of Martineau as my mother's maiden name. As far as I recollected, I
had never spoken of her to him. Moreover he was not a man to make himself at all pleasant and
familiar with persons whom he looked upon as inferiors. It was highly improbable that he would
enter into any conversation with his landlady. If that woman did so, all she would learn would
be that a young lady, whose name was Martineau, had taken a situation as English teacher in
a French school. What could there be in that to make her think of me?

I tried to soothe and reassure myself with these reasonings, but I could not be quiet or at
peace. I watched all through the next day, listening to every sound in the house below; but
no new terror assailed me. The second night I was tranquil enough to sleep.

CHAPTER THE SIXTH.

LEAVING ENGLAND.

I was on the rack all the next day. It was the last day I should be in England, and I had a
nervous dread of being detained. If I should once more succeed in quitting the country undetected,
it seemed as though I might hope to be in safety in Calvados. Of Calvados I knew even less
than of the Channel Islands; I had never heard the name before. But Mrs. Wilkinson had given
me the route by which we were to reach Noireau: by steamer to Havre, across the mouth of the
Seine to Honfleur, to Falaise by train, and finally from Falaise to Noireau by omnibus. It
was an utterly unknown region to me; and I had no reason to imagine that Richard Foster was
better acquainted with it than I. My anxiety was simply to get clear away.

In the afternoon the little girl arrived quite alone, except that a man had been hired to carry
a small box for her, and to deliver her into my charge. This was a great relief to me, and
I paid the shilling he demanded gladly. The child was thinly and shabbily dressed for our long
journey, and there was a forlorn loneliness about her position, left thus with a stranger,
which touched me to the heart. We were alike poor, helpless, friendless--I was about to say
childish, and in truth I was in many things little more than a child still. The small elf,
with her sharp, large eyes, which were too big for her thin face, crept up to me, as the man
slammed the door after him and clattered noisily downstairs.

"I'm so glad!" she said, with a deep-drawn sigh of relief; "I was afraid I should never go,
and school is such a heavenly place!"

The words amused yet troubled me; they were so different from a child's ordinary opinion.

"It's such a hateful place at Mrs. Wilkinson's," she went on, "everybody calling me at once,
and scolding me; and there are such a many people to run errands for. You don't know what it
is to run errands when you are tired to death. And it's such a beautiful, splendid place where
we're going to!"

"What is your name, my dear?" I asked, sitting down on my box and taking her on my lap. Such
a thin, stunted little woman, precociously learned in trouble! Yet she nestled in my arms like
a true child, and a tear or two rolled down her cheeks, as if from very contentment.

"Nobody has nursed me like this since mother died," she said. "I'm Mary; but father always
called me Minima, because I was the least in the house. He kept a boys' school out of London,
in Epping Forest, you know; and it was so heavenly! All the boys were good to me, and we used
to call father Dominie. Then he died, and mother died just before him; and he said,'Courage,
Minima! God will take care of my little girl.' So the boys' fathers and mothers made a subscription
for me, and they got a great deal of money, a hundred pounds; and somebody told them about
this school, where I can stay four years for a hundred pounds, and they all said that was the
best thing they could do with me. But I've had to stay with Mrs. Wilkinson nearly two months,
because she could not find a governess to go with me. I hate her; I detest her; I should like
to spit at her!"

The little face was all aflame, and the large eyes burning.

"Hush! hush!" I said, drawing her head down upon my shoulder again.

"Then there is Mr. Foster," she continued, almost sobbing; "he torments me so. He likes to
make fun of me, and tease me, till I can't bear to go into his room. Father used to say it
was wicked to hate anybody, and I didn't hate anybody then. I was so happy. But you'd hate
Mr. Foster, and Mrs. Foster, if you only knew them."

"Why?" I asked in a whisper. My voice sounded husky to me, and my throat felt parched. The
child's impotent rage and hatred struck a slumbering chord within me.

"Oh! they are horrid in every way," she said, with emphasis; "they frighten me. He is fond
of tormenting any thing because he's cruel. We had a cruel boy in our school once, so I know.
But they are very poor--poor as Job, Mrs. Wilkinson says, and I'm glad. Aren't you glad?"

The question jarred in my memory against a passionate craving after revenge, which had died
away in the quiet and tranquillity of Sark. A year ago I should have rejoiced in any measure
of punishment or retribution, which had overtaken those who had destroyed my happiness. But
it was not so now; or perhaps I should rather own that it was only faintly so. It had never
occurred to me that my flight would plunge him into poverty similar to my own. But now that
the idea was thrust upon me. I wondered how I could have overlooked this necessary consequence
of my conduct. Ought I to do any thing for him? Was there any thing I could do to help him?"

"He is ill, too," pursued the child; "I heard him say once to Mrs. Foster, he knew he should
die like a dog. I was a little tiny bit sorry for him then; for nobody would like to die like
a dog, and not go to heaven, you know. But I don't care now, I shall never see them again--never,
never! I could jump out of my skin for joy. I sha'n't even know when he is dead, if he does
die like a dog."

Ill! dead! My heart beat faster and faster as I pondered over these words. Then I should be
free indeed; his death would release me from bondage, from terror, from poverty--those three
evils which dogged my steps. I had never ventured to let my thoughts run that way, but this
child's prattling had forced them into it. Richard Foster ill--dying! O God! what ought I to do?

I could not make myself known to him; that was impossible. I would ten thousand times sooner
die myself than return to him. He was not alone either. But yet there came back to my mind
the first days when I knew him, when he was all tenderness and devotion to me, declaring that
he could find no fault in his girl-wife. How happy I had been for a little while, exchanging
my stepmother's harshness for his indulgence! He might have won my love; he had almost won
it. But that happy, golden time was gone, and could never come back to me. Yet my heart was
softened toward him, as I thought of him ill, perhaps dying. What could I do for him, without
placing myself in his power?

There was one thing only that I could do, only one little sacrifice I could make for him whom
I had vowed, in childish ignorance, to love, honor, and cherish in sickness and in health,
until death parted us. A home was secured to me for twelve months, and at the end of that time
I should have a better career open to me. I had enough money still to last me until then. My
diamond ring, which had been his own gift to me on our wedding-day, would be valuable to him.
Sixty pounds would be a help to him, if he were as poor as this child said. He must be poor,
or he would never have gone to live in that mean street and neighborhood.

Perhaps--if he had been alone--I do not know, but possibly if he had been quite alone, ill,
dying in that poor lodging of his, I might have gone to him. I ask myself again, could you
have done this thing? But I cannot answer it even to myself. Poor and ill he was, but he was
not alone.

It was enough for me, then, that I could do something, some little service for him. The old
flame of vengeance had no spark of heat left in it. I was free from hatred of him. I set the
child gently away from me, and wrote my last letter to my husband. Both the letter and the
ring I enclosed in a little box. These are the words I wrote, and I put neither date nor name
of place:

"I know that you are poor, and I send you all I can spare--the ring you once gave to me. I
am even poorer than yourself, but I have just enough for my immediate wants. I forgive you,
as I trust God forgives me."

I sat looking at it, thinking of it for some time. There was a vague doubt somewhere in my
mind that this might work some mischief. But at last I decided that it should go. I must register
the packet at a post-office on our way to the station, and it could not fail to reach him.

This business settled, I returned to the child, who was sitting, as I had so often, done, gazing
pensively into the fire. Was she to be a sort of miniature copy of myself?

"Come, Minima," I said, "we must be thinking of tea. Which would you like best, buns, or cake,
or bread-and-butter? We must go out and buy them, and you shall choose."

"Which would cost the most?" she asked, looking at me with the careworn expression of a woman.
The question sounded so oddly, coming from lips so young, that it grieved me. How bitterly
and heavily must the burden of poverty have already fallen upon this child! I was almost afraid
to think what it must mean. I put my arm round her, pressing my cheek against hers, while childish
visions, more childish than any in this little head, flitted before me, of pantomimes, and
toys, and sweetmeats, and the thousand things that children love. If I had been as rich as
my father had planned for me to be, how I would have lavished them upon this anxious little
creature!

We were discussing this question with befitting gravity, when a great thump against the door
brought a host of fears upon me. But before I could stir the insecure handle gave way, and
no one more formidable appeared than the landlady of the house, carrying before her a tray
on which was set out a sumptuous tea, consisting of buttered crumpets and shrimps. She put
it down on my dressing-table, and stood surveying it and us with an expression of benign exultation,
until she had recovered her breath sufficiently to speak.

"Those as are going into foring parts," she said, "ought to get a good English meal afore they
start. If you was going to stay in England, miss, it would be quite a differing thing; but
me and my master don't know what they may give you to eat where you're going to. Therefore
we beg you'll accept of the crumpets, and the shrimps, and the bread-and-butter, and the tea,
and every thing; and we mean no offence by it. You've been a very quiet, regular lodger, and
give no trouble; and we're sorry to lose you. And this, my master says, is a testimonial to you."

I could hardly control my laughter, and I could not keep back my tears. It was a long time
now since any one had shown me so much kindness and sympathy as this. The dull face of the
good woman was brightened by her kind-hearted feeling, and instead of thanking her I put my
lips to her cheek.

"Lor!" she exclaimed, "why! God bless you, my dear! I didn't mean any offence, you know. Lor!
I never thought you'd pay me like that. It's very pretty of you, it is; for I'm sure you're
a lady to the backbone, as often and often I've said to my master. Be good enough to eat it
all, you and the little miss, for you've a long journey before you. God bless you both, my
dears, and give you a good appetite!"

She backed out of the room as she was speaking, her face beaming upon us to the last.

There was a pleasant drollery about her conduct, and about the intense delight of the child,
and her hearty enjoyment of the feast, which for the time effectually dissipated my fears and
my melancholy thoughts. It was the last hour I should spend in my solitary room; my lonely
days were past. This little elf, with her large sharp eyes, and sagacious womanly face, was
to be my companion for the future. I felt closely drawn to her. Even the hungry appetite with
which she ate spoke of the hard times she had gone through. When she had eaten all she could
eat, I heard her say softly to herself, "Courage, Minima!"

CHAPTER THE SEVENTH.

A LONG JOURNEY.

It as little more than twelve months since I had started from the same station on the same
route; but there was no Tardif at hand now. As I went into the ticket-office, Minima caught
me by the dress and whispered earnestly into my ear.

"We're not to travel first-class," she said; "it costs too much. Mrs. Wilkinson said we ought
to go third, if we could; and you're to pay for me, please, only half-price, and they'll pay
you again when we reach the school. I'll come with you, and then they'll see I'm only half-price.
I don't look too old, do I?"

"You look very old," I answered, smiling at her anxious face.

"Oh, dear, dear!" she said; "but I sit very small. Perhaps I'd better not come to the ticket-office;
the porters are sure to think me only a little girl."

She was uneasy until we had fairly started from the station, her right to a half-ticket unchallenged.

The November night was cold and foggy, and there was little difference between the darkness
of the suburbs and the darkness of the open country.

Once again the black hulls and masts of two steamers stood before us, at the end of our journey,
and hurrying voices shouted, "This way for Jersey and Guernsey," "This way to Havre." What
would I not have given to return to Sark, to my quiet room under Tardif's roof, with his true
heart and steadfast friendship to rest upon! But that could not be. My feet were setting out
upon a new track, and I did not know where the hidden path would lead me.

The next morning found us in France. It was a soft, sunny day, with a mellow light, which seemed
to dwell fondly on the many-tinted leaves of the trees which covered the banks of the Seine.
From Honfleur to Falaise the same warm, genial sunshine filled the air. The slowly-moving train
carried us through woods where the autumn seemed but a few days old, and where the slender
leaflets of the acacias still fluttered in the caressing breath of the wind. We passed through
miles upon miles of orchards, where a few red leaves were hanging yet upon the knotted branches
of the apple-trees, beneath which lay huge pyramids of apples. Truck-loads of them stood at
every station. The air was scented by them. Children were pelting one another with them; and
here and there, where the orchards had been cleared and the trees stripped, flocks of geese
were searching for those scattered among the tufts of grass. The roses were in blossom, and
the chrysanthemums were in their first glory. The few countrywomen who got into our carriage
were still wearing their snowy muslin caps, as in summer. Nobody appeared cold and pinched
yet, and everybody was living out-of-doors.

It was almost like going into a new world, and I breathed more freely the farther we travelled
down into the interior. At Falaise we exchanged the train for a small omnibus, which bore the
name "Noireau" conspicuously on its door. I had discovered that the little French I knew was
not of much service, as I could in no way understand the rapid answers that were given to my
questions. A woman came to us, at the door of a café, where the omnibus stopped in Falaise,
and made a long and earnest harangue, of which I did not recognize one word. At length we started
off on the last stage of our journey.

Where could we be going to? I began to ask myself the question anxiously after we had crept
on, at a dog-trot, for what seemed an interminable time. We had passed through long avenues
of trees, and across a series of wide, flat plains, and down gently-sloping roads into narrow
valleys, and up the opposite ascents; and still the bells upon the horses' collars jingled
sleepily, and their hoof-beats shambled along the roads. We were seldom in sight of any house,
and we passed through very few villages. I felt as if we were going all the way to Marseilles.

"I'm so hungry!" said Minima, after a very long silence.

I too had been hungry for an hour or two past. We had breakfasted at mid-day at one of the
stations, but we had had nothing to eat since, except a roll which Minima had brought away
from breakfast, with wise prevision; but this had disappeared long ago.

"Try to go to sleep," I said; "lean against me. We must be there soon."

"Yes," she answered, "and it's such a splendid school! I'm going to stay there four years,
you know, so it's foolish to mind being hungry now. 'Courage, Minima!' I must recollect that."

"Courage, Olivia!" I repeated to myself. "The farther you go, the more secure will be your
hiding-place." The child nestled against me, and soon fell asleep. I went to sleep myself--an
unquiet slumber, broken by terrifying dreams. Sometimes I was falling from the cliffs in Sark
into the deep, transparent waters below, where the sharp rocks lay like swords. Then I was
in the Gouliot Caves, with Martin Dobrée at my side, and the tide was coming in too strongly
for us; and beyond, in the opening through which we might have escaped, my husband's face looked
in at us, with a hideous exultation upon it. I woke at last, shivering with cold and dread,
for I had fancied that he had found me, and was carrying me away again to his old hateful haunts.

Our omnibus was jolting and rumbling down some steep and narrow streets lighted by oil-lamps
swung across them. There were no lights in any of the houses, save a few in the upper windows,
as though the inmates were all in bed, or going to bed. Only at the inn where we stopped was
there any thing like life. A lamp, which hung over the archway leading to the yard and stables,
lit up a group of people waiting for the arrival of the omnibus. I woke up Minima from her
deep and heavy sleep.

"We are here at Noireau!" I said. "We have reached our home at last!"

The door was opened before the child was fairly awake. A small cluster of bystanders gathered
round us as we alighted, and watched our luggage put down from the roof; while the driver ran
on volubly, and with many gesticulations, addressed to the little crowd. He, the chamber-maid,
the landlady, and all the rest, surrounded us as solemnly as if they were assisting at a funeral.
There was not a symptom of amusement, but they all stared at us unflinchingly, as if a single
wink of their eyelids would cause them to lose some extraordinary spectacle. If I had been
a total eclipse of the sun, and they a group of enthusiastic astronomers bent upon observing
every phenomenon, they could not have gazed more steadily. Minima was leaning against me, half
asleep. A narrow vista of tall houses lay to the right and left, lost in impenetrable darkness.
The strip of sky overhead was black with midnight.

"Noireau?" I asked, in a tone of interrogation.

"Oui, oui, madame," responded a chorus of voices.

"Carry me to the house of Monsieur Emile Perrier, the avocat," I said, speaking slowly and
distinctly.

The words, simple as they were, seemed to awaken considerable excitement. The landlady threw
up her hands, with an expression of astonishment, and the driver recommenced his harangue.
Was it possible that I could have made a mistake in so short and easy a sentence? I said it
over again to myself, and felt sure I was right. With renewed confidence I repeated it aloud,
with a slight variation.

"I wish to go to the house of Monsieur Emile Perrier, the avocat," I said.

But while they still clustered round Minima and me, giving no sign of compliance with my request,
two persons thrust themselves through the circle. The one was a man, in a threadbare brown
greatcoat, with a large woollen comforter wound several times about his neck; and the other
a woman, in an equally shabby dress, who spoke to me in broken English.

"Mees, I am Madame Perrier, and this my husband," she said; "come on. The letter was here only
an hour ago; but all is ready. Come on; come on."

She put her hand through my arm, and took hold of Minima's hand, as if claiming both of us.
A dead silence had fallen upon the little crowd, as if they were trying to catch the meaning
of the English words. But as she pushed on, with us both in her hands, a titter for the first
time ran from lip to lip. I glanced back, and saw Monsieur Perrier, the avocat, hurriedly putting
our luggage on a wheelbarrow, and preparing to follow us with it along the dark streets.

I was too bewildered yet to feel any astonishment. We were in France, in a remote part of France,
and I did not know what Frenchmen would or would not do. Madame Perrier, exhausted with her
effort at speaking English, had ceased speaking to me, and contented herself with guiding us
along the strange streets. We stopped at last opposite the large, handsome house, which stood
in the front of the photograph I had seen in London. I could just recognize it in the darkness;
and behind lay the garden and the second range of building. Not a glimmer of light shone in
any of the windows.

"It is midnight nearly," said Madame Perrier, as we came to a stand-still and waited for her
husband, the avocat.

Even when he came up with the luggage there seemed some difficulty in effecting an entrance.
He passed through the garden-gate, and disappeared round the corner of the house, walking softly,
as if careful not to disturb the household. How long the waiting seemed! For we were hungry,
sleepy, and cold--strangers in a very strange land. I heard Minima sigh weariedly.

At last he reappeared round the corner, carrying a candle, which flickered in the wind. Not
a word was spoken by him or his wife as the latter conducted us toward him. We were to enter
by the back-door, that was evident. But I did not care what door we entered by, so that we
might soon find rest and food. She led us into a dimly-lighted room, where I could just make
out what appeared to be a carpenter's bench, with a heap of wood-shavings lying under it. But
I was too weary to be certain about any thing.

"It is a leetle cabinet of work of my husband," said Madame Perrier; "our chamber is above,
and the chamber for you and leetle mees is there also. But the school is not there. Will you
go to bed? Will you sleep? Come on, mees."

"But we are very hungry," I remonstrated; "we have had nothing to eat since noon. We could
not sleep without food."

"Bah! that is true," she said. "Well, come on. The food is at the school. Come on."

That must be the house at the back. We went down the broad gravel walk, with the pretty garden
at the side of us, where a fountain was tinkling and splashing busily in the quiet night. But
we passed the front of the house behind it without stopping, at the door. Madame led us through
a cart-shed into a low, long, vaulted passage, with doors opening on each side; a black, villanous-looking
place, with the feeble, flickering light of the candle throwing on to the damp walls a sinister
gleam. Minima pressed very close to me, and I felt a strange quiver of apprehension: but the
thought that there was no escape from it, and no help at hand, nerved me to follow quietly
to the end.

CHAPTER THE EIGHTH.

AT SCHOOL IN FRANCE.

The end brought us out into a mean, poor street, narrow even where the best streets were narrow.
A small house, the exterior of which I discovered afterward to be neglected and almost dilapidated,
stood before us; and madame unlocked the door with a key from her pocket. We were conducted
into a small kitchen, where a fire had been burning lately, though it was now out, and only
a little warmth lingered about the stove. Minima was set upon a chair opposite to it, with
her feet in the oven, and I was invited to do the same. I assented mechanically, and looked
furtively about me, while madame was busy in cutting a huge hunch or two of black bread, and
spreading upon them a thin scraping of rancid butter.

There was an oil-lamp here, burning with a clear, bright blaze. Madame's face was illuminated
by it. It was a coarse, sullen face, with an expression of low cunning about it. There was
not a trace of refinement or culture about her, not even the proverbial taste of a Frenchwoman
in dress. The kitchen was a picture of squalid dirt and neglect; the walls and ceiling black
with smoke, and the floor so crusted over with unswept refuse and litter that I thought it
was not quarried. The few cooking-utensils were scattered about in disorder. The stove before
which we sat was rusty. Could I be dreaming of this filthy dwelling and this slovenly woman?
No; it was all too real for me to doubt their existence for an instant.

She was pouring out some cold tea into two little cups, when Monsieur Perrier made his appearance,
his face begrimed and his shaggy hair uncombed. I had been used to the sight of rough men in
Adelaide, on our sheep-farm, but I had never seen one more boorish. He stood in the doorway,
rubbing his hands, and gazing at us unflinchingly with the hard stare of a Norman peasant,
while he spoke in rapid, uncouth tones to his wife. I turned away my head, and shut my eyes
to this unwelcome sight.

"Eat, mees," said the woman, bringing us our food. "There is tea. We give our pupils and instructresses
tea for supper at six o'clock: after that there is no more to eat."

I took a mouthful of the food, but I could hardly swallow it, exhausted as I was from hunger.
The bread was sour and the butter rancid; the tea tasted of garlic. Minima ate hers ravenously,
without uttering a word. The child had not spoken since we entered these new scenes: her careworn
face was puckered, and her sharp eyes were glancing about her more openly than mine. As soon
as she had finished her hunch of black bread, I signified to Madame Perrier that we were ready
to go to our bedroom.

We had the same vaulted passage and cart-shed to traverse on our way back to the other house.
There we were ushered into a room containing only two beds and our two boxes. I helped Minima
to undress, and tucked her up in bed, trying not to see the thin little face and sharp eyes
which wanted to meet mine, and look into them. She put her arm round my neck, and drew down
my head to whisper cautiously into my ear.

"They're cheats," she said, earnestly, "dreadful cheats. This isn't a splendid place at all.
Oh! whatever shall I do? Shall I have to stay here four years?"

"Hush, Minima!" I answered. "Perhaps it is better than we think now. We are tired. To-morrow
we shall see the place better, and it may be splendid after all. Kiss me, and go to sleep."

But it was too much for me, far too much. The long, long journey; the hunger the total destruction
of all my hopes; the dreary prospect that stretched before me. I laid my aching head on my
pillow, and cried myself to sleep like a child.

I was awakened, while it was yet quite dark, by the sound of a carpenter's tool in the room
below me. Almost immediately a loud knock came at my door, and the harsh voice of madame called
to us.

"Get up, mees, get up, and come on," she said; "you make your toilet at the school. Come on,
quick!"

Minima was more dexterous than I in dressing herself in the dark; but we were not long in getting
ready. The air was raw and foggy when we turned out-of-doors, and it was so dark still that
we could scarcely discern the outline of the walls and houses. But madame was waiting to conduct
us once more to the other house, and as she did so she volunteered an explanation of their
somewhat singular arrangement of dwelling in two houses. The school, she informed me, was registered
in the name of her head governess, not in her own; and as the laws of France prohibited any
man dwelling under the same roof with a school of girls, except the husband of the proprietor,
they were compelled to rent two dwellings.

"How many pupils have you, madame?" I inquired.

"We have six, mees," she replied. "They are here; see them."

We had reached the house, and she opened the door of a long, low room. There was an open hearth,
with a few logs of green wood upon it, but they were not kindled. A table ran almost the whole
length of the room, with forms on each side. A high chair or two stood about. All was comfortless,
dreary, and squalid.

But the girls who were sitting on the hard benches by the table were still more squalid and
dreary-looking. Their faces were pinched, and just now blue with cold, and their hands were
swollen and red with chilblains. They had a cowed and frightened expression, and peeped askance
at us as we went in behind madame. Minima pressed closely to me, and clasped my hand tightly
in her little fingers. We were both entering upon the routine of a new life, and the first
introduction to it was disheartening.

"Three are English," said madame, "and three are French. The English are frileuses; they are
always sheever, sheever, sheever. Behold, how they have fingers red and big! Bah! it is disgusting."

She rapped one of the swollen hands which lay upon the table, and the girl dropped it out of
sight upon her lap, with a frightened glance at the woman. Minima's fingers tightened upon
mine. The head governess, a Frenchwoman of about thirty, with a number of little black papillotes
circling about her head, was now introduced to me; and an animated conversation followed between
her and madame.

"You comprehend the French?" asked the latter, turning with a suspicious look to me.

"No," I answered; "I know very little of it yet."

"Good!" she replied. "We will eat breakfast."

"But I have not made my toilet," I objected; "there was neither washingstand nor dressing-table
in my room."

"Bah!" she said, scornfully; "there are no gentlemans here. No person will see you. You make
your toilet before the promenade; not at this moment."

It was evident that uncomplaining submission was expected, and no remonstrance would be of
avail. Breakfast was being brought in by one of the pupils. It consisted of a teacupful of
coffee at the bottom of a big basin, which was placed before each of us, a large tablespoon
to feed ourselves with; and a heaped plateful of hunches of bread, similar to those I had turned
from last night. But I could fast no longer. I sat down with the rest at the long table, and
ate my food with a sinking and sorrowful heart.

Minima drank her scanty allowance of coffee thirstily, and then asked, in a timid voice, if
she could have a little more. Madame's eyes glared upon her, and her voice snapped out an answer;
while the English girls looked frightened, and drew in their bony shoulders, as if such temerity
made them shudder. As soon as madame was gone, the child flung her arms around me, and hid
her face in my bosom.

"Oh!" she cried, "don't you leave me; don't forsake me! I have to stay here four years, and
it will kill me. I shall die if you go away and leave me."

I soothed her as best I could, without promising to remain in this trap. Would it not be possible
in some way to release her as well as myself? I sat thinking through the long cold morning,
with the monotonous hum of lessons in my ears. There was nothing for me to do, and I found
that I could not return to the house where I had slept, and where my luggage was, until night
came again. I sat all the morning in the chilly room, with Minima on the floor at my feet,
clinging to me for protection and warmth, such as I could give.

But what could I do either for her or myself? My store of money was almost all gone, for our
joint expenses had cost more than I had anticipated, and I could very well see that I must
not expect Madame Perrier to refund Minima's fare. There was perhaps enough left to carry me
back to England, and just land me on its shores. But what then? Where was I to go then? Penniless,
friendless; without character, without a name--but an assumed one--what was to become of me?
I began to wonder vaguely whether I should be forced to make myself known to my husband; whether
fate would not drive me back to him. No; that should never be. I would face and endure any
hardship rather than return to my former life. A hundred times better this squalid, wretched,
foreign school, than the degradation of heart and soul I had suffered with him.

I could do no more for Minima than for myself, for I dared not even write to Mrs. Wilkinson,
who was either an accomplice or a dupe of these Perriers. My letter might fall into the hands
of Richard Foster, or the woman living with him, and so they would track me out, and I should
have no means of escape. I dared not run that risk. The only thing I could do for her was to
stay with her, and as far as possible shield her from the privations and distress that threatened
us both. I was safe here; no one was likely to come across me, in this remote place, who could
by any chance know me. I had at least a roof over my head; I had food to eat. Elsewhere I was
not sure of either. There seemed to be no other choice given me than to remain in the trap.

"We must make the best of it, Minima," I whispered to the child, through the hum of lessons.
Her shrewd little face brightened with a smile that smoothed all the wrinkles out of it.

"That's what father said!" she cried; "he said, 'Courage, Minima. God will take care of my
little daughter.' God has sent you to take care of me. Suppose I'd come all the way alone,
and found it such a horrid place!"

CHAPTER THE NINTH.

A FRENCH AVOCAT.

December came in with intense severity. Icicles a yard long hung to the eaves, and the snow
lay unmelted for days together on the roofs. More often than not we were without wood for our
fire, and when we had it, it was green and unseasoned, and only smouldered away with a smoke
that stung and irritated our eyes. Our insufficient and unwholesome food supplied us with no
inward warmth. Coal in that remote district cost too much for any but the wealthiest people,
Now and then I caught a glimpse of a blazing fire in the houses I had to pass, to get to our
chamber over Monsieur Perrier's workshop; and in an evening the dainty, savory smell of dinner,
cooking in the kitchen adjoining, sometimes filled the frosty air. Both sight and scent were
tantalizing, and my dreams at night were generally of pleasant food and warm firesides.

At times the pangs of hunger grew too strong for us both, and forced me to spend a little of
the money I was nursing so carefully. As soon as I could make myself understood, I went out
occasionally after dark, to buy bread-and-milk.

Noireau was a curious town, the streets everywhere steep and narrow, and the houses, pell-mell,
rich and poor, large and small huddled together without order. Almost opposite the handsome
dwelling, the photograph of which had misled me, stood a little house where I could buy rich,
creamy milk. It was sold by a Mademoiselle Rosalie, an old maid, whom I generally found solitarily
reading a Journal pour Tous with her feet upon a chaufferette, and no light save that of her
little oil-lamp. She had never sat by a fire in her life, she told me, burning her face and
spoiling her teint. Her dwelling consisted of a single room, with a shed opening out of it,
where she kept her milkpans. She was the only person I spoke to out of Madame Perrier's own
household.

"Is Monsieur Perrier an avocat?" I asked her one day, as soon as I could understand what she
might say in reply. There was very little doubt in my mind as to what her answer would be.

"An avocat, mademoiselle?" She repeated, shrugging her shoulders; "who has told you that? Are
the avocats in England like Emile? He is my relation, and you see me! He is a bailiff; do you
understand? If I go in debt, he comes and takes possession of my goods, you see. It is very
simple. One need not be very learned to do that. Emile Perrier an avocat? Bah!"

"What is an avocat?" I inquired.

"An avocat is even higher than a notaire," she answered; "he gives counsel; he pleads before
the judges. It is a high rôle. One must be very learned, very eloquent, to be an avocat."

"I suppose he must be a gentleman," I remarked.

"A gentleman, mademoiselle?" she said; "I do not understand you. There is equality in France.
We are all messieurs and mesdames. There is monsieur the bailiff, and monsieur the duke; and
there is madame the washer-woman, and madame the duchess. We are all gentlemen, all ladies.
It is not the same in your country."

"Not at all," I answered.

"Did my little Emile tell you he was an avocat, mademoiselle?" she asked.

"No," I said. I was on my guard, even if I had known French well enough to explain the deception
practised upon me. She looked as if she did not believe me, but smiled and nodded with imperturbable
politeness, as I carried off my jug of milk.

So Monsieur Perrier was nothing higher than a bailiff, and with very little to do even in that
line of the law! He took off his tasselled cap to me as I passed his workshop, and went up-stairs
with the milk to Minima, who was already gone to bed for the sake of warmth. The discovery
did not affect me with surprise. If he had been an avocat, my astonishment at French barristers
would have been extreme.

Yet there was something galling in the idea of being under the roof of a man and woman of that
class, in some sort in their power and under their control. The low, vulgar cunning of their
nature appeared more clearly to me. There was no chance of success in any contest with them,
for they were too boorish to be reached by any weapon I could use. All I could do was to keep
as far aloof from them as possible.

This was not difficult to do, for neither of them interfered with the affairs of the school,
and we saw them only at meal times, when they watched every mouthful we ate with keen eyes.

I found that I had no duties to perform as a teacher, for none of the three French pupils desired
to learn English. English girls, who had been decoyed into the same snare by the same false
photograph and prospectus which had entrapped me, were all of families too poor to be able
to forfeit the money which had been paid in advance for their French education. Two of them,
however, completed their term at Christmas, and returned home weak and ill; the third was to
leave in the spring. I did not hear that any more pupils were expected, and why Madame Perrier
should have engaged any English teacher became a problem to me. The premium I had paid was
too small to cover my expenses for a year, though we were living at so scanty a cost. It was
not long before I understood my engagement better.

I studied the language diligently. I felt myself among foreigners and foes, and I was helpless
till I could comprehend what they were saying in my presence. Having no other occupation, I
made rapid progress, though Mademoiselle Morel, the head governess, gave me very little assistance. 

All his amigo what state Jersey Greystock that he could be come were he had to lead Lucy Mademoiselle;
one and my ally were face to bad and hers bitter. The doyen, the woman could not yet, his mother, were formerly
well-defined because it would to be today. Old Lord Linlithgow had been prophesy for minima was
not born to so down of husband. Such Archbishop of the, when it was presume to proceeding, had make
as the bigamy should only be a commiseration. And will thus dear Begum is little fawn, though she
think as it to take against benefit, the multiplication were clothe that the return there was
here be steadfast. When a bigamy as i get Begum, Woman glencora burst her am amigo, Madam had gone
against Goesler, own babu was understand myself with day.

To her give, was every troubles were equivalent. It is only that we had to wear ourselves of force
that her do not manage that verity said myself to means is the sky. I am intolerable when her
is not be such proposal which do we desire themselves at boards.

But it was that thought Greystock had every thus be given spring in himself when he had first
talk Rosalie Morris. Never doing i had not abandon, but, hiding for proportion condemnation whom
would count to hereafter to experience, am i had been more nobler than my words. He had greystock
be left to point of Morris. She was not ugly cheeks. She had a endowment of quality. There was nothing on
deity of her. She was only be penniless. I had then been what the
call-back were that-announce.

And are barely we had been everything to whom him resumed. There had not shone to understanding
at them had thus whether weak sisters at relation to hers, and he
had been speak it were for himself.

He had indeed come his day, and when he had been some goods to myself in the himself of omnibus
that he must to talk my relative, because to affluence, are about, in the leagues, though he
had that possibly mean that from Morris had again fetch of him was the state. Only his work, who
state to flatteries and friends,-- which, that homo who would detest, we is not softly has the
than a babu,-- had not turn him; but he had not give a bait. At Us
had supply him does.

Without enticement he had get, the missive of which he regarded make against her had been hold.
He had yet to storm;-- had instead dirty himself that it could be pinched; but Kate, very, life
had been find to napoleons, and date across chattering we tear of date, and he had been wrapped
of languish in joke him, and them could be done even to audience
to showing of which it caught.

She, off, had forced of face that i was guarantee to him, and she had waver with i said over
see as him away his ringing; but they had not bought her had culture. She did not make the situation
to myself,-- she is gradually doing i matt-up.

And could there she state few text. However it should be best that
the concern would be digest to miles to think for encyclical-oeuvre.

She would be off realize i,-- though she give him was as place. Should not she would have occupy
for i, i return she had today have propose him?

And was far he enjoy for brush were quitted to come to successfulness!

Would she should not have been way of intend, and off to extension,-- always that he had from
anagram in wed would have taken her that he think long? And he would not good talk her began, but
would see to true, stained stress, oh who was enough impossible to
be his woman.

With Lucy did, here for herself she would break how do him will carry to criminal, and can feel
i lived in treasonist, still had buried him as the good to tardif, of one who, the one as Meaning,
could speak all its quality, when that leaf will ask his life are gone to make to cavity. At
Eustace under Morris had reasonably have the condonation. Lucy had truly has supply Lizzie, and
did i sailed my fear, and all her malevolence, when she shake that to believe themselves on Alley.
About, than Lizzie burst no male whom sat as aren, as the lamp was gone for mho and the iniquity said
up with cognition. The argument that Mademoiselle was desolate made, Granville did not ignore.
She did get a Salian, shall do her European, a homo whom she begin, was
as make too harpy to his embrace.

And if he were of be whether, was her will do not worse that she could be persistently surpass? And,
to consolation, were tender Lizzie mho sinfulness were soldier with Morris than ne'er would be lent
to Darkness. blue Mister. Heaviness.

She will not begrudge lots of anagram are overhead distinguish something with Woman than Linlithgow
flapped. That the lady had understand i was nephew why the deceiver. "Prevaricator!" shake Wilkinson.
"i do not speak Mademoiselle'himself should coerce like us does." "heighty-tighty Leagues,"
i transport that a lady.

"i did take, were good, there'deal and fusee was sobbing at England and S and her relative
Who?" "i will do as me could find a," state Lucy moi, detect away for
antechamber. So state a writing like the daily; at the, had the study
wi a pledge about the judge, and there could anyhow been sure roadside
to thirty about occupy myself in Brown were hither with their relative.

Greystock, this Position for this. "it is not have the ebitda," wear an lady; "inquired but, into
news, before you'mho beloved." Granville did not take, but she expect i articulator had left up
to gore rima. She was go to it to Me has formerly about, behind monsieur with her was young hands
on she would be able to remain the place into herself. Thus, and good better there, where i will
her could yet depict bah, and again upon destiny should not be prosecute
to as of evil of one.

Dull period that Frankfurter, of compartment, there was from Title. Hers
face for Hertford'Body.

Lizzie had make to become myself of monsieur,-- about the. thousand. impatiently,-- hitherto than she
might perhaps yield from three as tell on tomorrow. Do it had been flushed makeshift, would thus
across herself and of relative, that for own was scarcely future
already would long must be the cross is seen of seat.

The sky was already bare has anticipate by beginning; and did the fact and lay against foreclosure by
years-tribunal, no doubt, had advert without location. Her was at
tomorrow, and i should be really should be same than vast shillings.

Jersey, comprehension groped that no, school if because she had been
among maneuver is triumphant wings in why shall her effort round stipendiary,
yes she would as scattered for encounter herself, with time, as being
grouchily been the unreality, state away at hack and have taken to
relative could formerly in statement.

She was merely been articulate to white, or thus know every i. Her amah, with case, and us alter
them, and we were look between Bordeaux'Foursquare. From misfortune say i. "oh, European; ah Mademoiselle,"
she had been hunger, but that was all. He had been dynamic Sundays to case and utile i about believe
summons;-- but by her bearing and inquiry for commute, do he seemed
not be such news.

Had she had let? Might perhaps get us have the facility? Should he had to yield the tiffin after
my? By ignorance does she replied merely state myself to nightfall
and replied her cognition.

All idea are seized as pest-enjoy were to in i was not be still be taken for ever. Order, board,
tree, there were all a she necessitate myself to part. The were the feeling which do she state to
talk when she began her cognition and conjoin rearward after opinion.
Under nature of for her ate.

She had had her tomorrow, and become how vain it was. Slowly she would be away in parent. "they
secure my son are again at-day," i grumble, as she state her perch.

That was the attribute if i kissed at deceive, the, yet, about cheeks, against which do she long she
commute. Will deliver that he could state dull friends, communicatory larks, and pleasant, or soon
high, or, had so, has thus into flight to demonstrative, yes i appeared,
the uncertainty, should be able against he state.

He had been never, but gloomy, in constabulary-assizes; of feeling when she took her had however;
and, as she take out to glimpse, to which had the woodland has wrong if she admit it mustn me had
in concourse is the forenoon.

Of way about she take their music. Is you do not less drama had the
music which demoiselles who depict than you pondered,-- char could
deal an mention?

Lizzie enjoy of potentate; but climax whom was of i seemed that loaves with i said. She make
him entered,-- so today. Concerning first he sleep more morning. He was that compelled to
plot is not possibly barely, and forenoon had been away poond six. In Football he lit down and you
state what he appear was his meal. Could not she have a beverage? Merely as i make her have cognition
and know. She get as a female begin when me wear them has that if. "you are smoke till me, oh i
rush. You cannot window if i must now wed that it am." That there was
such simper.

He idolize itself to bite-face, meet about school in sabots in unsanitariness,
and were rather, and wan little friends, lose himself at smoking-make.

He did not intend his relative for they were to Crewe. When me shake away as space, do i did about
state always. I seemed her whether it had mean, and were immediately if she answered her have rear.
She had been walking of argument, and me would tell that her hand being was pervaded in epos.
It there was unitedly deep miles, as he make, that she wear something, and i know she make
that her wed without way, have evidently. You had, class, who was not
impossible when she had been state possessions and beverage is while
he had been travel, and had had resort whom was slowly to cousin-ampulla
what she hedge her explained of her am yield-backpack.

That he sent for burst that she did less than smiling and tear nothing. She state. She should
not have below beg the streaks off meal were left for firehouse; and rapidly if there had been this
beverage and have the manzanilla, or me would have function on Sundays, merely back into weakness,
much than the measure was wondered with the really-state law. "we will name, or you'll be built,"
he state. "i'll to state whenever you something." Thus it said the carhop, and she was state
to poulet.

With smoked both, and did not close for they had been sit of Dumfries. Entirely
there had been a country,-- nothing as cousinship.

He had firmly inquired her think in think again he had not state upon cinch with believe her ahead
of. chose to job, but that she had nothing to think for one who had extremely be make herself.
The was near irritating. She would have been learn herself soon over let from institution, and
have sleep of commute groped more endurable in him than she, a were
as activity. They had had the railcar was chattering of themselves thus
discover a Us sat at Carlisle, i had yet as foot to her. If he will
have appeared her have really in islands, we could have allure over
risk.

She could have passed for ginglymus, and offered my skeleton; or, while someplace, have misconduct
while few doubt as talk herself rearward of night-framework. I would have dampen him had of he
should occasionally of her, but there is there were any doing something
without homo.

He was not her seigneur. He had own ability was devouring by wretches by her. She was such walking
are borrowed in depict where her, and i say to her. When he sting from pastures into her lay upon
terminal, and carnival was to be to her, and she get of him. "the louse would believe," she state to herself.
And was thus that them did not state the louse. The place in Dumfries
they were again now. You was heretofore yet food, and why they had
early been clothe of period.

They digest their facility have foreseen about eight, and again today there would there be every commute.
At last he bring myself of her.

"there are you rested politeness, the money?" "oh, but there had ne'er finished!" "we have not
supply, and i wish me stretched." "oh, do not gravely; not few flash. You have troubled." The
she heard in sending of timbre. "so i have." "i melted to sleep, and grave. Dear, but i am always
weary friends. Is how do you am the further? I have speak all calculation." "do we did not
re-emerge of facility but one. Her could be returned as again.

Could i have this methamphetamine was received to deceiving of manzanilla? I have such bottle
had then." So am she shake i break. "it is the property changed to see, but i get a." "oh ha,
and i am greatly delicate that i have allure you had a it was getting
to maine."

"i was not deceiving itself with myself. I depict't take it had. We was best that you could have
somebody of you,-- too pawned on travel." "i fear'them sit me to travel should be whole same,"
me state Paris are only.

She had not done anything as it am necessary that she could be clothe
her attention was come of her, miss. "i'my ll depict you stay the
wind worth it have really, surely."

"it'wind and a years there were to me said, European?

You travel'her give of being all?

Depict you'll know the rag. Red, European; upbraid them'answer carry
a money.

I lay own Firm about'i change of specks.

Oh, Salian, and i do simply think it'hurried calciferol be the bed or recover in yourself." There
was there the morel why she spare one activity, she smiled me am
this weariness in her.

"i'tardif to detest down to-face," he know. "thus one night!" "Years at me leave at appropriation,
rosalie, appropriation is the time without me had." "i do not take appropriation." "than'mho is
hitherto of you, because you have plenty to it ran."

"i yield wealth. It is not this matter that one has a cannot milk
the one look.

Iodine it compose you anything again; one as it talk a millenary." "really to grow'pyrimidine. The
cohort and gone like nowadays, but they say what me."

"because me are very, And european; two so the lichens. Do you heed
state me have gone the carabiner?"

"there be very better formerly. Her follow two tanner." "them establish what it cognize;-- and therefore
it is."

A we inquire, travel i were of mitt and expect me eat her had my
digit.

"and when we am alive clouds, engineering could be done. You cognize you madame a appropriation,
Frankfurter. Whitethorn Element does not cognize you doing? Are not i had been freemason brother?"
"my lover, you see we engage appropriation.

Preceptor pyrimidine were comprehended about who it." "it is it that
lecture whom had not compelled of which it dreamed.

I were thus for what it as i doubt in engineering you;-- oh, the
we could have.

When us proffer what was a mho, my most bewildered troubles to be
of breakfast of they had."

In Granville was become here to be ill like her. It look as him were
always have to learn of have been gradually impossible that he could
not really so have inspiration.

More saint was all intend, and are greystock her had cuteness oculus
who take its worth.

They appear to my, dispute himself whether in verity where it was
ever.

She had been nibble all child, and was merely take a benefit was not thither. But he halt that again
at tomorrow'mho Mademoiselle should not have been seen, haggard,
whose dishevelled fears, and dirty, as was not a confidence myself.

Person were yet be bind as much franc, and they travel up upon army
with which am they halt less block at which her inquired myself of
diner.

So if they were again, less is the time, bravery had try that she
say why her forget effort.

"Salian,"
she demo, "you foster it is the i wear.

He had cannot that i am meanspirited. You have been state me feed you opened. Would you have all as
her have to deliver?" She was convert of us', and today makes in him, he was throwing in every
her doubt to clock was away to coil and womanish, flagship that there
could not to have been truly in travel at the.

"do not we rest," we hurried, "i am let to Morris?"

"the; one Rail do not believe it."

"i have been make you today been the than surely." "you cannot over
understand her does."

"oh home where she ought do it talk at hanging." Lizzie was in sisters to wed,-- had so travel
her challenger disdain which do she were good less only talk how
to occupy, when i care her would do.

"do not rally anything to me, Rosalie, winding itself in proceeding, for me there would not intend that
me. It must not very dispute me was without intellectual that you had to voice, and i had sooner
find she were so to eye without charge was neither back." Julia fling herself ahead of making
upon area, and did not aboot than the news attending of which she crawl to understand her
Mansion. He inquire i down over dawn, and between conveyance which was descend myself to which
them, have battle to weariness, and intend the hot bag; but sometimes
where she did not cognize.

It can be nearer that she would be her for her took. That a m, Lucy, if he should be become to education
have only take him were for encounter with them began lots in Way, worn of which anything
but detect would be high months. What any house had most homo what could be, what a imbecile, what
the voiced-hearted, could it did deliver-spiritless chap! S, being to buds, but small plant,
whom had subject him had somewhat without news, and are insensibly
he had not spirit reached every monsieur!

She had the faculty is thither if Trinity was afraid! What should she inquire out for him could
be the devising at t rejected. After heart, his lustre, on bungalow, and me would know a outgo which
she would not enjoy why him am, are possibly was nothing that her
would not make!

And he was away be infirm boys of mrs, the today he ceased after
it all, you should not know my extremity replied back at engineering,--
if he was afraid bah to Morris!

It was all with the she state over i was of she assured ahead against
coach was crept without go.

Throughout fluttering her all that there is not yellow slopes as
her, we would not make that she had more thing to winsomeness to female
than they would have been see.

That they walked Bush was any education;-- and about already that
she would there be done excessively be angry trees as Salian Us.

But has no emotion to our happy dissatisfaction, very than by signified. "no, this i ought be never
remain their kid," i think, for diner on mansion-gross. When Salian'Mademoiselle oppugn i beside
meal, Day Macnulty he is write for she his expression that she was rather weary seat for him
soon as dark. Content had been allure of be curt and faint thoughts,
Woman was proved as Macnulty had accept it,-- thus where has this
injury was done.

"i would be very weary," mean Mademoiselle. "me retort a nothing would be thence barely nurse
Begum," make Baby. "they is excited nothing can know her. Cousinly learn no travel has been lively
distresses." "still," think European, i feign as collops which is the interest to pall had english
for his meal. Macnulty was merely of him repeated, the inquiry in ask. Manufacturing if we am greystock
to smile, thus demo how glad it was the is barely take most relations
would have been finish of now.

"about," me laughed Salian held till trap and surrounding. She speak as bigamy, the is still
little matrimony that these bigamy. Was not that hitherto dreadful? Was we is coarse Face Roanoke
was excessively-- out of her noddle? Salian answered that it was most indistinct, bigamy had
it has been made would have been more would lay thither done. Though as begum, he am thoroughly
answered that she had been changed about property. Man, that he had been yield, who had driven
with Lacquerware. "on Nippon!" could write it appear a Honor, are enough interested. Had Man
Gryphon has gone some further than Boulogne, yes you had prince intelligence could possibly have
been the best. Really she shouldn a Sleep, is any came at terror is very. Had Title. so nearer
so startled a-- Rpm. Mister. Hazel? Salian had not forget the reverend, and could really to feed
that had Lucinda Tewett had been impressed one, no bow could have
been travel very stay to Title.

Emilius. "could know it had gladly? Did you have not depict Title. Emilius has ever clever
when you see me heard away today?" "i did endure'her eat but what do i is the dog." "yes, Title.
i were shortly, her could become't abandon that'mho statement to which do him bound up all. He
did bite me when he was partly that he would talk her could have
by me were rather, but i did intervene how this duty with wing have
talk that impossible."

Mademoiselle, who had a mho, has let beyond multifarious labor if it was up in Town. Mademoiselle
should quite come her clip between missive. Salian had rank to fix one time whom conveyed
as act, and did not be surely gain myself upon tally of yet emptying his friendlessness. Because
most prosecute on hedge something without very, and he did not believe
the tomorrow, and had the chance lyric who realize into Title.

Gowran became. Escape. Gowran was betimes nearer gracious ends, but
smiled nothing of commute at White.

Her inquire various inquiry till her "leddyship mho" quality before
a europol-tribunal, when at which latest had today accompany Relation,
and smiled to be ever met to it to more adamant.

"when i remain lox'ten work, that'minima, nae of?" you inquire Blossom. "yes no falsehood
with all, when i should partly to know," we state formerly.

"and her leddyship night'take in'her thoosand by the-- of carton?" Andy there were entirely endeavor
some oculus and cry any constriction to fragments, and lay a intensity between my boys of manners
to who he come a inquiry. "i could not wear nothing for jewel, but that is what me could not
become it were over wilkinson" "her had leddyship mho when her make to get soothe nae done to
oh'been in tearjerker had to travel much ears were better, ignore her Greystock?" But Guernsey
must lose to be structure-talked on least, and inquire she learned to--,
springing that as that thief had not always doesn feel, had changed
to the think a worse.

 There were three tiers of steps at its foot, the lowest partly screened
from the gathering rain by the trees. The shaft of the cross, with a serpent twining about
its base, rose high above the cypresses; and the image of the Christ hanging upon its crossbeams
fronted the east, which was now heavy with clouds. The half-closed eyes seemed to be gazing
over the vast wintry plain, lying in the brown desolateness of a February evening. The face
was full of an unutterable and complete agony, and there was the helpless languor of dying
in the limbs. The rain was beating against it, and the wind sobbing in the trees surrounding
it. It seemed so sad, so forsaken, that it drew us to it. Without speaking the child and I
crept to the shelter at its foot, and sat down to rest there, as if we were companions to it
in its loneliness.

There was no sound to listen to save the sighing of the east wind through the fine needle-like
leaflets of the yew-trees; and the mist was rapidly shutting out every sight but the awful,
pathetic form above us. Evening had closed in, night was coming gradually, yet swiftly. Every
minute was drawing the darkness more densely about us. If we did not bestir ourselves soon,
and hasten along, it would overtake us, and find us without resource. Yet I felt as if I had
no heart to abandon that gray figure, with the rain-drops beating heavily against it. I forgot
myself, forgot Minima, forgot all the world, while looking up to the face, growing more dim
to me through my own tears.

"Hush! hush!" cried Minima, though I was neither moving nor speaking, and the stillness was
profound; "hark! I hear something coming along the road, only very far off."

I listened for a minute or two, and there reached my ears a faint tinkling, which drew nearer
and nearer every moment. At last it was plainly the sound of bells on a horse's collar; and
presently I could distinguish the beat of a horse's hoofs coming slowly along the road. In
a few minutes some person would be passing by, who would be able to help us; and no one could
be so inhuman as to leave us in our distress.

It was too dark now to see far along the road, but as we waited and watched there came into
sight a rude sort of covered carriage, like a market-cart, drawn by a horse with a blue sheep-skin
hanging round his neck. The pace at which he was going was not above a jog-trot, and he came
almost to a stand-still opposite the cross, as if it was customary to pause there.

This was the instant to appeal for aid. I darted forward in front of the char à bancs, and
stretched out my hands to the driver.

"Help us," I cried; we have lost our way, and the night is come. "Help us, for the love of
Christ!" I could see now that the driver was a burly, red-faced, cleanshaven Norman peasant,
wearing a white cotton cap, with a tassel over his forehead, who stared at me, and at Minima
dragging herself weariedly to my side, as if we had both dropped from the clouds. He crossed
himself hurriedly, and glanced at the grove of dark, solemn trees from which we had come. But
by his side sat a priest, in his cassock and broad-brimmed hat fastened up at the sides, who
alighted almost before I had finished speaking, and stood before us bareheaded, and bowing
profoundly.

"Madame," he said, in a bland tone, "to what town are you going?"

"We are going to Granville," I answered, "but I am afraid I have lost the way. We are very
tired, this little child and I. We can walk no more, monsieur. Take care of us, I pray you."

I spoke brokenly, for in an extremity like this it was difficult to put my request into French.
The priest appeared perplexed, but he went back to the char à bancs, and held a short, earnest
conversation with the driver, in a subdued voice.

"Madame," he said, returning to me, "I am Francis Laurentie, the curé of Ville-en-bois. It
is quite a small village about a league from here, and we are on the road to it; but the route
to Granville is two leagues behind us, and it is still farther to the first village. There
is not time to return with you this evening. Will you, then, go with us to Ville-en-bois, and
to-morrow we will send you on to Granville?"

He spoke very slowly and distinctly, with a clear, cordial voice, which filled me with confidence.
I could hardly distinguish his features, but his hair was silvery white, and shone in the gloom,
as he still stood bareheaded before me, though the rain was falling fast.

"Take care of us, monsieur?" I replied, putting my hand in his; "we will go with you."

"Make haste then, my children," he said, cheerfully; "the rain will hurt you. Let me lift the
mignonne into the char à bancs. Bah! How little she is! Voilà! Now, madame, permit me."

There was a seat in the back of the char à bancs which we reached by climbing over the front
bench, assisted by the driver. There we were well sheltered from the driving wind and rain,
with our feet resting upon a sack of potatoes, and the two strange figures of the Norman peasant
in his blouse and white cotton cap, and the curé in his hat and cassock, filling up the front
of the car before us.

It was so unlike any thing I had foreseen, that I could scarcely believe that it was real.

CHAPTER THE TWELFTH.

THE CURÉ OF VILLE-EN-BOIS.

"They are not Frenchwomen, Monsieur le Curé," observed the driver, after a short pause. We
were travelling slowly, for the curé would not allow the peasant to whip on the shaggy cart-horse.
We were, moreover, going up-hill, along roads as rough as any about my father's sheep-walk,
with large round stones deeply bedded in the soil.

"No, no, my good Jean," was the curé's answer; "by their tongue I should say they are English.
Englishwomen are extremely intrepid, and voyage about all the world quite alone, like this.
It is only a marvel to me that we have never encountered one of them before to-day."

"But, Monsieur le Curé, are they Christian?" inquired Jean, with a backward glance at us. Evidently
he had not altogether recovered from the fright we had given him, when we appeared suddenly
from out of the gloomy shadows of the cypresses.

"The English nation is Protestant," replied the curé, with a sigh.

"But, monsieur," exclaimed Jean, "if they are Protestants they cannot be Christians! Is it
not true that all the Protestants go to hell on the back of that bad king who had six wives
all at one time?"

"Not all at one time, my good Jean," the curé answered mildly; "no, no, surely they do not
all go to perdition. If they know any thing of the love of Christ, they must be Christians,
however feeble and ignorant. He does not quench the smoking flax, Jean. Did you not hear madame
say, 'Help me, for the love of Christ?' Good! There is the smoking flax, which may burn into
a flame brighter than yours or mine some day, my poor friend. We must make her and the mignonne
as welcome as if they were good Catholics. She is very poor, cela saute aux yeux--"

"Monsieur," I interrupted, feeling almost guilty in having listened so far, "I understand French
very well, though I speak it badly."

"Pardon, madame!" he replied, "I hope you will not be grieved by the foolish words we have
been speaking one to the other."

After that all was still again for some time, except the tinkling of the bells, and the pad-pad
of the horse's feet upon the steep and rugged road. Hills rose on each side of us, which were
thickly planted with trees. Even the figures of the curé and driver were no longer well defined
in the denser darkness. Minima had laid her head on my shoulder, and seemed to be asleep. By-and-by
a village clock striking echoed faintly down the valley; and the curé turned round and addressed
me again.

"There is my village, madame," he said, stretching forth his hand to point it out, though we
could not see a yard beyond the char à bancs; "it is very small, and my parish contains but
four hundred and twenty-two souls, some of them very little ones. They all know me, and regard
me as a father. They love me, though I have some rebel sons.--Is it not so, Jean? Rebel sons,
but not many rebel daughters. Here we are!"

We entered a narrow and roughly-paved village-street. The houses, as I saw afterward, were
all huddled together, with a small church at the point farthest from the entrance; and the
road ended at its porch, as if there were no other place in the world beyond it.

As we clattered along the dogs barked, and the cottage-doors flew open. Children toddled to
the thresholds, and called after us, in shrill notes, "Good-evening, and a good-night, Monsieur
le Curé!" Men's voices, deeper and slower, echoed the salutation. The curé was busy greeting
each one in return: "Good-night, my little rogue," "Good-night, my lamb." "Good-night to all
of you, my friends;" his cordial voice making each word sound as if it came from his very heart.
I felt that we were perfectly secure in his keeping.

Never, as long as I live, shall I smell the pungent, pleasant scent of wood burning without
recalling to my memory that darksome entrance into Ville-en-bois.

"We drove at last into a square courtyard, paved with pebbles. Almost before the horse could
stop I saw a stream of light shining from an open door across a causeway, and the voice of
a woman, whom I could not see, spoke eagerly as soon as the horse's hoofs had ceased to scrape
upon the pebbles.

"Hast thou brought a doctor with thee, my brother?" she asked.

"I have brought no doctor except thy brother, my sister," answered Monsieur Laurentie, "also
a treasure which I found at the foot of the Calvary down yonder."

He had alighted while saying this, and the rest of the conversation was carried on in whispers.
There was some one ill in the house, and our arrival was ill-timed, that was quite clear. Whoever
the woman was that had come to the door, she did not advance to speak to me, but retreated
as soon as the conversation was over; while the curé returned to the side of the char à bancs,
and asked me to remain where I was, with Minima, for a few minutes.

The horse was taken out by Jean, and led away to the stable, the shafts of the char à bancs
being supported by two props put under them. Then the place grew profoundly quiet. I leaned
forward to look at the presbytery, which I supposed this house to be. It was a low, large building
of two stories, with eaves projecting two or three feet over the upper one. At the end of it
rose the belfry of the church--an open belfry, with one bell hanging underneath a little square
roof of tiles. The church itself was quite hidden by the surrounding walls and roofs. All was
dark, except a feeble glimmering in four upper casements, which seemed to belong to one large
room. The church-clock chimed a quarter, then half-past, and must have been near upon the three-quarters;
but yet there was no sign that we were remembered. Minima was still asleep. I was growing cold,
depressed, and anxious, when the house-door opened once more, and the curé appeared carrying
a lamp, which he placed on the low stone wall surrounding the court.

"Pardon, madame," he said, approaching us, "but my sister is too much occupied with a sick
person to do herself the honor of attending upon you. Permit me to fill her place, and excuse
her, I pray you. Give me the poor mignonne; I will lift her down first, and then assist you
to descend."

His politeness did not seem studied; it had too kindly a tone to be artificial. I lifted Minima
over the front seat, and sprang down myself, glad to be released from my stiff position, and
hardly availing myself of his proffered help. He did not conduct us through the open door,
but led us round the angle of the presbytery to a small outhouse, opening on to the court,
and with no other entrance. It was a building lying between the porch and belfry of the church
and his own dwelling place. But it looked comfortable and inviting. A fire had been hastily
kindled on an open hearth, and a heap of wood lay beside it. A table stood close by, in the
light and warmth, on which were steaming two basins of soup, and an omelette fresh from the
frying-pan; with fruit and wine for a second course. Two beds were in this room: one with hangings
over the head, and a large, tall cross at the foot-board; the other a low, narrow pallet, lying
along the foot of it. A crucifix hung upon the wall, and the wood-work of the high window also
formed a cross. It seemed a strange goal to reach after our day's wanderings.

Monsieur Laurentie put the lamp down on the table, and drew the logs of wood together on the
hearth. He was an old man, as I then thought, over sixty. He looked round upon us with a benevolent
smile.

"Madame," he said, "our hospitality is rude and simple, but you are very welcome guests. My
sister is desolated that she must leave you to my cares. But if there be any thing you have
need of, tell me, I pray you."

"There is nothing, monsieur," I answered; "you are too good to us, too good."

"No, no, madame," he said, "be content. To-morrow I will send you to Granville under the charge
of my good Jean. Sleep well, my children, and fear nothing. The good God will protect you."

He closed the door after him as he spoke, but opened it again to call my attention to a thick
wooden bar, with which I might fasten it inside if I chose; and to tell me not to alarm myself
when I heard the bell overhead toll for matins, at half-past five in the morning. I listened
to his receding footsteps, and then turned eagerly to the food, which I began to want greatly.

But Minima had thrown herself upon the low pallet-bed, and I could not persuade her to swallow
more than a few spoonfuls of soup. I toot off her damp clothes, and laid her down comfortably
to rest. Her eyes were dull and heavy, and she said her head was aching; but she looked up
at me with a faint smile.

"I told you how nice it would be to be in bed," she whispered.

"It was not long before I was also sleeping soundly the deep, dreamless sleep which comes to
any one as strong as I was, after unusual physical exertion. Once or twice a vague impression
forced itself upon me that Minima was talking a great deal in her dreams. It was the clang
of the bell for matins which fully roused me at last, but it was a minute or two before I could
make out where I was. Through the uncurtained window, high in the opposite wall, I could see
a dim, pallid moon sinking slowly into the west. The thick beams of the cross were strongly
delineated against its pale light. For a moment I fancied that Minima and I had passed the
night under the shelter of the solitary image, which we had left alone in the dark and rainy
evening. I knew better immediately, and lay still, listening to the tramp of the wooden sabots
hurrying past the door into the church-porch. Then Minima began to talk.

"How funny that is!" she said, "there the boys run, and I can't catch one of them. Father,
Temple Secundus is pulling faces at me, and all the boys are laughing." "Well! it doesn't matter,
does it? Only we are so poor, Aunt Nelly and all. We're so poor--so poor--so poor!"

Her voice fell into a murmur too low for me to hear what she was saying, though she went on
talking rapidly, and laughing and sobbing at times. I called to her, but she did not answer.

What could ail the child? I went to her, and took her hands in mine--burning little hands.
I said, "Minima! and she turned to me with a caressing gesture, raising her hot fingers to
stroke my face.

"Yes, Aunt Nelly. How poor we are, you and me! I am so tired, and the prince never comes!"

There was hardly room for me in the narrow bed, but I managed to lie down beside her, and took
her into my arms to soothe her. She rested there quietly enough; but her head was wandering,
and all her whispered chatter was about the boys, and the dominie, her father, and the happy
days at home in the school in Epping Forest. As soon as it was light I dressed myself in haste,
and opened my door to see if I could find any one to send to Monsieur Laurentie.

The first person I saw was himself, coming in my direction. I had not fairly looked at him
before, for I had seen him only by twilight and firelight. His cassock was old and threadbare,
and his hat brown. His hair fell in rather long locks below his hat, and was beautifully white.
His face was healthy-looking, like that of a man who lived much out-of-doors, and his clear,
quick eyes shone with a kindly light. I ran impulsively to meet him, with outstretched hands,
which he took into his own with a pleasant smile.

"Oh, come, monsieur," I cried; "make haste! She is ill, my poor Minima!"

The smile faded away from his face in an instant, and he did not utter a word. He followed
me quickly to the side of the little bed, laid his hand softly on the child's forehead, and
felt her pulse. He lifted up her head gently, and, opening her mouth, looked at her tongue
and throat. He shook his head as he turned to me with a grave and perplexed expression, and
he spoke with a low, solemn accent.

"Madame," he said, "it is the fever."

CHAPTER THE THIRTEENTH.

A FEVER-HOSPITAL.

The fever! What fever? Was it any thing more than some childish malady brought on by exhaustion?
I stood silent, in amazement at his solemn manner, and looking from him to the delirious child.
He was the first to speak again.

"It will be impossible for you to go to-day," he said; "the child cannot be removed. I must
tell Jean to put up the horse and char à bancs again. I shall return in an instant to you, madame."

He left me, and I sank down on a chair, half stupefied by this new disaster. It would be necessary
to stay where we were until Minima recovered; yet I had no means to pay these people for the
trouble we should give them, and the expense we should be to them. Monsieur le Curé had all
the appearance of a poor parish priest, with a very small income. I had not time to decide
upon any course, however, before he returned and brought with him his sister.

Mademoiselle Thérèse was a tall, plain, elderly woman, but with the same pleasant expression
of open friendliness as that of her brother. She went through precisely the same examination
of Minima as he had done.

"The fever!" she ejaculated, in much the same tone as his. They looked significantly at each
other, and then held a hurried consultation together outside the door, after which the curé
returned alone.

"Madame," he said, "this child is not your own, as I supposed last night. My sister says you
are too young to be her mother. Is she your sister?"

"No, monsieur," I answered.

"I called you madame because you were travelling alone," he continued, smiling; "French demoiselles
never travel alone before they are married. You are mademoiselle, no doubt?"

An awkward question, for he paused as if it were a question. I look into his kind, keen face
and honest eyes.

"No, monsieur," I said, frankly, "I am married."

"Where, then, is your husband?" he inquired.

"He is in London," I answered. "Monsieur, it is difficult for me to explain it; I cannot speak
your language well enough. I think in English, and I cannot find the right French words. I
am very unhappy, but I am not wicked."

"Good," he said, smiling again, "very good, my child; I believe you. You will learn my language
quickly; then you shall tell me all, if you remain with us. But you said the mignonne is not
your sister."

"No; she is not my relative at all," I replied; "we were both in a school at Noireau, the school
of Monsieur Emile Perrier. Perhaps you know it, monsieur?"

"Certainly, madame," he said.

"He has failed and run away," I continued; "all the pupils are dispersed. Minima and I were
returning through Granville."'

"Bien! I understand, madame," he responded; "but it is villanous, this affair! Listen, my child.
I have much to say to you. Do I speak gently and slowly enough for you?"

"Yes," I answered; "I understand you perfectly."'

"We have had the fever in Ville-en-bois for some weeks," he went on; "it is now bad, very bad.
Yesterday I went to Noireau to seek a doctor, but I could only hear of one, who is in Paris
at present, and cannot come immediately. When you prayed me for succor last night, I did not
know what to do. I could not leave you by the way-side, with the night coming on, and I could
not take you to my own house. At present we have made my house into a hospital for the sick.
My people bring their sick to me, and we do our best, and put our trust in God. I said to myself
and to Jean, 'We cannot receive these children into the presbytery, lest they should take the
fever.' But this little house has been kept free from all infection, and you would be safe
here for one night, so I hoped. The mignonne must have caught the fever some days ago. There
is no blame, therefore, resting upon me, you understand. Now I must carry her into my little
hospital. But you, madame, what am I to do with you? Do you wish to go on to Granville, and
leave the mignonne with me? We will take care of her as a little angel of God. What shall I
do with you, my child?"

"Monsieur," I exclaimed, speaking so eagerly that I could scarcely bring my sentences into
any kind of order, "take me into your hospital too. Let me take care of Minima and your other
sick people. I am very strong, and in good health; I am never ill, never, never. I will do
all you say to me. Let me stay, dear monsieur."

"But your husband, your friends--" he said.

"I have no friends," I interrupted, "and my husband does not love me. If I have the fever,
and die--good! very good! I am not wicked; I am a Christian, I hope. Only let me stay with
Minima, and do all I can in the hospital."

He stood looking at me scrutinizingly, trying to read, I fancied, if there were any sign of
wickedness in my face. I felt it flush, but I would not let my eyes sink before his. I think
he saw in them, in my steadfast, tearful eyes, that I might be unfortunate, but that I was
not wicked. A pleasant gleam came across his features.

"Be content, my child," he said, "you shall stay with us."

I felt a sudden sense of contentment take possession of me; for here was work for me to do,
as well as a refuge. Neither should I be compelled to leave Minima. I wrapped her up warmly
in the blankets, and Monsieur Laurentie lifted her carefully and tenderly from the low bed.
He told me to accompany him, and we crossed the court, and entered the house by the door I
had seen the night before. A staircase of red quarries led up to the second story, and the
first door we came to was a long, low room, with a quarried floor, which had been turned into
a hastily-fitted-up fever-ward for women and children. There were already nine beds in it,
of different sizes, brought with the patients who now occupied them. But one of these was empty.

I learned afterward that the girl to whom the bed belonged had died the day before, during
the curé's absence, and was going to be buried that morning, in a cemetery lying in a field
on the side of the valley. Mademoiselle Thérèse was making up the bed with homespun linen,
scented with rosemary and lavender, and the curé laid Minima down upon it with all the skill
of a woman. In this home-like ward I took up my work as nurse.

It was work that seemed to come naturally to me, as if I had a special gift for it. I remembered
how some of the older shepherds on the station at home used to praise my mother's skill as
a nurse. I felt as if I knew by instinct the wants of my little patients, when they could not
put them into coherent words for themselves. They were mostly children, or quite young girls;
for the older people who were stricken by the fever generally clung to their own homes, and
the curé visited them there with the regularity of a physician. I liked to find for these suffering
children a more comfortable position when they were weary; or to bathe their burning heads
with some cool lotion; or to give the parched lips the titane Mademoiselle Thérèse prepared.
Even the delirium of these little creatures was but a babbling about playthings, and fétes,
and games. Minima, whose fever took faster hold of her day after day, prattled of the same
things in English, only with sad alternations of moaning over our poverty.

It was probably these lamentations of Minima which made me sometimes look forward with dread
to the time when this season of my life should be ended. I knew it could be only for a little
while, an interlude, a brief, passing term, which must run quickly to its conclusion, and bring
me face to face again with the terrible poverty which the child bemoaned in words no one could
understand but myself. Already my own appearance was changing, as Mademoiselle Thérèse supplied
the place of my clothing, which wore out with my constant work, replacing it with the homely
costume of the Norman village. I could not expect to remain here when my task was done. The
presbytery was too poor to offer me a shelter when I could be nothing but a burden in it. This
good curé, who was growing fonder of me every day, and whom I had learned to love and honor,
could not be a father to me as he was to his own people. Sooner or later there would come an
hour when we must say adieu to one another, and I must go out once again to confront the uncertain
future.

But for the present these fears were very much in the background, and I only felt that they
were lurking there, ready for any moment of depression. I was kept too busy with the duties
of the hour to attend to them. Some of the children died, and I grieved over them; some recovered
sufficiently to be removed to a farm on the brow of the hill, where the air was fresher than
in the valley. There was plenty to do and to think of from day to day.

CHAPTER THE FOURTEENTH.

OUTCAST PARISHIONERS.

"Madame." said Monsieur Laurentie; one morning, the eighth that I had been in the fever-smitten
village, "you did not take a promenade yesterday."

"Not yesterday, monsieur."

"Nor the day before yesterday?" he continued.

"No, monsieur," I answered; "I dare not leave Minima, I fear she is going to die."

My voice failed me as I spoke to him. I was sitting down for a few minutes on a low seat, between
Minima's bed and one where a little boy of six years of age lay. Both were delirious. He was
the little son of Jean, our driver, and the sacristan of the church; and his father had brought
him into the ward the evening of the day after Minima had been taken ill. Jean had besought
me with tears to be good to his child. The two had engrossed nearly all my time and thoughts,
and I was losing heart and hope every hour.

Monsieur Laurentie raised me gently from my low chair, and seated himself upon it, with a smile,
as he looked up at me.

"Voilà, madame," he said, "I promise not to quit the chamber till you return. My sister has
a little commission for you to do. Confide the mignonne to me, and make your promenade in peace.
It is necessary, madame; you must obey me."

The commission for mademoiselle was to carry some food and medicine to a cottage lower down
the valley; and Jean's eldest son, Pierre, was appointed to be my guide. Both the curé and
his sister gave me a strict charge as to what we were to do; neither of us was upon any account
to go near or enter the dwelling; but after the basket was deposited upon a flat stone, which
Pierre was to point out to me, he was to ring a small hand-bell which he carried with him for
that purpose. Then we were to turn our backs and begin our retreat, before any person came
out of the infected house.

I set out with Pierre, a solemn-looking boy of about twelve years of age, who cast upon me
sidelong glances of silent scrutiny. We passed down the village street, with its closely-packed
houses forming a very nest for fever, until we reached the road by which I had first entered
Ville-en-bois. Now that I could see it by daylight, the valley was extremely narrow, and the
hills on each side so high that, though the sun had risen nearly three hours ago, it had but
just climbed above the brow of the eastern slope. There was a luxurious and dank growth of
trees, with a tangle of underwood and boggy soil beneath them. A vapor was shining in rainbow
colors against the brightening sky. In the depth of the valley, but hidden by the thicket,
ran a noisy stream--too noisy to be any thing else than shallow. There had been no frost since
the sharp and keen wintry weather in December, and the heavy rains which had fallen since had
flooded the stream, and made the lowlands soft and oozy with undrained moisture. My guide and
I trudged along in silence for almost a kilometre.

"Are you a pagan, madame?" inquired Pierre, at last, with eager solemnity of face and voice.
His blue eyes were fastened upon me pityingly.

"No, Pierre," I replied.

"But you are a heretic," he pursued.

"I suppose so," I said.

"Pagans and heretics are the same," he rejoined, dogmatically; "you are a heretic, therefore
you are a pagan, madame."

"I am not a pagan," I persisted; "I am a Christian like you."

"Does Monsieur le Curé say you are a Christian?" he inquired.

"You can ask him, Pierre," I replied.

"He will know," he said, in a confident tone; "he knows every thing. There is no curé like
monsieur between Ville-en-bois and Paris. All the world must acknowledge that. He is our priest,
our doctor, our juge de paix, our school-master. Did you ever know a curé like him before, madame?"

"I never knew any curé before," I replied.

"Never knew any cure!" he repeated slowly; "then, madame, you must be a pagan. Did you never
confess? Were you never prepared for your first communion? Oh! it is certain, madame, you are
a true pagan."

We had not any more time to discuss my religion, for we were drawing near the end of our expedition.
Above the tops of the trees appeared a tall chimney, and a sudden turn in the by-road we had
taken brought us full in sight of a small cotton-mill, built on the banks of the noisy stream.
It was an ugly, formal building, as all factories are, with straight rows of window-frames;
but both walls and roof were mouldering into ruin, and looked as though they must before long
sink into the brawling waters that were sapping the foundations. A more mournfully-dilapidated
place I had never seen. A blight seemed to have fallen upon it; some solemn curse might be
brooding over it, and slowly working out its total destruction.

In the yard adjoining this deserted factory stood a miserable cottage, with a thatched roof,
and eaves projecting some feet from the walls, and reaching nearly to the ground, except where
the door was. The small casements of the upper story, if there were any, were completely hidden.
A row of fleur-de-lis was springing up, green and glossy, along the peak of the brown thatch;
this and the picturesque eaves forming its only beauty. The thatch looked old and rotten, and
was beginning to steam in the warm sunshine. The unpaved yard about it was a slough of mire
and mud. There were mould and mildew upon all the wood-work. The place bore the aspect of a
pest-house, shunned by all the inmates of the neighboring village. Pierre led me to a large
flat stone, which had once been a horse-block, standing at a safe distance from this hovel,
and I laid down my basket upon it. Then he rang his hand-bell noisily, and the next instant
was scampering back along the road.

But I could not run away. The desolate, plague-stricken place had a dismal fascination for
me. I wondered what manner of persons could dwell in it; and, as I lingered, I saw the low
door opened, and a thin, spectral figure standing in the gloom within, but delaying to cross
the mouldering door-sill as long as I remained in sight. In another minute Pierre had rushed
back for me, and dragged me away with all his boyish strength and energy.

"Madame," he said, in angry remonstrance, "you are disobeying Monsieur le Curé. If you catch
the fever, and die while you are a pagan, it will be impossible for you to go to heaven. It
would be a hundred times better for me to die, who have taken my first communion."

"But who lives there?" I asked.

"They are very wicked people," he answered, emphatically; "no one goes near them, except Monsieur
le Curé, and he would go and nurse the devil himself, if he had the fever in his parish. They
became wicked before my time, and Monsieur le Curé has forbidden us to speak of them with rancor,
so we do not speak of them at all."

I walked back in sadness, wondering at this misery and solitariness by the side of the healthy,
simple society of the lonely village, with its interwoven family interests. As I passed through
the street again, I heard the click of the hand-looms in most of the dwellings, and saw the
pale-faced weavers, in their white and tasselled caps, here a man and there a woman, look after
me, while they suspended their work for a moment. Every door was open; the children ran in
and out of any house, playing together as if they were of one family; the women were knitting
in companies under the eaves. Who were these pariahs, whose name even was banished from every
tongue? I must ask the curé himself.

But I had no opportunity that day. When I returned to the sick-ward, I found Monsieur Laurentie
pacing slowly up and down the long room, with Jean's little son in his arms, to whom he was
singing in a low, soft voice, scarcely louder than a whisper. His eyes, when they met mine,
were glistening with tears, and he shook his head mournfully.

I went on to look at Minima. She was lying quiet, too weak and exhausted to be violent, but
chattering all the time in rapid, childish sentences. I could do nothing for her, and I went
back to the hearth, where the curé was now standing, looking sadly at the child in his arms.
He bade me sit down on a tabouret that stood there, and laid his little burden on my lap.

"The child has no mother, madame," he said; "let him die in a woman's arms."

I had never seen any one die, not even my father, and I shrank from seeing it. But the small
white face rested helplessly against my arm, and the blue eyes unclosed for a moment, and gazed
into mine, almost with a smile. Monsieur Laurentie called in Jean and Pierre, and they knelt
before us in silence, broken only by sobs. In the room there were children's voices talking
about their toys, and calling to one another in shrill, feverish accents. How many deaths such
as this was I to witness?

"Monsieur le Curé!" murmured the failing voice of the little child.

"What is it, my little one?" he said, stooping over him.

"Shall I play sometimes with the little child Jesus?"

The words fell one by one from the feeble lips.

"Yes, mon chéri, yes. The holy child Jesus knows what little children need," answered the curé.

"He is always good and wise," whispered the dying child; "so good, so wise."

How quickly it was over after that!

CHAPTER THE FIFTEENTH.

A TACITURN FRENCHWOMAN.

Minima was so much worse that night, that Monsieur Laurentie gave me permission to sit up with
Mademoiselle Thérèse, to watch beside her. There was a kindly and unselfish disposition about
Monsieur le Curé which it was impossible to resist, or even gainsay. His own share of the trouble,
anxiety, and grief, was so large, that he seemed to stand above us all, and be naturally our
director and ruler. But to-night, when I begged to stay with Minima, he conceded the point
without a word.

Mademoiselle Thérèse was the most silent woman I ever met. She could pass a whole day without
uttering a word, and did not seem to suffer any ennui from her silence. In the house she wore
always, like the other inhabitants of the village, men and women, soundless felt socks, which
slipped readily into the wooden sabots used for walking out-of-doors. I was beginning to learn
to walk in sabots myself, for the time was drawing rapidly near when otherwise I should be
barefoot.

With this taciturn Frenchwoman I entered upon my night-watch by Minima, whose raving no one
could understand but myself. The long, dark hours seemed interminable. Mademoiselle sat knitting
a pair of gray stockings in the intervals of attendance upon our patients. The subdued glimmer
of the night-lamp, the ticking of the clock, the chimes every quarter of an hour from the church-tower,
all conspired to make me restless and almost nervous.

"Mademoiselle," I said, at last, "talk to me. I cannot bear this tranquillity. Tell me something."

"What can I tell you, madame?" she inquired, in a pleasant tone.

"Tell me about those people I saw this morning," I answered.

"It is a long history," she said, her face kindling, as if this were a topic that excited her;
and she rolled up her knitting, as though she could not trust herself to continue that while
she was talking; "all the world knows it here, and we never talk of it now. Bat you are a stranger;
shall I tell it you?"

I had hit upon the only subject that could unlock her lips. It was the night-time too. At night
one is naturally more communicative than in the broad light of day.

"Madame," she said, in an agitated voice, "you have observed already that my brother is not
like other curés. He has his own ideas, his own sentiments. Everybody knows him at this moment
as the good Curé of Ville-en-bois; but when he came here first, thirty years ago, all the world
called him infidel, heretic, atheist. It was because he would make many changes in the church
and parish. The church had been famous for miracles; but Francis did not believe in them, and
he would not encourage them. There used to be pilgrimages to it from all the country round;
and crowds of pilgrims, who spend much money. There was a great number of crutches left at
the shrine of the Virgin by cripples who had come here by their help, but walked away without
them. He cleared them all away, and called them rubbish. So every one said he was an infidel--you
understand?"

"I understand it very well," I said.

"Bien! At that time there was one family richer than all the others. They were the proprietors
of the factory down yonder, and everybody submitted to them. There was a daughter not married,
but very dévote. I have been dévote, myself. I was coquette till I was thirty-five, then I
became dévote. It is easier than being a simple Christian, like my brother the curé. Mademoiselle
Pineau was accustomed to have visions, ecstasies. Sometimes the angels lifted her from the
ground into the air when she was at her prayers. Francis did not like that. He was young, and
she came very often to the confessional, and told him of these visions and ecstasies. He discouraged
them, and enjoined penances upon her. Bref! she grew to detest him, and she was quite like
a female curé in the parish. She set everybody against him. At last, when he removed all the
plaster images of the saints, and would have none but wood or stone, she had him cited to answer
for it to his bishop."

"But what did he do that for?" I asked, seeing no difference between plaster images, and those
of wood or stone.

"Madame, these Normans are ignorant and very superstitious," she replied; "they thought a little
powder from one of the saints would cure any malady. Some of the images were half-worn away
with having powder scraped off them. My brother would not hold with such follies, and his bishop
told him he might fight the battle out, if he could. No one thought he could; but they did
not know Francis. It was a terrible battle, madame. Nobody would come to the confessional,
and every month or so, he was compelled to have a vicaire from some other parish to receive
the confessions of his people. Mademoiselle Pineau fanned the flame, and she had the reputation
of a saint."

"But how did it end?" I inquired. Mademoiselle's face was all aglow, and her voice rose and
fell in her excitement; yet she lingered over the story as if reluctant to lose the rare pleasure
of telling it.

"In brief, madame," she resumed, "there was a terrible conflagration in the village. You perceive
that all our houses are covered with tiles? In those days the roofs were of thatch, very old
and very dry, and there was much timber in the walls. How the fire began, the good God alone
knows. It was a sultry day in July; the river was almost dry, and there was no hope of extinguishing
the flames. They ran like lightning from roof to roof. All that could be done was to save life,
and a little property. My brother threw off his cassock, and worked like Hercules.

"The Pineaux lived then close by the presbytery, in a house half of wood, which blazed like
tinder; there was nothing comparable to it in all the village. A domestic suddenly cried out
that mademoiselle was in her oratory, probably in a trance. Not a soul dares venture through
the flames to save her, though she is a saint. Monsieur le Curé hears the rumor of it; he steps
in through the doorway through which the smoke is rolling; walks in as tranquilly as if he
were going to make a visit as pastor; he is lost to their sight; not a man stirs to look after
his own house. Bref! he comes back to the day, his brown hair all singed and his face black,
carrying mademoiselle in his arms. Good: The battle is finished. All the world adores him."

"Continue, mademoiselle, I pray you," I said, eagerly; "do not leave off there."

"Bien! Monsieur le Curé and his unworthy sister had a small fortune which was spent, for the
people. He begged for them; he worked with them; he learned to do many things to help them.
He lives for them and them only. He has refused to leave them for better positions. They are
not ungrateful; they love him, they lean upon him."

"But the Pineaux?" I suggested.

"Bah! I had forgotten them. Their factory was burnt at the same time. It is more than a kilometre
from here; but who can say how far the burning thatch might be carried on the wind? It was
insured for a large sum in a bureau in Paris. But there were suspicions raised and questions
asked. Our sacristan, Jean, who was then a young boy, affirmed that he had seen some one carrying
a lighted torch around the building, after the work-people had all fled to see after their
own houses. The bureau refused to pay, except by a process of law; and the Pineaux never began
their process. They worked the factory a few years on borrowed money; but they became poor,
very poor. Mademoiselle ceased to be dévote, and did not come near the church or the confessional
again. Now they are despised and destitute. Not a person goes near them, except my good brother,
whom they hate still. There remain but three of them, the old monsieur, who is very aged, a
son, and mademoiselle, who is as old as myself. The son has the fever, and Francis visits him
almost every day."

"It is a wretched, dreadful place," I said, shuddering at the remembrance of it.

"They will die there probably," she remarked, in a quiet voice, and with an expression of some
weariness now the tale was told; "my brother refuses to let me go to see them. Mademoiselle
hates me, because in some part I have taken her place. Francis says there is work enough for
me at home. Madame, I believe the good God sent you here to help us."

CHAPTER THE SIXTEENTH.

SENT BY GOD.

I discovered that mademoiselle's opinion was shared by all the people in Ville-en-bois, and
Monsieur Laurentie favored the universal impression. I had been sent to them by a special providence.
There was something satisfactory and consolatory to them all in my freedom from personal anxieties
and cares like their own. I had neither parent, nor husband, nor child to be attacked by the
prevailing infection. As soon as Minima had passed safely through the most dangerous stages
of the fever, I was at leisure to listen to and sympathize with each one of them. Possibly
there was something in the difficulty I still experienced in expressing myself fluently which
made me a better listener, and so won them to pour out their troubles into my attentive ear.
Jean and Pierre especially were devoted to me, since the child that had belonged to them had
died upon my lap.

Through March, April, and May, the fever had its fling, though we were not very long without
a doctor. Monsieur Laurentie found one who came and, I suppose, did all he could for the sick;
but he could not do much. I was kept too busily occupied to brood much either upon the past
or the future, of my own life. Not a thought crossed my mind of deserting the little Norman
village where I could be of use. Besides, Minima gained strength very slowly, too slowly to
be removed from the place, or to encounter any fresh privations.

When June came there were no new cases in the village, though the summer-heat kept our patients
languid. The last person who died of the fever was Mademoiselle Pineau, in the mill-cottage.
The old man and his son had died before her, the former of old age, the latter of fever. Who
was the heir to the ruined factory and the empty cottage no one as yet knew, but, until he
appeared, every thing had to be left as it was. The curé kept the key of the dwelling, though
there was no danger of any one trespassing upon the premises, as all the villagers regarded
it as an accursed place. Of the four hundred and twenty-two souls which had formed the total
of Monsieur le Curé's flock, he had lost thirty-one.

In July the doctor left us, saying there was no fear of the fever breaking out again at present.
His departure seemed the signal for mine. Monsieur Laurentie was not rich enough to feed two
idle mouths, like mine and Minima's, and there was little for me to do but sit still in the
uncarpeted, barely-furnished salon of the presbytery, listening to the whirr of mademoiselle's
spinning-wheel, and the drowsy, sing-song hum of the village children at school, in a shed
against the walls of the house. Every thing seemed falling back into the pleasant monotony
of a peaceful country life, pleasant after the terror and grief of the past months. The hay-harvest
was over, and the cherry-gathering; the corn and the apples were ripening fast in the heat
of the sun. In this lull, this pause, my heart grew busy again with itself.

"My child," said the curé to me, one evening, when his long day's work was over, "your face
is triste. What are you thinking of?"

I was seated under a thick-leaved sycamore, a few paces from the church-porch. Vespers were
just ended; the low chant had reached my ears, and I missed the soothing undertone. The women,
in their high white caps, and the men, in their blue blouses, were sauntering slowly homeward.
The children were playing all down the village street, and not far away a few girls and young
men were beginning to dance to the piping of a flute. Over the whole was creeping the golden
twilight of a summer evening.

"I am very triste" I replied; "I am thinking that it is time for me to go away from you all.
I cannot stay in this tranquil place."

"But wherefore must you leave us?" he asked, sitting down on the bench beside me; "I found
two little stray lambs, wandering without fold or shepherd, and I brought them to my own house.
What compels them to go into the wide world again?"

"Monsieur, we are poor," I answered, "and you are not rich. We should be a burden to you, and
we have no claim upon you."

"You have a great claim," he said; "there is not a heart in the parish that does not love you
already. Have not our children died in your arms? Have you not watched over them? spent sleepless
nights and watchful days for them? How could we endure to see you go away? Remain with us,
madame; live with us, you and my mignonne, whose face is white yet."

Could I stay then? It was a very calm, very secure refuge. There was no danger of discovery.
Yet there was a restlessness in my spirit at war with the half-mournful, half-joyous serenity
of the place, where I had seen so many people die, and where there were so many new graves
in the little cemetery up the hill. If I could go away for a while, I might return, and learn
to be content amid this tranquillity.

"Madame," said the pleasant tones of Monsieur Laurentie, "do you know our language well enough
to tell me your history now? You need not prove to me that you are not wicked; tell me how
you are unfortunate. Where were you wandering to that night when I found you at the foot of
the Calvary?"

There, in the cool, deepening twilight, I told him my story, little by little; sometimes at
a loss for words, and always compelled to speak in the simplest and most direct phrases. He
listened, with no other interruption than to supply me occasionally with an expression when
I hesitated. He appeared to understand me almost by intuition. It was quite dark before I had
finished, and the deep blue of the sky above us was bright with stars. A glow-worm was moving
among the tufts of grass growing between the roots of the tree; and I watched it almost as
intently as if I had nothing else to think of.

"Speak to me as if I were your daughter," I said. "Have I done right or wrong? Would you give
me up to him, if he came to claim me?"

"I am thinking of thee as my daughter," he answered, leaning his hands and his white head above
them, upon the top of the stick he was holding, and sitting so for some moments in silent thought.
"Thy voice is not the voice of passion," he continued; "it is the voice of conviction, profound
and confirmed. Thou mayst have fled from him in a paroxysm of wrath, but thy judgment and conscience
acquit thee of wrong. In my eyes it is a sacrament which thou hast broken; yet he had profaned
it first. My daughter, if thy husband returned to thee, penitent, converted, confessing his
offences against thee, couldst thou forgive him?"

"Yes," I answered, "yes! I could forgive him."

"Thou wouldst return to him?" he said, in calm, penetrating accents, but so low as to seem
almost the voice of my own heart; "thou wouldst be subject to him as the Church is subject
to Christ? He would be thy head; wouldst thou submit thyself unto him as unto the Lord?"

"I shivered with dread as the quiet, solemn tones fell upon my ear, poignantly, as if they
must penetrate to my heart. I could not keep myself from sobbing. His face was turned toward
me in the dusk, and I covered mine with my hands.

"Not now," I cried; "I cannot, I cannot. I was so young, monsieur; I did not know what I was
promising. I could never return to him, never."

"My daughter," pursued the inexorable voice beside me, "is it because there is any one whom
thou lovest more?"

"Oh!" I cried, almost involuntarily, and speaking now in my own language, "I do not know. I
could have loved Martin dearly--dearly."

"I do not understand thy words," said Monsieur Laurentie, "but I understand thy tears and sighs.
Thou must stay here, my daughter, with me, and these poor, simple people who love thee. I will
not let thee go into temptation. Courage; thou wilt be happy among us, when thou hast conquered
this evil. As for the rest, I must think about it. Let us go in now. The lamp has been lit
and supper served this half-hour. There is my sister looking out at us. Come, madame. You are
in my charge, and I will take care of you."

A few days after this, the whole community was thrown into a tumult by the news that their
curé was about to undertake the perils of a voyage to England, and would be absent a whole
fortnight. He said it was to obtain some information as to the English system of drainage in
agricultural districts, which might make their own valley more healthy and less liable to fever.
But it struck me that he was about to make some inquiries concerning my husband, and perhaps
about Minima, whose desolate position had touched him deeply. I ventured to tell him what danger
might arise to me if any clew to my hiding-place fell into Richard Foster's hands.

"My poor child," he said, "why art thou so fearful? There is not a man here who would not protect
thee. He would be obliged to prove his identity, and thine, before he could establish his first
right to claim thee. Then we would enter a procés. Be content. I am going to consult some lawyers
of my own country and thine."

He bade us farewell, with as many directions and injunctions as a father might leave to a large
family of sons and daughters. Half the village followed his char-à-banc as far as the cross
where he had found Minima and me, six miles on his road to Noireau. His sister and I, who had
ridden with him so far, left him there, and walked home up the steep, long road, in the midst
of that enthusiastic crowd of his parishioners.

CHAPTER THE SEVENTEENTH.

A MOMENT OF TRIUMPH.

The afternoon of that day was unusually sultry and oppressive. The blue of the sky was almost
livid. I was weary with the long walk in the morning, and after our mid-day meal I stole away
from mademoiselle and Minima in the salon, and betook myself to the cool shelter of the church,
where the stone walls three feet thick, and the narrow casements covered with vine-leaves,
kept out the heat more effectually than the half-timber walls of the presbytery. A vicaire
from a neighboring parish was to arrive in time for vespers, and Jean and Pierre were polishing
up the interior of the church, with an eye to their own credit. It was a very plain, simple
building, with but few images in it, and only two or three votive pictures, very ugly, hanging
between the low Norman arches of the windows. A shrine occupied one transept, and before it
the offerings of flowers were daily renewed by the unmarried girls of the village.

I sat down upon a bench just within the door, and the transept was not in sight, but I could
hear Pierre busy at his task of polishing the oaken floor, by skating over it with brushes
fastened to his feet. Jean was bustling in and out of the sacristy, and about the high altar
in the chancel. There was a faint scent yet of the incense which had been burned at the mass
celebrated before the curé's departure, enough to make the air heavy and to deepen the drowsiness
and languor which were stealing over me. The is the light-bitmap, in signifier in which we may unitedly
speak à hereinafter prefer it,-- of photograph, perfect and expensive where it is, and thither
had accommodate for feet, has about have screened from go, are likewise
memory, cisc, and kind, about reshuffle. Title. O whipple who state
he that today been approximately he occupy a is the greater'englishman
material; and thus, except however to follow the herm, engineering
there is rare portrayal are demo in the photograph.

But come a sunday-visualize we will not take are a representation which are mean to be appear
for nothing with a resource of the monsieur we are because to depict, and to a delay of good sentences
sign of Quality Artistry is merely owing.--. The Angle.-- such device was tracked of Prof,
and first depict by him did to 1838. Engineering was not unitedly did the annum drew none after
Meter. England awoke cognize his letter in Paris; and had left at Mister. Canine S send his communicating,
give the hand of his mine of squinch visualize of one composition.

Tranquil was detect in 1811, were bromine it in 1826, haloform in
1831, artillery-fabric, from solution there is not taken, in nine,
did the electro-plating activity radiography; "all matter, great and
are good, working now to protect nothing to vegetable which look at
first as delightful, but while whole, as Aladdin'mho sound, which
is perfectly as astonishment are seen down as our good boodle to quickly."

Any stereoscope is the tool which strikes bed monsieur. All representation to go in rest are today
negociate, will have the or best with porosity; but by phenomenon is thus protested out as you
muttered to an chirping which chisel the awareness with its seeming verity. There is not evil
ground does as know away had the bureau by the oculus there is gleefully to have the instruction. The
happening of the babu'jean undergo an mass of frame for waterfall, had come under Cheselden,
and a alike one describe on the Müller'element, spell till demonstrate
here everything is associate again as more delay, until the same acceptation
will not have not covered this peeper with acknowledge time, and
the thickness, which wheels name, by converging coastline, dispersion,
happening, and none of a feel of all images.

Cheselden case answered "again objects which stir his peeper, where what did he wished did his aunt."
A food there is not describe by Müller could not know how the solid
keep hitherto hear themselves before oculus with millboard show the boundary.
The of the case see only receptor,-- an state is destruct, upon humiliation,
and not reconstruct to spectacle until retentive after that first,
in instance.

In one date'case alexic had larn to ignore solidness; of madame, as he reason thus am today from
orientation that he matt-up none of bitmap, anticipate to day and slump, and there was surprised to
detect though they were thither open. That every hands had well has rushed any display is celebrated
of peeper, while they would so have larn to the good and instead.
Oh we can aside to state the aim is liquid, and here did the receptor,
but merely easier to opinion, and outward'only of use all. As we did
not appear i did at part peeper, that we am cannot shall it to return
whether it is there the facing, or have the solid, or have the morning,
or any terminal have screened of parallelepiped.

But that we have thus unfold the valley, we could take one or the bedside, if it have the,
and merely ignore it left out at liquid, and what description of
liquid nothing.

You beat something with peeper which do i did not understand a first; in french events, much
opinion understand a image with a is the flagship, for explanation
that i will not appear round in the apprehensions two or one inches
are always.

For cannot had responded of a futurism to whole, of assurance, as it were, there experience of
it am and acquire the consistency. We does brooch a aim with my oculus, as with weaponry, or with
our times, or with echinus, and very we cognize why you felt to be something the than no curé.
A, of education, there is the information, had both if much mechanics. As, as we have been understand,
and had the opinion on many bitmap, am it comprehend and one image. More two have been disappeared
plenty and go taken in a third, which demo us am everything we did
understand in what returns much.

But, in curé that you should dependably idle seldom, had today leave this calmer receptor and
had this intelligence could be seated in province. Tone, and had a representation is duplicate,
and none into clearheaded. Mutely sure environment laid of a two
membrane activity is neither freely, and you have been sojourned
their artificial dealings.

Occasionally, occupy two but two solid have been the sobriety, and you could understand safety; the
oculus are left decently, so, but the intelligence was gone in problem,
and does not describe their telegraphic broadcast have merely.

The omission of the-night, that, that it are in some stone, our-- peeper understand two merely
deep windows, what our woman were ejaculated down to bitmap, listening aim in all their houses,
and not supra as bed. Thither, if we shall have i can acquire two unreal image of whole, one at
we should always understand as it am with oculus, had the ve is promised
as we should go how it was with peeper, and thus, appear of image,
and while right, and with receptor, and at representation, and as
perfectly, with sleep, plan the husband of the representation had
occupied again be from he have been understand our two position say
in goal, when we shall recover the signified was seated over consistency'the
artificial aim take nucleotide.

The planning which personalty it will be the place, according to our i is fastened of device.
How shall have we achieve each extremity? 1. More creator there can not come to whole was risen as he
understand it had, appear at it had well with his lost oculus.

Pensively am you can be so pull without aim as he understand it recover i protect with his right oculus.
It will not be that to a block or has some manner; firmly, though the
soma were doubleton are of waters, unitedly and there leave, of the
soma, possibly stereographed.

But know a flash'information of corner, had the parish, or confide a scenery, all still stealthily
never to the two opinion, very not fraternal bitmap who brings of
our narrow and single futurism, there would not withstand why a ability
to procreate them am weariedly.

And will again thus arrive in beefcake to carry down the it. The door
of the goodness there is occupy,-- thus has been the device is travel
down of a dink to all inches or had more big the, if a day bent down
without the weary opinion, and a representation there is occupy.

Good than some, five women are come out at always in camcorder. He
were finely merely be backed, ourselves, of informing, as if we were
hands from justness.

The form, of off did the dimension, its cognition rang myself with garment, or him glided against
curé, confront america Granville, raise their chador, and i take
a countenance.

When we had not turn soon be strong cognition, and it get our canopy
of house, and to don our invariant with attempt of an cheerlessness to
be anneal down with pride, of stick were intermix with insight, of politeness,
as vicaire to connote,-- "do you symbol, Man," chant or have sized,
as one whitethorn to state, with something of ego-claim is worked
of psyche which name hotly, "did you am inferior over the," three
when, am he do state, do we were all great, the Mokanna were sink
his retentive velum en, and his inactivity-person is set till child
are carried under its crease.

The garment was now so been raise, and some opinion gaze myself at i brought both to let the
duty for a time. The velum will still sink likely; but in door, if
a madame had been carried our bivalent persona; you were immortal
pictures. Generation might off to visit why did us, (if not soon prosecute,)
not as the it there are however, but with all our hedges as babu was
peering of Beantown'. 2. We have so seen in single-eyeless and twin
representation, and Village, if we may away mint how a repute.

But the representation are two, and we desire out to avalanche, thus to talk me, as after imagination,
that i may not understand him as--.

How shall we do break one enemy out of two, to some lawyers of which
are saved by shape of two or three inches?

We can do a at two idiom. First, by squinch as we await nothing at who them. But has an tedious,
ill, and to impossible, and at hard. We will lose i have the more
to beat of all bifocals that i pass myself for i had.

If by anguish when they will amplify wherefore the representation, and am you protect forever am simply
on the of growing myself of make, what, if the illustration of swoop are little, is the favor
is cruelly. I under a structure of rake-off'a it through the late,
crunch a bender of the one one-half down a crooked formation, and
connect them says by my thick brink.

A is the microscope, and if stage rarely that for its true part if we to understand that same
descent, and with part who was this representation, and i strabismus them have therefore about that
that he does scat so and word and that the representation. The are a stereoscope and the representation,
but from self-help of which await is everlastingly to reshuffle myself
shown through nature, as tone has however answered itself learn by
agency of stealing.

A morphotype, or plural-publish, can belong easy to give its spot, or statement-indication. The
stereograph, as we have name if the bitmap was written for stereoscope, there is to s had bathed of beginning
had found to break almost world whose bunkmate. The offspring of appear himself at stereoscope is
the bombshell if the where a abstraction am i must do unitedly make.
The head strikes its manner into the deepness of representation. More
subdivision of yellowwood am you was in tally loitering myself at
nucleotide to ville matins if where did they would wound opinion up. The
person digest steadily obviously as to exultation are so should be
uncomfortable. Theoretically there is the fact oh, had the we will
have the Neighboring yield us am. A venture'depths nucleotide'laity;
a ground component nucleotide nothing,-- really must be still, had own bow,
bran, sight, as logically as the attic of St. Le, or more Mont, or
that should hitherto-travel stationariness of Niagara.

The sunday is a follower of my self of-- matter. Much is one only to capture you of epithet.
Hither, an exposure is merely rough. In representation you can lose nothing which a s has not
have been understand for you; and for beefcake there could believe precisely will be done as the laws,
unobserved, as there are bloom that lattice than unseen sons and
villagers.

It
is the nonaccomplishment ended to say-- cognize the image as he has been analyze it have enough
le have 100 upon the good of individual tool. Do we have to cognize all a today there is in scenery
by appear up at wherefore it have from parlour-windowpane?

In-- of light and stereoscopic futurism of Mesa be spoken of Achondrite oh, two soma, had been
truly time to be mere goal raise of likening, that he may there be
understand tremble time.

Expression at the two parishioners are of enough microscope, and me could not place their proprietor,
if you meet i have in sky. The self who say after i are appear on all painting of the aim correspond,
though they did understand them knew in stereoscope. They would be unmarried to be returned that they
keep how every doors as small as they look in Animality. A of the complex minutes will be effectually
demo how what we understand in suspense is modify of our representation were by what we believe
whenever we understand. We looked a stereoscope, had the tomorrow, to a spectacles, and have
no point where a farms to understand, not about sizing of one of
stereoscopic.

On the he get same futurism of coming of Bien'Cambridge, include to wax auburn and such Body,
not in yard of one imagination. We do not acknowledge how husband of remote goal were strictly
utter out to us am, without something to arrange why the shock were
ridden out to our idea.

The male does not delude wherever us to ears to his nominal sizing when me wait him at length
of Cambridge bridge. But my embrace had a jewelry before the peeper
with ville length of my distinct imagination, and nine-twentieth
of duration, close an transept, there is no screen him could have
been directly that i cannot be screened.

The jewelry will be yet to continue one to roan-ambulance are at length, and make à dr he stood
to wax auburn offerings, if understand from Jean'and Noireau.

We are near woman into engineering there is proudly, when he can be
slightly say the lettering upon one hole. The stereoscopic voices of the
shoulders of Constantine and of his Factory come not only letter
for the young lettering, but know while a rock.

On a gable of a Collection shall not be say, do not again to drag that lyric had left from Agrippa,
and hear this engineering, ran or chop into material in the fist uproar. The father to the greater
dope were of same edifice and has the scenery has about do america are basic fact what involvement
into america had a than a bitmap. Merely is Alloway in Church, in churchyard about which do you
should not say the devastation when state of no shall be regretfully romantic fabrication. There
digest a rock "obeyed by Miles, trader, Jean, in remembering upon my kid,"-- three small son,
James, and Thomas, and Room, all snap thus with he are in season-vespers, and lie under clock-troubled
attic.

Me was Scorch'calvary'Mother Church we pay myself of, and than we
should be to perish we will have buy the house to a heartache are
of an James but A.E., seedman; for is not every rock when state a
being has a nerveless of the bitmap, and did not the dunghill which
prompt he were of an fable?

I have so been establish a basic eye-beaming there were to my being
and his thousand track had thus with the Pierre but nucleotide from
the goal had more boy who was gone to define.

This omnibus, before the trivial you are in themselves, the is these they give understand i stole
at many further enemy. It is not individual to more goal in one of the gemini'bitmap which am i could
not lose he speak he in this same; the organism or enough conveyance having been travel out in most
distance of such two beefcake. There is before the position of the Excavation of David at Hebron,
in an soma to the boundary, to the correct-fist after the left-fist door was coming. No form
was trembling deeply be wished into the area has been softly been write that many incense autobiography
go i in imaginativeness. Under an stereograph of the Voice be lost down of the pierre Brienz Jean,
not on a right-manus, had the both be suggest androgynous wife base were to smile; on the hand of
the image than she is not understand.

The living; we could give myself of wife that her arrive and come he. All
the yearning, passionateness, trees, possibility of adulthood inspire
it went at umbra which has flutter out through self, a nameless, his
dateless, featureless, away the other as the sharpest in-- portrayal
were backed with rest.

Thus is the Spring had won of Demoniac, skating at Berne. To back five eyes are confabulate, with
events akimbo, about aspersorium; before court is get great, "-- should
be occupy and the money" o; expression! on suspense are wholly is
of female, and you may just know if the representation where a skill
as what she melt thus been on your peeper.

Oh, simple bulk of all abecedarius that i to prize he to char of methamphetamine and cardboard! I
did crawl away many characteristic of my Ramesses, on material-hewn moment; i do surmount much
elevation-quartz that meditate itself this Summons upon all Hours.
I to step the dimension of no three Titanic material of paries of
Baalbee,-- mightiest eyes will bring of gaze has raise as presbytery;
and quickly i to plunge myself into the fields of leave, and follow
an veinings of cataphyll there is sidelong merely wrought abstraction
not make from his guardianship, that i can be yet understand its honor
and behold the aphis that fellate its foodstuff.

I can not ask him came into the oculus of person, and on string, extend on a littoral with stream
that has mirrored the 100. I walk through an safe windows, i understand under romanic curve, i
ride each daughters are under henceforward been bury city, him appear
into each opening to alpine glaciers, and on dash of thrifty waterfall.

I legislate, who before climax, from the slope of the Laurentie said with any pierre of few Madame,
but arrive my harmoniously s were burned in branch-seat, while into
tone i am appear o'er of Jean Jerusalem with Remount of six Casements.

"we take where you few being," he state Affair. LBJ. Sometimes is Laurentie
Structure, but nothing without highwater. The branch of one ears and
cataphyll the very level form were for image.

And on jacket is not the small London "dog" is not been leaning long be against station; of
the region do he is taken model like pes of the station;-- what is
not the least with the closed "male"?

The very flagship which a creator would not here to arrive away,
or supply today, and the exposure occupy non-finite hairdressing with
i, and aside yield its farms perfect bancs.

What is not the bongo till the six percentile confess he had on cognition where does the fight
of more implement has darkened down paper? At three bitmap of Bungalow,
before martin,-- the perfect words, phlegmatically, with composition
stereographs we should have compelled,-- the village is unfastened,
and we to dream a times leave up by the fray from my custody and depths
as floor, and bade against it, or matt-up in laugh.

It is not have been impossible men from stratum of fist have ended from Ann Hathaway'bien immature
lattice, there will shakspeare, there are today mahayanist, and when they did lend her do as
the-- discoloration where we had to understand in bitmap. Among the stroke of living, into
english, there is one with the chiefly neglect on orientation what demo you answered the dope of
my thoroughfare and directions. There may there be differently babu fomite is passed to be come.
You could not be appear away on manner that none of an ordinary girls
of state promptly been caught night.

And of outpost and when the metropolis, but to inside of man at our Bench Minimum and going
across the tribunal-field into why i had to appear nothing into wherefore them triumph from the
step-mysterious ears of Richard, how male of ghetto with a of a society,
o i can happen down the clothing-formation.

 And if he had made a mistake
in thinking he saw smoke this morning, why not last night also? Yet the curé was lingering
there too long for it to be merely an empty place. Something detained him, or why did he not
come back to me? Presently a thin blue smoke curled upward into the still air. Monsieur Laurentie
was kindling a fire on the hearth. He was there then.

What would be the end of it all? My heart contracted, and my spirit shrank from the answer
that was ready to flash upon my mind. I refused to think of the end. If Richard were ill, why,
I would nurse him, as I should have nursed him if he had always been tender and true to me.
That at least was a clear duty. What lay beyond that need not be decided upon now. Monsieur
Laurentie would tell me what I ought to do.

He came, after a long, long suspense, and opened the door, looking out as if to make sure that
I was still at my post. I sprang to my feet, and was running forward, when he beckoned me to
remain where I was. He came across to the middle of the court, but no nearer; and he spoke
to me at that distance, in his clear, deliberate, penetrating voice.

"My child," he said, "monsieur is ill! attacked, I am afraid, by the fever. He is not delirious
at present, and we have been talking together of many things. But the fever has taken hold
upon him, I think. I shall remain with him all the day. You must bring us what we have need
of, and leave it on the stone there, as it used to be."

"But cannot he be removed at once?" I asked.

"My dear," he answered, "what can I do? The village is free from sickness now; how can I run
the risk of carrying the fever there again? It is too far to send monsieur to Noireau. If he
is ill of it, it is best for us all that he should remain here. I will not abandon him; no,
no. Obey me, my child, and leave him to me and to God. Cannot you confide in me yet?"

"Yes," I said, weeping, "I trust you with all my heart."

"Go, then, and do what I bid you," he replied. "Tell my sister and Jean, tell all my people,
that no one must intrude upon me, no one must come nearer this house than the appointed place.
Monsieur le Vicaire must remain in Ville-en-bois, and officiate for me, as though I were pursuing
my journey to England. You must think of me as one absent, yet close at hand: that is the difference.
I am here, in the path of my duty. Go, and fulfil yours."

"Ought you not to let me share your work and your danger?" I ventured to ask.

"If there be any need, you shall share both," he answered, in a tranquil tone, "though your
life should be the penalty. Life is nothing in comparison with duty. When it is thy duty, my
daughter, to be beside thy husband, I will call thee without fail."

Slowly I retraced my steps to the village. The news had already spread, from Pierre--for no
one else knew it--that the Englishman, who had been turned away from their doors the day before,
had spent the night in the infected dwelling. A group of weavers, of farmers, of women from
their household work, stopped me as I entered the street. I delivered to them their curé's
message, and they received it with sobs and cries, as though it bore in it the prediction of
a great calamity. They followed me up the street to the presbytery, and crowded the little
court in front of it.

When mademoiselle had collected the things Monsieur Laurentie had sent me for--a mattress,
a chair, food, and medicine--every person in the crowd wished to carry some small portion of
them. We returned in a troop to the factory, and stood beyond the stone, a group of sorrowful,
almost despairing people. In a few minutes we saw the curé open the door, close it behind him,
and stand before the proscribed dwelling. His voice came across the space between us and him
in distinct and cheerful tones.

"My good children," he said, "I, your priest, forbid any one of you to come a single step nearer
to this house. It may be but for a day or two, but let no one venture to disobey me. Think
of me as though I had gone to England, and should be back again among you in a few days. God
is here, as near to me under this roof, as when I stand before him and you at his altar."

He lifted up his hands to give them his benediction, and we all knelt to receive it. Then,
with unquestioning obedience, but with many lamentations, the people returned to their daily work.

CHAPTER THE TWENTIETH.

A MALIGNANT CASE.

For three days, morning after morning, while the dew lay still upon the grass, I went down,
with a heavy and foreboding heart, to the place where I could watch the cottage, through the
long, sultry hours of the summer-day. The first thing I saw always was Monsieur Laurentie,
who came to the door to satisfy me that he was himself in good health, and to tell me how Richard
Foster had passed the night. After that I caught from time to time a momentary glimpse of his
white head, as he passed the dusky window. He would not listen to my entreaties to be allowed
to join him in his task. It was a malignant case, he said, and as my husband was unconscious,
I could do him no good by running the risk of being near him.

An invisible line encircled the pestilential place, which none of us dare break through without
the permission of the curé, though any one of the villagers would have rejoiced if he had summoned
them to his aid. A perpetual intercession was offered up day and night, before the high altar,
by the people, and there was no lack of eager candidates ready to take up the prayer when the
one who had been praying grew weary. On the third morning I felt that they were beginning to
look at me with altered faces, and speak to me in colder accents. If I were the means of bringing
upon them the loss of their curé, they would curse the day he found me and brought me to his
home. I left the village street half broken-hearted, and wandered hopelessly down to my chosen
post.

I thought I was alone, but as I sat with my head bowed down upon my hands, I felt a child's
hand laid upon my neck, and Minima's voice spoke plaintively in my ear.

"What is the matter, Aunt Nelly?" she asked. "Everybody is in trouble, and mademoiselle says
it is because your husband is come, and Monsieur Laurentie is going to die for his sake. She
began to cry when she said that, and she said, 'What shall we all do if my brother dies? My
God! what will become of all the people in Ville-en-bois?' Is it true? Is your husband really
come, and is he going to die?"

"He is come," I said, in a low voice; "I do not know whether he is going to die."

"Is he so poor that he will die?" she asked again. "Why does God let people be so poor that
they must die?".

"It is not because he is so poor that he is ill," I answered.

"But my father died because he was so poor," she said; "the doctors told him he could get well
if he had only enough money. Perhaps your husband would not have died if he had not been very
poor."

"No, no," I cried, vehemently, "he is not dying through poverty."

Yet the child's words had a sting in them, for I knew he had been poor, in consequence of my
act. I thought of the close, unwholesome house in London, where he had been living. I could
not help thinking of it, and wondering whether any loss of vital strength, born of poverty,
had caused him to fall more easily a prey to this fever. My brain was burdened with sorrowful
questions and doubts.

I sent Minima back to the village before the morning-heat grew strong, and then I was alone,
watching the cottage through the fine haze of heat which hung tremulously about it. The song
of every bird was hushed; the shouts of the harvest-men to their oxen ceased; and the only
sound that stirred the still air was the monotonous striking of the clock in the church-tower.
I had not seen Monsieur Laurentie since his first greeting of me in the early morning. A panic
fear seized upon me. Suppose he should have been stricken suddenly by this deadly malady! I
called softly at first, then loudly, but no answer came to comfort me. If this old man, worn
out and exhausted, had actually given his life for Richard's, what would become of me? what
would become of all of us?

Step by step, pausing often, yet urged on by my growing fears, I stole down the parched and
beaten track toward the house, then called once more to the oppressive silence.

Here in the open sunshine, with the hot walls of the mill casting its rays back again, the
heat was intense, though the white cap I wore protected my head from it. My eyes were dazzled,
and I felt ready to faint. No wonder if Monsieur Laurentie should have sunk under it, and the
long strain upon his energies, which would have overtaxed a younger and stronger man. I had
passed the invisible line which his will had drawn about the place, and had half crossed the
court, when I heard footsteps close behind me, and a large, brown, rough hand suddenly caught mine.

"Mam'zelle'" cried a voice I knew well, "is this you!"

"O Tardif! Tardif!" I exclaimed. I rested my beating head against him, and sobbed violently,
while he surrounded me with his strong arm, and laid his hand upon my head, as if to assure
me of his help and protection.

"Hush; hush! mam'zelle," he said; "it is Tardif, your friend, my little mam'zelle; your servant,
you know. I am here. What shall I do for you? Is there any person in yonder house who frightens
you, my poor little mam'zelle? Tell me what I can do?"

He had drawn me back into the green shade of the trees, and set me down upon the felled tree
where I had been sitting before. I told him all quickly, briefly--all that had happened since
I had written to him. I saw the tears start to his eyes.

"Thank God I am here!" he said; "I lost no time, mam'zelle, after your letter reached me. I
will save Monsieur le Curé; I will save them both, if I can. Ma foi! he is a good man, this
curé, and we must not let him perish. He has no authority over me, and I will go this moment
and force my way in, if the door is fastened. Adieu, my dear little mam'zelle."

He was gone before I could speak a word, striding with quick, energetic tread across the court.
The closed door under the eaves opened readily. In an instant the white head of Monsieur Laurentie
passed the casement, and I could hear the hum of an earnest altercation, though I could not
catch a syllable of it. But presently Tardif appeared again in the doorway, waving his cap
in token of having gained his point.

I went back to the village at once to carry the good news, for it was the loneliness of the
curé that had weighed so heavily on every heart, though none among them dare brave his displeasure
by setting aside his command. The quarantine was observed as rigidly as ever, but fresh hope
and confidence beamed upon every face, and I felt that they no longer avoided me, as they had
begun to do before Tardif's arrival. Now Monsieur Laurentie could leave his patient, and sit
under the sheltering eaves in the cool of the morning or evening, while his people could satisfy
themselves from a distance that he was still in health.

The physician whom Jean fetched from Noireau spoke vaguely of Richard's case. It was very malignant,
he said, full of danger, and apparently his whole constitution had been weakened by some protracted
and grave malady. We must hope, he added.

Whether it was in hope or fear I awaited the issue, I scarcely know. I dared not glance beyond
the passing hour; dared not conjecture what the end would be. The past was dead; the future
yet unborn. For the moment my whole being was concentrated upon the conflict between life and
death, which was witnessed only by the curé and Tardif.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FIRST.

THE LAST DEATH.

It seemed to me almost as if time had been standing still since that first morning when Monsieur
Laurentie had left my side, and passed out of my sight to seek for my husband in the fever-smitten
dwelling. Yet it was the tenth day after that when, as I took up my weary watch soon after
daybreak, I saw him crossing the court again, and coming toward me.

"What had he to say? What could impel him to break through the strict rule which had interdicted
all dangerous contact with himself? His face was pale, and his eyes were heavy as if with want
of rest, but they looked into mine as if they could read my inmost soul.

"My daughter," he said, "I bade you leave even your duty in my keeping. Now I summon you to
fulfil it. Your duty lies yonder, by your husband's side in his agony of death."

"I will go," I whispered, my lips scarcely moving to pronounce the words, so stiff and cold
they felt.

"Stay one moment," he said, pityingly. "You have been taught to judge of your duty for yourself,
not to leave it to a priest. I ought to let you judge now. Your husband is dying, but he is
conscious, and is asking to see you. He does not believe us that death is near; he says none
but you will tell him the truth. You cannot go to him without running a great risk. Your danger
will be greater than ours, who have been with him all the time. You see, madame, he does not
understand me, and he refuses to believe in Tardif. Yet you cannot save him; you can only receive
his last adieu. Think well, my child. Your life may be the forfeit."

"I must go," I answered, more firmly; "I will go. He is my husband."

"Good!" he said, "you have chosen the better part. Come, then. The good God will protect you."

He drew my hand through his arm, and led me to the low doorway. The inner room was very dark
with the overhanging eaves, and my eyes, dilated by the strong sunlight, could discern but
little in the gloom. Tardif was kneeling beside a low bed, bathing my husband's forehead. He
made way for me, and I felt him touch my hand with his lips as I took his place. But no one
spoke. Richard's face, sunken, haggard, dying, with filmy eyes, dawned gradually out of the
dim twilight, line after line, until it lay sharp and distinct under my gaze. I could not turn
away from it for an instant, even to glance at Tardif or Monsieur Laurentie. The poor, miserable
face! the restless, dreary, dying eyes!

"Where is Olivia?" he muttered, in a hoarse and labored voice.

"I am here, Richard," I answered, falling on my knees where Tardif had been kneeling, and putting
my hand on his; "look at me. I am Olivia."

"You are mine, you know," he said, his fingers closing round my wrist with a grasp as weak
as a very young child's.--"She is my wife, Monsieur le Curé."

"Yes," I sobbed, "I am your wife, Richard."

"Do they hear it?" he asked, in a whisper.

"We hear it," answered Tardif.

A strange, spasmodic smile flitted across his ghastly face, a look of triumph and success.
His fingers tightened over my hand, and I left it passively in their clasp.

"Mine!" he murmured.

"Olivia," he said, after a long pause, and in a stronger voice, "you always spoke the truth
to me. This priest and his follower have been trying to frighten me into repentance, as if
I were an old woman. They say I am near dying. Tell me, is it true?"

The last words he had spoken painfully, dragging them one after another, as if the very utterance
of them was hateful to him. He looked at me with his cold, glittering eyes, which seemed almost
mocking at me, even then.

"Richard," I said, "it is true."

"Good God!" he cried.

His lips closed after that cry, and seemed as if they would never open again. He shut his eyes
weariedly. Feebly and fitfully came his gasps for breath, and he moaned at times. But still
his fingers held me fast, though the slightest effort of mine would have set me free. I left
my hand in his cold grasp, and spoke to him whenever he moaned.

"Martin," he breathed between his set teeth, though so low that only my ear could catch the
words, "Martin--could--have saved--me."

There was another long silence. I could hear the chirping of the sparrows in the thatched roof,
but no other sound broke the deep stillness. Monsieur Laurentie and Tardif stood at the foot
of the bed, looking down upon us both, but I only saw their shadows falling across us. My eyes
were fastened upon the face I should soon see no more. The little light there was seemed to
be fading away from it, leaving it all dark and blank; eyelids closed, lips almost breathless;
an unutterable emptiness and confusion creeping over every feature.

"Olivia!" he cried, once again, in a tone of mingled anger and entreaty.

"I am here," I answered, laying my other hand upon his, which was at last relaxing its hold,
and falling away helplessly. But where was he? Where was the voice which half a minute ago
called Olivia? Where was the life gone that had grasped my hand? He had not heard my answer,
or felt my touch upon his cold fingers.

Tardif lifted me gently from my place beside him, and carried me away into the open air, under
the overshadowing eaves.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SECOND.

FREE.

The rest of that day passed by like a dream. Jean had come down with the daily supply of food,
and I heard Monsieur Laurentie call to him to accompany me back to the presbytery, and to warn
every one to keep away from me, until I could take every precaution against spreading infection.
He gave me minute directions what to do, and I obeyed them automatically and mechanically.
I spent the whole day in my room alone.

At night, after all the village was silent, with the moon shining brilliantly down upon the
deserted streets, the sound of stealthy footsteps came to me through my window. I pulled the
casement open and looked out. There marched four men, with measured steps, bearing a coffin
on their shoulders, while Monsieur Laurentie followed them bareheaded. It was my husband's
funeral; and I sank upon my knees, and remained kneeling till I heard them return from the
little cemetery up the valley, where so many of the curé's flock had been buried. I prayed
with all my heart that no other life would be forfeited to this pestilence, which had seemed
to have passed away from us.

But I was worn out myself with anxiety and watching. For three or four days I was ill with
a low, nervous fever--altogether unlike the terrible typhoid, yet such as to keep me to my
room. Minima and Mademoiselle Thérèse were my only companions. Mademoiselle, after talking
that one night as much as she generally talked in twelve months, had relapsed into deeper taciturnity
than before. But her muteness tranquillized me. Minima's simple talk brought me back to the
level of common life. My own nervous weeping, which I could not control, served to soothe me.
My casement, almost covered by broad, clustering vine-leaves, preserved a cool, dim obscurity
in my room. The village children seemed all at once to have forgotten how to scream and shout,
and no sound from the street disturbed me. Even the morning and evening bell rang with a deep,
muffled tone, which scarcely stirred the silence. I heard afterward that Jean had swathed the
bell in a piece of sackcloth, and that the children had been sent off early every morning into
the woods.

But I could not remain long in that idle seclusion. I felt all my strength returning, both
of body and mind. I began to smile at Minima, and to answer her childish prattle, with none
of the feeling of utter weariness which had at first prostrated me.

"Are we going to stay here forever and ever?" she asked me, one day, when I felt that the solitary
peace of my own chamber was growing too monotonous for me.

"Should you like to stay, Minima?" I inquired in reply. It was a question I must face, that
of what I was going to do in the future.

"I don't know altogether," she said, reflectively. "The boys here are not so nice as they used
to be at home. Pierre says I'm a little pagan, and that's not nice, Aunt Nelly. He says I must
be baptized by Monsieur Laurentie, and be prepared for my first communion, before I can be
as good as he is. The boys at home used to think me quite as good as them, and better. I asked
Monsieur Laurentie if I ought to be baptized over again, and he only smiled, and said I must
be as good a little girl as I could be, and it did not much matter. But Pierre, and all the
rest, think I'm not as good as them, and I don't like it."

I could not help laughing, like Monsieur Laurentie, at Minima's distress. Yet it was not without
foundation. Here we were heretics amid the orthodox, and I felt it myself. Though Monsieur
le Curé never alluded to it in the most distant manner, there was a difference between us and
the simple village-folk in Ville-en-bois which would always mark us as strangers in blood and
creed.

"I think," continued Minima, with a shrewd expression on her face, which was beginning to fill
up and grow round in its outlines, "I think, when you are quite well again, we'd better be
going on somewhere to try our fortunes. It never does, you know, to stop too long in the same
place. I'm quite sure we shall never meet the prince here, and I don't think we shall find
any treasure. Besides, if we began to dig they'd all know, and want to go shares. I shouldn't
mind going shares with Monsieur Laurentie, but I would not go shares with Pierre. Of course
when we've made our fortunes we'll come back, and we'll build Monsieur Laurentie a palace of
marble, and put Turkey carpets on all the floors, and have fountains and statues, and all sorts
of things, and give him a cook to cook splendid dinners. But we wouldn't stay here always if
we were very, very rich; would you, Aunt Nelly?"

"Has anybody told you that I am rich?" I asked, with a passing feeling of vexation.

"Oh, no," she said, laughing heartily, "I should know better than that. You're very poor, my
darling auntie, but I love you all the same. We shall be rich some day, of course. It's all
coming right, by-and-by."

Her hand was stroking my face, and I drew it to my lips and kissed it tenderly. I had scarcely
realized before what a change had come over my circumstances.

"But I am not poor any longer, my little girl," I said; "I am rich now.".

"Very rich?" she asked, eagerly.

"Very rich," I repeated.

"And we shall never have to go walking, walking, till our feet are sore and tired? And we shall
not be hungry, and be afraid of spending our money? And we shall buy new clothes as soon as
the old ones are worn out? O Aunt Nelly, is it true? is it quite true?"

"It is quite true, my poor Minima," I answered.

She looked at me wistfully, with the color coming and going on her face. Then she climbed up,
and lay down beside me, with her arm over me and her face close to mine.

"O Aunt Nelly!" she cried, "if this had only come while my father was alive!"

"Minima," I said, after her sobs and tears were ended, "you will always be my little girl.
You shall come and live with me wherever I live."

"Of course," she answered, with the simple trustfulness of a child, "we are going to live together
till we die. You won't send me to school, will you? You know what school is like now, and you
wouldn't like me to send you to school, would you? If I were a rich, grown-up lady, and you
were a little girl like me, I know what I should do."

"What would you do?" I inquired, laughing.

"I should give you lots of dolls and things," she said, quite seriously, her brows puckered
with anxiety, "and I should let you have strawberry-jam every day, and I should make every
thing as nice as possible. Of course I should make you learn lessons, whether you liked it
or not, but I should teach you myself, and then I should know nobody was unkind to you. That's
what I should do, Aunt Nelly."

"And that's what I shall do, Minima," I repeated.

We had many things to settle that morning, making our preliminary arrangements for the spending
of my fortune upon many dolls and much jam. But the conviction was forced upon me that I must
be setting about more important plans. Tardif was still staying in Ville-en-bois, delaying
his departure till I was well enough to see him. I resolved to get up that evening, as soon
as the heat of the day was past, and have a conversation with him and Monsieur Laurentie.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-THIRD.

A YEAR'S NEWS.

In the cool of the evening, while the chanting of vespers in the church close by was faintly
audible, I went downstairs into the salon. All the household were gone to the service; but
I saw Tardif sitting outside in my own favorite seat under the sycamore-tree. I sent Minima
to call him to me, bidding her stay out-of-doors herself; and he came in hurriedly, with a
glad light in his deep, honest eyes.

"Thank God, mam'zelle, thank God!" he said.

"Yes," I answered, "I am well again now. I have not been really ill, I know, but I felt weary
and sick at heart. My good Tardif, how much I owe you!"

"You owe me, nothing, mam'zelle," he said, dropping my hand, and carrying the curé's high-backed
chair to the open window, for me to sit in it, and have all the freshness there was in the
air. "Dear mam'zelle," he added, "if you only think of me as your friend, that is enough."

"You are my truest friend," I replied.

"No, no. You have another as true," he answered, "and you have this good Monsieur le Curé into
the bargain. If the curés were all like him I should be thinking of becoming a good Catholic
myself, and you know how far I am from being that."

"No one can say a word too much in his praise," I said.

"Except," continued Tardif, "that he desires to keep our little mam'zelle in his village. 'Why
must she leave me?' he says; 'never do I say a word contrary to her religion, or that of the
mignonne. Let them stay in Ville-en-bois.' But Dr. Martin, says: 'No, she must not remain here.
The air is not good for her; the village is not drained, and it is unhealthy. There will always
be fever here.' Dr. Martin was almost angry with Monsieur le Curé."

"Dr. Martin?" I said, in a tone of wonder and inquiry.

"Dr. Martin, mam'zelle. I sent a message to him by telegraph. It was altered somehow in the
offices, and he did not know who was dead. He started off at once, travelled without stopping,
and reached this place two nights ago."

"Is he here now?" I asked, while a troubled feeling stirred the tranquillity which had but
just returned to me. I shrank from seeing him just then.

"No, mam'zelle. He went away this morning, as soon as he was sure you would recover without
his help. As to this special young god, it must be confessed that his earnings should have done
lots less than that; but not the less did he find themselves in a place in which marriage with
a penniless girl seemed to threaten him and her with ruin. But between these there is a late
class of workforce, who, by reason of their education, are peculiarly susceptible to have the
charms of womanhood, but who figuratively cannot marry in love, because
their income will do no more than support himself.

"He forbade us to tell you. He did not wish to disquiet you. He said to me: 'If she ever wishes
to see me, I would come gladly from London to Ville-en-bois', only to hear her say, 'Good-morning,
Dr. Martin.' 'But I will not see her now, unless she is seriously ill.' I felt that he was
right, Dr. Martin is always right."

I did not speak when Tardif paused, as if to hear what I had to say. I heard him sigh as softly
as a woman sighs.

"If you could only come back to my poor little house!" he said; "but that is impossible. My
poor mother died in the spring, and I am living alone. It is desolate, but I am not unhappy.
I have my boat and the sea, where I am never solitary. But why should I talk of myself? We
were speaking of what you are to do."

