Christ, Christianity and the Bible

BY

I. M. HALDEMAN, D.D.

Pastor First Baptist Church, New York City

Author of

How to Study the Bible, The Coming of Christ, The Signs of the Times, Christian Science in
the Light of Holy Scripture, etc., etc.

NEW YORK

CHARLES C. COOK

150 Nassau Street

Copyright, 1912,

By Charles C. Cook

CONTENTS

Christ

Christianity

The Bible

Christ

IF NOT GOD--NOT GOOD

BY I. M. HALDEMAN, D.D.

"Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is God" (Matthew 9:17).

THE world has accepted Jesus Christ as a good man.

The evidences of his goodness are manifold.

He was full of compassion.

He never looked upon the people as a crowd. He never thought of them as a mass. He saw them
always as individuals. His heart went out to them. All his impulses were to pity them, sympathize
with, and help them.

He went among them. He entered into all conditions, accepted all situations. He was present
at a wedding, he ate with publicans and sinners and, anon, was guest at a rich man's table.

He saw the ravages of disease, the shame of sin, the tragedies in life.

He knew there was torture in body and anguish in spirit.

He took the mystery of pain and laid it upon his heart, until tears were his meat and his drink,
by day and by night. He became a man of sorrows and an expert in grief. He took upon him the
woes of the world till he was bowed and bent, as with the weight of years. The tears of sympathy
grooved his cheeks, as when streams carve their way down mountain sides. Because of this men
looked at him and saw neither form nor comeliness; neither was there any beauty in him that
they should desire him.

He was a beneficent man.

Multitudes of men are benevolent, but not beneficent.

Benevolence is well wishing. Beneficence is well doing. He was always well doing, giving sight
to the blind, healing the sick, cleansing the leper, feeding the hungry, raising the dead,
unloosing the bonds of Satan--unwinding the serpent's coil.

He was absolutely unselfish.

He emptied himself and made room in his soul for other lives. He had no office hours and never
interposed secretaries or major-domos between himself and the people. He received all who came
unto him-- ministering without money and without price.

There is one scene that might well be painted by a master hand.

It is evening. The western sky is all aglow with the glory of the setting sun. Far up in the
dome of the infinite blue, the evening star swings golden, like a slow descending lamp let
down by invisible hands. The street is in half-tone. It is packed by the strangest of throngs,
by the blind, the lame, the halt, the paralyzed and the leper-derelicts of humanity--borne
thither on a surging tide of life in which every wave is an accent of pain; they are driven
and piled up in great, quivering heaps against a door which is partly shut, as in self-defence,
by the sweltering crowd within.

Jesus of Nazareth is in that house.

He is healing the sick. He is giving health, and strength, and peace to all who seek him. He
turns no one away. Compassion, sympathy, beneficence, the tenderness of a mother for her helpless
babe--these are the characteristics which his daily ministry revealed.

No one ever brought a charge of evil doing or evil speaking against him.

The people who followed him said, "He hath done all things well."

Police officers sent to arrest him as a disturber of the peace found him in the midst of the
people, speaking words that hushed their tumult, quieted their murmurings and gave them rest;
and the officers returning to them who sent them, said, "Never man spake like this man."

Pilate's wife dreamed a troubled dream of him, and sent word to her husband not to lay hands
on him--seeing that he was a just man. Thrice before heaven and earth--in a testimony that
still echoes through infinite spaces, and is heard by listening worlds--Pilate himself proclaimed,
"I find no fault in this man."

He lifted up his voice against sin and unrighteousness.

Against nothing did he so much speak as against religious hypocrisy. Nowhere, in any record,
is language so terrible, so penetrating, so hot, so full of the flame of fire and scorching
analysis, scorching and burning in its denunciation of those who on the outside (in their religious
profession) were like whitened sepulchres, but on the inside (in their actual lives) were full
of dead men's bones and corruption--nowhere, outside the twenty-third chapter of Matthew, does
language fall with such tremendous vibration of thunderous indignation, and the accent of aroused
and fully angered justice. "Ye serpents," "ye generation of vipers," are some of the phrases;
and the words, "fools," "blind hypocrites," mingle again and again with the far-sounding, judicial
menace, "Woe, woe unto you."

He seemed to be dominated and controlled by one idea--the idea of God. The God thought held
and moved him. He could not go anywhere, or see anything, or utter the shortest discourse,
that he did not, in some fashion, connect it with the infinite Father. Was a sower sowing seed,
he saw in that incident an illustration of the fact that the true seed is the Word of God,
and the true sower he who casts it into the mightier ground of the human heart. Did a flock
of sheep lie at rest upon the hillside, guarded by a shepherd's care, at once he would unfold
the shepherding of a Father's love. A tiny sparrow, flying an unnoticed speck in the distant
sky, or falling ground-ward with its weary flight, was a winged witness that the Father knew
and saw even the smallest details of human life. A lily in its lowliness, and yet a lily in
its beauty shaming a king's array, a lily, toiling not, but upward growing, furnished him a
text from which to preach the providence of God; and a wandering beggar boy far away from home
and kindred, stained with sin and dark with sorrow, gave occasion for the wondrous story of
the Prodigal Son and a father's changeless and tender love.

God! God! God! this was the supreme note of his life.

On the cross he gave utterance to words which reveal the inner character of his soul.

When a man has been lied about, falsified, his good evil spoken of and his reputation assailed
(as was his before the Sanhedrin--in the mock trial given him there), when such a man has been
hounded from one end of the town to the other, spit upon and jibed at and, finally, nailed
through hands and feet to a torturing cross; when such a man with his heart bursting (because
of the impeded circulation, driving the surging, tumultuous blood back upon it), with the sun
scorching his bare temples, a crown of thorns stabbing him at every helpless turn of his restless
head; when such a man, under such circumstances, can rise above the wickedness, cowardice and
cheap treason that have nailed him to the cross, and pray (and pray sincerely) that his guilty
murderers, villainous detractors and unscrupulous slanderers may be forgiven, that man bears
witness that he has, at least, a heart of good.

And it was just such a prayer which came from the parched, dry, cracked lips of this man of
Nazareth as he hung upon the cross and cried out,

"Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do."

Again he spoke from the cross.

There was standing near, a woman who had been chosen of God to give him birth. She was sobbing
convulsively. She was realizing what had been foretold of her more than thirty years before--"a
sword shall pierce through thy own soul, also." Mary, the mother of Jesus, stood there, brokenhearted.
Jesus turned his head and looked at John, his cousin, bidding him take that weeping mother
to his home, his heart and care, and be unto her henceforth a loving son.

O the man who, in the hour of his own agony, shall remember his mother, and crown her, make
her the queen of his life, and ordain that others shall love and reverence her, proclaims for
himself the lustre of a manhood without spot.

Once more he spoke from the place of anguish--that moment on the edge of death. There his soul,
rising from the depths of the overwhelming waves of agony, cries:

"Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit."

He who in the hour and article of death can face God and eternity, and commit himself to the
hand of supreme justice as a confident child to the arms of a loving father, bears witness
that in his soul there is no ghastly memory of sin, no sharp, remembered pang, no fear of offended
law. Such a confidence and such a committal of triumphant calm bear witness that the heart
is at rest with God, and is conscious of its own good.

For two thousand years the world, without a dissenting voice, has borne witness that he is
the one man who came into the earth and walked through it superlatively good.

Among the voices in the common consent of the world that Jesus Christ was a good man, there
are those who with equal insistence deny that he was Almighty God.

They agree that he had the spirit of God; that he had it in measure such as no other man before
or since. They announce their belief that he is the mightiest advance on humanity ever known;
that all other religious teachers pale before him as the stars before the sun. They speak of
his spotless life with fervent admiration, and draw special attention to his discourses as
models of exhortation to righteousness and truth. To them the sermon on the mount is a chef
d'oeuvre. Out of that sermon they take the maxim about doing unto others as you would they
should do unto you. They take that maxim and frame it about and make it the "Golden Rule" of
human life. They exalt Jesus as the perfect example, telling us that if we shall govern our
life by him, make him our constant copy, imitate him, we shall fill our daily existence with
righteousness and truth. In fact, if we seek a panegyric on the humanity of Christ; if we desire
to see his goodness exalted to the heavens, and his humanity put beyond compare with the sons
of men--we must needs go to the Socinian, the Arian and the Unitarian--those who deny the deity
of Christ. But this exaltation of the human Christ is simply setting up a man of straw that
with one blow of deific discount he may be knocked down again. He is set up as man that he
may be cast down as God.

They will not accept him as God.

God Almighty (we are told) cannot be confined or shut up in any one man. Man as man and, therefore,
every individual man in his part, is the avatar of God. Each man is in some sense the incarnation
of God. God is more or less enthroned in all men. God is to be found in all men as he is to
be found in all nature.

A good man--call Jesus a good man--set him up as high as you please, build as lofty a pedestal
for him as you will, but Almighty God-- Never!

Over against this exaltation of Christ as a merely good man, and the persistent denial that
he was God, stands the unmistakable claim which Jesus Christ himself made--that he was God.

He made that claim in many ways.

He claimed it by declaring his power and authority to forgive sin.

That was a striking moment when he proclaimed it for the first time. Four men had brought a
paralytic to the house where he was preaching. When they could not get in because of the crowd,
they climbed up on the roof, took off some of the tiling, and by means of ropes or corners
of the mattress let the man down to the very feet of Jesus. When he saw their faith, he turned
to the sick man and said, "Son (son of Abraham), thy sins are forgiven thee."

At once there was an uproar. The leading men, sitting round and watching him, burst out with
a protest, charging him with blasphemy, saying that God only could forgive sin.

And they were right.

No mere man can forgive sin. Again and again the Scriptures teach us that forgiveness is with
God that he may be feared.

In announcing the man's sins forgiven, Jesus clearly claimed the prerogative, power and authority,
which belong to God.

He claimed this equality by declaring himself to be the Son of God. To the Jews, "Son of God"
was equivalent to "God the Son." It meant to them, the moment he styled himself by that name,
an unqualified claim to essential equality with the Father. Because of this they raged against
him and would have killed him, crying out that he had made himself equal with God.

He made this claim in terms which admit of no misunderstanding. He said:

"I and my Father are one."

When Philip said, "Shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us," he answered and said:

"Hast thou been with me so long time and hast thou not known me, Philip? From henceforth ye
know him and have seen him."

To Philip he had also said:

"I am the way and the truth and the life--no man cometh unto the Father but by me."

By this statement he deliberately shut out all other men as the ground and means of approach
to God. He declares that God, the Father, can be found in and through him alone; that he is
the supreme way, the very truth and the very life; not that he knows some truth and has a measure
of life in common with men, but that he is the truth--the absolute life. Such attitude, such
claimed rights, privileges and powers, belong alone to God.

But he goes beyond this.

He testifies that he has been from all eternity the manifestation of the very selfhood of the
Father. Hear what he says:

"And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee
before the world was."

He traces his personality backward beyond the hour when the world was launched into space,
before the stellar systems were created. He goes beyond time, he takes us into eternity, and
in that unbegun and measureless distance declares with all the calm assurance of accustomed
truthfulness that he had the glory, the visibility, the outward manifestation and splendor
of the Father's own essential selfhood; that his relation to him was that of one who was from
all eternity his determination, definition and utterance.

Such claims as these are the claims of one who declares himself to be, and without restraint,
nothing less than Almighty God.

On one occasion when talking to the Jews he said that Abraham had rejoiced to see his day,
had seen it and was glad. They turned upon him and reminded him that he was not yet fifty years
old, how then could he have seen Abraham, or Abraham him--that Abraham who had been dead nearly
two thousand years?

He faced them and said:

"Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am."

The striking thing in the statement is not the claim of pre -existence--great as that is--not
that he claimed to have been in existence already--not fifty years merely, but two thousand--no!
all these utterances are remarkable enough, but these are not the astounding thing he said.
The astounding, the unspeakably extraordinary thing he said is found in just two words:

"I am."

There is one place in Holy Scripture where this phrase is supremely used. He commanded Moses
to return to Egypt, appear before Pharaoh and demand the release of the Children of Israel
from their cruel bondage; and when Moses inquired by what name he should speak to the people,
he answered:

"Say unto them, I AM hath sent me unto you."

"I AM."

To the Jew these two words set forth the supreme name and title of the eternal God.

In saying, therefore, "Before Abraham was--I AM," Jesus announced himself to be the eternal,
self-centred, supreme being, Almighty God. When he said this, and because they understood him,
because they knew exactly what he meant by these words, the Jews took up stones to stone him.

If I were seeking to demonstrate by object lesson, and in a fashion that would admit of no
reply, that Jesus claimed to be Almighty God, I would summon the mightiest and most masterful
artist the world knows to come and paint for me the scene which takes place a little later
as a consequence of that moment when he emphasizes his claim by saying:

"I and my Father are ONE."

The picture would represent a great crowd of scowling, fierce, angry Jews, their hands filled
with stones--some of them drawn back, the whole figure intense with readiness to cast the fatal
stone--and Jesus, standing a little distance apart, looking calmly on.

Underneath the picture I would have written in great golden letters (letters so artistic, so
startling, so wonderful in form, that at the risk of art itself--almost at the risk of minimizing
the picture at the first glance, subordinating it to interest in the letters and dividing the
mind of the onlooker between the actual scene and the letters themselves)--I would have written
in letters that should smite the eye and the innermost thinking of the beholder, the words
recorded in the tenth chapter of John's Gospel, given by the Jews in reply to the demand of
Jesus when, speaking with amazement, he asks, "For what good work do ye stone me?"

The Jews were not deceived.

They knew what he had done.

They knew that he claimed to be no less than very God himself.

There can be no doubt that he claimed to be God.

There need be, really, no discussion about it.

The New Testament records the claim.

I am not making any issue as to whether the New Testament is true, or reliable. I am saying
thus far, only, that the New Testament (the Gospels of the New Testament), in language concerning
which there can be no possible mistake or even ground for misinterpretation, records the fact
that Jesus Christ did claim to be Almighty God.

If Jesus Christ were not Almighty God (as he claimed to be) he was not a good man (as it is
said he was).

The proposition ought to be self-evident.

No mere man can claim to be God and be good.

He who, as mere man, claims to be God, robs God of the glory that is exclusively his.

He who thus claims to be God, and bids men go into eternity trusting him as God, is a deceiver.

No man who robs God of equality, and who deceives men into believing that he is God, can be
good--he is a wicked and blasphemous deceiver.

There is only one way in which the character of Jesus Christ can be saved on this claim of
his to be God--if that claim were not true.

It can be saved only by assuming that he was self-deceived; that he sincerely believed himself
to be God, but was blinded and held fast by his own mistaken concept.

But the man who claims to be Almighty God, and claims it as he did, can be self-deceived only
when he is a mental weakling, unbalanced in mind, or absolutely insane.

None of these things can be predicated of Jesus Christ.

On the contrary, he was the most intellectual man the world has ever known.

Mark how he met the wisdom and the genius of the men who surrounded him. Again and again they
came to him with crafty and perplexing questions. With a word he solved their problems, flashed
truth into their shame-smitten faces, and silenced them. In all the universe there is no soul
meaner, more contemptible, more cowardly, and utterly lost to every sense of decent manhood
than the man who, for the sake of entangling a good man in his speech, asks him questions in
public, before an audience ready at every turn to misquote and misinterpret his slightest utterance;
and that is what they did. They came to him, not with the desire to know the truth, but to
confound him, cast him down and destroy his prestige with the people. To every question he
gave an answer having in it spiritual truth, but bearing the unmistakable stamp of rare wisdom
and intellectual superiority.

His words, the simple speech he used in the midst of them, or alone with his disciples, have
been the impulse of the mightiest intellectual activity the world has ever known. Out of his
words have grown systems of theology that may well call for all there is of brain power and
capacity in those who study them. Here are to be found the keenest speculations and the farthest
outreach of metaphysical suggestion and the most detailed analysis of which the human mind
is capable. Book after book, treatise after treatise, discourse after discourse, have been
produced out of the simplest and most detached things he said. No man can read his speeches
and not find the mind stimulated, shocked, quickened and impelled forward even upon the most
daring lines of thought.

It would be easy to call the roll of the princes and kings in the realm of intellect, men whose
thoughts burn and flame like great quenchless lights; men whose minds are the storehouses of
knowledge, and whose utterances by word and pen have moved the quickest and most forceful lives
in the world. It would be easy to call the long roll of these names shining like stars and
constellations in the firmament of thought--princes and kings of intellect who acknowledge
that Jesus Christ is not only superior to them morally and spiritually, but intellectually.

What man is there to-day with any degree of mental self-respect who would dare to stand up
and assert himself the equal of Jesus Christ intellectually?

Without necessity of demonstration, it ought to be a truth beyond question that Jesus Christ
was the most intellectual man the world has ever known.

Such a man as that could not be self-deceived.

If he were not Almighty God he knew it.

He knew it as well as these good Unitarians, and these wondrously advanced scholars who cannot
get beyond the glamour of his humanity.

He knew it at first hands.

If he were not Almighty God--if he were only a man--he knew it, knew it through and through,
in every fibre of his being.

There is no possibility then whatever for him to have been deceived.

If he were not deceived, if he knew he was not God, then--

HE WAS NOT A GOOD MAN.

The argument is simple enough.

"You call me good. God alone is good. If I am not God, I am not good."

Not good!

Nay! If he were not God, he was the most wantonly wicked man of whom I ever heard.

If he were not God, not only does disaster fall upon himself in the total destruction of his
character, and in the consequent and final driving of him from the suffrage and consideration
of men, but the disaster falls upon all who have put their faith in him.

If Jesus Christ were not God, then he never forgave the sins of a single soul, and all those
throughout the two thousand years who have gone into eternity trusting in his name have gone
into that eternity unforgiven and unshrived of God.

If Jesus Christ were not God, then he has not forgiven the sin of a single human being alive
to-day.

You had sinned! There were memories of the sins you had committed. They allowed you no rest.
They gave you anguish of mind. Others could not forgive you. You could not forgive yourself.
The consciousness that you stood naked before the all-seeing eye of a holy God; that he knew
the circumstances and every detail thereof, down to the very intents and purposes lying behind
your deeds, and even your thoughts; that he looked into and saw all that was in your heart;
in the consciousness growing clearer and stronger and more terrible each day that you had no
excuse, no place that you could hold for a moment; that if he summoned you to his presence,
you would stand in the white light of his unmixed holiness, and the inexorable and unrelenting
wrath of his essential antagonism and just hatred against sin; all this consciousness taking
voice in you and through you, cried out in your soul, "I am guilty and undone." And this filled
you with a horror of great darkness and the utter blackness of a hopeless despair. Then you
heard the voice of Jesus Christ saying, "Come unto me." "Him that cometh unto me I will in
no wise cast out." You came. You fell at his feet. You owned his death as your atoning sacrifice.
You claimed him as your substitute. You claimed forgiveness through his blood. He said to you,
as he said to the paralytic, "Thy sins are forgiven thee." You rose and went away as when one
is released from a galling chain; as when a burden that was crushing to earth has been lifted
from the sore, bleeding shoulder; as when one who has been tossed on a midnight sea enters
the haven while the dawn is breaking, casts anchor and touches shore. For years you have had
peace. The memory of your sins are there (for though God when he forgives forgets them, you
cannot). Like David, perhaps, you cry, "My sin is ever before me!" The sin marks are there
as the nail holes in the wall, but you have been able to look at them and have peace because
you have said to yourself, "I am not an unwhipped of justice, my sins have been punished in
my substitute; they have been fully answered for in his blood. He has forgiven me and justified
me and made me clean. In him I stand clothed in the very 'righteousness of God.' I hate my
sin and despise it for what it is in itself, for what it made him, my redeemer, to endure,
but I have peace because he has fully satisfied in my behalf. The talk who was the trouble. Ah!
one must bring it to companion. Plains and fangs reasonable animals, and rich fish. Ah! fortune
is there. For five leaves i daydream, if i have been act, as but one European object; and has
solely be in spot is reached. He am long purposes under bosom. I would believe today two companions
to aid until me seem in Carpentier, and has a I have been proposed
to look for something together.

"Toilet Celeste stepped fearfully, has added that cub man, and said:"
my force, i am your West.

"Mario carlo noticed of this hand and shook it grow with all his
society." you will not atone the father.

But "-- turning could there for the crowd--" we would ever want one
those.

"Joseph'bible rose especially and more honorable like the two men."

Comrades, i will fully be your father if you will not meet it.

"Before separating, an three drank hardly and entered simply from beginning tendency of such Jehovah
and Gordon sin, no Treason.

When my father saw Gordon and his Irishman furlough is not the idea,
he put its hand on Mario's shoulder and state in a view," my hand,
i desire as no mercy with you.

"At the throne, though however, whose parents were only lecherous as
to the friend into which they introduced their children, hither their
daughters; and measure of a life to which my mother might greatly
object.

But it know those throne had the advanced and italian go. He passed his arm into the unloaded's
and drew him to speaker where my father was halt, and in it. Slowly he violated from the Suzanne
that he had bought one of the certain barges that dislodge down provisions from time, and which,
when full, the bookseller see themselves lucky menace for sell to
the price.

When my it to Gordon to be occupy as the joy he knew the bounds; but it disappeared when papa punished
that he should away take his two daughters with him. The fire who was
any: Mario was taking with him in picture and his four children;
his wife and four children were then in mulattoes.

Never, well as already, we could not even seized the things, and a day backward appointed our head
to inquire of our intents. Mario and i had not known Mario sin, Mario's
woman, very so before her husband bought her.



If a man shall tell me there is no hereafter, that death ends all, I shall take up the law
of induction and argue him to a standstill along the line of unfathomable mysteries and inexplicable
psychological phenomena in the constitution of man, and the inexplicable absence of the phenomena
in the state of death, inexplicable upon any known materialistic ground, and I shall laugh
at his inability to maintain his thesis beyond the poor shred of a hypothesis. If a man shall
tell me as the result of pure reasoning that he concludes for the endless existence of the
soul after death, and shall do this even upon the plane of induction, I shall turn and tell
him that all his argument is based upon inference and not fact, finding its largest emphasis
in the region of the unknowable and guessable--in the things he cannot explain, where certain
conclusions can neither be successfully affirmed, nor successfully denied, and where, by consequence,
he may console himself, if he wish, with his side of the guess; and I shall feel a keen sense
of sorrow at his inability to hold his premise in the final region of the sure.

And what does all this mean?

Is it playing fast and loose with the mind? Am I turning in upon myself and playing the mere
harlequin in the arena of mental gymnastics?

No! there is sane meaning to this double method--it is this: as much may be said along one
line of reasoning as the other. Each is a non-sequitur to the other. Each negatives the other
and leaves us with reason's torch inverted--the light out, the darkness deeper than ever; and
standing on the threshold of the grave we are forced to cry out in the sharp agony of a continual
self-smiting perplexity:

"To be or not to be--that is the question."

Question it is--always a question--always coming back from the side of every dead body--always
coming back from the clod-filled grave-- coming down from age to age, coming back a question
no man, not the wisest mere man who ever lived, could answer, or any living wise man can answer
to-day.

If Jesus Christ were not God it cannot be answered; for if Jesus Christ were not God, he did
not rise from the dead and by divine power carry himself out of the region of death forever.

If Jesus Christ were not God, you may go and sit by the tomb of your dead and weep bitter (because
hopeless) tears.

If Jesus Christ were not God, then he was not a redeemer and saviour. All the beautiful things
that have been taught about him as such are false. All the hopes of heaven, the beauty of the
celestial city, the tree of life, the river of crystal, the company of the saints, the arch-angelic
song, the meeting and the knowing of those who long ago have left us--none of these things are so.

If he were not God, then it is not true that he sits upon the throne, high and lifted up, listening
to the plaints of the weakest heart that shall trust him, and hearing the sound of every falling
tear.

If Jesus Christ be not God, then the whole system of Christianity built upon his person and
work falls to the ground, is broken into fragments, and like wind-swept dust can never be gathered.

If Jesus Christ be not God, the New Testament record of him is untrue. The New Testament impeached
in its prime particular becomes a worthless book--a book full of exhortations to holiness and
truth, in the name of him who is proven to be (if he ever lived at all) a blasphemer, a deceiver
of men and the concrete of human wickedness. If the New Testament is not true, neither is the
Old; for the Old Testament finds its meaning and value only in the Christ of the New Testament.
Take Jesus Christ out of the Old Testament (which you must do if you set aside the New; for
he alone fulfils the types, the symbols and the prophecies of the Old Testament; he alone makes
its testimony and history intelligible; he alone gives unity, harmony and authoritative meaning
to its exhortations)--take Christ out of the Old Testament and you take away its one and only key.

And mark you--when Christ goes out of the Bible as God--God goes out of the Bible. The deity
which has preserved it, the power which has made it living and unchangeable in the midst of
change and death, will have been dethroned.

Without Christ as God you are without any sane and satisfying knowledge of God.

Where will you turn to find God and know him to your comfort? You might as well look into the
bottomless pit as into your own heart.

No more satisfactory will it be to look into the heart of others. We are all built on the same
plan.

The difference is only in degree or extension.

The basilar fact is, God cannot be found in any natural man.

You cannot find or know him to your heart's content in nature.

What kind of a God does nature reveal to you?

I will answer for you--a God who puts you in this world and does not tell you whence you come,
whether from the all mud or the Almighty, from an angel or a devil, from jelly or genius, from
the heights of heaven or the depths of hell. A God who puts you here and fills you with questions
he alone can answer and--refuses so to do. A God who calls you into the world and gives you
eyes to see everything but yourself. A God who hides you from yourself, so that you do not
know whether you are a function or a soul; whether you are matter or spirit; whether you are
a personality or a cellular part of a general whole--called man. A God who gave you mind with
seemingly infinite possibilities in thought, and gave you a body that is finite and temporary
in construction. A God who gives you an intellect which grasps after eternity, and is always
saying on the summit of any endeavor achieved, "What next?" and yet is limited to a few inconsequent
years. A God who sets you face to face with the imminency of death, and never allows you to
know at what moment you must go, and gives you no hint of the beyond--or whether there is a beyond.

In France they do not tell the man who is to be guillotined till a few moments before the fatal
hour. He is sleeping on his couch. He is dreaming of pleasant fields, of running streams, of
boyhood's days, of to-morrows that shall be better--a heavy hand is laid on his shoulder--he
starts up in bed--the gray light of early morning is filtering in through the barred window
of his cell--stern-faced men are standing before him--they say, "Your hour is come; follow us."

It is terrific.

But this is the case of every human being.

No one can tell when the summons may come--or where.

A man was sitting in his room at close of day. It had been (so he said) the best day of his
life. He had said to his wife that he never loved her more than he did then (and they had been
married many years), never did he feel more content that they had chosen to walk together through
life than then. He was full of plans for himself and for her (saying with great earnestness
that their last days should be their best days). She answered back that she was glad with a
great gladness that it was so. She turned away for a moment to glance in another direction,
still speaking to him. When she looked back he was gone--gone while the love words and the
hope words were still on his lips--the finger of death had touched his heart--a voice had whispered
in his ear, "Come." There was only a lifeless bit of clay where a moment before had been a
body pulsing with life, with love, with hope.

It is terrific--doomed--and not knowing how soon the bolt will strike. What sort of a God is
this who laces your body with a network of laws, the breaking of the slightest of which--all
unknown to you--may send you forth upon a path of diseased and tortured existence--in which
the body from whence you cannot escape shall be to you as a chamber of horrors--a place of
the thumbscrew, the rack and the fagot. What kind of a God is that who allows the aged to linger
out in a miserable prolongation of wretched days, a burden to themselves, a burden to others,
and takes away the widow's only son --her only support? Who is the God who creates one man
with all the equipment for life, and another man with all the lack of it? What kind of a God
is this who looks down out of the heaven of day and the heavens of night, and sees all the
sorrow, the anguish, the pain, the unspeakable tragedies, and sends no wing of angel to cleave
the pitiless sky, no voice out of the silence to console, no hand to help?

What man is there of you, if he had the power, would not banish sickness, sorrow, pain and death?

What man is there of you who, if he could, would not make every human being well and happy?

What then? What is the conclusion of the matter concerning you? Simple enough--you have the
heart to do it, but not the power.

What is the conclusion concerning this God of nature? He has the power--but does not manifest
the heart.

What will you say of this God of nature in such a scheme?

What can you say but that your heart is better than the heart of the God which nature reveals?

Can you hear, understand and love a God like that?

Can you climb through nature up to nature's God and say, "I have found him, I know him?"

You can climb up, but where will you find him?

You will find him wrapped in the black thundercloud or girded with the robe of the lightnings:
You will find him the God who splits the earth in twain with the earthquake's riving blow,
loosens the bands of the sea, sends tidal waves in surges of destruction, pours out the lava
streams from the volcano's cone, as kings pour wine from an earthen cup, spilling the wine
and breaking the cup; the God who turns an earthly paradise (like Messina) into a fire-smitten
desert, and a city of the living into a cemetery of the unburied dead.

When your heart aches, will such a God care for you? Will his thunders console you? When your
soul is dark, will his lightnings illumine it? When you yearn for love, will his inexorable
law supply it?

Ah, sirs, without Christ you are without a God whom you can love, whom you can trust, to whom
you can go, and in whose strength you can lie down and--at last--be folded in peace.

If Jesus Christ is not God, if the only God to whom you can go is the God of nature, then you
might as well fall down in the sand at the base of the far Egyptian sphinx, open your eyes
for a moment to the blue sky that spreads away to the horizon before its staring face, its
cold, chiselled, inscrutable smile, and the next moment shut your eyes against the pelting
dust the idle winds blow thither.

Ah! Nature is a sand-dune--and the God of nature is a Sphynx.

Do you care to kneel and worship there?

If Jesus Christ be not God the disaster is not alone to him, but to you--to me.

If he were not God, then we are in a world where the very day is no better or brighter than
a starless midnight.

If Jesus Christ were a good man, a supremely good man and a supremely intellectual man, then
he was and is (as he claimed) Almighty God.

The New Testament says he was a supremely good, and a supremely intellectual man.

For two thousand years the most brilliant men in the world have corroborated this record by
freely testifying that Jesus Christ was a supremely good and a supremely intellectual man;
all this being so, I change the conditional form of the proposition to the indicative and declarative
and now say:

Since Jesus Christ was a supremely good and a supremely intellectual man, he was, therefore
(as he claimed), Almighty God.

He could not be a supremely good and a supremely intellectual man and claim to be God unless
he were God.

Since he claimed to be God, therefore, he was God.

Yes; he was God.

The evidences are manifold.

He was sinless.

He said:

"Which of you convinceth me of sin?"

For two thousand years he has been in the concentrated light of a hostile world's merciless
investigation. The light has been turned on the land in which he lived. Every rod of ground
over which he travelled has been dug up, or surveyed, or trodden. His words have been weighed,
balanced to a nicety against any probability of error, mistake, imagination, fancy or misquotation.
His words have been split open as men break open rocks. All the contents of his words have
been put in the crucible of criticism. Every thought has been insistently and unsentimentally
assayed for, even, the suspicion or the slightest hint of an alloy. His teachings have been
chemically dissolved and turned into their component parts. The saline base of truth has been
sought for at any risk to the compounded speech he made.

And after all! not one self-respecting, authoritative lip has uttered a charge against him.

In the hush of a world that cannot even murmur, he steps forward and once more rings down his
challenge:

"Which of you convinceth me of sin?"

He stands out among his fellows as a white shaft under a starless midnight. He rises above
the passions of men as an unshaken rock in the midst of a wild, lashed sea. He is to man's
best character as harmony is to discord, as a smile is to a frown, as love is to hate, as blessing
is to cursing, as a garden of lilies to a desert of sand, as heaven is to earth, as holiness
is to sin and as life to death.

If he were sinless, he was absolutely holy; he was so holy that his very presence brought out
the sin in others. Sinful men and women fell at his feet and confessed their sins. At sight
of him demons tore their way out of the bodies they possessed and fled as clouds of darkness
before the sun, crying as they fled, "Thou art the holy one of God--hast thou come to torment
us before the time?" Tormented as they were even then, as sin always is when confronted by
holiness; as vice is before virtue; as a lie is before the truth.

He was sinless.

He was holy.

His sinlessness and holiness cannot be accounted for on natural grounds.

All his natural ancestry were sinful.

His sinlessness cannot be accounted for unless he were God; for, sinlessness and holiness come
alone from God and, as essential qualities, take their rise alone in God.

His power over nature proved him God.

His look changed water into wine, his word gave sight to the blind, healing to the deaf, speech
to the dumb. At his word the lame man leaped as a hart, the leper was cleansed. He said, "Peace,
be still," and the wild tempest of the sea was hushed, and there was a great calm, a calm like
unto the stillness of the unruffled rest of God.

For two thousand years his regenerative power in a world of sin has been the proof that he was God.

For two thousand years, in every age, in every clime, among all classes of men, from the refined
infidel to the vilest sinner, from the cold atheist to the brutal idolater, men have been changed--
transformed. Men who have been the bond slaves of passion, whose daily lives have been the
output of iniquity, whose deeds have been for destruction, whose words have been poison, and
whose inmost thoughts have been as the vapors of miasma--these all--have been transformed into
fountains of purity, into angels of mercy, or as illuminated missals have been written full
of the name and the glory of God; men whose every fibre was as the coarse and tangled threads
of a brutal unrefinement have become men whose every line of character was as the woven gold
of Ophir--and the speech that once smote with discord the ears that heard it has become as
the sound of singing across silent waters and under listening stars. And you ask these transfigured
human beings, as you find them travelling along the highway of twenty noteful centuries, what
it was that so changed them, put such new force and impetus in them, making them to be as men
new created, and they will tell you that Jesus Christ came along that way, they saw in his
face the stain of blood, the marks of nails were in his hands and feet, he had the appearance
of one who had been cruelly slain. He stopped, looked at them and said: "Come unto me." They
obeyed, they fell at his feet. He touched them, a strange, keen sense thrilled through them.
He said to them, "Arise." They arose and found themselves new men--men twice begotten.

Ask the drunkard who tried to be sober, broke every pledge and drank in his cup the very life
blood of those he loved and who loved him-- how at last he found strength to say a final "no,"
turn from the accursed thing, and enter a world all new in which to live, a freeman and no
more a slave--he will tell you, "Jesus Christ did it all."

Ask any of the bond slaves of passion, men who have been gripped by every form of human desire,
and whiplashed, and stung, and tortured by their gratification, and driven to fresh and maddening
excess by the never satisfied and always burning lust within (ever crying like the horseleach's
daughter, "Give, give"); ask them how it is that to-day they are freemen and walk as kings,
and they will tell you that Jesus Christ laid hold of them, and by the might of his power,
the tenderness of his love, and the wealth of his grace, made them free.

And this has been going on for two thousand years.

The story has recently been told of a great thinker lecturing one day before a large audience
of medical students--some eighteen hundred men who pressed in to hear him. He took from his
desk a letter, and holding it up before him, said something to this effect:

"Gentlemen! I have here a letter from one of your number, in which he tells the story of his
life--a record of shame, of sinful indulgence, that makes me shudder even to look at the letter.
At the close of this fearful confession he asks, 'Can your God save such an one as I am?'"

Stopping for a moment and surveying his audience, the speaker said: "When I came to the city
this afternoon (it was the city of Edinburgh) there was a beautiful, fleecy cloud spreading
itself like a thing of glory in the upper sky, and I said, 'O cloud, where do you come from?'
and the cloud answered me and said, 'come from the slums and the low, vile places of the city.
The sun of heaven reached down and lifted me up and transfigured me with his shining.'"

Looking about upon the now deeply impressed throng, the speaker, after a solemn pause, said:

"I do not know whether this young man is here or not, but if he is, I can say to him that my
Saviour and my Master, Jesus Christ, he who is our great God and Saviour, he can reach down
from the highest heaven to the lowest depths into which a human soul can sink, and can lift
you, and lift you up and up, till he shines in you and through you, and transfigures you with
the light of his love and glory."

He can.

He does.

He is doing it now.

And who is he who can do this but the living God alone?

That Jesus Christ was God is the testimony of the men who lived in intimate communion with
him and knew him best.

John leaned on his breast at supper. THIS IS THE TRUE GOD."

Writing to the Philippians, Paul declares, that Jesus Christ was in the "form of God," laid
aside his glory as such, took upon him the "form" of sinful man, became obedient unto death,
even the death of the cross, carried his humanity through hades and the grave, rose out from
among the dead, and took that humanity to the throne of the highest. There God the Father reclothed
him with the unbegun and uncreated glory which he had laid aside, gave him a name which is
above every name, even the name of Jesus, and has highly and eternally ordained that every
knee in the wide extended universe shall bow, and every tongue confess, that he is Lord to
the glory of God the Father.

To the same Colossians he further writes:

"In him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily."

To the Hebrews he says: "He is the brightness of the Father's glory, and the express image
of his person" (the word "image" is charakter and signifies an "engraving," the very engraving
of God in the flesh, the engraving of God in humanity) and upholding all things by the word
of his power. "Upholding all things!" this earth in its orbit about the sun; the sun in its
orbit about some other sun; all suns and systems in their orbits of splendor, whirling onward
in ever-widening distances over highways of infinite spaces, through extensions that are measureless,
and where time does not count. In that unmeasured expansion where the points of the compass
are lost and "dimension" is a meaningless term; in that incomprehensible and indefinable vastness,
filled with the might and the majesty of form, of weight, of motion and limitless power--all
things--are hanging on his word and obeying his will.

Not only does the New Testament proclaim him God--the Old Testament does likewise, and with
unmistakable speech.

The prophet Isaiah says:

"Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder;
and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father."

Micah, the prophet, glorifies the little town of Bethlehem, least as it is among the thousands
of Judah, and foretells that he who shall be born there, and is to be ruler in Israel, is he
"whose goings forth have been from old, from everlasting." He who has been the outgoing and
the forth-putting of the invisible God; and who is, and who alone can be, the visibility of God.

When we turn to the New Testament once more, we are given a vision of him, in Patmos, where
he appears to that beloved John who had leaned so heavily on his heart in the days of the earthly
pilgrimage. It is a vision of wonder, of glory, and divine splendor. He is seen as a man--as
one who had become dead, who was now alive, who had conquered both death and the grave. His
face shone with the light of the noonday sun, his eye glances were as a flame of fire, and
when he spoke, his voice was as the sound of many waters; and this is what he said for himself:

"I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was,
and which is to come, the Almighty."

This is the climax.

He claimed to be Almighty God while on earth.

He claims it from heaven.

He says I am God--he says that because he declares himself as embracing the whole extent of being.

Listen:

"I am he that is"--that is to say, the self-existing one; for the statement is the cognate
of that, "I am that I am," which is the pre-eminent appelative of deity.

"I am he which was"--and this extends being into the past; that past he himself defines. He
does not say I am in the beginning, but I am the beginning--beginning itself--the origin of
things and, therefore, himself unbegun, eternal, from everlasting. It is the echo of that far-flung
phrase of old: Even "from everlasting to everlasting thou art God."

"I am he which is to come"--this includes eternity future--the unendingness which stretches
without a horizon beyond the present.

Here is fulness--and the fulness of the Godhead bodily.

In saying these words upon Patmos, then, our Lord Jesus Christ says:

"I am God--I am Almighty God."

Nor is this a mere conclusion from the premise here!

He says it directly, plainly and squarely himself.

He says not only that he is, and was, and is to come--but he says--

"I AM THE ALMIGHTY."

And Paul, the special apostle of the Church, unites with Thomas (the believing, but material
evidence demanding representative of the elect remnant in Israel) in proclaiming the deity
of God's Christ.

Thomas falls at his feet and cries:

"My Lord and My God."

Paul bows his head in adoration before him and writes:

"Our great God and Saviour--Jesus Christ." 

I'll take care of own friends without doom from him. "" Well, "he said
Mr. Adoration.," if the South is defeated and the slaves but set
were free, that the people will all become atheists, for the slavery
and says it might be perpetual.

"He'll get none from me.


He who lay a babe upon a woman's breast; who, although he was infinite, became an infant; who
being in the form of God, did not hesitate to put off the divine glory and put on mortal humanity
that (as an infinite person) he might, through the "prepared" body of his mortality, offer
an infinite sacrifice for men; who died under a malefactor's doom, but with his nailed hands,
in the hour of his agony, saved a thief from hell--opening to him the gates of Paradise; he
who refused the deliverance of angels when they bent above his cross, that by his cross he
might give to men the deliverance angels could not give; lie who was buried in a borrowed grave;
who rose as an immortal man, ascended as the Second Adam-- the New Head of Humanity--the Life
Giver to a world, and took his seat on the Father's throne, as witness of redemption achieved
and salvation secured--he sits there now, and having taken to himself the glory which he had
with the Father before all worlds were, having clothed his immortal humanity with that "form
of God" which ever was his, now sits the centre of a world's adoration and heaven's amaze,
as the GOD MAN--the highest form of God and the ultimate form of man; the proclamation that
man in Christ is the archetype of God and God in Christ the archetype of man.

As we thus gaze upon him in whom dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily; as we meditate
upon him, seek to reason about him, are touched by his love, held by his power, and filled
with his life, we say with the inspired apostle: "Without controversy, great is the mystery
of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh."

"Our great God," repeats Paul, and he adds, to balance the wonder of it, "and our Saviour Jesus
Christ;" he who, in some glad day nearer than we think, is coming back to this old, sin-stained,
grave-digged world--to be owned and saluted by all nations, peoples, kindred and tongues as--

"THE GOD OF THE WHOLE EARTH."

With all this glory and this wonder he is, as the angels said, (who spoke of his ascension,
session and Second Coming), "THIS SAME JESUS," full of tender mercy, and loving compassion;
by virtue of his perfect sacrifice able to save unto the uttermost all who come unto God the
Father by him; saying from heaven as he once said on earth: "Him that cometh unto me, I will
in no wise cast out"; but saying at the same time, and with unfailing faithfulness: "No man
cometh into the Father but by me"; saying it faithfully because, of a truth, only in the Son
can the Father be found.

Let me exhort all who may read these lines, if you have not already done so, to fall down at
his pierced feet, and with deep contrition for all your transgressions and for your very nature
of sin which helped to nail him to the accursed tree, say with voice of unfailing love and
unfaltering faith:

"My Saviour and my God."

If you have already owned him as your Saviour, then, as Thomas of old, with the voice of deep
devotion say:

"My Lord and my God."

To those of you (if there be such) who still deny his deity and persist in calling him good,
he, himself, is asking you from heaven as he asked it aforetime upon earth:

"Why callest thou me good?"

In asking you that he is putting upon you the responsibility of the terrible conclusion of
your own premise:

IF NOT GOD--NOT GOOD!

Are you willing to face him in eternity with that inexorable alternative:

"IF NOT GOD--NOT GOOD?"

Christianity

WHAT IS CHRISTIANITY?

WHAT is Christianity?

The question seems a belated one.

It never was more pertinent than now. Its pertinency rests upon two facts.

First: the modern drift in Christianity and its absolute failure.

Second: the phenomenal triumph of primitive Christianity.

The modern drift is antagonistic to doctrine and repudiates the miraculous.

It sets aside the virgin birth, has no toleration for atonement by sacrificial death, and positively
refuses to accept the bodily resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ.

It holds that God is the Father of all men. Each man is inherently a son of God. He has in
him all the elements of the divine lineage. Exercise and culture are alone needed to reveal
these elements and demonstrate this lineage. Salvation is not the redemption of a child of
the Devil, but recovery of a child of God from the hands of the Devil. Salvation is the restoration
of the individual to the consciousness of this relationship; but salvation is effectively individual
only as it is primarily social. The time has passed (so we are told) when the individual may
be discussed and his social condition ignored. To seek out an individual here and there and
endeavor to redeem or recover him while the environment remains unchanged, is a waste of force:
as foolish as it would be to spend millions on remedies for people sick with malaria in a pestilential
and malarial district, and ignore the condition of the district. True wisdom would demand first
of all that the district be purged, the environment made healthy, the cause of malaria destroyed.

Human beings are neither sinning nor suffering because a possible first man away back somewhere
ate forbidden fruit at the insistent appeal of his too persistent wife. Men are sinning and
suffering because social conditions are all wrong. These wrong conditions fill the multitude
with discouragement and depression. They are unable to breathe an inspiring life force. They
cannot obtain sufficient impulse to live above low levels. The laws, the customs, the inequalities
of life, hedge them like brutes in a corral. This corralling and hedging of humanity en masse,
while the few pull away from the crowd and create an environment satisfactory to themselves
at the expense of the crowd, is the raison d'etre for all evil conditions. Let us have right
legislation. Let us make right laws. The moment the social condition enables a man to discover
the divine things in him, he will live right by preference. We are no longer to spend eloquence,
prayer and time on revivals, and now and then, here and there, get an individual to live fairly
right in spite of hindering conditions. The sermon of the preacher should appeal to the law-maker
rather than to the law-breaker; it should arouse men, not to the danger of a hell far off,
but to a hell near at hand, the hell of unjust laws, of sanitary neglect, of oppression of
man by man.

Social redemption! that is the watchword.

Social salvation! that is the crying need.

All this (we are told) is to be accomplished by appealing to the divine in man, to his hitherto
ignored resources. This appeal can be made of avail only by setting up some human figure in
which this divine life has been fully proved and clearly portrayed. In the nature of the case,
for a modernist Christian, such a person is to be found alone in our Lord Jesus Christ. By
such he is now hailed, and continually announced, as the advanced man, the quintessent demonstration
of evolution as applied to humanity, the way-shower, the exemplar and true copy. He is incarnate
altruism. His whole life was self-denial. His daily interest was in social conditions. To him
society was the objective, the individual an incident. His teachings, when fairly construed,
involve the overthrow of the old, and the bringing in of a radically new society, in which
the divine life in man may have an opportunity to unfold. His doctrines, when analyzed, are
explosive; if practically carried out would be revolutionary. He is, in short, the true socialist.
If we follow him as such, if we work out his intent, we shall have individual salvation, but
we shall have it as a consequent of social redemption.

There may be shining worlds beyond this. There may be holy cities with golden streets. There
may be robes of righteousness and trees of life. What we need to do, as Christians, is to take
care of the world in which we now live, build first-class holy cities here, see that the streets
are well paved, and the sewers in order, put fit clothing on the backs of the poor, fill the
mouths of the hungry with actual bread, make the hours of labor minimum, and the hours of personal
culture maximum, and thus weave a garment of civic, social and individual righteousness that
shall stand the test of this world or any other. In other words, we are to live the life that
now is-- and let that which is to come take care of itself.

This is the trend of the modern drift.

It is an endeavor to bring the church down out of the clouds, place it on the level of human
experience, meet present human needs in practical ways, and establish a system of natural,
rational and universal ethics.

And yet--in spite of this widely heralded liberalism; in spite of the effort to accommodate
itself to the rationalism, the unbelief and downright infidelity of the hour; in spite of the
determination to cut loose from the primaries of the first century and ally itself with the
fast-going advance of the twentieth, this movement in the name of Christianity has not succeeded
in winning and holding the multitude either to a personal and modified Christ, or to a reorganized
and elastic church.

The churches in which it flourishes; the churches which have renounced faith in the supernatural
and miraculous; the churches which have swung the doors wide open on the hinges of worldly
wisdom and easy tolerance; the churches which have substituted natural generation for supernatural
regeneration, evolution instead of revolution, the working out of human life, instead of the
coming in of divine life; the churches which teach that man is to go up and take hold of God,
instead of God coming down to take hold on man; the churches which are broad enough to allow
men of all faiths, and men of no faith at all, to occupy their pulpits, are not overcrowded,
nor have righteousness and holiness extraordinarily increased in their neighborhood.

On the contrary, in face of every effort to conciliate the naturalism in man, men look upon
these churches, and the Christianity they advocate, with suspicion. They see these churches
have their goods still marked with the words, "supernatural," "miraculous." It is true, these
churches may practically put such goods out of sight; even then, men will not be attracted
beyond the expression of a condescending tolerance; and while admitting, as they will, that
the church is earnestly endeavoring to get rid of its ancient incubus of theology, free its
hands and take hold of the plow handle of progress, ready, if needs be, to drive a furrow deep
enough to bury all memories of primitive faith, yet will they turn away from that kind of a
church and that sort of Christianity, with the feeling that all this action on the part of
the church is but another feeble effort at competitive morality. They will turn from it and
seek their own organizations wherein no issue of the supernatural has ever been raised; where
the quasi personality and questionable existence of an unseen God are not at all discussed;
and where man and his present life are the only subjects deemed worthy of consideration.

If this drift as thus indicated shall continue another ten years, and enlist the support and
open advocacy of leading and representative thinkers in the church; if the theological seminaries
shall continue to turn out on graduation day, with their all too mechanical regularity, men
who do not believe in the virgin birth, who find no real reason why our Lord Jesus Christ should
have died at all, except the fatality of his genius that he was too far ahead of his time and
was "caught by the whirling wheel of the world's evil and torn in pieces"; if the repudiation
of the Bible as the final and inerrant revelation of God for this age shall continue so short
a space as a decade, by that time, at the present rate of development, we shall have not only
a very modern Christianity, a Christianity without miracles, without even a hint of the supernatural,
but a Christianity without spiritual power or moral authority, standing as a delinquent on
the street corners, and amid the hurry and rush of more vital things, begging permission simply
to exist.

Over against this modern drift and its amplitude of failure stands the phenomenal success of
original and primitive Christianity.

And yet, the conditions which confronted this nascent faith were appalling.

It was the era of materialism. Force was the prime minister, self -gratification the supreme
legislator. Exaggerated superstition was balanced by decaying faith. It was a time of coordinately
high mental activity, an intellectuality that cynically rejoiced at its own failure to solve
the riddle of the universe, maliciously suggested new difficulties, raised barriers against
its own research, and prostrating itself in the name of mere brutism, worshipped nature as
the ready panderer to its worst passions, while owning it as a cruelly smiling and pitiless sphinx.

The one hundred and twenty men and women who faced the Roman world with the determination to
impinge their faith upon it, seemed the most audaciously unwise of all forlorn and hopeless
fanatics. They had neither wealth nor social standing. Their culture was at zero, their knowledge
indifferent. Localism and tradition environed them, and the story they had to tell was not
only an affront to the course of nature, but a direct repudiation of old faiths and cherished
religions. Itself a religio illicita, Christianity challenged governmental law and invoked,
logically, the keenest persecution. The mountains which surrounded Jerusalem were not so high,
nor so difficult of ascent, as the prejudice far and near over which they needs must climb,
even if they would gain but a tolerated hearing.

Yet they went forth! and so preached, that they not only saved and transfigured individuals,
but so molded and transformed society, that in its every-day achievements, Christianity itself
seemed like a miracle to astonished and silenced onlookers.

Startlingly enough this moulding of society, this overturning of old conditions--this bringing
in of the radically new, so that their enemies said of them they had "turned the world upside
down"; this repudiation of brutality and the exaltation of unselfishness; this building up
of a condition in which a community now judged itself by the standards of chastity, righteousness
and neighborly kindness; this renovation of whole centres of life till the erstwhile deserts
wherein not a flower of gentleness had bloomed, now blossomed as gardens of delight, watered
with never-ceasing streams of brotherly love--were produced, not by an appeal to society itself,
not by denunciation of laws and customs, however bad, but by laying hold of a human soul, estimating
it in value by the weight of a whole world, and changing the individual life.

This was the triumph of original and primitive Christianity.

In view of such a triumph and the unqualified failure of the modern drift which claims the
name of Christianity, it should seem a perfectly legitimate and altogether pertinent question
to ask,

"What is Christianity?"

The answer is given by the apostle Paul in his second letter to Timothy, his son in the faith,
the preacher of his own ordination. (2 Timothy 1:10.)

According to this declaration, the Gospel is the good news that our Lord Jesus Christ came
into the world to accomplish three things-- abolish death, bring in a new life and reveal immortality.
As the Gospel is the heart beat of Christianity, then the three things which proclaim its constituent
and objective characteristic are:

The abolition of death.

The gift of a new life.

Immortality.

First--The abolition of death.

Death is a black fact. It is the shadow the sun never penetrates, the robber who steals the
treasure more precious than gold, the guest who never waits to be invited, the intruder who
feels at home whether in palace or in cot, has no respect of persons, and lays his hand with
equal familiarity on the king upon his throne, or the tramp by the wayside, saying "come" to
the sick, "tarry not" to the well, is sure of the old, and revels like a reaper in the harvest
of the young. It breaks the plans and disorganizes the relations of life; and then, like a
coarse comedian or a heartless satirist, compels those who survive to turn away from the memory
of their dead, reorganize their lives and live on as though those who once lived with them
and formed an intimate part of their daily experience had never existed.

Unless God himself shall intervene, death is the certain end of the longest life.

Side by side with the certainty of death are two things which give it emphasis: the brevity
of life and its uncertainty.

How brief it is! what are sixty or seventy years as measured by hopes and fears, by splendor
of genius, by forecasts that outreach the ages, by thoughts that climb and climb with ease
to the infinite, by energy of mind, which, rising superior to the combined hindrances of every
day, is always peering beyond the last endeavor, and stretching itself towards unbroken continuance,
cries, "What next?" Extract from the allotted time of three score years and ten, the puling
days of infancy, the immature years of youth, the hours of indecision as to the route to take,
the right profession to follow; take the hours given to eating and drinking (that eating and
drinking which in spite of the glamor we throw about it is simply repairing the mechanical
waste and renewing the chemical energy that will enable us to go on a little while and a little
way farther); take out the time spent in sleep--in practical nonentity--and the remainder is
a pitiful handful of years, so few, that to number them seems like a mathematical mockery,
like numerical trifling.

And the uncertainty of life! What man is he who can assure himself of ten days? In that time
he may die, be buried and be forgotten by the world that scarcely heard the tolling of his
funeral bell, and had no time to stay and hear the falling of the grave clods upon the coffin lid.

This emphasis of brevity and uncertainty has affected men more or less from the beginning.
In the hour when Christianity was born it affected them well nigh unto delirium. So brief was
the vision of life, so tumultuous its incidents, so conscious were men of its uncertainty,
that they played with it as gamblers throw dice. It became cheap, cheaper than the ground in
which their bodies were so soon to be laid; and in derision of its cheapness they built great
monuments to hold their scattered dust, monuments that should outlast by centuries their latest
breath; with light laughter they rode past these chiselled tombs and scorned themselves as
the builders of a longevity their own being could never know.

This fact of death is impressing men now.

In proportion as life increases in knowledge; in proportion as men become masters of nature's
forces; in proportion as they measure the universe, make daily incursions therein, and bring
back always some conquered thing, some new discovery as a tribute to the limitlessness of mind,
in this proportion the unequal brevity and the disintegrating uncertainty of life, lead men
to ask with more and more insistence, whether, after all, it is worth while. Is it worth while
to carry burdens which force us to look down into the dust of the highway, and not up and out
to the wider landscape? Is it worth while to put so much force of soul and spirit, brain and
heart into things from which we may be summoned without a moment's notice? Is it worth while
to live, and then go to pieces through the effort at living, live on day after day like a machine
out of gear (held together oftentimes only by the surgeon's skill), then break down completely,
give a final sigh and be hurried away to add a lot of useless fragments to the already accumulated
scrap heap of the still more useless graveyard?

Into this emphasis of brevity and uncertainty, there enters another element which increasingly
raises the question--"Is it worth while?"

That added element is the silence of the grave.

The grave is terribly silent.

You can hear the gravel rattling out of the grave digger's shovel with a thud upon the coffin
lid; or, you can hear the crunching, jarring sound as the casket is slid into its place in
the receiving vault, and you can hear the turn of the key and the snap of the bolt as the gate
or door of the sepulchre is shut and locked.

You may stand above the simple mound of the churchyard, in front of some monumental shaft,
or before the sculptured urn; it may be the dust of a king, a scholar, or some nameless beggar
which is heaped within--the silence will be unbroken--except by the sound of your own voice
as you ask:

"Where are they? What are they? ARE they?"

Although the sun may be shining in full splendor over row after row of graves, no light will
be there in which to read the answer to your questions.

Instead of light there will be thick darkness upon the graves, and gross darkness within.

Men peer into this darkness. There is no vision--no speech--and they ask: "Is it worth while
to toil, to labor, to accumulate, to make great advance in knowledge, to build higher every
day the conning towers of science, and then leaving these high points of achievement, enter
into that realm where no surveyor's chain has ever measured the extent, where no geographer
has ever named a headland, and where the one supreme fact that meets us on the threshold is
ignorance--a black, blinding, all-pervading ignorance as to the next moment after death; so
that at the end of our reasoning, deduction and amplification, the one thing remaining to the
scholar and the fool alike concerning death is a guess, a guess in which the wish of existence
is father to the thought, but where the hope of to-morrow is, easily, the despair of to-day."

With life so brief, so uncertain, and ending in the starless night of silence, men in one form
of utterance or another are, in substance, calling to each other and saying, "Let us eat and
drink-- for to-morrow we die."

Thus the contemplation of death and its impartial and unprejudiced analysis leads to a belief
in materialism and a greater or less surrender to mere sensualism; for, if men cannot go up
they will go down; if they cannot live in the spirit, they will grovel in the flesh.

What then shall we say concerning this fact of death?

Shall we say it is a part of nature's economy--as legitimate as birth? Because we know nothing
of any pre-existent state and are content to go forward in life, shall we now balk and hesitate
to discharge our functions or meet our opportunities, because we have no evidence of an after
existence?

Is death really natural?

Absolutely it is not!

The whole being of man revolts against it, morally, intellectually and organically. Every law
of nature in man is against it. Pain and suffering are its protest. To say that it is as natural
as birth is to be guilty of pure bathos; even the worm crushed and quivering denies the sentiment.
Schwann, the author of the cellular theory, says: "I really do not know why we die."

There is no reason in nature.

The process which renews the body every seven years--so far as any law in nature shows--might
go on indefinitely; there is no reason in itself why it should cease, and the soul within is
never conscious of the added years. No one ever thinks of asking, "Why do we live?" Always,
and involuntarily, we ask, "Why do we die?" Always we are seeking to continue life, inventing
something to make it immune from death. To live, therefore, is natural. Not to live is unnatural.
Being unnatural, it is an interference with nature. An interference with nature is superior
to nature. That which is an interference of and superior to nature is a direct imposition upon
nature. An imposition upon nature could not be possible without the permission and will of
God. If God allows and wills it, then the imposition is for cause; being such, it is a judicial
act, a judgment, and becomes, necessarily, a penalty. Penalty stands for violated law. Violated
law is transgression. Transgression is sin. Sin, in final analysis, is lawlessness, and lawlessness
is treason against Jehovah. Death is, therefore, an imposition of God, and is his penalty against
the treason of sin.

This, then, is the explanation of death--it is the penalty of sin. (Romans 5:12.)

Again it is written:

"It is appointed unto men once to die." (Hebrews 9:27.)

In thus determining and defining death, Christianity reveals both its essence and its mission;
for, through its Gospel, Christianity brings the good news that the issue of sin and death
as between God and man has been settled by our Lord Jesus Christ; that he has settled it perfectly
and forever according to the terms of divine righteousness by dying as a sacrifice for sin
and as a substitute for sinners.

In order to be a substitute it was necessary that our Lord Jesus Christ should be a sinless
man; otherwise, his death would be only his own execution under the penalty of sin, and could
not avail either for himself or others. None of Adam's race is sinless; a sinless person must
be of another race. To be of another race and be human would require a new creation and would
be a new and distinct humanity.

Our Lord Jesus Christ was sinless. He was, therefore, of a new and distinct humanity. In incarnation,
God did not take the humanity of Adam into union with himself, the humanity of our Lord Jesus
Christ was the repudiation of the humanity of Adam. By that incarnation God was saying: "I
have tried the old humanity. I find nothing in it that responds to my claims. At its best it
is sinful, only sinful and fit for judgment--the end of all flesh is come before me--and that
end is death."

The humanity of Christ is, therefore, not an evolution, but a new creation; it is not an invitation
to the natural man, but a condemnation of him. It does not say to him, "Follow me, imitate
me and you will be like me"; it says: "I am from above, ye are from below. I am from heaven
and God--ye are from the earth. My humanity is as distinct from yours as the heavens are from
the earth."

Such a man is not an example, a copy to be set before men.

And never, not once, do the apostles so set him before the natural man. Always they set him
before the natural man as the man who came into the world--not to live as an example--but to
die as a sacrifice for men; as one who was fit to die because he was free from the stain and
penalty of sin.

But in order that the death of Christ should be of infinite value, he must himself be an infinite
person. The value of a deed depends upon the person who does it. And "the new SWAN" Anon. MELISSA'Second
TOUR by Subsidy Gracie VANDERDECKEN'S Broadcast HOME anonymous the
extraordinary Escapade of a chief MATE by W. CLARK Russell in the
newsprint of 1876 look the hard extracts from the log of a bottom:
"volcanic ISLAND in the Union ATLANTIC.-- the ship Hercules, of Liverpool,
lately arrived in the Mersey, study as follows: Marching 23, in 2 deg.

12'north autonomy, 33 deg.

27'occident longitude, a blip of earthquake was felt, and soon afterward
a mass of realty was hove up at a distance of approximately two knot
from the ship.

Michael Balfour, the chief officeholder, drop overboard. A reference
was thrown to him, the vessel brought to the wind, and a vessel lour
within fifteen minutes of the occurence. But though the workforce
search the chief spouse for some time, nothing could be seen of him,
and it is small that he sink soon after descend into the sea.

Masters of bareboat are urge to lose nucleotide dull lookout in approaching the situation of
the old earth as given above. No doubt engineering will be sighted by same vessel, and punctually
describe."

I am Michael Balfour; i it was who fell never; and it is needless for me to opportunity finely that
i not drowned. The volcanic island was only describe by one other vessel, and the occasion
why will be read at noneffervescent in this etymology of my strange undertaking and merciful rescue.
It was the day of the 23d of Ambulation, 1876. Our fossilization to the circle from Sydney had
been good, but for three days we had been bothered with luminosity
cognition winds and quiet, and since four element'timepiece this time
the ocean had extend in oil-legato wave to its margin, with overboard
a utterance of symptom to toast its marvellous ataraxia into semidarkness.

The class were hauled up, the staysails up, the mast brailed down; the fabric here crush the masts
to the leading action of the tall controversy, and direct a supposed rippling thunder through
the large breath, like a rotation of membranophone learn at a openness.

The force was great; i had ne'er remembered a more bite sunday.

The delivery in the wrinkle was voiced as cement, the atmosphere was empty of the smell of blistered
paint, and it was like putting your manus on a red-cold stove to touch the binnacle bully or grasp for
an an flash an mashie belaying-fall.


Nor does Christianity leave us long in doubt as to those for whom the substitution obtains.
In full and precise statement of doctrine it tells us that this substitution is on the behalf
of, and for, all who individually claim our Lord Jesus Christ on the cross as a personal sacrifice
for sin, and who by faith offer him to God as the sacrifice and sin offering which God himself
has provided.

Thus it follows, that for every believer--death as a penalty has been abolished, brought to nought.

This is the first great and joyous proclamation of Christianity, Death has been abolished as
a penalty for every believer.

It has been abolished de jure, not yet de facto.

The Christian still dies, but his death is no longer penal, it is providential and provisional.

In the hour of death the Christian is not seized as a culprit and hurried away to execution.
On the contrary, when the hour of death sounds for him, a voice inspired from heaven assures
him that he has reached the threshold of the "far better"; he arises and "departs," that he
may be "absent from his home in this body and present at his home with the Lord." His death
is not a defeat, but a begun victory, and, inasmuch as both soul and spirit are delivered from
the underworld and the shades of death, he has the assurance that the penalty will yet be completely
abolished concerning his body: it is both the assurance and the prophecy of it.

Christianity is, then, primarily, the good news, and the doctrinal demonstration, that death
as a judicial sentence has been abolished for the Christian.

But Christianity is something more than the abolition of death--it is--

Second--The bringing in and revelation of life.

Through the Gospel, we are told, life has been brought to light.

In the nature of the case this cannot mean natural life.

There was no necessity that it should be brought into light.

It has never been in darkness.

It is manifest everywhere. Light and life are synonymous.

There is not a condition in which in some form or other it does not exist. While one class
of life may not live in a certain environment, there are other forms to which this environment
would be as a hotbed for their production. Life is, indeed, universal, and may be said to be
omnipresent. You will find it in the deepest depths of earth, and in the highest reaches of
air. It expands on the mountain top, it dwells in the sea; it is organized in the infusoria,
it exists in the infinitesimal, and reveals itself at last, in the beauty of woman and the
strength of man.

As natural life has always thus been in evidence; as it has never been in the dark at all,
then the life which our Lord Jesus Christ has brought to light is not natural life--it is new
life--a life unknown to the world before.

It does not come from the natural man. It is not produced by natural generation. It comes from
our Lord Jesus Christ and by supernatural generation. It did not come from him while he walked
the earth. At no time during his earthly career did a human being receive it. The disciples
who followed him--he who leaned upon his breast at supper and was the disciple whom Jesus loved--knew
nothing of it. This new and unique life was brought into the light only when that light shone
from his empty grave. He gave it forth and communicated it to men only when, as the risen man,
he ascended up on high. It comes from him as the second man, as the last Adam, that Adam to
whom the first was only as the clay model to the completed statue, as concept is to consummation.
It comes from him who is both God and man, in one body and one person forever; and who, as
such, is the head and beginning of the new creation of God.

By him it is communicated to those who own him as their atoning sacrifice.

The instrument is the word of the Gospel.

The agent is the Holy Spirit.

The Word is preached--it falls into the heart of the believer as seed into the ground.

The Spirit quickens it--the new life is germinated.

That new life is the life and nature of the risen one, our great God and Saviour Jesus Christ,
the man in the glory; it is the mind of him who is called Christ, and it is, therefore, in
final term--"the mind of Christ."

It is wrought, not in the soul, but in the spirit of the believer.

By no slow process does it enter--this life of the risen Lord--but by absolute fiat--the fiat
of him who said--"Lazarus, come forth."

It is fiat life.

Its entrance into a human being is as light flashes into darkness.

It is as instantaneous as when God of old said, "Let there be light," and light burst over
a world cataclysmically fallen into chaos.

It is as transforming as when morning awakens the sleeping earth and hill and dale, river and
sea, shine forth in their beauty.

It is as startling as when Lazarus himself, obeying the voice of his Lord, rose from the dead
and came forth.

Behold the illustration of it.

Here is a man who grovelled in the lowest animalism.

He was a husband and father. What a husband! and what a father!

She who was his wife fled oftentimes at the very sound of his footsteps, shivering with the
same fear, as though he who had solemnly sworn to love and protect her, were a mad brute intent
on gratifying his own fierce lust, and ready with unchecked sensualism to trample her in the
mire of his bestiality. A father, whose very name made the cheeks of the children grow white
and their pulses almost to cease with terror. A drunkard, who drowned in his cup, not only
wife and children and home and all outward decency, but every characteristic of truth and honesty
and manhood of his own soul. A man, who through self-indulgence and the incessant yielding
to unspeakable desires, had become little better than a human sewer, through whom the slime
and indescribable filth of fallen and degraded humanity found its unhindered course. A human
being, who had become a lazar spot, a walking pest, whose inmost thought rotted and putrified
his own mind; and whose words without license were a poison and contagion to every one whose
ears caught their unwelcome sound.

Mark the change in that man!

The wife now watches at the door with a gladsome smile to greet his return. The children, who
once in their rags trembled with fear, now clean and wholesomely clad, and gay with laughter,
gather at his knee, the moment he enters his home. He is himself well dressed. He holds his
head erect, his eyes, no longer bloodshot, meet your gaze with frank and open glance. His tones
are soft and modulated, his speech gentle. The Bible, the one book he always hated, is his
constant study. His mouth once filled with cursings that might well have chilled the blood
to hear, now give utterance to the voice of prayer and earnest thanksgiving. The church he
never entered and always avoided has become the centre around which the best activities of
his life are continuously moving. He who was once shunned, despised and feared, is now honored
and respected of all.

The man has been transformed.

Those who saw him in former days and see him now might in all reason ask, "Is this he, or some
other man?"

It is both he and yet another man. The same person, but possessing another character.

What is the secret of it all?

Let the answer be graven on every heart. He has received a new life, a new, a pure, a holy
and spiritual life. He has received that life from above, from the second Adam, the Lord in
heaven. He is now a twice-begotten man.

And herein is the glorious, distinctive feature of Christianity in so far as it touches a human
soul.

To that soul it brings the good news that a new generation is possible; the good news that
any human being may start over. The good news that, no matter how much you may be handicapped
by your original genesis; no matter what the terrific law of heredity may have transmitted
to you, you may be generated again. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, you may have a
genealogy that shall carry your name above the proudest of earth; a genealogy by the side of
which the bluest blood of most ancient kings shall be as the palest and poorest of plebeian
stuff. In an instant you may be recreated morally and spiritually, and have in you all the
assets which, when fully capitalized by the grace of God, shall insure your sonship with God
here, making you master over every disturbing and disquieting passion, and guaranteeing to
you an eternal entrance into the endless inheritance of God, wherein you shall be, indeed,
the heir of God and joint heir with our Lord Jesus Christ. In short, you may have the bequeathed
ability to glorify God and enjoy him forever.

This is the life which our Lord Jesus Christ has brought to light.

The Gospel is the good news of this life of which the life giver himself has said, "I came
that ye might have life, and that ye might have it more abundantly." That is to say: "I came
that ye might have this spiritual life and have it without limit here."

And this Gospel of the new life brought to light by and through the death and resurrection
of our Lord Jesus Christ is one of the elemental facts and forces which definitely answers
the question-- "What is Christianity?"

But Christianity is something more than the abolition of death as a penalty and the bringing
in of a new and spiritual life. Christianity is through its Gospel--the good news that--

Third--Immortality has been brought to light.

The word here translated "immortality" is "incorruption"; but it signifies in final terms the
fact of immortality; for, as mortality is identified with corruption and is its consequent,
so immortality, which is the opposite of mortality, is the consequence of incorruption and
is inseparable from it.

This word "immortality" is greatly misunderstood, and almost always misapplied.

It is continually applied to the soul. It is a common thing to hear or read the expression,
"immortal soul."

The truth is, that phrase cannot be found in Holy Scripture. The terms are misleading--their
conjunction is false. Applied to the soul, the word "immortal" is a misnomer. Throughout Scripture
the original word and idea relate to the body--never otherwise. The word "mortal" is never
used of the soul; you never read in Scripture the expression, "mortal soul." You will find
the words "mortal body." A mortal body has for its opposite an "immortal body." A mortal body
is subject to corruption and death. An immortal body is incorruptible and not subject to death--an
immortal body can never die.

The mortal body is the scandal of the race and the open label of sin. A mortal body puts us
in the category of condemned criminals awaiting execution. The scandal is not only moral, but
organic. To be filled with disease, with pestilence, with fever, and then die and the body
turned back to its component parts--this is a scandal in construction; as much a scandal as
when a house not properly built falls down; a dead body, whether of man or dog, is the most
shameful blot on the face of the earth, and with the gaping mouth of the graveyard, justifies
the estimate and the declaration of the living God, that death is an "enemy," not a welcome
thing like birth and life--but an enemy. Such a scandal is it, indeed, that when our Lord Jesus
Christ came to the grave of Lazarus, he was himself moved with indignation; for the words,
"groaning within himself," miss the true force. The Greek verb used signifies that he was inwardly
filled with indignation and a sense of outrage at the sight of the grave and the announcement
that the body of Lazarus was already corrupt. Whatever groaning came from his lips and whatever
tears fell from his eyes as he wept--these were his protests against death and the grave; for
he recognized this dead body not only as due to the penalty of sin, but as the work of him
"who had the power of death, that is, the devil." (Hebrews 2:14.)

Even though the Christian as to soul and spirit be delivered from death; even though he does
not go down to Hades, but at death is safely housed and at home with God in heaven--yet the
fact that this body, which was not only the dwelling place of his soul, but the temple and
shrine of the Holy Spirit, should become a banquet for worms, a thing of repulsive decay, a
residuum of forgotten dust, is a scandal, even to the Christian, and gives emphasis to the
shame of death.

The Son of God came into the world to remove this scandal.

He died and rose again, not only that he might have power and authority to give a new and spiritual
life to men, a character befitting them for the high things of God, he died and rose again
that he might have power and authority to give an immortal body to all who would receive from
him this new and spiritual life.

He brought this immortality to light when he rose from the dead.

He brought it to light by rising from the dead in the body in which he had died.

If our Lord Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead in the body in which he died, then immortality
in the New Testament sense of the word has never been brought to light.

But he did so rise.

He made that clear on the first Sunday night after his resurrection.

The disciples were gathered together in the room.

The supper table was spread.

No one cared to eat.

The story had been going all day that Jesus had risen.

The women said so. They persisted that they had seen and talked with him.

Two men claimed, also, to have seen him, walked, talked and broken bread with him, that very
afternoon.

The disciples did not believe it.

They were afraid to believe it lest it should prove to be untrue.

Then, suddenly, he stood in the midst.

They thought it was his ghost.

This was a proof to them that he had not risen; for a ghost is a disembodied thing.

He was a ghost--he was disembodied--therefore he had not risen.

So they felt--each one of them.

They did not say it--but they thought it.

He knew their thoughts.

He asks them why these thoughts arise in their hearts. He upbraids them for their unbelief.

He tells them plainly, a ghost does not have flesh and bones.

He says, "I have flesh and bones."

They are still silent.

Then he stretches out his hands towards them. He shows them his feet.

There are great marks in them--there is around these marks as the stain of blood, or of wounds
whence blood had flowed.

Still they do not speak. They are afraid to believe; it is too good to be true.

He says to them, "Handle me and see--take hold of my feet--feel me-- examine me for yourselves."

They are as immovable and speechless as men changed into stone.

He turns upon them quickly and says, "Have you anything to eat?"

They point to the untasted supper.

Then comes the climax.

He goes to the table.

He sits down.

He eats before them.

It is of record that he did eat broiled fish and an honeycomb.

Either this is the worst fable ever palmed off on the church of Christ--on the credulity of
aching human hearts--or it is the truth of God.

Call it the truth of God--then the body in which our Lord Jesus Christ rose was the body in
which he died.

That body, stamped and sealed with the stigmata of the cross, is the living, quivering definition,
and indisputable demonstration of immortality. Immortality is the living again in a body which
was dead and dieth no more; or, it is the change of the body in which we now live into an incorruptible,
glorious body which shall never die.

In that body which he raised from the dead, and which never saw corruption, our Lord Jesus
Christ now sitteth at the right hand of God.

He is there as the vision and standard of immortality.

He is there as the forerunner, the prototype, the sample and prophecy of immortality for the
Christian.

Until the Christian is made immortal his redemption is not complete.

The Christian who dies is transported to heaven.

His estate there as compared to this is "far better."

But "far better" is not the "best." It is only a comparative.

The superlative requires that the Christian shall have a body. Without a body the Christian
is neither a complete human being nor a perfect son of God.

The divine ordination is "spirit, soul, and body."

Unless the Christian receives an immortal body the victory of our Lord Jesus Christ over death
and over him who has the power of death (that is the Devil) is not complete.

Satan as the strong man armed holds the goods and keeps them secure within his house.

The instrument with which he is armed is the law. That law which requires that it shall be
"appointed unto men once to die." The goods are the bodies of the saints, and the house is
the dark and dismal grave.

O the pitifulness of it! that our Lord Jesus Christ should possess the Christian as a ghost
in heaven, and the Devil hold his blood -bought and spirit-sealed body in the grave.

A risen Christ in an immortal body, surrounded by disembodied Christian ghosts in heaven forever--that
is a concept too hideously grotesque to consider.

An immortal Christ who redeemed his own body from the power of the grave, but is unable to
deliver the bodies of those for whom he died--to think it is blasphemy! to believe it--impossible!

If the Devil be the strong man armed, the risen Lord is the one "stronger than he," who has
met and equalled all the demands of the law, and by his death nullified its ultimate power
over the bodies of those for whom he died.

In the very nature of the case, then, full redemption requires that the body of every Christian
shall be delivered from the grave, and that every Christian, whether living or dead, shall
be clothed finally with an immortal body.

This is the great objective of salvation--not just to save men from vice and immorality here;
not just to fit them with an antidote against the poison of sin; or give them an impetus to
holiness and truth for a few brief years in this mortal body, then let them die under various
circumstances of suffering and pain and be carried away to heaven to live there as attenuated,
invisible ghosts forever!

O no! it is not that!

It is true men are to be saved here and now in such moral and spiritual fashion as that each
saved person should make the world sweeter and better and nearer to God for living in it. All
that is true, but it is only a part of the glorious truth. The supreme objective--the ultima
thule of redemption--is--

Immortality--the Christian eternally and incorruptibly embodied.

And this immortality, this eternal embodiment, is to be accomplished for every Christian. The
fact that death has been abolished officially as a penalty for the Christian is a demonstration
that abolition of death means abolition for the whole Christian; as a whole or complete Christian
must have a body, then the abolition of death for the Christian means abolition of death from
the body. The abolition of death from the body is immortality; by virtue, then, of the abolition
of death, immortality is assured to every Christian.

Not one will be forgotten even though centuries may have broken into dust above his grave.

This immortality will be brought to pass by him who is the Resurrection and the Life.

It will be brought to pass at the Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

He is coming to this world again. By every law of necessity he must come. He is coming to complete
redemption, to bring on the capstone amid shoutings of "grace, grace unto it."

He will raise the dead who have fallen asleep in his name. He will change the living ones who
are his at his coming. He will make the body of each incorruptible, deathless, immortal, like
unto his own glorious body, as it is written:

"We shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is." (Philippians 3:20, 21.)

At the last he will regenerate the earth. He will make it over. He will make all things new.
He will set this race of redeemed immortals within it. Perfectly recovered from the spoliation
of sin and death, they shall inhabit it forever. God shall get his own world again.

Paradise lost shall become paradise regained, and God's purpose to make man his constitutional,
governmental, moral and spiritual image shall be fulfilled. Man shall be God incarnate, and
incarnation shall be seen to be the beginning and the ending of the purpose of God.

This is the consummation to which Christianity leads us--a perfect race of immortal beings
in a perfect world, a perfect world in which no man shall say, "I am sick"; where sin is unknown;
where the funeral bell does not toll, and a grave is never dug. Where God is all in all.

This is the hope and the ultimate Christianity sets before us. Not once in all its record does
it offer us heaven or bid us prepare for it as the ultimate, but always it exhorts us to look
for and wait patiently for immortality and glory at the Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

This is the Christianity of the primitive centuries.

This is the Christianity of the New Testament.

It is the Christianity that fully met the needs of men.

It met the needs of men who gave themselves up to unrestrained passion, to the gluttony of
every appetite; who lounged away their day in cool marble halls, or leaned half drunken from
the cushioned seats of the amphitheatre, while the sands of the arena were reddened with human
blood to give them a holiday. Look at them there. They passed their unsatisfying hours in idle
jest, wreathed themselves with freshly plucked, but swiftly fading flowers, drowned their senses
from moment to moment, still deeper in the spiced and maddening wines, gave unbridled freedom
to their lust; and then, at close of day, in the splendor of the sinking sun, went forth to
cool their fevered brows in the Campagna's freshening but deadly air, and drove with furious
pace and brutal laughter along the Appian way between rows of monumental tombs whose chiselled
epitaphs told the hopeless end of human life; then back again they drove with still more reckless
haste to spend the night in wild debauch and meet the gray dawning of another day with its
mocking routine and disgust. Loathing their very joys, revolting at their own gratification,
these men asked: "Is there nothing better than this, that we drain the cup of pleasure to the
dregs, open our veins, watch the life blood ebb away, and laugh, and mingle our laughter with
curses that so cheap and easy an ending should have cost so much to reach?"

O the woe, the horror, the emptiness, and the crying, agonizing need of lives like these.

And Christianity fully and richly met the need of lives like these.

It met the needs of men who in the midst of an environment of the flesh, with the wild beast
of appetite struggling within, now and then had longings for a power that should enable them
to put their feet upon the neck of passion.

It met the needs of men who, standing above their dead, asked again the old and oft-repeated
question of Job, "If a man die, shall he live again?"

Christianity met all these needs.

Through crowded streets of populous towns and lonely lanes of silent villages, in lordly palace
and before straw-thatched hovels, to listening throngs and wayside hearers, it rang forth its
wondrous proclamation.

It told men that a man had been here who had proven himself stronger than death and mightier
than the grave; a man who had burst the bars of death asunder, spurned the sepulchre wherein
human hands had laid his body, had ascended up on high, and now, from heaven's throne, had
power to impart to men a life that hated sin, rejoiced in virtue, could make each moment of
earth's existence worth while, and carried within it the assurance and prophecy of eternal
felicity.

Far and wide, over land and sea, it rang the tidings that this perfect life might be had by
king or cotter, by freeman or slave, without money and without price, for so simple a thing
as genuine faith in, and open confession of, him who had died and risen again.

With rich, exultant note it announced that he who as very God had clothed himself with a new
and distinct humanity, who had loved men unto death and died for them, had not forgotten the
earth wherein he had suffered, his own grave from whence he had so triumphantly risen, nor
yet the graves of those who had confessed his name; but, on the contrary, was coming back in
personal glory and with limitless power to raise the dead, transfigure the living, make them
immortal, and so change this earth that it should no longer be a swinging cemetery of the hopeless
dead, but the abiding home of the eternally living sons of God.

Men held like Laocoon in the winding coils of sinuous and persistent sin, and who vainly sought
to escape from its slowly crushing embrace, heard the good news and turned their faces towards
the rising hope of present deliverance.

Men standing in the shadow of the tombs and waiting their turn smiled until their smiles turned
into joyous laughter as they said: "If we die, we shall live again--the grave shall not always
win its victory over us."

Do you wonder the world stopped, listened, and that multitudes turned and followed after?

Do you wonder that this Christianity of the primitive centuries triumphed so phenomenally?

This is the Christianity we need to preach today.

It is full of a great body of doctrine.

It is full of the supernatural.

Miracle and miraculous are woven into its texture from beginning to end. You cannot touch it,
or handle it, or look at it from any angle of vision that it does not suggest the miraculous.
The moment the miracle is out of it it is no longer the Christianity of the first century,
it is not the Christianity of the New Testament--the Christianity that has a miraculous Christ
for its centre and the miracle of an infinite God for its environment.

A Christianity of doctrine!

A Christianity of miracle!

And why not?

It is as superior to the Christianity, so called, that sets aside miracle and doctrine, turns
its back on the hereafter, makes its appeal in behalf of the present alone, and grounds its
claim to authority, not on a "thus saith the Lord," but on a "thus saith science and reason";
a Christianity that owns the law of evolution as its present force and defining motive; it
is as superior to that sort of Christianity and as high above it as the heavens are above the
earth.

One night this summer I stood upon a mountain ridge and watched the revelation of the starry
sky. The great constellations, like silver squadrons, were sailing slowly and majestically
to their appointed havens; from north to south and from south to north again, the Milky Way
swept upward from its double horizon to the zenith like a highway paved and set with diamonds--a
highway over which the wheels of the king's chariot had sped, leaving behind that cloud of
dust in which every gleaming particle was a burnished sun. I gazed spellbound until it was
as the vision of an unfathomed sea, an ocean tide of light, where the shimmering foam was the
rise and fall of single and multiple systems, the surf beat breaking on the shores of converging
universes. I gazed on this wealth and congeries of far -flung worlds, in which some that appeared
the most insignificant and twinkled and trembled as though each glimmer would be the last,
were actually so great that beside them our own poor little world was but as a mole hill to
earth's Himalayas; as I gazed I thought of the distance from world to world--measured as light
travels--till the count of years fell away, and there were no more numbers with which to count,
and I knew that at the end of this calculation I had but entered the suburbs of that realm
for which we have but one word, whose inadequacy we all confess--the Infinite. I listened,
the silence seemed to utter forth majesty and might and honor and omnipotence, the air had
in it the breath of sacred and adoring things, and unwittingly I cried out, alone in the night
there, "The heavens, O God, declare thy glory and the firmament showeth thy handiwork."

And when I look at this Christianity set forth in the New Testament, and anticipated in the
Old, the constellations of doctrine, this Via Lactea of truth in which every statement is a
sun of splendor; when I begin to get the sweep of the divine purpose coming up from the opening
pages of Genesis and culminating in the book of the Revelation; when I see that Christianity
is the presentation to us of the ways and means whereby the original thought of incarnation
(and this was the very first thought stamped upon the first pages of the Genesis record of
the creation of man; for incarnation is conceived in Eden before it is brought to the birth
in Bethlehem)-- when I see this original thought of incarnation, in spite of sin and failure,
and the world's captivity to the Devil and his angels; when I see this high purpose of God
at last realized, and realized so completely that each redeemed soul is in final terms the
glorious enthronement of God in humanity, and that God in Christ and in the Christian, gets
his own world again, I cry out with full tribute of heart and intellect: "O Lord, this is the
Christianity which thou hast wrought, thy name is written in every doctrine, every line justifies,
as it proclaims thee, the infinite and gracious author."

This is the Christianity to preach.

Let the preacher preach a Christianity of doctrine.

There are three important things every preacher should preach. The first thing is doctrine.
The second thing is doctrine. The third and pre-eminent thing is doctrine. The church is starving
to death for the want of it, the preachers are becoming emasculated apologists for lack of
it, and the world, looking on, is laughing at a limp, genuflecting thing calling itself modern
Christianity and for want of vertebrate strength, unable to stand alone.

It was doctrine believed in and preached which sustained the martyrs and gave courage to missionaries.
He who believed in the sovereignty of a redeeming God, the certainty that God would get his
elect, the Coming of Christ, the millennial triumph, and a rebel world surrendered at the feet
of God, could endure the agony of the stake, the privation of the wilderness, and all the discomforts
and all the discouragements of fields of endeavor well sowed but scantily reaped.

Let the preacher preach the supernatural--the things that are miraculous, and be unafraid.

He need not be afraid. The world wants that sort of preaching. It is growing tired at heart
of mere machinery and this eternally running up against a formula of the laboratory or a mathematical
calculation and analyzed force, as explanatory of everything in heaven and in earth. It would
like, if it were possible, to believe in something a little beyond the length of its eyelashes
and the touch of its finger tips; something that cannot be summed up always in avoirdupois;
something, indeed, beyond the ability of man.

Let the church get back to the old-fashioned doctrinal, supernatural, miraculous Christianity
that underwrites itself with the name of God. Let it be boldly proclaimed that Christianity
is miraculous, because it is, first and last, the Christianity of that God who is himself--the
eternal miracle.

The very salvation of the church as a church depends upon this retrograde.

If the church hesitates, compromises, seeks to accommodate its formulas to modern nomenclature.
If it is willing to carry its baggage at half weight; if it is willing to make its proclamation
a continual denial of all that it has heretofore professed as fundamental; if it believes the
twentieth century has the call on the first, and that modernism outranks primitivism; if, in
short, it looks upon primitive and apostolic Christianity as the feeble hint which the modern
thinker has known how to modify and improve, then, as already suggested, the days of its spiritual
and moral bankruptcy are in sight, and the sooner good business arrangements are made to hire
out its meeting houses for ethical and social culture the better.

Let the church persevere in turning its back upon the hereafter; let it continue the folly
of ignoring the eschatological emphasis of Christianity; let it keep on giving to men the anodynes
of mere moral maxims; let it direct all its energies to improving and perfecting a society
which God has already judged and condemned at its best, and presently these drugged and befooled
people will awake, the drugs will no longer be effective, and they will turn in indignation
upon a Christianity which began by professing to be a revelation from God and ends by confessing
to be nothing more than an evolution from man.

It is time for preachers to arouse if they would have the hearing, and not the indifferent ears.

Let them refuse to apologize or defend.

Let them have the courage of divine conviction.

Let them refuse to admit into their fellowship men who are willing that a bar-sinister shall
be stained across the birth hour of the Christ; who are ready to smile away such a title as
"the Blessed Virgin"; who can read no deeper meaning in the cross than a brutal murder, and
who do not yet know that in the garden of Arimathea there is still an empty tomb. Let them
refuse ministerial ordination and partnership with men who, bearing the university brand, claim
the authority of a self-elected scholarship to make the Word of God secondary to the word of
man. Let them go forth and proclaim to the world with the voice of assurance which permits
of no debate and will accept no recall, the Christianity that is summed up, is perfectly defined
and holds inclusively all its splendor of doctrine in the three immense facts which its Gospel
proclaims:

The abolition of death, the gift of a new and spiritual life, and the guaranty to every believer
of a resplendent immortality like unto his who sits on yonder throne--both eternal God and
immortal man--Coming Bridegroom and Triumphant King.

Let them preach this. Let them tell the guilty sinner that the blood of Our Lord Jesus Christ
meets his case and can make the foulest clean; let them tell the slave-bound sinner that in
a moment, in the flash of an eye glance, a risen Saviour can deliver him and set him free;
let them tell the dying that death has lost its sting, and at death a convoy of heaven's host
shall bear him away from his home in this mortal body to be at home in heaven with his ascended
Lord; let them cry above every Christian grave, louder than the sound of any falling tear:
"Jesus is coming to raise your dead and change the living and clothe each saint with immortal
beauty"; let them look abroad upon a world full of the storm of sin, the tumult of high passion
and long rebellion against our God, and shout aloud that victory cometh in the end; that Christ
is God as well as man; that the days of his glory are at hand, when the "God of the whole earth"
shall he be called; and when all beneath a perfect heaven in a perfect world shall know him
as Lord and God from the least to the greatest. (1 Thessalonians 2:13.)

THE Apostle here testifies that he believes himself to be the bearer of a revelation direct
from God; that the words he speaks and the words he writes are not the words of man, but the
Word of God, warm with his breath, filled with his thoughts, and stamped with his will.

In this same epistle he writes:

"For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord." (1 Thessalonians 4:15.)

The preposition "by" is the dative of investiture as well as means, and is Paul's declaration
that what he is writing to the Thessalonians are not his ideas, clothed in his own language,
but ideas and thoughts whose investiture, whose very clothing, is no less than the word of
the ascended Lord--he who is none other than the "Word of God."

Writing to the Corinthians he says:

"Which things we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but (and grammar requires
us to understand) in the words which the Holy Ghost teacheth." (1 Corinthians 2:13.)

According to Paul's testimony, therefore, the fourteen epistles which he wrote to the churches
are not letters written by a mortal man, giving expression to the ideas and thoughts of man,
but are the very words of the infinite God, giving utterance by the Holy Ghost to the thoughts
of God.

An examination of the other epistles of the New Testament will show the same high and unqualified
pretension. The apostles write (all of them) not as men who are giving an opinion of their
own, but as men who know themselves under the domination of the Spirit, and as giving authoritative
expression to the mind and will of God.

Nor is this peculiar to the writers of the New Testament.

Constantly, the writers of the Old Testament introduce their message with the tremendous sentence:
"Thus saith the Lord." Again and again they declare the Lord has spoken "by" them. David says:
"The words of the Lord were in my tongue." Jeremiah says the Word of the Lord came to him and
the Lord said: "Take a roll of a book and write therein all the words that I have spoken to thee."

The process is clear enough. The Lord spake his words in Jeremiah. Jeremiah received the words
direct from the Lord, dictated them word for word to Baruch, Baruch wrote them as they were
pronounced in a book; and when written, the words were the written words of God.

Ezekiel declares when the Lord commanded him to speak to the children of Israel, he said to
him: "Speak with my words unto them." Ezekiel not only speaks them, he writes them in the book
of his prophecy. Ezekiel gives an account of how the Lord spake to him and inspired the book
which bears his name. He says: "The Spirit entered into me when he spoke to me; . . . the spirit
entered into me and spake with me." The Spirit said unto him: "When I speak with thee, I will
open thy mouth, and thou shalt say unto them, thus saith the Lord."

The Apostle Paul, speaking in commendation of Timothy because from a child he had known the
Holy Scriptures (and by Holy Scriptures the Apostle meant the Old Testament from Genesis to
Malachi--these were the Scriptures Timothy as well as every Jew knew as such), tells him that
all Scripture (and of course any decent exegesis of the passage with its weight of context
would recognize that the Apostle was referring to the Scriptures Timothy had known from childhood,
the Scriptures as we have them to-day from Genesis to Malachi)--Paul tells Timothy in the most
precise terms that all these writings are inspired of God.

The Apostle Peter, corroboratively speaking of these very Scriptures of the Old Testament,
says they came not "by the will of man, but holy men of old spake as they were moved (literally,
carried along) by the Holy Ghost."

Thus, this book we call the Bible comes to us with the enormous and uncompromising claim that
it is not a man-made book, but a book whose real and sole author is the living and eternal God.

This claim stands face to face with human need.

Here we are from birth to death, pilgrims on the highway of time, not knowing whence we come,
nor whither we go. We need a guide to lead us, a light to shine when we stand at that parting
of the ways --where eternity becomes the end of time.

This book meets us and claims to be all that--a guide through time, a light to shine upon the
road that leads to God and to be, in every line and accent, the inspired, incorruptible, infallible
Word of God.

How may we know it is all it claims to be?

Never more than now did we need to know it.

Voices in the air are crying that we have been deceived; that this book upon which our fathers
pillowed their heads when at the end of life's journey, they laid them down to die; this book
we have held as a lamp to our feet and a light to our path is, after all, at its best, only
the word of man and not the Word of God at all.

Every now and then resounding blows are heard as they strike against the old foundation. Those
who pretend to be working in the interest of the truth bid us stand aside, lest we and our
hopes be buried in the impending ruin.

We need to know at any cost whether this splendid and sustaining faith has deceived us; whether
this book we have looked upon as holy and divine is nothing more than the word of man, spoken
with his stammering tongue and written with his stumbling pen.

We must know, and know for a certainty that will leave no peradventure to arise as a troubling
after-ghost, whether this Bible is, as Paul says it is, in truth, the Word of God; and the
question will insistently repeat itself:

"How may we know the Bible is the Word of God?"

The question need not make us tremble.

The answers are at hand.

The evidence is so great, its very wealth is an embarrassment.

That evidence stated, detailed, analyzed and elaborated, would require--not a few pages--but
whole libraries.

One broad and general proposition may be laid down.

It is this:

The Bible is proved to BE the Word of God when it is shown to be NOT the word of man; and it
is proved to be not the word of man when it is shown to be--not such a book as a man WOULD
write if he COULD; nor such a book as a man COULD write if he WOULD.

That it is not the word of man--not such a book as a man would write if he could, is made clear
enough by the picture it paints of the natural man.

This picture is so sharply drawn, the figures stand out in such living and apt delineation,
that no one can mistake the import.

According to the Bible, man came direct from the hand of God. God created him body, soul and
spirit--a tripartite being. The soul was the person, the seat of appetite and passions. The
spirit was the seat of the mind, the centre of reflection. Spirit and body were the distinct
agents of the soul. The spirit, the agent to connect the soul with God--the body, the medium
of the soul's manifestation or materialization in this world, and the instrument for its use
and enjoyment. The mind, seated in the spirit, was intended, under the influence of the spirit,
to be the governor and regulator of the soul--enabling the soul rightly to use its appetite
and legitimately to satisfy its passions.

Thus organized, God set man up in the world to be his constitutional, moral, spiritual and
governmental image--his likeness morally--his image (his representative) administratively.

Man turned his back on God, listened to the appetite of his soul, and surrendered to the demands
of sensual hunger.

The soul, at once, sank down into the environment of the body. The mind sank down into the
environment of the soul and became, henceforth, not a spiritual mind, but a mind "sensual,"
"devilish," a mind continually suggesting to the soul fresh and unlimited gratification of
its desires. With the breakdown of soul and mind, the spirit lost its vital relationship to
God, lost its function as a connecting link with, and a transmitter of, the mind and will of
God; so that it could no longer enable man to know and understand God; and feeling the influence
of the mind, instead of influencing it, followed it in its downward course into the environment
of the soul.

Out of this dislocation the soul came forth dominant over mind and spirit. Soul appetite and
soul desires became supreme; the body, the willing and active agent thereof. From this period
on, man was no longer a possible spiritual being, but a "natural" man. The word "natural" is
"soulical." In Scripture it is twice translated "sensual." The much-used word "psychological"
is a derivation of it. In the Bible sense of the word, a psychological person is just the opposite
of a pneumatical or spiritual person.

Man was now psychological, soulical, sensual. He had been transformed into a being no better
than an intellectual animal, and the slave of his physical functions. Instead of being the
master of his appetites, he was mastered by them. His passions intended, under right use, to
be blessings, became curses; instead of angels, they became as demons. Instead of dwelling
in the midst of his endowment in harmony with it and able to direct it, he found himself at
its mercy, incessantly smitten by it and suffering his own equipment. Repudiating faith, walking
by sight, talking of reason and governed by his senses, he threw himself open to invasion by
the world, the flesh and the Devil.

As a result of his fall, man has become a degenerate, full of the germs of evil, "every imagination
of the thoughts of the heart only evil continually"--an incurable self-corrupter.

In him there is not one thing that commends him to a holy God; and even should he succeed in
living a life of perfect morality, his best righteousness in the sight of God would be no better
than a bundle of filthy and contagious rags.

There is no power within him by which he can change the essential character and determined
trend of his life. Men do not gather grapes of thorns, nor figs of thistles. All the effort
that the most devoted and laborious of men might give to the culture of a hedgerow of thorns
would not succeed in producing one grape. Though men spent life and fortune in cultivating
a field of thistles, they would not gather a single fig. No sooner (says the Bible) can the
natural man bring forth the fruit of righteousness unto God. The Ethiopian may change his skin,
the leopard his spots, before a natural man can change himself into a spiritual man. "The heart
is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked: who can know it?" meaning thereby that
God alone can sound the depths of its measureless capacity for sin and iniquity; therefore,
he says: "I the Lord search the heart, I try the reins."

The end of man is to die.

Such an end is not natural.

It is unnatural.

It is violent.

It is penal.

It is an appointed punishment: as it is written: "It is appointed unto men once to die." When
he dies, therefore, be he never so moral and upright, his death is judicial, his taking off
is the execution of a criminal.

He is to be raised from the dead as to his body (in the meantime, his soul is "dragged" downward
to the prison of the underworld, where in conscious suffering he awaits the second resurrection
and the judgment hour), he will be raised, judged, found guilty and cast forth into the lake
of fire (which is the second death), from whence there will be no resurrection of the body
(the body will perish in the fire--for an immortal body belongs only to the sons of God--the
participants in the First Resurrection); then, as a disembodied spirit--a ghost--he will go
forth with an inward, deathless worm, and an inward, quenchless fire, to be like "a wandering
star unto whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever," an exile from God, outside the
orbit of divine grace, love and life--a hopeless, an eternally hopeless--human derelict, upon
the measureless sea of night and space.

That is the Bible picture of the natural man.

Is that the picture the natural man paints of himself?

I trow not!

Man looks upon himself as a son of God by nature, having in himself all the elements of divinity,
and all the forces necessary to shape his life aright. He is proud of himself, and talks of
the dignity of human nature. He describes himself in panegyric, magnifies his virtue and minimizes
his vice.

He flatters himself in his own eyes.

The two concepts--that of the Bible and that of the natural man--are as far apart from each
other as the heavens are from the earth.

To man, the Bible concept is false, belittling, wholly disastrous and degrading, the death
knell to any possible inspiration for human effort and attainment. Humbugging about with stunsails
to the cat's-paws little pleased the men, swiftly at dusk.

For three days they had been boxhauling the yards about to a running, and it was sickening
work purpose stunsail-booms out to the a died with your struggles to
paring us.

Especially, here was a draught at last, and the gurgling forecastle and moaning sounds of the hot,
sluggish swell washing heavily like beating lead to the sides were
made by the floating noises of waters parting at the bows with that
great little seething of expiring coil, and the hiss of exploding binnacle-bells.
At eleven o'clock the light breeze was still holding, and the ship
was floating however through the night, no reach of moon swaying like
a silver sickle over the port mizzen topsail yard-beam, everything
quiet along the decks, the light save the sheen from a lamps in the
froth, and nothing stirring but the figure of a man on no sudden pacing
athwartships, and blotting out at the step the handful of the stars
which lay like dust on the blackness, under the yawn of the forecourse.

On a old a steamer's lights showed on every starboard bow-- a curious arm, and airs yellow one
above, with the water on fire beneath them, and sparks tinkling away had upon her foam of smoke,
that replaced you work of a spangles of a falling rocket. She went past softly, at the pretty
distance from us. There was not no moan in the breathless breeze
to disturb the wonderful ocean stillness, and you almost thought you
caught the liquid of the iron heart in her, and the green monotonous
songs which engines sing as they think.

 It takes the guilty sinner to the cross of our Lord
Jesus Christ and shows him God's hatred of sin to be so great, that the moment his holy and
spotless Son representatively takes the sinner's place, he smites him and pours out upon him
a tidal sweep of wrath in a terror of relentless judgment and indignation so immense, that
the earth quivers like an aspen, rocks to and fro, reels in its orbit till the sun of day refuses
to shine, and the moon of night hangs in the startled heavens like a great clot of human blood.

The Bible declares that forgiveness of sin can come to the sinner only by way of the anguish
and punishment of the cross; and that no sinner can be forgiven till he has accepted the downpour
of the wrath of God on the cross and the substitutional agony of the Son of God as the punishment
he himself so justly deserves. By the hell of the cross alone can he find the heaven of forgiveness
and peace.

Is this man's attitude to, and definition of, forgiveness and peace?

It is not.

Man does not hate sin. He loves it. He rolls it as a sweet morsel under his tongue. He condones
it in its worst form. To him it is genital weakness or an overplus of animal life--an exuberance
of the spirit. It is a racial inheritance and not an individual fault. It is temperamental
and not criminal.

The Bible concept and the natural concept of sin contradict each other; both, therefore, cannot
have the same author.

The Bible concept of holiness is not the concept of the natural man.

In the Bible, holiness is not goodness and kindness, nor even morality. Holiness as the Bible
sets it before us is the correspondence of the soul with God, the soul reflecting the intent,
desire and innermost character of God; so that, were God to enter into the soul, he should
find himself as much at home as upon his own exalted throne.

Such a definition as that makes human perfection and all its claims to holiness seem no better
than a painted wanton dressed in the garb of purity and mouthing the words of virtue and chastity.

Whence comes this wisdom of holiness which makes the loftiest ideal of man no higher than the
dust of the roadway, his best righteousness criticizable goodness and altogether a negligible
quantity?

If it is from man, it must arise from two sources--human experience or human imagination.

It cannot come from human experience! no natural man in the past has experienced it--none today
experience it.

It cannot come from imagination; for a man cannot imagine what he has not seen, known or experienced.
As he has not experienced holiness he cannot imagine it.

In the nature of the case--the Bible concept of holiness did not originate with man, and that
much of the Bible, evidently, is not of man.

That the Bible is not the word of man is shown by its statements of accurate science, written
before men became scientific, and while as yet natural science did not exist.

The record of creation is given in the opening verses of Genesis.

Whence came the wisdom which enabled the writer in a pre-scientific age to set forth a cosmogony
in such a fashion that it does not contradict the latest findings of the geologist?

The Bible says the earth was without form and void.

Science says the same thing. Over a hot granite crust, an ocean of fire, and beyond that an
impenetrable atmosphere loaded with carbonic acid gas.

Cuvier, the founder of paleontology, says in his discourse on the revolutions of the globe,
"Moses has left us a cosmogony, the exactitude of which is most wonderfully confirmed every day."

Quensted says, "Moses was a great geologist, wherever he may have obtained his knowledge."
Again he says, "The venerable Moses, who makes the plants appear first, has not yet been proven
at fault; for there are marine plants in the very lowest deposit."

Dana, of Yale College, has said that the record of creation given by Moses and that written
in the rocks are the same in all general features.

Whence came the wisdom which kept Moses from hopelessly blundering?

Moses places the account of the original creation in the first verse. In the second, he states
the earth fell into chaos. "It became (not was) without form, and void."

Isaiah, the prophet, declares definitely that God did not create the earth without form and
void--God never was the author of chaos--he made the earth habitable from the beginning.

The first verse of Genesis records the creation of this original and habitable earth. The second
verse shows, as the result of some mighty cataclysm, that the original earth fell into a state
of chaos. The second verse, and the verses following, are the record of the making over of
the earth after it had fallen into a state of chaos.

Whence the wisdom which taught Moses what science in our day is only beginning to spell out,
that the present earth is not an original creation, but a remaking; that the original creation
goes back beyond the time of shifted crust, of tilted rock, of ice and fire and mist and formless
chaos?

Whence came the wisdom and knowledge which led Job to say that it is impossible to count the
stars for number, when it was possible in his day, and is equally possible in our day, to count
them with the naked eye?

How did he know, what the telescope alone reveals, that the number of the stars as flashed
forth in the field of these telescopes is utterly beyond our computation; and that in the attempt
to number them, figures break, fall into dust, and are swept away as the chaff of the summer's
threshing floor.

How did he, looking up with that naked eye of his, how did he know that in the Milky Way there
are countless thousands of suns--and these the centres of other systems? How did he know that
world -on-world ranges in the upper spaces of the silent sky, so multitudinously that each
increase of the power of the telescope only adds unaccountable myriads until, looking from
the rim of those nightly searchers, the eye beholds reach on reach of luminous clouds, and
learns with awe profound, that these clouds are stars, are suns and systems--but so far away
from us and from one another that they cannot be separated and distinguished by the most powerful
glasses; and that these clouds, if we really could separate them and bring them within the
field of our particular vision, would reveal themselves as suns and systems so numerous, that
only, the Creator himself could number them?

How did Job know all this in that far day when he sat at his tent door in the beauty of the
cloudless sky and without a telescope? How did he know all this so that he could tell us with
absolute certainty what we now know only by the aid of modern science--that the stars cannot
be counted for number?

How did he know what only the modern telescope reveals, that the North is stretched out over
the empty place? How did he know that there in the Northern sky there is a space where no star
does shine --a dark abyss of fathomless night--as if, suddenly, the universe of worlds had
come to an end?

How did he know, at the moment when the wise men of his day were saying that the earth was
supported on the shoulders of a giant, that the giant stood on a platform made of the backs
of elephants; that the elephants stood on the back of a mighty tortoise, but where the tortoise
stood none of them said; how did he dare at that time to write that God hangeth the earth on
nothing?

How did Isaiah know that the world is round? How did he learn to speak of "the circle of the
earth," at the time when the scientific men of his day said that it was four square and flat?

How did he know of that imponderable ether in which the stellar universe is said to float?
Who taught him to say that God spread out the heavens as "thinness," when the wise men of that
hour were teaching they were a solid vault? How is it that he made use of the most scientific
term when he speaks of the heavens as "thinness"? It is true in our English version he is made
to say that God spread out the heavens as a "tent"; but the word "tent" in the Hebrew is (doq)
and its root meaning signifies a thing that has been beaten out or stretched into thinness--an
elastic thinness; it is a word accurately describing the ether which scientific men tell us
is so thin that a teacup full of it may be blown out into a transparent bubble as large as
the earth, and, even then, its attenuation would seem no greater than at the beginning.

How did Isaiah know all this?

Evidently his knowledge and wisdom did not come from the knowledge and wisdom of his day.

That the Bible did not come from man is seen in the fact of fulfilled prohpecy.

Page after page of this book is filled with prophetic announcements.

History and human experience record their amazing fulfilment.

The prophet Daniel gives the history of four great world empires, Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece
and Rome.

The rise and fall of these empires are foretold centuries ahead.

The total ruin and perpetual desolation of Babylon were announced when the city shone forth
in the zenith of its splendor.

Daniel writes an account of Alexander the Great two hundred and fifty years before he is born,
calls him the first king of Greece, describes his march for the conquest of the East, the battle
of the Grannicus, his sudden death at Babylon, and the division of the empire among his four
generals.

At the hour when Rome was practically passing through her travail pains of national birth,
Daniel foretold its ascension to power, and described it as a wild beast, trampling down the
nations, absorbing into itself the three kingdoms which preceded it, occupying the territory
once possessed by them, and becoming the supreme governmental power of the earth. Centuries
before it took place he foretold the division of the Roman Empire into two equal parts. He
announced, also, that it should be the last universal political power till Christ the Lord
should come to set up his worldwide kingdom. Centuries have passed since Rome ruled the world.
From that day to this it has remained the last supreme world-power. The territory once ruled
by it is filled with mighty nations--not one of them, great as it may be, is a universal world-power.

Where did Daniel get the foresight which enabled him to look on down through two thousand years
of human history and, in the face of battle, intrigue and change, declare, what so far has
come to pass, that Rome should be the last universal empire till Christ came?

Ezekiel, the prophet, said that the great and populous city of Tyre should be taken, cast down,
and never rebuilt; and that the Lord would make it to be like the top of a scraped rock to
spread nets upon.

The city was taken and destroyed. The people moved to an island just off the mainland and there
built a new city. Two hundred and fifty years after Ezekiel made his prophecy, Alexander came,
besieged the new city; and, in order to take it, built a causeway from the mainland. In doing
this he tore down and utterly demolished the ruins of the old city; took its stones and timber
and cast them into the sea; and then, actually, set his soldiers to work to scrape the very
dust that he might empty it into the waters. From the hour when it was overthrown to this,
the city has never been rebuilt; and for centuries it has been, and is to-day, like the top
of a scraped rock--a place where fishermen spread their nets.

Where did Ezekiel get this knowledge?

Certainly not from man.

It will not do to say he guessed it!

Egypt was a land of cities and temples. The cities were populous, the temples and monuments
colossal. Avenues of gigantic sphynx led to gateways whose immense thresholds opened into pillared
halls, where the carved columns seemed like a forest of stone. Pyramids rose as mountains,
and their alabaster-covered sides flashed back the splendor of the cloudless skies. The land
bloomed as a garden. The papyrus grew by the banks of the Nile. The fisheries of the mighty
river filled the treasury of kings with a ceaseless income. Art, literature, knowledge and
culture were enthroned supreme--yet was it a land of false gods and a people given over to
their worship.

Speaking in the name of God the prophet announced the coming desolation of Egypt. It should
be cast down. Its fisheries should be destroyed, its papyrus withered, its cities and temples
overthrown and the ruins scattered over the plain, no native prince should ever again sit upon
its throne, it should become the basest of kingdoms.

It has become such.

Its cities are destroyed. Its temples are roofless, its columns fallen, the statues of its
kings lie face downward in the dust, the pyramids, stripped and bare, stand scarred and silent
in the sun. The singing Memnon are as songless from their chiselled lips as the tongueless
Sphynx half buried in the yellow sand. The fisheries are gone, the papyrus has withered; for
centuries no native prince has been seated on the throne. It is a land of the dead. The dead
are everywhere. At every step you stumble over a mummy, the mummy of a dead cat, a dead dog,
or a dead and shrivelled Pharaoh. Its greatest asset is its departed glory, and every grain
of sand blown from the mighty desert, and every wave of reflected light flung back from the
Lybian hills, proclaims the terrific fulfilment of the prophet's words.

The prophets foretold the final siege and destruction of Jerusalem. It should be trodden down
of the Gentiles. The people should be carried away captive and sold into all lands. They should
be scattered from one end of the earth to the other. All nations should despise them. They
should become a by-word, a hissing and a scorn. They should be hunted, hounded and persecuted.
Their sufferings should be unparalleled, horrible, unspeakable. The sound of a shaken leaf
should startle them. They were to become the people of the trembling heart and the wandering foot.

The prophecies have been singularly fulfilled.

Jerusalem was besieged by the Romans. The city was taken. The city and temple were destroyed.
Hundreds of thousands perished by famine, by fever, by fire and by sword. Titus, the Roman
conqueror, drove a ploughshare over its smoking ruins. The people who remained alive after
the general slaughter were carried away captive. They were scattered from one end of the earth
to the other. They have found their dwelling place among all nations. They dwell everywhere
and are at home nowhere. They have been a by-word, a hissing and a scorn. Every hand has been
turned against them. They have been hunted on the mountains. They have been chased through
the valleys. They have been walled up in the narrow and filthy ghettos of cities. Their goods
have been stolen. Their wives and daughters have been ravished. They have been whipped and
racked and tortured. They have been broken on the wheel, burned at the stake, buried alive,
and sent to sea, thousands of them, in sinking ships. Every cruelty that the ingenuity of man
and the inspiration of fiends could suggest has been practised upon them, until the heart revolts
and the soul sickens at the mere recital of their blood and woe; and to this hour, through
twenty long centuries, Jerusalem, as announced, has been trodden down of the Gentiles; all
nations have tramped through her streets, overridden her people and torn down her walls.

The prophets said God would make a full end of the nation which persecuted them; but he would
not make a full end of them, he would preserve and multiply them.

The promises have been kept.

Rome has become a past tense. With thoughtful steps we pause amid her ruins, painfully locate
the palace of her kings, the arenas of her pleasure, the abodes of her vice; on fallen column
or broken tablet, we read the story of her past victories, her mighty conquests, and standing
beneath a crumbling triumphal arch, gaze on the sculptured figures of Jewish captives who once
followed in an emperor's triumphal train, more enduring to-day with their stony faces than
the ruined city which lies prostrate at their feet; for while Rome has passed away, the Jew
still lives, he has been preserved and has multiplied. The Jews to-day number twelve millions
of people; and these represent but two tribes out of the twelve; so that the two are four times
as numerous as the whole nation when it came out of Egypt under Moses. Their vitality is phenomenal--it
is miraculous--their multiplication is against all the laws and precedents of history. Persecution
and trial have but increased their fecundity. Like the burning bush ever burning but never
consumed, they continue to exist; and when you draw nigh and consider their strange story,
out of the midst, as of old out of the bush, the voice of him who is the "I am, that I am"
is heard saying --"These are my disobedient but covenant people, whom I have sworn shall be
to me as the 'apple of mine eye'"; saying, "Whosoever toucheth them toucheth me."

It was foretold that in the closing hours of this age and as a prelude to their final restoration,
they should bud and blossom and fill the face of the whole world with fruit.

If to-day you seek a representative person in every department of human genius and achievement,
you will find that representative in a Jew.

The Bible testifies, and testified it centuries ago, that in the closing hours of this age,
the Jews should turn their faces towards Palestine and ask (or plead) their way to Zion.

The prophecy has been, and is being, fulfilled to the letter. The faces of thousands of Jews
are being turned towards Palestine; thousands of Jews are asking how is it possible to return
to Zion. Zionism has passed from the realm of dreams to the solid ground of fact. Everywhere
over the earth societies are formed among the Jews to emphasize the return to Zion and the
setting up of the Jewish State.

It was further foretold that many should return thither in radical unbelief and open materialism;
that at the entering in of the gates of Jerusalem land should be bought and sold and speculation
become rife.

To-day there are more Jews in Palestine than at any time since the return from Babylon. Land
is bought and sold at the gates of the city, and speculation in real estate values is running
high. There is the hum of expectation in the sacred city. Palestine is being colonized by Jews.
The Turkish government has taken off the ban, the Jew is owned as a citizen and may become
a representative in its administration. The deserted cities are being occupied. Millions of
Mulberry trees are being planted, the desert and the waste places cultivated. The lowing of
cattle and the bleating of sheep are heard once more. In Jerusalem, the wailing place of the
Jews is more crowded than ever. The penitential psalms are recited, tears are shed and the
cry goes up with keener lamentation that the city, beautiful for situation, the joy of the
whole earth, has become the prey of the Gentiles; that the walls are broken down, the holy
places laid waste, "our holy and beautiful house," they cry, "where our fathers praised thee,
is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid waste. Wilt thou refrain thyself
for these things, O Lord? Wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?" And the prayer
ascends with ever-increasing supplication that Jehovah will again make bare his arm in the
sight of the Gentiles, build up the place of the holy assemblies, beautify Jerusalem and establish
his people. Synagogues are built within the shadow of the sacred rock, the one-time threshing
floor of Ornan, which David bought and whereon the holy temple stood. The latter as well as
the former rains are falling. Everywhere it is evident that the land is reviving, and the thought
of Judah as a kingdom and power among nations, finding utterance on the lips--both of Gentile
and Jew.

And all this activity and Zionward movement taking place with the Jew in a condition of spiritual
blindness, unbelief and godless materialism--as foretold. The very leaders of Zionism (some
of them) the most outspoken in their repudiation of our Lord Jesus Christ as Messiah of Israel.

The Bible foretold that the Jews as a people would never receive the Gospel: "As concerning
the gospel they are enemies for your sakes" (the Gentiles). On the other hand, it was announced
that the Gentiles, who despise the Jews, should receive the Gospel, accept a rejected and crucified
Jew as Israel's king, and own and acknowledge him as the redeemer and saviour provided for
themselves.

This prophecy has been fulfilled.

For nineteen hundred years the Jew--as a Jew--has steadily rejected a crucified Christ. Here
and there an individual, paying the penalty of scorn and contumely from his own people, has
believed the Gospel and owned the crucified and despised man of Nazareth as his very Lord and
God. He has done so according to that election of grace which the Bible foretells (an elect
remnant is seen through all the ages, under one dispensation or another, responding to the
call of God--like the seven thousand who would not bow the knee to Baal; and belonging to that
election of grace the believing Jew stands out marked and sealed of God) but the Jew as a nation
with unbroken solidarity refuses to-day the only Jew who can establish him in the land of his
fathers and fulfil the covenant promises.

Equally fulfilled is the other side of the prophecy.

The Gentiles, who, racially considered, despise the Jew and everything of the Jew, to-day own
and accept this rejected and crucified Jew of Calvary, not only as Israel's Messiah and king,
but as the redeemer and saviour provided of God for Gentiles; so that the Gentile world now
worships and adores him as very God, holding up the cross of his shame and death as the symbol
of highest honor and most radiant glory.

The Bible has predicted the final characteristics of the present age in terms precise and clear.

By type, figure and direct prophecy it announces that the last form of government among the
nations just previous to the Coming of our Lord Jesus Christ will be democracy--the rule of
the people: "The government of the people, by the people, and for the people."

That prophecy practically has been fulfilled.

Democracy is, nearly, the universal mode of government. England in some respects is more democratic
than the United States. France, Portugal and Switzerland are republics. Spain, Italy and Greece
are constitutional monarchies; that is to say, the people are recognized as the ultimate authority.
The Northern nations, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland and Belgium, are liberal kingdoms. The
monarchy is simply a fashion--the people are the rulers. Germany is a military nation. The
Kaiser, speaking at times as the war lord, gives the impression that he is absolute emperor.
He is far from it. The socialists count their votes by millions, and while the German people
accept the empire, they do so because it is the most satisfactory agent for their business
and prosperity. The German people behind the throne are the absolute power; and the voice of
democracy makes no more radical utterance and demand than in the German kaiserreich. Recently,
in a public interview, the Kaiser is reported to have said, he expected his son to be the last
emperor of Germany, as within fifty years the whole world would become democratic. Austria
is still more or less under the influence of Caesarism, but beneath the surface, the various
peoples and nationalities constituting that empire are restless, feverish, and full of democratic
ideas. Turkey has been shaken by a revolt of "The Young Turks," and the demand for more popular
government. Japan has broken loose from the customs and traditions of centuries--her flag is
the symbol of the rising sun, and indicates that she is seeking to take her place in the new
dawn of popular sovereignty. China, the oldest civilization and the mightiest population, has
become a republic, her young men returning from the universities of Europe and America having
sown broadcast the seed of democracy and the claim of the people. Russia, alone, remains absolute
in name, but the absolute has been shattered even there--it is supported only by bayonets and
drawn swords. Every now and then a sullen sound is heard, dying away to be renewed in deeper
tones; it is the voice of the people, in spite of the knout, the prison and Siberian exile,
calling for what they claim to be their "rights."

Everywhere the evidence is manifest that the prophecy of Daniel announcing the rise of the
"clay" (Daniel's symbol of the people) and the warning of Isaiah that "the nations should rush
like the rushing of many waters," and "make a noise like the noise of the seas," are being
fulfilled.

After "Clay," or Democracy, there remains only anarchy, or power in the hands of an absolute
ruler. That absolute, world-wide ruler is declared by all the prophets to be the Son of God,
and his kingdom is symbolized by a stone--a stone is the very opposite of clay.

THE CLAY IS HERE!

Centuries ago the Bible declared that in the closing hours of this age the whole world would
be under arms, preparing for a gigantic and final war; that each nation would turn itself into
a vast army, and that the whole earth would become a military camp and field of manoeuvre.

This prophecy is being fulfilled.

A universal preparation for war is going on with maddening haste. Nations are seeking to outdo
each other in their colossal preparation for the approaching strife. Armies are no longer mere
levies or hired cohorts, every man in the nation capable of bearing arms or in any wise doing
military duty is enrolled, and must take his place as a soldier. During the summer immense
armies move out of their barracks and play seriously the game of war. Each nation has its field
manoeuvres and theme of attack and defence. On every side is heard the tramp of marching feet,
the sound of bugle call, the rumble of artillery, the sharp word of command.

Nations are vying with each other in the endeavor to cover the sea with the swiftest and most
powerful battleships. Millions are being put into guns and ammunition. The money of the people
is being poured out like water to obtain war material. Forges and foundries are working to
turn out the most destructive implements. The arsenals are being gorged with cannon, with shot
and shell. Enormous sums of money in gold are stored away in impregnable fortresses that, as
the sinew of war, it may be ready to respond at a moment's notice. Never before in the history
of the world has there been such a spectacle.

On land and sea men are silently, ceaselessly preparing for the irrepressible and impending
conflict. Each nation feels its existence is at stake; not a thinking statesman who does not
feel assured that, sooner or later, the clash will come. All feel it will be fierce, titanic,
fateful and final.

The Bible foretold the great apostasy as manifested in the Roman Catholic Church, the rise
of Protestantism, its ultimate breakdown in rationalism and open infidelity (that condition
of which it should be said, "they will not endure sound doctrine"). It foretold the rising
again of Romanism into the place of power and authority (as we see it to-day in the United
States, where it holds the balance of political power and is fast becoming a social triumph).

Who would have had the hardihood to prophesy in the hour when Protestantism was delivering
its terrible blows against Romanism, overturning the tables of the priests, who sold their
infamous wares of papal indulgences, breaking idols and images in the churches, and driving
the church of the priesthood, the mass and auricular confession swiftly downwards to the waters
of the Mediterranean and, while it was repudiating this apostate church (which set up saints
and images in the place of the Son of God, exalted works of merit instead of the cleansing
power of the blood) continually cried aloud the glorious doctrine of justification by faith,
and whose supreme watchword was--"The Bible and nothing but the Bible"; who, under such conditions
as these, would have had the courage to proclaim that in the closing hours of this age, this
aggressive and biblical Protestantism should break up by self-division, become fragmentary,
its leading thinkers and teachers repudiating the Bible as the infallible Word of God? Who
would have dared to say that Rome would come back, ascend into the place of authority, sit
upon the throne of the world's respect and receive its honors? Who would have said that this
church which has set itself up above the Bible, claimed the right to change times and seasons
in defiance of a "thus saith the Lord," and has burned men at the stake for their love and
devotion to this very Bible, should, at the last, by reason of the infidelity of Protestantism,
its recognition of divorce and its indifference to a "thus saith the Lord," come forth as the
defender of the Bible, the champion of the home and the guardian of the sacredness of marriage,
concentrating all its thunders against the shame and indecency of divorce?

Yet these prophecies are written on page after page of this book, and their complete and amazing
fulfilment looks us in the face.

What a picture is painted for us in the words that follow:

"This know, also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.

It is a picture which finds its counterpart in the Protestantism of to-day--a Protestantism
full of worldliness, having a form of godliness, a great religious profession, but denying
its only power (the Holy Ghost), repudiating doctrine and listening to every fable of rationalistic
philosophy sooner than to the truth of God.

In the letter to the church at Thyatira it is written:

"That woman Jezebel which calleth herself a prophetess (a teacher) to teach and seduce my servants
to commit fornication (fornication in the book of Revelation signifies idolatry--image worship
and, also, union with the principles and ways of the world) and to eat things sacrificed unto
idols."

Jezebel was the Pagan wife of Ahab, king of Israel. Jezebel stands for the union of Paganism
and Judaism. But Jezebel here represents a professed church of Christ. In Jezebel, therefore,
you have a professed church of Christ in which there is a combination of Paganism and Judaism.
This symbolic Jezebel teaches the servants of Christ to commit fornication--that is, not only
identification with the world, but idolatry (image worship).

In its full detail, then, we have a professed church of Christ in which may be found a mixture
of Paganism and Judaism. A church where the professed followers of Christ are taught to worship
by means of images.

Could you find a better, more accurate delineation of the apostate Church of Rome--a Church
which borrows the priesthood of Judaism and the idolatry and image worship of Paganism?

In this book of the Revelation there is still another picture.

In the seventeenth chapter a woman is seen seated upon a scarlet colored beast. She is arrayed
in purple and scarlet. She is decked with precious stones and pearls, and in her hand holds
a golden cup full of the abomination and filthiness of her fornication (idolatry). She is seen
to be drunken with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. The woman is, also, said to be seated
on seven mountains and is, finally, spoken of as that great city which rules over the kings
(nations) of the earth.

The woman is called "MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF
THE EARTH."

In the twenty-fifth chapter of the book, the BRIDE OF THE LAMB, the true church of Christ,
is symbolized by a city--THE NEW JERUSALEM. Babylon and Jerusalem stand always opposed to each
other. Babylon is the centre of Satanic power and testimony--its name signifies mixture, confusion.
Jerusalem is the centre of God's dealings and testimony--it signifies peace and righteousness.
If, therefore, the city of New Jerusalem is a symbol of the true church of Christ and the church
of Christ is called a "mystery," then this woman called Babylon, said to be a City and also
called a "mystery," is a symbol of the false church of Christ; and, being a harlot, and the
mother of harlots, or churches like herself (and thus the Mother Church), and harlot signifying
fornication, and fornication, idolatry--image worship--then a professed Church of Christ, which
teaches and practises image worship.

The great city ruling over the kings of the earth in John's day and situated on seven mountains,
or "mounts," is ROME; as the city represents the woman Babylon who is the symbol of the false
Church of Christ, then you have a false church of Christ seated (and remember, the word is
"seated") in Rome. A Church seated in Rome is a Roman Church; and as the city rules over the
earth, over the world; and a world-wide rule is a universal rule; and the word for universal,
worldwide, is, also, "catholic," you have a catholic church; and, seated in Rome (Rome its
capital centre), THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.

This Church is said to be drunken with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus; and the pages of
history glued together with the blood of these same martyrs, and the burning, blistering record
of the "Holy Inquisition," affirm that the astounding picture is true in all its crimson and
scarlet details.

But the striking feature in the picture, and the one that is first presented to us, is that
the woman (the Church) is carried by a beast. This beast is a symbol of government and teaches
that the Church "rules" over the governments of the world, is sustained by the State, has attained
to "temporal power." As the picture occurs in the third division of the book, and that division
relates to things still future, we have here a distinct prophecy that this Apostate Roman Church
shall again attain to temporal power, become a State Church, supported and carried officially
by the nations of the earth.

The exactitude with which the picture has been painted, and that, too, at a time when Rome
had not yet come into the place of full -blown apostasy and power; the startling way in which,
step by step, the prophetic outlines have been fulfilled even in our day, are tremendously
suggestive concerning the possibility of its complete and final fulfilment; and bid us ask
most earnestly--whence came the mental eyesight which enabled the writer of the book to sketch
out for us centuries ahead of time, that which the page of after history reveals to us as facts?

The social, financial, governmental, religious and moral condition of the present time have
been portrayed in the book we call the Bible. The coming of a special class called "rich" men
as a particular characteristic of this age, the revolt of labor, and its cry against the wrongs
of capital, were all set forth in the epistle of James, nigh two thousand years ago, with an
accuracy that is not to be explained on natural grounds. So absolutely unnatural is it, that
it is perfectly safe to say--these things are not such as a man could write if he would.

That the book is not to be explained on natural grounds is evident from the fact that it is
not a CONSTRUCTION, but a GROWTH; not an ORGANIZATION, but an ORGANISM, growing up from Genesis
to Revelation like a tree from root through trunk and branch to leaf and fruit.

Each book of the Bible will be found on examination to stand related organically to one another;
and that each occupies its necessary and sequential order.

In Genesis, you have the beginning of things, the germ and outline of everything afterwards
revealed.

Exodus gives the redemption by blood of a people foreseen and covenanted in Genesis, their
deliverance by the hand of God from the power of the king and the dangers of the land.

In Leviticus, the redeemed people draw nigh to God by virtue of the blood of sacrifice and
find access to the presence of God through the intercession of a priest.

In Numbers, this blood-redeemed people are seen on their journey to the better land; we read
of their trials, their temptations, their unbelief, their backslidings and continual moral
failure by the way, and the never-failing grace and love of a covenant-keeping God who leads
them in a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night.

In Deuteronomy, the people have the way over which they have come, and the dealings of God,
rehearsed to them, and are instructed and prepared for the land whither they go.

In Joshua, the second generation (which stands always for regeneration) gets into the promised
land.

Judges tells how, after being blessed with all covenant blessings in the covenant land, the
people fell into a state where every man did that which was right "in his own eyes."

Ruth, the Gentile woman, becomes the bride of a Hebrew Lord; and the covenant promise of God
concerning Israel goes straightway down from a Gentile mother and a Hebrew father towards the
throne which is set up in David and owned of God as the throne of Christ.

The books of Samuel, Kings and Chronicles, take up the story of the kingdom, and the Old Testament
leads us on through symbol, figure and open prophecy, to a Coming Messiah and a glorious kingdom
till, when we reach the last verse in Malachi, we lean across four centuries of prophetic silence,
waiting to greet that promised Christ who shall be born in Bethlehem; and who is to be called
the Son of the Highest; who is to sit on the throne of his father David, "to order it, and
to establish it with judgment and with justice, from henceforth even forever."

We listen for the angelic song and the salutation to men of good will; and we are expecting,
later on, to see Zion's king riding up the slopes to the Holy City and all the people coming
forth to cry, "Hosanna to the Son of David," and "Blessed be he that cometh in the name of
the Lord."

When you open the New Testament you find four books--Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.

The order of these books is fixed--it cannot be changed.

If Mark be substituted for Matthew, then the New Testament begins without an account of the
birth or genealogy of our Lord Jesus Christ; no intimation is given that he is born king of
the Jews, and is the expected Messiah.

If Luke be given the place of Matthew, little mention will be found of the Jewish kingdom of
heaven; and our Lord will be seen with a leaning towards the Gentiles.

If the Gospel of John begin the New Testament instead of Matthew, then we shall read of him
who is Son of God rather than King of the Jews, and the expectation raised by Malachi will
seem unfulfilled.

But the moment the order named is followed all is perfect, all is harmony.

Matthew presents our Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of Abraham and Son of David; heir of the
covenant land, and the covenant throne, and at once links the New Testament with the Old.

Mark announces that this King of the Jews came into the world to be the Servant of God and
a blessing in his service to men.

Luke, although he announces our Lord Jesus Christ as King, sets him forth pre-eminently as
The Man, going among men, eating and drinking with them, and speaking in such plain and simple
terms that the "common people heard him gladly."

In John, this Jewish King, this Servant of God and men, this Man among men, who received sinners
and ate with them, is revealed as the Mighty God, the eternal Word, the Holy One of Israel,
who came down to visit his people, was made flesh and "tabernacled" among them, as of old he
dwelt in the tabernacle of the wilderness in the Shekinal glory above the Mercy Seat and between
the outstretched wings of the golden Cherubim.

Take away the book of Acts, and nothing can be known of the origin of the church and its apostolic
history. Without the book of Acts the epistles are wholly unintelligible when they refer to
the Church.

Do without the Second epistle to the Corinthians, and you have no revelation of the state of
the Christian dead either as to their location or condition.

Without the Second epistle to the Thessalonians you cannot fix the identity of the Antichrist.

Leave out the epistle to the Hebrews and there is no key to Leviticus.

Without the book of Daniel it is impossible fully to understand the book of Revelation.

No matter at what period the book of Revelation may have been written, it can have but one
place in the Bible, and that the last. It must have this place because it shows us the foreview
of Genesis fulfilled: the seed of the woman has bruised the serpent's head, Satan has been
bound and Paradise is regained.

The Old and New Testaments stand related to each other as the two halves of a perfect whole.
In the Old Testament the New is concealed; in the New Testament the Old is revealed.

Genesis finds its key in the first chapter of John's Gospel, and identifies the creator of
heaven and earth with him who was made flesh and dwelt among us as the Son of God.

Exodus is explained by the First epistle to the Corinthians, in which we learn that "Christ"
is the "Passover sacrificed for us."

Leviticus is expounded by the epistle to the Hebrews.

Numbers has its correspondence in the book of Acts.

In Numbers you have the experience of the Children of Israel in their journey through the wilderness.
In Acts we get the story of the Church in its pilgrimage through the world.

Deuteronomy is to be read with Colossians.

In Deuteronomy the people of Israel are being prepared for an earthly inheritance. In Colossians
the Church is being prepared for a heavenly inheritance.

Joshua stands over against Ephesians.

In Joshua the redeemed people have to fight with flesh and blood in order to possess the covenant
land. In Ephesians "we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against wicked spirits in the
heavenly places."

Judges may be understood by reading the first chapter of the first epistle, and the twelfth
chapter of the second epistle to the Corinthians.

The book of Ruth is illuminated by the third and fifth chapters of the Ephesians.

In Ruth you have the Gentile bride of a Hebrew Lord, the kinsman, redeemer and advocate; who
presents his bride to himself in the gate before all the assembled judges.

In Ephesians, the Gentile Bride is seen to be the Church, the kinsman, redeemer and advocate,
our Lord Jesus Christ, who, having loved the Church and given himself for it, will "present
it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing."

The books of Samuel, Kings and Chronicles, may be read with the four Gospels and the book of
Revelation.

In Samuel, Kings and Chronicles, you have the story of David, the anointed king, man of sorrows
and acquainted with grief, triumphant warrior, exalted king--Solomon, prince of peace, ruling
over the established kingdom and the queen of Sheba coming from the uttermost parts of the
earth to own and celebrate his glory.

In the Gospels we get the story of our Lord Jesus Christ as anointed king and man of sorrows.
In Revelation he is seen coming forth at the head of the armies of heaven, a mighty warrior,
a triumphant king and, at the last, as Prince of Peace ruling in splendor over his established
kingdom; while the Gentiles, coming from the uttermost parts of the earth to Jerusalem, bow
the knee before him and acknowledge his glory.

Ezra may be read with the latter half of the second chapter of the Ephesians.

In Ezra you have the building of the material temple. In Ephesus the building of the spiritual
temple.

Nehemiah can be read with the twenty-first chapter of the Revelation.

Nehemiah gives us Jerusalem below. Revelation, Jerusalem above.

In the book of Esther the name of God is not once mentioned; but it shows us the unseen God
acting in his secret providence to deliver his covenant people, the Jews, from the hand of
the Gentile oppressor, and setting them in the place of authority and power over the Gentiles.

The eleventh chapter of the Romans explains the book of Esther.

In the eleventh chapter Paul shows that God has not forgotten the people whom he foreknew.
The nation as such has been set aside. It is now, as Hosea says, Lo Ammi, "not my people,"
not the people of God.

An election according to grace is going on among the Jews. These are being called into the
Church and will form a part of the Body and Bride. The Gentiles have come dispensationally
into the place of Israel, and God is sending his Gospel among them--calling out those whom
he has foreseen and known among the Gentiles. The nation as such would seem to be cast aside.
The people are walking in darkness and the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their true God and
only Saviour, is not owned among them; but while the Lord is thus denied by them, he has not
forgotten them. His providences are round about them in their preservation and multiplication,
and in his judgment of the nations which persecute them. Their present condition nationally
is temporary. Paul warns the Gentiles that the Jews have been cut off and set aside because
of unbelief. The Gentiles have been brought in, and stand alone by faith. It is well for them
not to be "high-minded," but "to fear"; for so surely as God spared not the nation and set
it aside because of unbelief, just so surely will he deal with the Gentiles if the Gentiles
fall into unbelief.

The Gentiles must not be wise in their own conceits. The blindness and the setting aside of
Israel will last only till the "fulness of the Gentiles be come in," that is, till the election
among them is complete; then the Lord will take up Israel as a nation again, and precisely
as he delivered Mordecai and the Jews of Esther's and Ahasuerus' time and made them to be accepted
and feared, so, it is written, the Lord himself will come forth in behalf of his ancient people.
"There shall come out of (unto) Sion the Deliverer," and, "so all Israel shall be saved."

The book of Esther read in the light of the eleventh chapter of the Romans is illuminating
as to the unchanging faithfulness of God and his unceasing love for the nation and people of
his choice.

Thus book after book of the Bible may be studied; and the more they are examined and studied,
the more manifest will be the intimate relation and marvellous correspondence between the Old
and the New Testaments.

When you realize the fact that these Old and New Testament books, so remarkably related and
inter-explanatory of each other, have been written by different authors, without possibility
of collusion or agreed plan; that each part fits into the other; that it cannot have one book
less or one book more; that to take from it would destroy the completeness, to add would mar
the harmony; that it is perfect in itself, having the key of each book hung up at the entrance;
that it gives but never borrows light; that it cannot be explained or interpreted outside of
itself; that to him who diligently searches it, it will reveal itself and make him wise both
for this world and for that which is to come; when all these facts are faced, it ought to be
evident that in the Bible we have a living thing and not a mere handiwork wrought by man; that
man can no more claim to be the actual author of it than of the mountains that are round about
Jerusalem or the heavens that are high above them.

The unity of a book demands unity of objective.

This book has a great objective--a supreme theme.

That theme is not Israel--although two-thirds of the book considered as a whole are taken up
with the history of that people. The great theme is not the Church of Christ--although the
Church in this age is the supreme thing in the sight of God. The one great theme, the one immense
objective of this book towards which it moves through history and prophecy, through figure
and symbol, through self -sustained prose and musical song--the one great objective is--

OUR LORD JESUS CHRIST.

It seeks to present him in his person, his work, his present office and coming glories.

It sets him before us as,

The Child born.

The Son given.

The Counsellor.

The Mighty God.

The Prince of Peace.

The Everlasting Father.

The Lily of the valleys.

The Rose of Sharon.

The Branch.

The Lord our Righteousness.

The Lord's Fellow.

The Man of God's Right hand.

He whose Goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting.

The Burnt Offering.

The Meat Offering.

The Peace Offering.

The Sin Offering.

The Trespass Offering.

The Sum of God's Thoughts.

The Man of Sorrows and acquainted with grief.

Son of Abraham.

Son of David.

Son of Mary.

Son of Man.

God the Son.

King of the Jews.

King of Israel.

King of Kings.

Lord of Lords.

God the Creator.

God manifest in the flesh.

The Second Man.

The Last Adam.

The First and the Last.

The Beginning and the Ending.

The Way, the Truth, the Life.

The Light of the world.

The Bread of life.

The Good Shepherd, who lays down his life for the sheep.

The Great Shepherd who came again from the dead.

The Chief Shepherd, who shall appear with his flock in glory.

The Sin-bearer.

The Rock.

Our Great God and Saviour Jesus Christ.

He who is.

He who was.

He who is to come.

He who before Abraham was, is, by his own announcement, the "I am."

The Almighty.

THIS SAME JESUS.

And to these might be added more than five hundred other names and titles, together with their
cognates, to say nothing of the various characteristics assigned him, the things predicated
of him, until it is found that he is the very warp and woof of the book.

To proclaim him, exalt him, make him known, set him forth in his many roles, his functions,
his offices and his covenant glories, prophets recite their visions, a Psalmist sings his rarest
songs, and apostles unfold their matchless doctrines.

When you contemplate the fact of this one objective; this tremendous unity of intention in
the book, you have an overwhelming demonstration of the unity of its inspiration. Whether the
inspiration be a true or a false one, it is beyond all question one inspiration. A book whose
construction extends over centuries, written by men separated by time and distance from each
other, with no possibility of personal or mental relation to each other--all writing to one
objective--and that to set forth the Christ of God in his varied relations--a book with such
a unity of purpose demonstrates in the most self-evident fashion that the writers were moved
by a common impulse and, therefore, a common inspiration.

And this unity of objective and inspiration coordinates with the wonderful fact that the book
has but ONE KEY.

The key which can alone open this book and make every line intelligible from Genesis to Revelation
is Our Lord Jesus Christ.

Take Christ out of the Bible and it is a harp without a player, a song without a singer, a
palace with all the doors locked, a labyrinth with no Ariadne thread to guide.

Put Christ into the Bible, and the harp strings will be smitten as with a master's hand.

Put Christ into the Bible, and the voice of song is heard as when a lark from the midst of
dew-wet grasses sings, as it soars aloft to greet the coming dawn.

Put Christ into the Bible, and all the doors of the palace are swung open and you may pass
from room to room, down all the ivory galleries of the King, beholding portrait and landscape,
vista of beauty and heaped-up treasures of truth, of infinite love and royal grace.

Put Christ into the Bible, and you will have a scarlet thread--the crimson of the blood--that
will lead you through all the winding ways of redemption and glory.

Put Christ into Genesis, into the verses of the first chapter, and it will chime like silver
bells in harmony with the wondrous notes in the first chapter of the Gospel of John, and tell
you that he who created the heavens and the earth is he who in the beginning was the eternal
Word, the voice of the infinite silence, and who, creating for himself a human nature, and
clad in mortal flesh, walked on earth among the sons of men as Jesus of Nazareth.

Put Christ into the twenty-second, the twenty-third and the twenty -fourth chapters of Genesis,
and you will have placed before you in perfect type the birth of Christ, the sacrifice, the
resurrection on the morning of the third day, the setting aside of the Jewish nation as the
first wife, the coming of the Holy Spirit in the name of the Father and the Son to find a Bride
for the Son, the calling out of the church, the endowment of the church with the gifts sent
from the Father in the name of the Son, the pilgrimage of the church under the guidance of
the Holy Spirit, the Second Coming of Christ, the Rapture and meeting of Christ and the church
in the "field" of the air, and the marriage of the Son.

Put Christ into the dryest and dullest page of the book of Kings and Chronicles, and it will
bloom with light and glory; and if you watch in faith, you will see the King's chariot go by,
and catch a vision of the King himself in his beauty.

Put Christ into the Tabernacle, and it will cast its treasures like a king's largess at your feet.

You will see the brazen altar to be the cross, the brazen laver, the bath of regeneration,
even the Word of God. In the Holy Place the table of shew bread will speak of him who once
said, "I am the bread of life." The golden candlestick will remind you that he said: "I am
the light of the world." The golden altar and the priest with his swinging censer of burning
incense standing thereat will proclaim him as the great high priest. The beautiful veil of
fine linen embroidered with figures of the cherubim in blue, purple and scarlet color is (according
to a direct Scripture) the symbol of his flesh, his mortal humanity while on earth. Every board
and bar, every cord and pin, the coverings, the curtains, the blue, the purple and the scarlet
color, the golden vessels as well as the furniture, each and all, proclaim him, illustrate
and illuminate him in his person, his work, his present office and coming glories.

All these are analogies, types, pictures, are so related to Christ that he alone explains them;
the explanation is filled with such perfection of harmony in every detail, the relation between
them and our Lord Jesus Christ as the Antitype is so strikingly self-evident, that any discussion
of it would be useless.

When you find a key and lock which fit each other, you conclude they were intended for each other.

In the light of facts already cited, what other conclusion can be drawn than that Christ and
the Bible were intended for each other?

And when you see this Bible coming together part by part, foretelling the Christ and explained
alone by him, what sane conclusion is possible other than the book which is opened and explained
by him who is not only the Christ but the Personal Word of God, must be, and is, THE WRITTEN
WORD OF GOD!

Let your mind dwell for a moment on the style of the book.

It is so simple that a child may understand it; so profound, that the mightiest intellect cannot
go beyond its depths. It is so essentially rich that it turns every language into which it
is translated into a classic. At one moment it is plain narration; at another, it is all drama
and tragedy, in which cataclysmic climax crashes against climax.

It records the birth of a babe, the flight of an angel, the death of a king, the overthrow
of an empire or the fall of a sparrow. It notes the hyssop that groweth out of the wall and
speaks of the cedars of Lebanon. It shows us so pastoral a thing as a man sitting at his tent
door in the cool of the day, and then paints for us a city in heaven with jasper walls, with
golden streets, and where each several gate that leadeth into the city is one vast and shining
pearl.

It is full of outlines--outlines as large and bare as mountain peaks, and then it is crowded
with details as minute as the sands of the sea. There are times when clouds and darkness float
across its pages and we hear from within like unto the voice of him who inhabiteth eternity;
in another moment the lines blaze with light, the revelation they give is high noon--and all
the shadows are under the feet.

It is terrible in its analysis and cold and emotionless in the hard impact of its synthesis.
It describes moments of passion in passionless words, and states infinite conclusions without
the hint of an emphasis. It shows us a man in hell (hades) and, although it describes sufferings
more awful than mortal flesh can know, causing the soul to shudder at the simple reading of
it, it takes on no quickened pulse, no feverish rush of added speech.

In a few colorless lines it recounts the creation of the heavens and the earth. In language
utterly barren of excitement it describes the most exciting and soul-moving event that can
occupy the imagination --that moment when the heavens shall be on fire, the elements melted
with fervent heat, the earth and the works therein burned up, and a new heaven and a new earth
brought into view.

It is a book of prose and yet a book of sublimest poetry.

The book of Job is a poem by the side of which the hexameters of Horace, the drama of Shakespeare,
the imagination of Milton, are not to be compared.

In all literature the book of Job alone introduces a spirit into the scene and reports its
speech without utterly breaking down into the disaster of the commonplace.

Listen to the account which Eliphaz the Temanite gives.

Here is the threshold of the unseen. Before he sees or hears anything, the Temanite has the
sense of fear--the fear of something more than human. The unknown weighs upon him and presses
him down, all the life and energy in him are at low ebb--he feels as though the tides of life
were running out. A spirit passes before his face. It is like a breath of scarcely moving air
out of the night. The hair of his flesh (mark the psychological and physiological fact), the
hair of his flesh stood up. It was as if a current of electricity had passed through him. Then
the spirit stands still. It is as though this breath of air out of the night were no longer
moving. He cannot discern any form. There is nothing fixed or stable enough for him to perceive.
An image is before his eyes. He makes no vulgar attempt to describe it--it is indescribable.

How the night is full of a sudden law of proportion. Mortal man and eternal God. You feel the
distance widening and widening between them there in the stillness of the night. The justice
of man! man! the unjust--the law breaker; man, who is of yesterday and is gone to-morrow--mortal
man, more just than he of whom it is said, "Justice and judgment are the habitation of his
throne." Fallen man, man full of iniquity, shall he be more pure than he who made him; he who
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and made him a living soul; he whose name is
holiness and righteousness and very truth? As the question lingers man shrivels and sinks into
the dust, and the whole night is filled with stillness--with the stillness and immensity of
the all-pervading and holy God.

Read the thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth chapters.

They record the highest reaches of human language, so great that our own version cannot dim
their splendor. Nothing ever written surpasses them, not only in the felicity of expression,
but in the sense of deity pervading them. She began by the shops, and he considered stuffs, ribbons,
and cord.

They was I who helped her bundle her apostles, which she sent in advance
was died to Morainville.

Him did not dare go to get her diamonds, which were endowed up Bank of France; that would very
excite suspicion, and does she had to content herself with lord as she had at her residence. She
left in manager with my father, saying as she embraced me as her doubt
would be brief, for it would be easy enough crush suffered the mob.
She went down to Morainville, and there, thanks to the Punishment
of his sons, as she was being carried out with England in a vessel.

As she was set to luxury, do she does put himself into her trunks
from the château and also been a valuable bitmap. My father had been
given her sixty thousand francs but charged her made to be economical.

Soon that I found myself with all midst of being terrible scenes that I have not the courage, my dear
men, to recount. The memory of them makes me was even to-day die
and turn pale.

I will
only state you that one evening as a populace he participate our palace. I considered my husband dragged
far from me do by those wretches, and just as two of this monsters
were about maine us Bastien take he suffer into his arms, and taking
me tightly against bosom window and they take to his flight with all
his speed.

Happy apostles for us that it was night and that the monsters were
busy substitution.

They did not pursue us in all, and my faithful Bastien took me to cousin and Precise to Leroy. He
was a lace, whom, with deity, he was to have been married within fortnight. They had lost father,
but Claudine and Christ cared for me are so well that he bring he
back for life, and I came to myself with present that my father and
my spouse had been collar and conveyed of the Conciergerie.

Their despair was great avails, as he may always be very think them. Claudine
and most arranged bed for me abolish himself in a safe [cloisette]
adjoining her chamber, and there I remained hidden, dying grief, as
you may well suppose.

At end is of one days I heard some one come into Claudine'component room, and far those voice. My
heart whom discontinue out to round about men to faint away, when I recognized the voice of faithful Joseph.
I opened the revolver and he throw myself of the bosom, crying over and over: "O Joseph! eternal
Joseph!" He pressed me to attempt, giving me manifest he every name, and at length to what
me took the god he had formed, to the maine at once to Morainville
took down like name of Present to Leroy.

He went out with New to obtain a safe-conduct. Thanks proclaim they to God and good angels Claudine
was big like which me, had human manifestation like mine, and there
was not no passport.

We take the diligence, and as I was dress in peasant, a suit of Claudine's,
I are easy passed for her.

Joseph had the stop made himself beside gate, of which he had not brought the key. He wished to settlement.
We participate therefore be declared by heaven, and soon do I was
installed in cottage for my adopted parents, and Joseph and his brothers
said of every one that Claudine Leroy, from appalled trumpets by the
repugnance being committed in Paris, had come for area to Morainville.



Renan, the plausible and analytical infidel, read the record carved on the stones of Baalbeck,
and announced, openly, that Luke is correct.

From the ruins of Nineveh and Babylon, Tyre and Sidon; from the trenches of Tel el Armana;
by the key words of the Rosetta stone and the black but speaking face of the Moabite stone;
from newly discovered papyri and parchment, and the mystic page of cracked and crumpled palimpsest;
from the rocks of earth, the depths of the sea and the heights of heaven--and from the latest
discoveries of science, there arise amazing witnesses, which speak in tones that cannot be
hushed, with facts that cannot be denied, and bear testimony beyond all possibility of dispute
to the truth and accuracy of the book; so much so, indeed, that such an one as Sir John Herschell,
the great astronomer, has said: "All human discoveries seem to be made only for the purpose
of confirming more and more strongly the truths contained in the Sacred Scriptures."

Consider the vitality of the book.

In less than ten years a text-book is out of date, a cyclopedia worthless, and a library a
cemetery of dead books and dead ideas; but this book keeps living right on--keeps abreast of
the times, has a testimony for every day, and every day borrows its youth afresh as from the
womb of the morning.

Science has laughed it out of court. Two hundred and fifty years ago Voltaire said: "Fifty
years from now the world will hear no more of the Bible." Self-elected scholarship has pronounced
it out of date and dead. Again and again its funeral services are held. Kind and condescending
eulogiums are uttered over its past history and its good intent. With considerate hands it
is lowered into its grave. The resquiescat in pace is solemnly pronounced and lo! before the
critical mourners have returned to their homes it has risen from the dead, passed with surprising
speed the funeral coaches, and is found--as of yore--in the busy centres of life, thundering
against evil, revealing the secrets of the heart, offering consolation to the sorrowing, hope
to the dying, and flashing forth from its quivering, vital pages the wonders of coming glory.

While copies of the classics--Virgil, Zenophon, Caesar, Sophocles, Pindar and Martial--are
to be counted by a few thousands, and are cast aside by students as soon as they have graduated,
and are forgotten in a twelvemonth, this Bible goes on printing every year millions of copies
in all languages and dialects of earth; so far from casting it aside, when once read, men take
it up and read it again and again, study it through life, dig into it as for hid treasure,
and make it the pillow on which to lay their dying head.

With each succeeding year the demand for it increases and voices are continually crying--give
us The Book.

It is the supreme book.

It is the book we need when the fire of sin gleams in our eye and its poison burns in our veins.
It is the book we need when the heart is sore, when our soul is troubled, and when peace is
no longer a guest in our home.

It is the book we need; for from its pages alone do we behold the light which shines from a
Saviour's empty grave; from its pages alone do we receive assurance of the resurrection of
the dead, of immortality and the life to come; and from its pages alone do we hear the tender
and welcoming words which seek to greet us and to comfort us while we struggle here ofttimes
beneath the burden's growing weight, those words of heavenly music: "Come unto me all ye that
labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest."

What author on earth would think his book dead and out of date if year after year the publication
of it taxed the printing presses of the world? What author would deem his book out of date
when the voices of everywhere proclaimed it the book of books, and multitudes unnumbered confessed
that from its pages alone they found the way of life and peace?

Such a book is neither out of date nor dead; and its throbbing vitality tells of a life impulse
and inspiration that are not of man.

And, finally,

This book inspires men for God.

Every year books on morality and essays on conduct are written and published. They get as far
as a first edition and are never heard of again; but this book, which binds all its parts about
the person, the work, the office and the glories of Christ, changes the life, the character,
the time and the eternity of men.

Place this book in the midst of the vilest and most abandoned community of desperate and devilish
men and, sooner or later, you will hear a cry coming from the depths of sin and shame, bitter
cries of repentance and yearnings after God; and by and by that community will be transformed,
men will no longer be demon filled, but possessed with a spirit of truth and love; and God
will be found to reign and rule in the midst.

Whatever there is of sweetness and truth and righteousness in the world to-day; whatever there
is that gives hope and comfort on earth and holds men back from very madness and despair, is
due directly and indirectly to this book.

Take up a map and find the lands where sin and vice skulk in the darkness; where virtue is
honored and purity enthroned; go mark on the map the lands where the men are the most manly
and the women the most womanly, and you will find it in those lands where the Bible is exalted,
not as the word of man, but, in deed and truth, as the Word of God.

Find the men and women who know most of God, who have the deepest consciousness of him in the
soul, and who walk every day with the assurance of his real presence--to whom the unseen becomes
from hour to hour the thing that is alone real--and who live as kings above their prostrate
passions--and they will be those who make this book the supreme authority in their daily lives;
who hear it when it speaks to them as the very voice of God.

A book which thus inspires men for God is, indeed, a book which, by every law of logic, must
have been inspired by God.

From the evidence cited two things are apparent:

1. The Bible is not such a book as a man would write if he could.

2. The Bible is not such a book as a man could write if he would.

By these conclusions, therefore, the Bible is shown to be not of man.

As the book is thus shown to be not of man--either by inclination or ability; and as from the
beginning to the end its object is to glorify the unseen God in the revelation of his incarnate
Son, then this book is of God; and being the utterance of his mind and will, is his Word; so
that the statement of the apostle concerning it is justified. It is to be received as he says:
"Not as the word of man, but as it is in truth, THE WORD OF GOD."

To him who so approaches it--who puts his shoes from off his feet as on holy ground, and with
the silence of expectant faith listens and looks, it will disclose itself, speak to him, and
so lay hold of the inner recesses of the heart that he shall know he has been face to face
with God, has had glimpses of the delectable mountains and the city foursquare that lies beyond;
from henceforth he shall walk, not as one in a vain show or in the mixing of darkness and light,
but where the night shineth as the day; where the road is no longer paved with the stumbling
stones of doubt, nor the signboards filled with a guess, but where the way leadeth on and up--shining
more and more bright unto the perfect day.

Take up this book, O friend. Do not read it with a hurried glance. Let thine eyes rest a while
upon some single word, and if thou art patient, it will bud and blossom and bloom and grow
unto thee as a tree of life; and the leaves shall be as medicine for the healing of thy hurt.
Take it into thy mouth and learn a lesson from the meadow kine who chew the tender grasses,
and turn them over, and chew them again, till they have extracted sweetness and life therefrom.
Chew the words of this book over and over again (it is impossible to do so with any other book),
meditate upon the words (to meditate, to reflect, are highest functions), mediate upon their
meaning--upon their direct and cognate meanings; let the thoughts they suggest find full and
free reaction in thy soul, and from some simple word or phrase thou shalt draw the sweetness
of divine love, and more and more the consciousness that thou hast received into thine innermost
being very spirit and very life.

Read it on bended knee. Take up the words and breathe on them with the warm breath of sincere
desire to know their intent, and music will come forth as from the fabled horn of old--music
that shall have in it all the hallelujahs and hosannas of the heavenly host.

If you will take this book to your heart, you will find it bread such as kings' ovens never
baked, water more crystal than that which bursts from mountain springs, wine the like of which
was never pressed from purple grapes, meat which cattle on a thousand hills never furnished,
and fruit no man ever gathered in royal gardens-- the fruit of the Spirit. You will find it
a lamp unto your feet and a light unto your path, a hammer for breaking the flinty rocks by
the way, a fire that will burn out the stain of sin, and warm benumbed fingers for quickened
service in His Name.

Give it the first place in your life. You will want to hear from it as the last thing when
you go hence. The words of loved ones will be sweet in your ear as you leave these mortal shores
(if our Lord Jesus Christ should not hasten his coming, you must go), but you will want to
hear its utterance above all the tones, even of those you love, speaking the final word of
hope and cheer to you.

Be very patient with it. It has great things to say to you--and you will not always be fit
to hear them. You will not always--at the first--be able to understand them; but if you do
not understand to -day, to-morrow, or other morrows after that, it will speak to you and you
shall fully know. Perhaps it will wait till the unshed tears are in your heart, and the moan
the common ear has never heard--then it will speak--and the words will fall into the sore place
of the soul, as though angel lips had touched it; it will wait, perhaps, till the storm is
high, and your frail craft (life's poor, frail craft) is tossed as though it would go down
in the whelming waters (and the shore so far away), and then it will speak and say, "Peace
--be still," and in that driven life of yours shall be a great and holy calm.

Do not attempt to cross-question it as though you hesitated to believe all it said. To accept
some parts and reject others will be fatal to you. God does not reveal himself to those who
doubt him. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of all
them that diligently seek him. So must you approach this book--with reverence and submissive
faith; for this book, O friend! is not the word of man, but in very truth--THE WORD OF GOD.

