That theory, as we have shown, is based upon the assumption that Marlowe, or Greene, or Peele,
or somebody else, wrote most of "Henry VI"; the assumption that Fletcher helped Shakspere write
"Henry VIII"; the assumption that Shakspere assisted Fletcher in the composition of "The Two
Noble Kinsmen"; the unsupported, the admitted conjecture that "Philaster" was written before
October 8th, 1610; the unwarranted assertion that Beaumont and Fletcher "created the romance"
in spite of the admission that the date of creation depends upon the priority of "Cymbeline"
or "Philaster," which is likewise admitted to be wholly uncertain; the suppression of the proof
from "Measure for Measure" that, years before "Philaster," Shakspere, within the proposed definition,
had produced a romantic tragi-comedy; the guess as to priority in favor of Beaumont and Fletcher,
in spite of repeated imitations by them from previous plays of Shakspere. And so the argument
in support of the theory is a pyramid of ifs, supporting an apex that vanishes into the thin
air of an invisible conclusion.

To us, after all this latest effort to depose the sovereign of English literature from the
throne where he has worn the crown for more than three centuries, and seat there a pretender,
having no title, either by divine right or the suffrages of mankind, Shakspere is the sovereign
still.

He needed and he sought no allies to win his realm; he imitated no fashions of other courts
to maintain his own; he took good care that the records of his universal conquests should be
kept,--written by his own hand, and fortunately preserved by his friends,--secure from the
interpolations and imitations of his contemporaries and successors.

Much has been written of Shakspere's impersonality, and we have been taught to think that his
dramas are utterly silent as to his own experience. But now and then one finds in them a glimpse
of it, as the lightning flash in the darkest night for an instant shows the heavens and the
earth. That others attempted to imitate him is clear enough; that he imitated others, and least
of all Beaumont and Fletcher, nobody can reasonably believe who reads his opinion of the imitator
in "Julius Cæsar":

     "A barren spirited fellow; one that feeds
      On objects, arts, and imitations,
      Which, out of use, and stal'd by other men,
      Begin his fashion."

Matthew Arnold's verdict has not been reversed. For the loftiest hill,
      Who to the stars uncrowns his majesty,

     "Planting his stedfast footsteps in the sea,
      Making the heaven of heavens his dwelling-place,
      Spares but the cloudy border of his base
      To the foil'd searching of mortality;

     "And thou, who didst the stars and sunbeams know,
      Self-school'd, self-scann'd, self-honour'd, self-secure,
      Didst tread on earth unguess'd at.--Better so!

     "All pains the immortal spirit must endure,
      All weakness which impairs, all griefs which bow,
      Find their sole speech in that victorious brow."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following changes have been made to the text:

Page 14: "a successful playright" changed to
         "a successful playwright".

Page 33: "'T is but the short'ning" changed to
         "'Tis but the short'ning".

Page 53: "piece was writtin" changed to
         "piece was written".

Page 53: "two valiant Kinghts" changed to
         "two valiant Knights".

Page 73: "Professer Wendell applies" changed to
         "Professor Wendell applies".

Page 87: "German critcism has" changed to
         "German criticism has".

Page 108: "is n't it just" changed to
          "isn't it just".

Page 126: "throne where he was worn" changed to
          "throne where he has worn".