We each owe to the other mutual redress of grievances. It has been said, in answer to my argument
in the last chapter about the Forgotten Women and thread, that the tax on thread is "only a
little thing," and that it cannot hurt the women much, and also that, if the women do not want
to pay two cents a spool tax, there is thread of an inferior quality, which they can buy cheaper.
These answers represent the bitterest and basest social injustice. Every honest citizen of
a free state owes it to himself, to the community, and especially to those who are at once
weak and wronged, to go to their assistance and to help redress their wrongs. Whenever a law
or social arrangement acts so as to injure any one, and that one the humblest, then there is
a duty on those who are stronger, or who know better, to demand and fight for redress and correction.
When generalized this means that it is the duty of All-of-us (that is, the State) to establish
justice for all, from the least to the greatest, and in all matters. This, however, is no new
doctrine. It is only the old, true, and indisputable function of the State; and in working
for a redress of wrongs and a correction of legislative abuses, we are only struggling to a
fuller realization of it--that is, working to improve civil government.

We each owe it to the other to guarantee rights. Rights do not pertain to results, but only
to chances. They pertain to the conditions of the struggle for existence, not to any of the
results of it; to the pursuit of happiness, not to the possession of happiness. It cannot be
said that each one has a right to have some property, because if one man had such a right some
other man or men would be under a corresponding obligation to provide him with some property.
Each has a right to acquire and possess property if he can. It is plain what fallacies are
developed when we overlook this distinction. Those fallacies run through all socialistic schemes
and theories. If we take rights to pertain to results, and then say that rights must be equal,
we come to say that men have a right to be equally happy, and so on in all the details. Rights
should be equal, because they pertain to chances, and all ought to have equal chances so far
as chances are provided or limited by the action of society. This, however, will not produce
equal results, but it is right just because it will produce unequal results--that is, results
which shall be proportioned to the merits of individuals. We each owe it to the other to guarantee
mutually the chance to earn, to possess, to learn, to marry, etc., etc., against any interference
which would prevent the exercise of those rights by a person who wishes to prosecute and enjoy
them in peace for the pursuit of happiness. If we generalize this, it means that All-of-us
ought to guarantee rights to each of us. But our modern free, constitutional States are constructed
entirely on the notion of rights, and we regard them as performing their functions more and
more perfectly according as they guarantee rights in consonance with the constantly corrected
and expanded notions of rights from one generation to another. Therefore, when we say that
we owe it to each other to guarantee rights we only say that we ought to prosecute and improve
our political science.

If we have in mind the value of chances to earn, learn, possess, etc., for a man of independent
energy, we can go on one step farther in our deductions about help. The only help which is
generally expedient, even within the limits of the private and personal relations of two persons
to each other, is that which consists in helping a man to help himself. This always consists
in opening the chances. A man of assured position can by an effort which is of no appreciable
importance to him, give aid which is of incalculable value to a man who is all ready to make
his own career if he can only get a chance. The truest and deepest pathos in this world is
not that of suffering but that of brave struggling. The truest sympathy is not compassion,
but a fellow-feeling with courage and fortitude in the midst of noble effort.

Now, the aid which helps a man to help himself is not in the least akin to the aid which is
given in charity. If alms are given, or if we "make work" for a man, or "give him employment,"
or "protect" him, we simply take a product from one and give it to another. If we help a man
to help himself, by opening the chances around him, we put him in a position to add to the
wealth of the community by putting new powers in operation to produce. It would seem that the
difference between getting something already in existence from the one who has it, and producing
a new thing by applying new labor to natural materials, would be so plain as never to be forgotten;
but the fallacy of confusing the two is one of the commonest in all social discussions.

We have now seen that the current discussions about the claims and rights of social classes
on each other are radically erroneous and fallacious, and we have seen that an analysis of
the general obligations which we all have to each other leads us to nothing but an emphatic
repetition of old but well acknowledged obligations to perfect our political institutions.
We have been led to restriction, not extension, of the functions of the State, but we have
also been led to see the necessity of purifying and perfecting the operation of the State in
the functions which properly belong to it. If we refuse to recognize any classes as existing
in society when, perhaps, a claim might be set up that the wealthy, educated, and virtuous
have acquired special rights and precedence, we certainly cannot recognize any classes when
it is attempted to establish such distinctions for the sake of imposing burdens and duties
on one group for the benefit of others. The men who have not done their duty in this world
never can be equal to those who have done their duty more or less well. If words like wise
and foolish, thrifty and extravagant, prudent and negligent, have any meaning in language,
then it must make some difference how people behave in this world, and the difference will
appear in the position they acquire in the body of society, and in relation to the chances
of life. They may, then, be classified in reference to these facts. Such classes always will
exist; no other social distinctions can endure. If, then, we look to the origin and definition
of these classes, we shall find it impossible to deduce any obligations which one of them bears
to the other. The class distinctions simply result from the different degrees of success with
which men have availed themselves of the chances which were presented to them. Instead of endeavoring
to redistribute the acquisitions which have been made between the existing classes, our aim
should be to increase, multiply, and extend the chances. Such is the work of civilization.
Every old error or abuse which is removed opens new chances of development to all the new energy
of society. Every improvement in education, science, art, or government expands the chances
of man on earth. Such expansion is no guarantee of equality. On the contrary, if there be liberty,
some will profit by the chances eagerly and some will neglect them altogether. Therefore, the
greater the chances the more unequal will be the fortune of these two sets of men. So it ought
to be, in all justice and right reason. The yearning after equality is the offspring of envy
and covetousness, and there is no possible plan for satisfying that yearning which can do aught
else than rob A to give to B; consequently all such plans nourish some of the meanest vices
of human nature, waste capital, and overthrow civilization. But if we can expand the chances
we can count on a general and steady growth of civilization and advancement of society by and
through its best members. In the prosecution of these chances we all owe to each other good-will,
mutual respect, and mutual guarantees of liberty and security. Beyond this nothing can be affirmed
as a duty of one group to another in a free state.

       *       *       *       *       *

    +--------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                      |
    |                                                              |
    | Page  27: millionnaires replaced by millionaires             |
    |                                                              |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *