If Providence bestows on the English Church only once in every half century a man like Bishop
Westcott, this Church, I think, can be sure of a solid and sound longevity. Well, this Bishop
Westcott spoke once enthusiastically of "the noble catholicity which is the glory of the English
Church." My intention in this lecture is to describe to you an island in the Roman Catholic
Church among the Slavs, which island is distinguished by a noble catholicity. "I believe in
the holy catholic apostolic church." This sentence that you repeat in London, as do the Roman
Catholics in Rome, and we Orthodox in Moscow, has always two meanings, a sectarian and a universal,
or a narrow one and a sublime one. The first meaning belongs to the people who imagine Christ
standing at the boundary of their Church, turned with his face to them and with his back to
all other "schismatic" peoples. The handwriting alone made his heart leap with surprise and
hope. It must have been five minutes before he finished struggling in the dim light. Then,
with his face puckered in a scowl of perplexity, he turned to address
the bearers of the message. I propose to speak to-night about the people of this second category, i.e., of the people
who are in the Christian history like a link connecting the different parts, the different
Churches, into a higher unity. I will limit my considerations in this lecture to Slav Roman
Catholicism. I call my theme of to-night "Slav Revolutionary Catholicism." Why "revolutionary"?

Why not? Is not Christianity a revolutionary movement from its very beginning? Is it not the
most wonderful and the most noble among the revolutionary movements in history? Cardinal Newman
and many others spoke about the evolution of Christianity. Revolution is the word much more
applicable to it. The spreading of this revolution from a poor village in Galilee over all
the world--that is the history of the Church; or, if you like, the evolution of a revolution.
As a volcano is an internal movement of the earth which gives a new shape to the surface, so
the Christian revolution was also an internal movement, which gave a new form to the drama
of human life. The Christian religion seemed very simple, it was even poor in simplicity, and
still--what an incalculable impression it made! It was simple in aims and in means. It had
but one aim, and there was one way only to it: to attain good only by good deeds; to fight
for justice only with means that were just; to realise Love only by Love itself; to push darkness
away, not by a greater darkness, but by light; to come to God the Perfect by a perfect way. In
sending this to you by bearers (they ought to reach Fort Dickey almost as you leave in search of
Seguis), I am acting on my own responsibility. What you said the other day about my being old
enough to think for myself has taken root, you see. If you profit by this suggestion I shall be
happy.

Sincerely, JEAN FITZPATRICK.

In a sort of stupefaction induced by many emotions clamoring for
recognition at once, Donald sat staring at the fire while the meat
burned black. "Ye cannot serve God and Mammon." It was very clear. "Narrow is the
way which leads unto life." It was very deep. Through Hell you never will reach Heaven. In
making the devil your companion you will never come to God. And God is the only aim, Christ
the only way to that aim; a very far aim, a very narrow way.

JAN HUSS'S REVOLUTION.

Your great compatriot, Wycliffe, is rightly considered as the beginner of the Reformation.
Wycliffe spoke, and his word was his great mission on earth. But his word in Bohemia became
flesh--yea, more than flesh--blood and fire. Human words are never great except when transformed
into a drama--when incarnated into life. Wycliffe was never so great in England as he became
in Bohemia. Christianity in Bohemia was at that time relatively young, nearly three times younger
than in Rome. But since Prince Borivoj was baptised by the Slav Apostle, Methodius, never did
Bohemian Christianity stand nearer to the primitive Bohemian paganism than at the time when
King Wenceslas ruled in Bohemia, and Pope John XXIII ruled in Rome, and Jan Huss served as
preacher in a Prague chapel called the Bethlehemian. The paganism under the style of poor Jesus,
against which fought Huss, was much more obstinate and aggressive than the paganism under the
style of Perun, against which fought St. Methodius. Everywhere was found a substitute for Christ,
everywhere a pretext for an easy life and for a broad way instead of the narrow one. Sins and
virtues had been equalised by means of money. The Church buildings had been transformed into
public places for the exchange of sins and virtues. "Repentance, not Money!"--exclaimed Jan
Huss. But his voice was stifled by the piercing sounds of the drums by which the sale of absolution
for sin was announced in the streets. Again exclaimed Jan Huss: "The whole Bohemian nation
is longing after Truth." But the traders in Christ's blood and tears laughed him to scorn. They
were gone. So intense had been his concentration that they had shuffled away in the darkness
unnoticed.

Still scowling, Donald thrust the note into a pocket, gathered up
a double armful of spruce boughs, and went inside the shanty. And this spirit he saw eclipsed. He saw men again falling back to the creed of serving
"two masters." He looked to the heart of the Christian religion and saw that it was sick, and
his soul revolted against it. But his righteous revolution was regarded as a malevolent innovation,
his words as a scandalous licence, and his tendencies as a deliberate destruction of Christianity.
Therefore Jan Huss was brought before a tribunal of Christian judges, condemned to death and
burnt to ashes, ad magnam Dei gloriam, as the Bishop of Lodi preached on that occasion.

