Soon after breakfast and prayers an early visit was made to the kennels. The boys were desirous
of having the pleasure that morning of giving the dogs their breakfast. 

Removed-Principe Puerto Libertador while working to organize a new expedition yielding to the instances
that several distinguished leaders and officers of the army had directed, and indeed already
had with Brion, whose ships, together formed the de Villaret a respectable squad and with
several Italian officers of the disbanded army of Napoleon, with the Spanish general Francisco
Javier Mina had arrived in Haiti at that time. Acts preparations left the port of Jacmel, and on
December 28, after a voyage of seven days, landing at John Greek expedia a clear proclamation of
the causes and reasons separation of command and the urgent need to assemble a Congress in Margarita
for establishment of a government appropriate to the circumstances, in accordance with the will
peoples freedom from oppression, and the last day of the year, entering Barcelona, again made
the head of the army.

Cumplianse these events and at the same time took refuge in the Venezuelan territory patriots who escaped
the bloody knife Morillo, owner and New-Granada. Among them were several chiefs and officers of
merit, both Granada and Venezuela, and just as they reached Guadaslito to give unity and effectiveness
of joint efforts - such His purpose was at least - set up a government, naming as President of the
Republic the ex-governor of Pamplona, ​​Lt. Col. Fernando Serrano, and Urdaneta, to Servier Dr.
Francisco Javier Yanes Councillors of State, as chief Colonel Santander Army. This government
was stillborn because the Venezuelan leaders aspired to concentrate power in a single head of
trust between the prairie, so that they would lead to war vested with an absolute character,
and relinquishing control Santander, went to Paez, who board to the rank of brigadier general.
Allego soon became frightening people and on plains to the royalist troops, later defeated by
him in several meetings.

In early 1817, liberated the island of Margarita, recovered the provinces of Barcelona and Cumana,
and owners and the plains of Venezuela Caracas, Paez had occupied the territory lying between the
Arauca and Apure, Piar I kept harassing the enemy in Guyana and thanks to the excesses of Morillo
who had inflamed the minds of the prairie, war face had changed and to entirely domestic,
but still remained to conduct the great work to discipline the army, cutting the flight to
the ambitions of some leaders, born of the same disorder that was previously shrouded the cause
of independence.

Crowned Bolivar was some success in Guyana, when he heard that Morillo, back and in Venezuela,
bringing his people with that of Colonel Don Jose Aldama in Chapman, the 13th of May, was preparing
to spend the Orinoco in front of 6,000 men, and Marino, hoping as always to the supreme command, a
Congress met in Cariaco coating powers to legislate and to the farce which represented the Liberator's
resignation offer with his own to get that coveted distinction.

This Congress, without lawful authority, appointed as officers of the generals legitimate power
Fernando Toro and Simon Bolivar, with Colonel Francisco Javier Maiz and alternates Zea Colonel Vallenilla
and Madariaga, who had just arrived from the Spanish mainland. Marino was struck by the general in
chief of the army, and Brion, accomplice in this crazy business, amounted to no less than Admiral.
Although Piar show its commitment to such a project, most of the heads of division, as well
as the officers and troops, unanimous all and knowing the merits
of his real boss, said the firm resolution to follow their orders,
and reprobate Bolivar solemnly publish and Cariaco Assembly.

Before long, deeply convinced of his error, I Liberlador Brion to his squad with which and the squad
Antonio Diaz came out of the same Pampalar 31 May, and after a few fights in the patriots fought
with his usual gallantry, submitted Guiana. While verifying the operation, Brigadier Don Jose de Canterac,
leading of 3,000 Spaniards, arrived at the Morro de Barcelona and Republican Piar, driven by
ambition, slowly undermined the stability of possessions reached, promoting discord between heads,
encouraging the troops to the rebellion and reviving the long forgotten
idea of ​​colors and racial differences.

Such behavior could not be tolerated in a time when the union was as necessary to go from strength
to strength to conquer independence. So arrest order of Bolivar, was taken to Angostura, court-martialed
and sentenced to death. Brion performance the role of president of the court, and the execution
of the sentence pronounced against the defendant took place on October 16, 1817, producing the
most excellent results in army, as well reestablished some discipline, I affirm the supreme authority,
and gave a high idea and strangers, friends and enemies, that the
military government, chaos until then.

After this event, sensitive as the Liberator who had fought a thousand times next of such a valiant
soldier, he heads worthy of their confidence in front of the liberated provinces Council of State
created a right to consult with on matters of war and in the governmental, deliberative vote
in the administrative and economic capital at the same time declaring and temporary residence of
the government of the city of Angostura Venezuela. Finally, I teach a law which commanded national
divide property just rule and proportion between their companions in arms, and, after ordering
Zaraza Monagas and his horse covered with first the plains of Caracas and the second those of
Barcelona, ​​the Liberator traces the Orinoco with all his might,
going to join the army commanded by Paez in Apure, which which was
created by January 1818.

The expiring year had been fruitful in good results for the republican arms, no only in Venezuela
but also in Buenos-Aires, and the proclamation of independence Chile did, but the first year that gave
them was to be unfortunate. In a place called Rincon of the Bulls, San Jose near the Tiznados
the night of April 16, a realistic game for the dark, boldly penetrated into the camp of Bolivar,
this having been seen in danger of losing his life, heaven will retain
one more time as necessary to triunfu of the sacred cause.

Hallab in Guyana after reorganizing his troops and separating from the many disasters that had
afflicted since that fatal night, when a commissioner of the province of Granada Casanare was presented
to inform you that Paez, ignoring their authority and the Council government, had been raised
by the army of Apure to the dignity of the first chief and director highest in the country. The
same messenger brought the custom of asking him to appoint a loyal person and capable, responsible
for overall command, regularize the operations in his province. Bolivar gave a manifesto that
not only limited to condemn the uprising, but which stretched to take on the villain come
face to those under a hypocritical appearance were sold as their friends and national independence.
Then ordered that Francisco de Paula Santander, promoted to brigadier general, with Jacinto Lara,
several excellent officers and lieutenant colonels Granada Antonio Obando, Francisco Velez, Joaquin
and Vicente Paris Gonzalez, weapons, ammunition and other pass to Casanare as chief operating
officer of a body advanced that there was to be formed and maintained
to, later, to invade New Granada and restore the freedom that had
deprived Morillo.

In vain fortune, turning their backs on the most consistent and well-deserving of Venezuelans
their time, trying to humiliate and snatch the enthusiastic love for his country he professed,
in vain discharged on, in a formidable storm, defections and cruel blows, amid the storm, as
the steep palm hit by the hurricane is folded to stand up to great strength, so proud of the
unwavering encouragement reworked warrior of the ups and downs whipped him, and always calm, always
confident in the goodness of their cause, neglecting the attacks that promoted his rivals, continued
to handle the organization of a government that strengthening freedom, which he had devoted his
whole life, till the future welfare of his country and on October
10, proposed to the State Council convened the meeting to the effect
of Congress.

Somewhat later, on November 20, fearing that the European powers requested by the Spanish government,
almost convinced of the futility of their efforts, arrived to lend support for the preservation
of its colonies, issued a famous decree which declared clear "that the people of Venezuela
was determined to bury all integers between from its ruins, for more
than Spain, Europe and even the world, arrived to try nuevaments bending
under the yoke that were soon to shake.

"

This however, persecuted him adversity this year until the last day, finally being watched forced
to give Guyana, following the course of the Orinoco in the direction of the plains of Apure,
when approaching the new year in order to consolidate the power of government between Republican
troops stationed there, and to object to in the theater probably
Morillo of its operations going amid all its setbacks, the thought
always fixed days of glory for himself and for his beloved homeland.

CHAPTER VIII

Vindication of Paez .-- The reconciliation .-- The leader of Apure amounts to general .-- Reunion Congress
and abdication of Bolivar who is honored with more glorious names of the father .-- Ideas of the
country over the republic .-- Proposal made by the Provinces .-- Congress represented in the
Legislature .-- Persistence of Bolivar in his resignation. Finally retains his command .-- Reinforcements
Foreigners - New hood .-- Victory .-- Bolivar Paez march to New-Granada
.-- Provisions Trip .-- military expedition and its results .-- Triumph
.-- Bolivar Boyaca Leakage Honda viceroy Liberator .-- Entry Bogota
governmental measures .-- .-- .-- His Angostura Bolivar efforts regarding
the Confederation .-- Birth of a Republic of Colombia.

Many and very important were the services rendered to the cause of independence by leader of
the Apure, and if ambition had been astray, the means employed to carry out had not strayed
from the holy order, they could not be regarded as solvents, since had emanated from the mad love
for the motherland and to some extent gave a good idea of diplomatic genius. Keeping in government
the Liberator, surrounded by illustrious and praiseworthy people had only sought the means
of making him leave empty his position as general-in-chief enter
to replace him in command.

This undermined the prestige or authority, or undermined the discipline nor the slightest amenguaba the
enthusiasm of the advocates of freedom.

Bolivar and Paez were in San Juan de Payara on January 16, 1819, and soon became reconciled
by the desire that both existed to lift the mood of the soldiers, some killed by the disasters of the
previous year, and march in good harmony from enfonces the noble purpose that they to put their
lives on the battlefield. So gathered an army of 2,000 horsemen and equal number of infants, more
or less, even a thousand men commanded by General Anzuategui and the division was headed by
Cedeno, and a seal of this alliance, a high Paez general division,
then delegates the command of all troops, in order to have what is
necessary for the reunion of Congress adjourned for the month of February,
was set Bolivar direction to go with Angostura.

Paez moved victorious over the plains, and the Congress of Guyana met February 15, Bolivar day that
before he deposed his supreme authority.

But this August body, after unanimously confirming the acts and provisions of retiring, he again
hailed Liberator Founding Father and terror of despotism, with the most sincere expression of
gratitude and affection.

Were known since 1815, the American champion held ideas about the Constitution of the republic,
its governance, its administration and name that was to carry. Would call Colombia, as a tribute
of justice, gratitude and honor the great man who gave the ancient world a new world, and as for the
rest, the form of government in England believed to be the most suitable for the new republic,
which would be composed of Venezuela, New Grenada and Quito.

Unlike the model nation for taking the king would be represented by an executive of choice, life at
most, but not hereditary, because if you opt for the Republic; a hereditary legislative Senate
and House, also legislative, free choice, without more restrictions than those of Lower England.

This
same proposal to Congress as soon as he was called to his sessions, extending their former
ideas with the formation of a moral power that called Areopagus. Composed of two different Chambers,
whose functions were: the one, the blurring of the education of children from birth until the
age of 12 years, and in the other, to punish the vices with the shame
and infamy, and should give the award to the public by virtue of honor.

Such innovation was dismissed, and as to the constitution that vote, Congress departed quite
a few of the requirements specified by Bolivar.

A general Congress, divided into two chambers of Representatives and Senate, would exercise legislature,
the latter being merely lifetime. Would have a President of the Republic for four years, and re-elected
only once in charge of exercising executive power. East although personally responsible to
the Congress by usurpation or misuse of the public revenue, betrayal, venality or conspiracy against
the State law, however enjoyed very broad faculties.

You would have a successor Vice-President in cases of dismissal, resignation or death. As for
the rest was great to affinity that existed between it and the Constitutional Code sanctioned in 1811
by Congress Miranda met on 2 March.

Caracas, Barcelona, ​​Cumana, Varinas, Guyana and Margarita by Venezuela, and Casanare, Granada
province occupied only by the republican arms, were justly represented On this solemn occasion.
Bolivar Congress repeatedly stated that it will be good most of the supreme executive authority,
but after thousands and thousands of live bodies by of his companions, I accept the presidency,
which was vested with broad powers over both and military policies in the provinces that were
the theater of war. These powers could delegate them if necessary,
and while on campaign, the citizen Francisco Antonio Zea, as Vice-President,
exercise executive power.

Ministry of State is composed of the gentlemen: Colonel Pedro Briceno Mendez as Minister of War
and Marina, Diego Bautista Urbaneja of Interior and Justice, and Dr. Manuel Palacios of Finance.

About
the same time landed on Margarita Angostura and three bodies of troops raised in England, led
by Elsom, Inglés and Uzlar, which has served to complete Bolivar campaign plan, a combination
which was devoted seriously and with his usual activity. In consequence, Urdaneta Margarita with
organization in a division which was to consist of the two bodies of Englishmen who were there
with Inglés and Uzlar, and put in front of them After organizing other people of the country.
This done, the squad was to Brion directed to take Caracas and understood then the rear until
it joins forces with the army of the Apure, which would send the
Liberator in person. Meanwhile Marino, Eastern division, distract
the attention of the enemy in that direction.

Tame elephants take great delight in helping to capture and subdue wild ones, but not greater
is their satisfaction at their successful work than is that of old dogs who are trained to
it when they have a share in the capturing or breaking in of obstinate, refractory dogs.

The boys enthusiastically expressed their surprise as well as admiration at this wonderful
cleverness on the part of these trained dogs in capturing the runaway.  They were also amused
at their evident delight at the success of their efforts.

"Yes," said Mr Ross, "and if that young dog had been able to elude them, either by keeping
out of their reach, in the first place, or by slipping the lasso over his head and thus escaping
from them, and they had had to return without him, they would have been thoroughly ashamed
of themselves, and would have skulked off to their kennels." 

Any failure was impossible because Mutileder came to where the ocean Phoenician who was subtracted
and his revenge. Time had passed, pampanitos have had before that the ocean might set up a shot
from his sling or at your club.

He believed then that Adherbal Mutileder had taken with him to be ornament Echeloría main flagship,
from which he had to command the fleet, and anger that bordered on extreme, kicked, swore, snorted,
cursed, and even had to be plucked some of the lovely auburn curls
that crowned his head.

Through it all, was great when he won his consolation to know that
the rogue and courteous marine despicable flatterer of princes, had
this to Solomon's beautiful Echeloría.

VI

How to resist the temptation here how much more expensive D. Juan Fresco is puffed and proud,
and what you put plump, well paid and given the eyebrows have been
peeled decoding and reading the inscriptions and papyri manuscripts
from which is taken from this story?

For it is stated that a bermejino, for within bermejino was Mutileder, as was Vescio Villabermeja
then, rivals Solomon comes to making brilliant and extraordinary see the role that reading followeth.

Mutileder
not discouraged to learn that he was in the harem Echeloría Solomon ordered before stay in
Jerusalem, spy opportune moment, and as soon as they submit, grab it by the forelock, the pretty
girl wresting from the hands of the Wise King. Thought why not make slightest damage to Solomon.
Mutileder was too monarchical, and the king, as king and his science infused and other virtues,
he instilled respect.

Solomon also was not to blame nor had any Mutileder offended. He had accepted the gift that had
brought him, and had given proof in good taste to accept and store.

Sometimes conceived Mutileder some flattering hope. I imagined that had to mourn Echeloría
he and Solomon had to say, with all courtesy and finesse, that did not love him because he loved to
another and wisdom was that Solomon, who was kind to women, and so polite and condescending
have consented to the idols of the land of each of them should not
be fierce with Echeloría, but not well knew that his idol was Mutileder,
had to give up their claims.

Mutileder came to descry as likely to make the King look to deliver a the girl, and even that
may be smoothed to be best man.

The strength, perseverance and endurance Echeloría had to move all this and more, generous spirit
of Solomon.

What mattered to this great King a woman more or less when had in his harem queens seven hundred,
eight hundred concubines, and infinite number of princesses? So it was natural that, seeing Solomon
Echeloría love with another, distressed and tearful, and rejected by surly style and Mountaineer,
was to appear detached.

In making this assumption, very plausible, Mutileder blushed with shame. Presented in his mind
how well behaved Echeloría, sullen as a cat and steady as a rock
saw the royal and noble detachment behavior of Solomon, and considered
unworthy and wanted to remember his infidelities with Chem, which
would open the earth and swallow him.

These remorse, the sorrow and the blush of guilt were, however, quite of savory and sweet. Oh,
how soon all this was changed to bitterness when he heard Mutileder what was said in Jerusalem public
streets and squares!

To find out what they said should take it back and get into some explanations.

Solomon's palace was immense, and society as it very enjoyable. Multitude of poets and toilets
harps, drums and harps, he rejoiced continually. There were skilled
dancers ingenious artists who made elegant furniture and other works
of extreme delicacy, and the best then known chefs. That was in the
highest degree, the fifth elevation power, life wedding of Camacho.
Solomon and his wives and servants devoured every day thirty fattened
oxen, a hundred sheep and lots of deer, buffalo, gazelles and birds.
And do not think it ate some bread. The daily consumption of flour
used in bread, cakes, Frolla buns and pasta or flora, was ninety choirs,
or forty-five cahíces, twelve bushels understood.

The work of bringing these thousands of fish home was done by the dog- trains.  It is heavy
work, as each train of four dogs was expected to draw twenty sticks of fish at each load. 
However, the track was generally all ice, and so it was much easier than travelling in a forest
trail in the deep snow.  Six hundred pounds are considered a good load for four dogs on ordinary
trails.

As Mr Ross's fishermen had hung up about fifty thousand fish, besides packing a large number
of the finest ones in ice or snow, there was considerable work for the trains in dragging them
home.  The work is so steady that it is considered capital training for young dogs.  Of course,
they are not at first given as heavy loads as are the old trains.  The boys were allowed to
go with their trains about three times a week.  This was quite sufficient for them, for, although
they rode on the empty sleds, wrapped in a buffalo skin, on the outward trip to the fishery
camp, yet they felt in honour bound to imitate the Indian drivers of the older trains, and
walk, or rather trot, as much as they could on the return with their heavy loads. 

Republic under the name of Bolivar (Bolivia later), constituted by a General Assembly, declaring
independence in the provinces of Upper Peru to July 10 the same year 1825 and entrusted the executive
authority Libertador around the time of stay in the territory of the State, and Sucre is charged
with the immediate command of the that departments that had been divided. Three months is not
complete, that is, 6 October, after having instructed the Liberator, which formed a political
constitution for the country, disbanded the Assembly, postponing the constitutional body reunion,
reunion which was to be held on May 25 of next year.

Despite the efforts made by supporters of independence, General Rodil, refugee in Callao, held
for over a year this place, finally surrendered on 23 January 1826, the day that Peru, as
a result of this event was totally emancipated from Spain and South America saw the completion
of the long and bloody struggle started and carried to a successful conclusion by the brave sons
of Venezuela, under the direction glorious the celebrated Bolivar.

But the Colombian people, like all people placed in analogous circumstances While yielding to a natural
impulse, had displayed all his strength to throw off the yoke of slavery, not even willing to
receive the new form of government, unenlightened to find ways to take advantage of the freedom
they had conquered, and not understanding the value of the duties to acquire new rights acquired,
soon became involved in civil strife not willingly given them. Resisting the Caracas the third
invitation made by Paez, who wanted to implement the decree on the organization militia, was
the chief forced to do some prisons, and on that occasion Caracas presented 17 days prior to the seizure
of Callao the image of a terrible revolution.

Pretext of having been trampled people's rights in the way of implementing government decrees,
the House of Representatives Paez fulminated against an accusation, March 30 in the Senate admitted,
suspended from his job and to realize quoting of their behavior. Disobeyed the order not only
transmitted by the executive, but that provision of the Municipal Assembly of Valencia, whose
city was Paez then April 30, retook the Senate that he had separated, resulting in the fact to believe
all people are entitled to ignore the legitimate government, and soon Republic was embroiled
in civil strife.

There were two sides who were raised: one federal and one central, with supporters first system
who marched to an end with more unity, more perfect harmony. The Federalists stirred Paez Caracas
to convene and chair an Assembly general in order to determine the political destiny of Venezuela
in the circumstances, and verified the reunion on November 7, after violent debates and an
unspeakable vote, Paez is authorized, pursuant to the powers that the Assembly had invested, pointing
issued a decree on December 10 for the reunion of polling stations and the installation of fixed
Valencia constituent body as day of January 1827.

Bolivar, news of the scandals promoted in Venezuela, departed from Lima on September 4 and forty
days later went into Santa Fe de Bogota, and was received with general samples affection. On November
25, headed to Venezuela and during his journey to Cucuta was massing troops to perform with
impressive attitude. On 16 the following month gave a proclamation from Maracaibo that, offering
high speed National Convention to legally people had the basic laws, he said: only the (people)
know her well and is owner their fate, not a powerful nor a party, not a single fraction from
the same village. The Liberator which returned some of the patricians lost, I arrive at Puerto-Cabello
Choir last day of the year, a time when Paez was in Valencia.

The events of Peru as the course of the year that were expiring so: the reunion Bolivia's Constituent
Congress, which accepted the draft Thin variants that Bolivar had sent, accompanied by the
recognition of that republic by the Council Peru's government, the appointment of General Sucre
as Life President of the State dignity that only admitted for two years, the declaration of
nullity of the powers conferred by schools in some provinces to their representatives, made
by the Governing Council Peruvian Congress in its first constitutional dissolution of this, the
school reunion election in the province of Lima, by decree of the competent authority, 16 August,
the acceptance that it made the Bolivian Constitution as fundamental Code Peru, and Bolivar's
appointment to president in perpetuity of the Republic, acts punishable by the Governing Council,
in view of unanimity had simply to have polling stations proceeded in all its agreements.

CHAPTER XII

Conciliatory provisions .-- Bolivar and Paez reconcile political failure .-- .-- Claims New-Granada
and Peru .-- Resignation of the Liberator to the fifth Congress meeting in Bogota .-- No his resignation
is accepted .-- factions are raised in Venezuela .-- The Constituent Congress Peru .-- political
unrest and disunity of Colombia. - Fail the Convention of Ocana Act .-- June 15, 1828. - Conspiracy
to armed .-- .-- Hazard Libertador Justice Act against the conspirators .-- New convening a Constituent
Congress .-- spade work of the discontented .-- Bolivar Manifesto .-- .-- Consequences of the
manifest is called the Libertador by some members of Congress of Colombia .-- .-- Punishment
of the Political Code Cessation of the dictatorship and the representation of Colombia .-- Journey
to Cartagena Bolivar .-- Decrees Paez .-- Congress in Valencia Installing New Constitution of Venezuela
.-- Death .-- del Libertador.

The year 1827 was opened by the Libertador in a manner and conciliatory policy. The first day one
from Puerto Cabello post an amnesty decree, thus confirming the authority Paez of civil and military
chief at the beginning of the revolution had been given by councils municipal. This dictated the following
other decree by which he recognized and sent acknowledge Bolivar as President of the Republic,
at the same time canceling all its previous resolutions, including that of reunion of a Congress. 4, at
two in the afternoon, both leaders had been and embraced at the foot of the hill Naguanagua, and
fit together in Valencia amid the acclamations enthusiastic people, and 10 of the same month across
Caracas melted in terms of greatest admiration to host on its campus to its illustrious son,
the liberator of America del Sud

The excessive love of this great man for the cause he had so nobly defended constant, strong desire
to consolidate it shook his great work, I made a mistake, excusable this point of view. But? Who
felt that felt like, who he saw that as as rebels surrounded circumstances when looked just the
first dawn of freedom of his country, who found that as the threat of being wrapped in the
shadows of a devastating storm at the moment of birth, had not tried to avoid at all coast of
the sad consequences that would result from disunion among the political elements which were
to be so strongly supported? This was no doubt what he did flatter the dissidents, which forced
him to put his unbridled ambition and desire to control, producing among his friends discontent
and envy. iAmigos! ... iQue pitiful abuse has been made This beautiful phrase, used without
reason rather than to be followers of those men who and Bolivar, come to have in their hands
the destiny of a nation!

In New Granada, as well as in Peru, many representations they directed the military failing
government reforms in the primitive law of the State, and, after so many great sacrifices,
after so much bloodshed and so precious for the sake of country, narrow interests, selfish view
domain, envy and resentment wrong tablets Tempers flare and ranks first in the most unjust war
the human race is between iniquity of the war itself, which the genius of evil awakens and
keeps the heart than you should join the fraternal bond of custom, language, country and family.
So, unfortunately, the triumph of independence was followed by the civil strife in America del Sud,
bitter and overwrought by measures whose spirit, whose purpose was none other than conciliation,
the welfare and strength. But man proposes and God disposes.

To the fifth congress, held in Bogota, Bolivar resigned his position as President, and then lengthy
and heated debate, by 50 votes to 24, went unheeded. This resignation was made from his hometown,
in view of the refusal, on 10 September step Bogota, vowing again before the Congress, meeting in extraordinary
session effect, and to uphold and defend there the Constitution of the Republic. In Venezuela
meanwhile had risen factions that, like Cisneros in Caracas, brought devastation everywhere.

The Constituent Congress of Peru had been met, prior to the events lately cited by 1 deg. May,
and declare that the Constitution sworn in on December 9th of the year was above zero and
with no effect, being punished by illegal and threatening the sovereignty of the people provisionally
restoring force and effect with suppression some chapters, meantime the Legislature was concerned
with forming a new one, that permitted and voted in 1823. Don Jose de Lamar, Grand Marshall, and
Don Manuel Salazar and were Barquijano elected, the first and the second as President and Vice-President
of the Republic. Such were the most notable or important in South America this year.

In 1828, following two major parties were stirred in the heart of Colombia. Those who aspired to
the best of faith in the world to make liberal changes in the law fundamental - which means,
in the eyes of his rivals, was the most on purpose to overthrow the Libertador, as well as
for those who wanted to divide the territory into three Colombian different states independent
of each other - were the first of these games. In the second Most were members of the generals,
commanders and Venezuelan officials, but all foreigners who remained in the service of Colombia
and the relatives and friends of Bolivar, that strove to uphold the integrity of the republic
created by the union of Venezuela, Quito and New Grenada. This was precisely the division attempted
by the faction contrary.

After having failed the National Convention held in Ocana on April 9 due to the findings of opinions
and political principles represented there, a gathering of people notables, formed in Bogota, signed
on June 13 an act in which they made solemn protest against any reform emanating from the Convention,
depositing the highest office of the Republic and his entire confidence in Gen. Bolivar, example
was later imitated and followed throughout latitude for the other races. In a manner as public
and was recognized by the illustrious esplicita Liberator as supreme chief of the state and invested
with the broadest powers.

On 24 of the month, this man, the subject of so many ongoing attacks, doubly enhanced for them,
for their acts of selflessness and heroic perseverance in the order which had proposed since the
beginning of the bell of independence, this man, worthy of a people not better, but more enlightened,
began to legislate on important matters, suppressing Vice-Presidency and the Council of State
giving a new and more appropriate to the needs around him.

Arrived at such a high degree the hatred of political opponents, who conspire against him, dominated
by the criminal to snatch the remote object with life at the same time, surnamed tyrant of the
country, the September 25 armed attacked the palace in Bogota when at midnight, after killing
the guards and managed to penetrate into the room del Libertador, fortunately could this save
throwing himself into the street from a window that lack of foresight on the part of the attackers
had run out of custody at all. A Once free, he could then his usual activity and energy to
take the necessary measures; and having been arrested the conspirators, all paid with their lives
for their reckless business unless the General Santander, also complicated
the plot and who the last sentence was commuted by Council of Government
in exile with deprivation of employment.

In this way, and the convocation of a Congress in Bogota for the January 2, 1830, the which would
come invested with the constitutional character, closed its doors in 1828, year full of discontent
with the excitement of the matches in which public opinion was divided
the country, the more formidable that stood in the heart of strong
men and seasoned to the vagaries of war.

Easy to understand is that in spite of such energetic measures would not have stopped the evil,
and so was in effect. He kept silent and slowly simmering in the minds of the discontented in
the year 1829, and become more deeply entrenched since the weight of power is not allowed to leave
to the surface, but as the appointed time for the installation of
Congress approaches, Bolivar published a manifesto in which authorized
people so that they could freely express its opinion, and through
the press, and by another one of those permitted by law.

At a reunion caused by the general chief of police, it was Arismendi, attended by several Notable
residents of Caracas in order to deal with requests that should be raised to Congress. Paez A circular
letter also encouraged them to voice their opinions with full openness and freedom. So we agreed to request
civil superior authority of the province should be convened the village at a general meeting,
pleading that was served, he immediately ordered the call. This Assembly, legally constituted
in the capital on November 26, resolved: "ignore the authority of the Liberator, Venezuela separate
Bogota government, will see of the former departments of that, by inviting them to a constituent body
recognize, defend them and publicly manifest that the separation of that government tried Venezuelans,
all of which are recorded. "Finally, they decided" that General Paez take charge of command
of the departments as it will verify the installation of new Congress.

"

No less agitation prevailed among the people of Granada. On January 2, 1830, made on commission
school several members of Congress of Colombia in Bogota, were beginning their work, and 4 agreed
on the desirability of making Bolivar person installs Congress to show people a good harmony
in which their representatives were the father of his country, calling him to combine the most
successful means of averting the calamities that threatened the country. Bolivar She went to the
appeal, and on November 20, five days after his arrival in Bogota, left installed Congress
formally renouncing to the presidency that he had conferred, but his resignation was rejected,
demanding that until the Constitution was enacted and appointed senior officials in political
order to clip the wings of anarchy retain its authority, the only
means Congress considered those skilled in threatening circumstances.

Indeed, the April 29 issue the Code remained political and appointed as President and Vice-President,
for the first charge Joaquin Mosquera and the second General Domingo
Caicedo, came to an end the dictatorship.

Twelve days after Congress closed sessions that Legislative Assembly, which was the season of
the collected on behalf and on behalf of Colombia.

The Liberator of South America, reduced to a mere condition of citizenship, 8 May went to Cartagena
in order to move to Europe, and the leave of the constituent wounded to the heart of his noble
heart of a patriot, not by separation of the high office that until there had been exercised, which
so many times as the present give up fair and dignity, nor hurt in
his ambition, since only retired "rich honors and glory; "utter these
remarkable words: I blush at the thought, but independently is the
only good that we won at the expense of everyone else.

In Venezuela, meanwhile, dated January 13, General Paez expedia two decrees, one which created for
the release of an interim government three Ministers of State whose duties were to carry on, War
and Navy, General Soublette; in Interior, Justice and Police, Dr. Miguel Pena, in Finance and
Foreign Affairs, the Graduate Diego Bautista Urbanski, and the other concerning the way in which
the elections should precede the Constituent Congress, which consist
of at least two-thirds, was to meet in Valencia on the 30th of April.

Installed this on May 8, his first act was a confirmation that the executive Paez was invested
until further resolution of Congress, whose tasks were completed on 22 September, sanctioning a
key code by declaring: "the government Venezuela is and always will be republican, popular, representative,
accountable and choice, " dividing the supreme authority in judicial, legislative and executive,
with a fourth power exclusively designed to understand at the municipal level. This was adopted
as a middle between centralism and federalism. The executive branch was headed by a judge with
the title of President of the Republic, and therefore this position as the Vice-President,
ceased after four years in office, not being re-elected, but after passing through at least
one constitutional term. Four ministers responsible would be elected by the President's exercise
of his ministry. The legislative branch would consist of a Congress popular, divided into two chambers,
one of Deputies and the Senate representatives, elected also for
only four years.

This was the final outcome I can see Bolivar, the man whose efforts were enough to win independence
for his country, and which were powerless to maintain integrity of Colombia. From now on, pursued
by the idea of ​​inevitable ruin the nation at the cost of their blood and most of his fortune had
been dragged out of nothing mortally wounded in her tender and constant affection to their beloved
homeland, December 17, at one o'clock in the afternoon and the 47 years of age, expired on
the fifth of San Pedro, located within walking away from Santa Marta, directing the expression
of his ultimate sacrifice for the peoples of Colombia in these memorable
words: If my death contributes to cease and the parties union has
set in, I calm down the pit.

?

Could be required but the heroic liberator of South America? His remains lie in the Caracas
metropolitan Holy Church from the December 17, 1842, after having been just twelve years between the
Granada. ic strange! Gen. Jose Antonio Paez was President of the Republic of Venezuela when Congress
passed the Transfer of the precious ashes Father of the Nation.

FIN.  Alec is hot and excited now.  The strain
on him is beginning to tell, and he feels it. He knows that he could put on a desperate spurt
and get far ahead, but would they not, with that long, steady louping of theirs, gradually
creep up again, and, finding him almost exhausted, make a desperate spurt, and thus run him
down?  But he is resolved to succeed, and so he nerves himself and carefully speeds along,
while perhaps not five hundred yards behind are those merciless pursuers that will not be shaken
off.  In this way about ten miles are passed since the mouth of the river was left.  Still
on and on they come.  The moon is now sinking low, and the shadows are weird and ghostly. 
Auroras, phantom-like, flit in the northern sky, while some of them seem like frightened spirits
flying before avenging enemies.  The sight is depressing to Alec, and so he turns his eyes
from beholding them while still on he speeds.

Hark!  What is that?  It is like the bark of a dog that is instantly hushed.  To Alec it seemed
a dream or an illusion; and yet he could not help putting on a spurt of speed and veering a
little out of his course to see the rocky islands, surrounded by the smooth ice, from which
the dog's bark seemed to come.  As he swiftly dashed along how suddenly all things changed
to him, and quick and swift was his deliverance. Meanwhile, the capital of the republic was in a state of continuous alarm,
as the slaves of Curiepe and other parts of the coast and the eastern valleys, the pretext of defending
the rights of Ferdinand VII, from June 24, which had taken arms, walked committing all manner of
outrages, outrages and humiliations with the most ferocious vandalism, and Monteverde was moving
there, after leaving some troops in front to Victoria.

At the point that the enemy movement was taking place, a new disappointment ponia Bolivar in
imminent danger to the republic. The last day of June, the militia officer Francisco Fernandez
Vinoni, with some troops, the prison and several inmates of state, proclaimed Ferdinand VII,
peaking at the castle of San Felipe de Puerto-Cabello a red flag and after some fruitless summons
was breaking its artillery fire against the square. In such a critical situation and beside himself
with an event that would perhaps decide the fate the country, trying to sustain Bolivar however,
and did so for three days, but know that the Spanish and Valencia were headed to their jobs
there and advanced passed the enemy, before leaving Puerto-Cabello wanted to tempt fortune and
control to meet 200 men with colonels Mires and Jalon. They were defeated at San Esteban and having
been imprisoned the last seven soldiers just back beside the first Bolivar.

With 40 men who were, after having surrendered the people of Puerto-Cabello
fearing the ruin of the population, the worthy chief still try to
defend themselves outside from Trincheron, but not counting the day
6 but 8 officers in his service, he embarked with Borburata them,
arrived in La Guaira and communicate it to Miranda in Caracas, some
days later, incidents as unfortunate event.

So I knew the Generalissimo, proposed to Monteverde, who was in Valencia, a suspension of hostilities,
but the general Spanish in reply offered to grant a capitulation; who accepted in principle by Miranda
will soon receive this in the conditions, then of tight, led to some
differences.

But pressed by the ratified Monteverde Miranda on July 25 of that year, the 1812, being the Confederation,
according to chapters as well as weapons and other military objects held by the Spanish general Warranty
of respect for persons, whatever may have been their conduct and opinions during the revolution.

The
next day the Spanish troops penetrated the Victoria, and three later in Caracas, they fled some
patriots with intent to engage in La Guaira, and among those who so rushed, unreliable compliance
with the terms, are also the unfortunate Generalissimo of the Venezuelan Confederation ephemeral.

CHAPTER
IV

Bolivar embarked for Curacao and Trojans Tyrians .-- .-- .-- Constitution of 1812 Plot number
young patriots .-- Marino and Bermudez de Zuazola Atrocities .-- Its consequences .-- .-- Site
Maturin revive .-- .-- The Revolution Bolivar in Cartagena .-- Principia to execute their plans .--
Step Zulia rises to brigadier .-- .-- .-- Venezuela penetrates to
death .-- War .-- Proclamation .-- New Achievements Entry .-- wins
Bolivar in Caracas.

Bolivar, whose encouragement accustomed from childhood to major setbacks and whose love of country
not struck in any circumstance, which dominated so cruelly hung over the town Venezuela for the idea
of ​​saving and one day shake the heavy yoke that came to enslave again, trying to keep, and thanks to the friendship
of the Spanish Don Francisco Iturbe, who enjoyed great favor near
Monteverde, obtained a boarding pass and then for Curacao.

The termination of the bell brought the rift between the captain general Miyares and Monteverde
which refused to recognize his authority in the countries of the retrieved for Spain, giving
result in the dismissal of the first and the elevation of the superior dignity pacifier Venezuela.
Then, claiming that it conspired again, arrested many distinguished
Americans.

Miranda followed many months in the prisons of Puerto-Cabello, where he was transferred Cadiz and
bound to the array of Ratchet, that in time she saw him die on day 14 May 1816. Juan Pablo Ayala,
Madariaga, Mires and Roscius, venerable patriots were also sent to Spain and then locked up in
prisons in Africa.

The Spanish Constitution, sworn in Cadiz for Fernando VII, was published by Monteverde December
3 and adopted, five days later, by the people and clergy. But some young people patriotic,
full of courage and desperation, conceived the project of surprising,
landing in La Guaira, the task was realistic that there whose force
consisted of 300 men, gueirenos most.

Elected as head of the rich Margarita Santiago Marino, who for The surprise attack had not
tried it with the insignificant number of six guns. No But when the time to act, the garrison of
the port, leaving their chiefs, joined with the Venezuelans.

Soon Marine forces, conveniently distributed between, and Jose Bernardo Bermudez Francisco, defeated
troops and occupied Cerveris Maturin, whose garrison fled as Bermudez then as occurred in its
vicinity. With no less rapidly, leading forces by order of the captain-general in command of
Don Antonio Zuazola beat the Patriots, first in Magueyes, and March
16, 1813 in Aragua.

This leader not only shot the prisoners he did, but showed the greatest inhumanity to kill harmless
sending women to venerable elderly and innocent children.

Part of the defeated and many other patriotic irritated proceed in view of Zuazola, took refuge
in Maturin, where Azcue Piar and sent during the absence of Bermudez, whose Chiefs managed just
500 men upset in a way that made the plaza, 1,500 commanded by Don Lorenzo de la Hoz, after rejecting
a still larger forces, and putting the captain general in the case
presented in the theater of war to lead by itself operations.

Monteverde, in view of Maturin and with more than 2,000 men, intimate the surrender of the square
at the end of two hours, otherwise, otherwise deliver it to the fury of his soldiers. The reply
was: "That the people of Maturin was determined to perish in defense of homelands freedoms. "Then
there was a sustained and bitter fighting on both sides retiring
at the end the Spaniards lost 500 men killed on the battlefield among
which there were 27 officers, and leaving the enemy Monteverde five
canons, many arms and ammunition, their own baggage and more than
6,000 silver dollars.

This memorable feat of arms was taking place on 25 May, and since that time the revolution
took on new life. Meanwhile General San Martin also ahead in the cause of independence Buenos-Aires,
and everything seemed to announce the days of prosperity to America. The downcast spirit public
rose again, leaving as the wonder of a terrible kind Dream to Reality of life, when the fair
Bolivar, whom the Spanish Government had confiscated the goods, they
were great, before the latest events mentioned are presented in Cartagena
in the first days of October 1812, decided to sacrifice their lives
for the sake of the homeland for freedom and greatness.

He was accompanied by the brothers Miguel, Manuel Cortes Campomanes Fernando Carabano, Jose Felix
Ribas and several distinguished officers.

The plan that guided their steps, regarded even by the less suspicious as impossible, was that of
giving freedom to Venezuela with the help of New Granada, which to some extent had followed the
same place in their revolution against the Spanish royalists. In Cartagena obtained the command of
a small force, which went up by the banks of the Magdalena, and after having broken several items
of enemy troops in various parts of that river, from Ocana apply for government permission to
go to Cartagena Cucuta.

Obtained the consent, with great hope and excitement began its work, the brave caudillo. Request
aid from the government of Cundinamarca, which provided 500 men, and launched with the intention
of reaching Caracas under its offer. Spanish Colonel Don Ramon Correa could have up to about
4,000 men guarding that part the Venezuelan border. But Bolivar, making use of ingenious extratagemas,
supported by people with false relations spies, made the enemy to
abandon some strong positions so coming to the view of San Jose de
Cucuta, where Correa had concentrated more than 800 men.

At dawn on February 28, 1813 Simon Bolivar occupy the heights west of San IBTS Jose, for whose operation
had to cross the mighty Zulia with a miserable canoe and falling on the Spanish troops, after
throwing their positions, holding the step of completely defeated, occupied their artillery,
rifles and ammunition had few Strap into the town, and retiring to the screams, the valleys were home
free. The Use of brigadier, the title of citizen of the Union, and
also the chief command of the division, Cucuta, were the rewards given
to Bolivar by such signal triumph.

United their forces that brought Colonel Manuel Castillo, a military commander of Pamplona,
​​amounted and about 1,200 ammunition and men well armed. With 800 stressed the colonel said who
attacked Correa, who on April 13 was forced to leave the narrowness of the Cries where he was
well entrenched. Bolivar then headed to Venezuela with their meager forces, but with good officers.
Among these was in the more general class of the expedition Venezuela's
Rafael Urdaneta, Jose Felix Ribas brave young man and the commander
Athanasius Giraldot, as well as the captain Luciano D'elute.

These last were two bizarre Granada. In Cucuta were Joaquin Ricaurte, deputy chief of the army,
Francisco de Paula Santander and some others.

The Venezuelan leader was greeted at Merida with a great show of appreciation and enthusiasm
the day first of June. There conceived the greatest, the most important and momentous thoughts
revolutionaries. Since the beginning of the war were condemned to death by the Spanish few
individuals fell into their power, with weapons in hand, while the South American headquarters gave
his enemies. This advantageous situation to that natural places in the hard trance to serve,
preferably from joining the ranks realistic.

So war to the death was the great thought which was to give Venezuela its independence desired.
Before his resolution to print a solemn character, was limited at the moment to publish a proclamation,
dated June 8, in which the enemy launched a war threat extermination if they continued to use
the prisoners as severely as before. And then marched on Trujillo, where I come Giraldot without
encountering the slightest resistance.

Less than a month suffice to Bolivar to win two Venezuelan provinces, freeing by an uninterrupted series
of victories vast country that mediates between Tenerife and Trujillo, from where the last
point, the July 15 announcement of republic from the solemn resolution that that day adopted,
declaring war to death against the country armed enemies. "Spaniards and Canary Islanders, he
said in his manifesto, count on death even indifferent, if not actively
work for the freedom of America.

Americans count on life even if guilty. "

The next day, at the foot of the mountain range that separates the region of the plains Niquitao
of Varinas, at a point called the Mesitas, Urdaneta officers and attacked with 550 Ribas men
to a realistic body comprising 800 soldiers win after a tough battle which lasted from nine
in the morning until five in the afternoon. Some 450 prisoners and all weapons of the royalists
were in possession of the victors.

This victory followed that of Horcones, name of the territory that came back to defeat Ribas the
Spaniards and is located between the Tocuyo and the city of Barquisimeto. Finally, disrupting here
and there, few obstacles were opposed to its passage, August 7 at
the Simon Bolivar triumphal entry into Caracas, victor by a large
and enthusiastic people who greeted him with the glorious name of
freedom of their country.

CHAPTER V

Location independent party, - Implications of making and firing Cumana
Bernardo Bermudez .-- Puerto-Cabello Website Retaliation .-- .-- .--
Reinforcement Spanish troops Death of Granada .-- It is a brave fellow
avenged .-- .-- Combat Mosquito Bolivar is appointed commander in
chief of the army and called Liberator wins .-- New weapons Republican
Monteverde .-- .-- The effects on the Liberator realizes its operations
Caracas people .-- .-- Continuing Weekend victories several notable
patriots .-- Heroic Trait Ricaurte .-- .-- The Siege of Valencia independents
situation is worse .-- Battle .-- futile attempt Carabobo .-- .--
Flops sad spectacle of emigration .-- Boves is declared first Spanish
army chief of his first acts .-- .-- .-- Unhappy combat Deliberation
.-- Aragua Bolivar and Marine boats to Margaret .-- The sacred deposit.

Before

continuing the account of the events that followed the entrance of
the Venezuelan leader in Caracas, is necessary to look to the state
they were Republicans.

Two contained different factions within the party that fought for the cause of independence.
One, in favor of the provincial divisions, struggled for the triumph of federalism while the other, clinging
to the principle of unity as the only means of force and consistency, aspired to the concentration
of power in government. On top of this, full of the most deep conviction, was Simon Bolivar.
Such was the independent state of Venezuela, after the reaction provoked by the successes that
had obtained weapons from the landing Marino, in early 1813, with refugees in Chacachacare, islet
belonging to the English government of Trinidad.

After this courageous achievement Margarita Cumana grab aided by a countryman, Colonel Juan Arismendi, Margarita
first military authority from the June 5, when his last proclamation
in favor of independence, Anton, seriously wounded, fled to die Curacao.

About the same time, taken prisoner by the royalists had Bernardo Bermudez been shot by order
of Cerveris, but picked up with the same boss ordered life murder in his own bed at the tidings
of the victory achieved by Marino, who then added this laurel on the capture of Barcelona.

This event forced the boss who defended the city, the quarterback Don Juan Manuel Cajigal to withdraw
to Guyana, and among the officers who accompanied him, Francisco Tomas Morales and Jose Tomas
Boves, later acquired great celebrity, launched from that time, the head of a division of cavalry, to
go in the middle of a thousand chances the plains of Caracas. Turning now to continue to Bolivar in
his expedition, saying before he fled to shut Monteverde Puerto-Cabello as soon as he knew that,
encouraged by his courage, his genius and fortune, Valencia approached.

A

year to that in the cells at Puerto-Cabello Jalon brave prisoner groaned, and Bolivar, save
both as to humiliate Monteverde, laid siege to the square with troops Urdaneta and Ribas division,
commanded by Giraldot. In one of the outputs that the Zuazola trying plaza fell prisoner and immediately
proposed Bolivar cange to Jalon The proposal was rejected by Monteverde, who persisted in his
conduct of not wanting to deal enemies. This and the Monteverde have shot some prisoners forced
the Venezuelan leader Zuazola order to pay their outrages being hanged in front of the plaza.
Cruel reprisals followed by the siege.

About 1,200 men landed under the command of Colonel Salomon, came to the aid of Monteverde September
l6, and Bolivar, raising the site, went to Valencia. A few days, the captain general and he
pursued the assailants and highlighted a force Barbula occupied the hill, on the spur of the mountains
of Guataparo, and 50 of the same month Giraldot columns, D'elute and Urdaneta attacked the Spanish
art, and climbing the mountain they placed the gun to arm routed the enemy, making him a large number
of prisoners.

In this Giraldot gallant glorious action, while the tricolor flag planted on more strong position
of the royalists, wounded by a bullet fell to rise no more.

Then the Grenadian soldiers to avenge the death of his heroic countryman asked Bolivar and obtained
from the formation of a separate body, and D'elute, at the head of a thousand brave Spaniards
defeated at a place called the Trenches, crowned by a complete victory, of which result, wounded in
the face by a bullet, he fled to close in Monteverde Puerto-Cabello. The site of the square was restored
again and Giraldot avenged the third day of his death.

A week later, on October 11, Lt. Col. Elias Campo met some forces a thousand rifle with which,
under the orders of Bolivar, Coro had left, and having aide to 1,200 horses, since the orders
of Michael Ustariz, achieved a splendid Victory at the site of about 2,000 riders Mosquito and 500
laborers who sent Boves and Morales, who, accompanied by only thirty horse men took refuge
in Guayabal on the left of Apure. The head of the Spanish infantry, Francisco Tomas Morales,
left seriously wounded in the battle.

The same day that the republican arms are marked with a glorious fact, met civil authorities in Caracas
and the council in the middle of the Victors, applause and cheers the people, and in agreement
conferred on Simon Bolivar employment captain general of the army and title LIBERATOR OF VENEZUELA.
But the famous leader not slept on his laurels or interrupted for
a moment the progress of its operations, and directing the general
Ribas who came from Caracas, Valencia went on, and on November 25,
with 2,000 men aged Infants and horsemen; clog the movement attempted
by the division of Salomon on the heights of Vijirima, and beating
it to great advantage, forced her to retire to Puerto-Cabello.

Of Salomon ten days there sought a rematch in Araure with far superior forces in number, and
the republican arms, led by Bolivar himself, obtained a marked victory, therefore, with very few
losses, took the train all the enemy's military, which fled leaving the field more than a thousand
dead.

On this bright day gave evidence heroic General Urdaneta, Colonel Florencio Palacios, Lt. Col. Manuel
Manrique, Elias Campo captains, Briceno, Ribas Davila Villapol, Matthew
Salcedo, and several other Republicans.

The soldiers deserved to grace your head, that made all the more praise in the detailed part
of this brilliant action. These losses brought discouragement and mistrust in the Spanish ranks,
and 28 December proponents of Puerto-Cabello Square, dismissed the remote Monteverde Eleven days later
he withdrew to hide their humiliation in Curacao.

Bolivar returned to Caracas, and making the political governor convene Cristobal Mendoza corporations,
most notable neighbors and, finally, to all parents, 2 January 1814, at the convent of San Francisco,
before an immense crowd, he realized administrative acts of his dictatorship and I hope the
verdict of the people. A governor's proposal among the most lively, enthusiastic and prolonged
acclamation, were confirmed at the Libertador powers until there had been invested, and fill
with joy, headed phrases, gratitude to the Venezuelan people for the confidence with which
he was honored.

Then departed for the battlefield, and after that Ribas Boves courageously rejected in Victoria on
February 12, putting their troops in dispersion, while having to regret among other loss of the
distinguished Ribas Davila, 28 the same month, alone 1,800 men by Bolivar and 7,000 by Boves,
overcome this was to leave the field of action, which was the San Matthew, after having cost
the Republicans the victory 203 men killed and wounded. Among the first he had to regret the
brave Villapol and two other officers, and among the latter had,
with Campo Elias, 30 other officers, but the loss of the enemy was
much higher.

Ricaurte garrisoned at the top of a hill near San Matthew a house belonging to Bolivar and
intended to serve park. The forces at his disposal was not able to cope strong attack underlined
column Boves against the house, and knowing that their resistance would be useless, it outputs
its soldiers, left alone, set fire to the park and destroyed equipment so the enemy, being buried in
the rubble.

In late March the royalists laid siege to Valencia with 4,000 men
Don Jose Cevallos refresh was bringing the province of Coro, but not
artillery.

The city was defended as the first chief of Urdaneta, Juan Escalona
as second, and as governor Mirror Doctor political. Taborda commander
directed the batteries. After several incidents, always advantageous to
the besieged, on April 5, withdraw its forces at the foot of Morro besieging
the head disappeared down the road of Tocuyito. Bolivar entered the
square of the same day, accompanied by some officers, and pay taxes
after the heroic defenders praise that deserved headed over Puerto-Cabello.

Because
of the scarcity of resources and some mayhem in the space of one month
had experienced patriots, his situation was beginning to become somewhat
embarrassing. Cagigal in person commanded the army that had brought
Cevallos, and actively harassed Republican when resolved on May 16 Bolivar
present battle, which verified the next day Tocuyito in the fields, unable
 to get anything for having blocked the action heavy rain,
and 18 retired quietly encamped on the outskirts of Valencia.

Ten days later, Bolivar's huge resources deployed his military genius presenting
combined a good battle plan Cagigal on the plains of Carabobo.

The Spanish leader, for its part, had conveniently located and with admirable order. The first
line of Urdaneta was commanded by Republicans, while the Liberator, Ribas, Marino and other
heads operating in the second. The total force amounted to about 5,200 men, the enemy had more
than 6,000 online. The successful provision of Bolivar, skillfully executed by their heads,
resulted in the extermination of almost all the enemy infantry, as the riders unharmed fled
to seek refuge in safe part, to the right of way of Pao.
  To Frank the sight was also the oddest and queerest he had ever even heard of.  At
one skillful parry the fox, although so terribly handicapped, was able to give the cat a whack
that sent him fairly sprawling in the snow.  At the sight of this Frank had to crowd his fur
mitten into his mouth to prevent him from fairly shouting out:

"Well done, old fox!" 

Bolivar accompanied on his trip to the new military representative of Spain, for as good patriot
could not live off the floor that he was born and whose fate so often precarious accelerated
the beating of his noble and courageous heart. The idea to give his country days of happiness
and prosperity, opening the path to their future independence, more than one occasion had come
to interrupt your sleep and halagueenas rocking their hopes of glory. On 17 May Bolivar Emparan
and stepped on the Costa Firme. The first provisions of the new captain general were so violent
and misguided, that everyone, without exception, so Spanish as Creoles, with the intention
of not separating the colony from the mother country, formed the plan to overthrow their power and
then be analogous to a government of that.

Expiring in the month of March 1810 and was agreed according to the Marquis del Toro, Col. militia
battalion of the valleys of Aragua, was to mark the entrance of seizing April general surprise
of the captain, whom news of the project, through an informer vile,
slapped hands with the conspirators.

Contrary to what might be expected, and at odds with his first acts
of government, was limited Emparan to confine in Maracaibo, Margarita,
and other parts of the province to major authors of the aborted plan.

Vague rumors spread by this time about the dissolution of the central Board the dispersion of
its members, rumors were confirmed on April 18, Wednesday Day Santo, in a very broad, as also
was learned that the entire Peninsula, less Cadiz and Isla de Leon, was already occupied by the
French, which was spread concern with lightning speed among all classes
of people, and even the Spaniards expressed fear, apprehension and
mistrust of government.

The occasion presented an excellent forum for the Creoles to revive past claims, and new spell, drew
his party to the principal chiefs and officers of the troops who
garrisoned the city, and to the council, which was composed of Spanish
and American almost equal parts, is ready to lead a discussion with
the captain general.

The next day, on the occasion of attending the celebration of the offices of Holy Thursday the City,
true to his promise, an invitation to step Emparan, who was present in the chapter house and found
the municipal body set up in extraordinary session, assuming an agena powers and trying the
danger to America, the policy to be adopted in those circumstances
and the urgent need to organize their own government that put it under
cover of anarchy.

Emparan, after having skillfully evaded the considerations and difficulties that the council
presented to him, concluded by stating: "it would inconvenientisima any innovation," and left
from there go then to the metropolitan church. But the conspirators are, will intercept the
pass, and one of them named Francisco Salias, helped the mob, forced him to return to the chapter
house no bodies found at the step guard oppose the least resistance,
but, on the contrary, they express their menacing attitude denying
its chief official honors.

Emparan had to assent to the idea of ​​a supreme board, but having had the Chapter the weakness of
access for their party to continue occupying the front of her office President, a doctor and
canon of the Cathedral of Caracas, the Senor Don Jose Cortes Madariaga
which was announced at City Hall as a member of the clergy and people,
in an interesting and deposition eloquent speech of the captain asked
the general.

In such critical circumstances, Emparan, performing on the balcony to the crowd that surrounded
the chapter house, I appeal for your vote, but this, according to the sworn, shouted iAfuera!
iAfuera!

Do not you want .-- Nor I want the command, said the indignant, while trying to conceal his anger
and embarrassment. Record volumes of these words and felt right there as a voluntary resignation.

The
council, aided by several individuals known to its members as members of different kinds of corporations
and society, declared: "That the provinces of Venezuela would proceed to form a government charged
with exercising sovereignty on behalf and in representation Fernando VII, "net through which
recognize the authority of the regency, and then expelled its territory
by leading authorities that there had been represented to the nation
Spanish, at the same time abolishing the hated tribute from the Indians
and the futility of slaves.

Once banished the captain general, the upper control arms was conferred
on a sugeto great instruction and personal value, this was Colonel
Fernando Toro, brother of the Marquis of that name, who had been educated
in Spain.

Soon the provinces of Barcelona, ​​Cumana, Margarita, Varinas and so on the other, less Coro
and Maracaibo who pleaded true to the regency, sent their deputies to the board, thus recognizing the
new government of Venezuela. While it is true that some Guyana will retract its first deal by
sending prisoners to the metropolis, to Havana and Puerto-Rico addicts to the new order of
things, on the other hand, the recognition by the Merida government
established in the capital, separating from Maracaibo with noble enthusiasm,
compensated in part similar defection.

The Board sent to Coro and Maracaibo some commissioners to deal with the Spanish authorities, and
they received them as traitors, and as such the submitted without hesitation to prisons in Puerto
Rico.

In view of such an outrage, ordered the Board that the Marquis del Toro depart in front of some troops
against the province of Coro, and the said gentleman, meeting with the provisions that it placed as
soon headquarters in Carora.

While these events were held, Colonel Simon Bolivar, invested with
the powers necessary by the Board and accompanied by Luis Lopez Mendez,
went to England to seek protection of his government against the common
enemy, if you're trying to take over Venezuela, and at the same time
to implore his good offices of Spain so as not to disturb the peace
and good harmony that had existed up there among the inhabitants of
both hemispheres.

Although Bolivar was well received by the Marquis Wellesley, Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Great Britain, received only evasive answers because of the alliance
at that time had made the two nations.

Once this mission, our hero sail back to his native country in the company of General Miranda.

The
general and special courts of the Spanish nation, installed on September 24 on the Isle of
Leon, gave powers to the minister embracing the Supreme Council of Spain and Indian Cortabarria
to Don Antonio, aided by some warships, troops Puerto-Rico, Cuba and Cartagena, intervene
in the affairs of the colonies, but with the prevention of non-resort to force of arms but
in the extreme case that the media of persuasion in all respects were sterile. To this ought to
act according to the governor Maracaibo, Don Fernando Miyares, who wore the same appointment
Cortabarria captain general of Venezuela.

The Caracas junta initially refused to recognize and render obedience to Parliament; but then,
by accessing the opinion of its most respected members, wanted to test disinterestedness convening
a National Congress. There was then an abortive uprising in sense of recognition of the Council of
Regency, and surprised by the Board, the rebels were sentenced to confinement in some vaults
of Porto Cabello and La Guaira, and other exiles in perpetuity.

The latter included the rich brothers Don Francisco Peninsula and Don Manuel Gonzalez and Linares,
trade in Caracas.

The news of horrific murders in Quito in the persons of several determined Patriots, was great
indignation among the people of Caracas, who, surrounding the palace the Board, called for
the expulsion of the Spaniards and Canary Islanders, but the Board, ruling it hiciesen funeral
honors to the unfortunate Americans, achieving appease the tumult,
and to avoid reproduction of such scandals and disorders, the evening
of that day, which was October 24, imprisoned and exiled to which
promoters supposed riot.

These were Jose Maria Gallegos, Jose Felix Ribas and his three brothers.

Thirty-five days after this event, ie, 28 November, the army the West, led by Toro, attacked
the garrison troops in Coro, evicting a stronghold and making them a fee, and two days after
fleeing to ponia Miyares, which met him in Sabaneta with 800 men between infantry and cavalry, doing
some prisoners and gaining a piece of bell. Carora stopped biting them in the rear, and then
and manned this population, as well as that of Barquisimeto, he retired
to Caracas, where ran the news of the arrival of Miranda to Venezuela.

The Board ruled in the name of Fernando VII, believed that giving asylum to so ardent Republican
would be highly contradictory to the situation in which he had placed and try to clog the landing
of this general, and even came to give a diplomatic dependence to remove him. But the people held
out his hand of protection, welcomes you with the most unique showing respect and deference.
Then the government made a show of enthusiasm and gave him the title
of lieutenant general, commanding us to seek and destroy all documents
the previous administration made against the good name of so distinguished
and patriotic military.

Thus ended the year 1810, preparing, through events that almost dare
us to describe as angels, the realization of desires that burned in
the hearts of Venezuelans.

CHAPTER III

, 1811 .-- Entry Reunion and organization of a Congress. - Measures taken by This body .-- .-- Departure of
General Conspiracies Toro for Appointment .-- Miranda Valencia as Chief of the Army .-- His acts Constitution
of Venezuela .-- .-- .-- The capital of the state .-- Monteverde Events of the time and after
the arrival of this character .-- Disturb the cause of Venezuela .-- Earthquake. - Influence of disasters
linked to the war .-- .-- Defection of some cities Suspension State law .-- Miranda Projects
Donations .-- .-- Elevation of the government Bolivar Puerto-Cabello
futile effort .-- .-- .-- Scenes bloody disgrace .-- Miranda Offers
Defeat sterile Dictator .-- .-- .-- Banditry imminent danger of Bolivar
and his trip to La Guaira Selection armistice .-- .-- .-- Capitulaciones
Monteverde is owner of the country.

We inaugurated the year 1811 with the blockade of the Venezuelan provinces, locking Cortabarria
ordered executed in compliance with a decree of the regency, while
the board, faithful calling, wearing out the reunion of the Congress
adjourned.

Pursuant to for it was to consist of forty-four deputies.

On March 2nd was the day fixed for the reunion, which was to be verified in the capital, where that body
shall be installed, forming a chamber, common and undivided, comprising respectable patricians
sent by the provinces of Barcelona, ​​Varinas, Caracas, Cumana, Margarita, Merida and Trujillo.
Among its worthy members included General Miranda, the Marquis del
Toro, Francisco Javier Ustariz, Lino Clemente, Martin Tovar, Juan
German Roscio, Nicolas Antonio Briceno, Francisco Javier Yanes and
several others.

After organizing their service, Congress named three individuals responsible for exercising the executive,
and three as alternates to the necessary cases of absence or illness the first, that the lords
Baltasar Padron, accredited lawyer, Juan Escalona, militia officer
elevated to the class of colonel by the Supreme Board, and Cristobal
Mendoza who served as attorney.

Also established an Advisory Council.

One of the most important agreements was the legislative body of the enactment of the famous
minutes, by which it declared that the provinces of Venezuela in the representation, would form
hereinafter referred to a Confederation of Free and Independent States,
with complete separation of Spain.

Each of these could be the form of government that best suited him, as to the will of their
peoples.

He soon made to feel some revolutionary movements, promoted by agents Cortabarria, which were quelled
by government forces and sentenced to the ultimate penalty by its
courts persons who appeared as authors of the rebellion.

But a dangerous revolt broke out in Valencia, where the rebels, ignoring the authority of Congress,
proclaimed the legitimacy of Ferdinand VII.

The general flew to repress Toro, making at first to dislodge the enemy from their positions advanced,
and ending with being rejected in turn to Maracay, from which point sending emissaries to Caracas
to assist him with reinforcements. The government then appointed to Miranda commanding general
of the army, marched east against the Spaniards and forced them to
capitulate, entering revolt in the city on 13 July.

But due to lack of necessary precautions for the vanquished, who had kept arms and ammunition,
leaving his headquarters fell to the troops de Miranda, taking them in headlong flight to
Guaraca.

After a fact so little noble, Miranda, in the mood for revenge, came
up with new forces and on days 12 and August 15, reduced the Spaniards
to the last end, surrendered to discretion for having been rejected
many proposals of capitulation had submitted.

The prisoners were sentenced to death by the courts, Congress determined penalty be commuted by
others.

Formulated, discussed and enacted the Federal Constitution of the seven provinces of Venezuela,
The decree was published on December 21. Recognized as the basis of the representative system
sovereignty residing in the village split the power into legislative, executive and judicial forming
separate bodies each other; garantizabase popular law and the inviolability address; banned
forever the use of torture and the personal jurisdiction and no pronounced sentence for treason
against the State would remain defamatory children the accused, abolished the slave trade and
the Indians were matched to other Venezuelan rights and duties, we developed public instruction; extinguianse
titles of nobility hereditary, so degrading as any qualification
race and, finally, was adopted the yellow flag, blue and red, raised
by Miranda when his expedition of 1806, considering it as the hallmark
of the federation.

The city of Valencia was later declared as the capital of the State, and Congress suspended its work
on February 15, 1812, postponed its next meeting for 1 deg.

March, not be dissolved without first garrison commanded the left bank of the Orinoco to register
defensive.

From that date until the arrival of Commander Domingo Monteverde, a native of the Canary Islands
and the service of Spain, there were some meetings, prosperous and adverse about others, including
the Federal troops commanded by Colonels Francisco Gonzalez and Moreno, Manuel Villapol and
Francisco Sola and Spanish, these battles took place in Santa Cruz de la Soledad, in the waters
between the gray of Macareo and Pedernales in Barrancas, in Lorondo
and Angostura where, after a serious setback that had to fortify Villapol
to Maturin save its people, Single Moreno and disappeared, leaving
their soldiers in the most criminal neglect and at the mercy of the
enemy.

Choir came to Monteverde in the company of Don Juan Manuel Cagigal brigadier and other military
leaders, carrying money, weapons and other necessary to make war
on the rebellious provinces; and from that moment the Patriots, not
for lack of courage and determination but because of lower number,
were narrowed and harassed more activity every day.

The March 15 revolution Monteverde protected them in leaded Liquisique unfairly the Indian Reyes
Vargas, that no great merit he had received the appointment of Captain
the government of Venezuela, and six days of this defection the patriots,
who is serious condition deprived of their chief commander Gil, were
completely defeated Carora.  This was the whole outfit, except, of course, the guns.  One evening an Indian
arrived with the news that at a certain place the great white owls had been seen in numbers,
and perhaps it would be a good place to go and see what could be done in capturing some.  As
it was a very pleasant evening and the place mentioned was not very far away, Sam had little
Roderick packed with him in his cariole, and with the mouse, ball of twine, and gun, and attended
by one of the Indian servants, they drove over to the spot.  The big mouse was placed on the
snow as far out from the shore as the string would allow.  The dogs with the cariole were driven
into the shadow of a large spruce tree that grew on the very edge of the lake.  Here the Indian,
with Sam and Roderick, although completely hidden in the shade, could see distinctly everything
outside, for the moon was now up and shining with wondrous beauty.  For a time they remained
there under the tree in complete silence.  Then the clear vision of the Indian enabled him
to be the first to detect the presence of an owl. Sucre then placed his force across the mountains of Chimborazo in Mocha village,
located in the parallel of Riobamba, and both armies continued their journey until, finding in
Guachi on 12 September, engaged a fierce battle, the Republican leader, despite his courage
and the carnage caused the enemy was defeated with considerable losses.

After these two months of this ill-fated war action, according to proposal of Sucre Aymeric granted
a suspension of arms of ninety days, during which the general Republican who was worshiped in the country
for its virtues had to prepare and recruit people in order reappeared in his day more formidable
than before.

CHAPTER X

First Congress of Colombia .-- This waiver does not support it .-- Publication of Bolivar the
Constitution of Colombia .-- Punishment of law policy of the State of Bolivar for Election
.-- the presidency of the Congress Project .-- Preparations .-- Peru free up .-- Pass Sucre by the western
mountains .-- Occupation of the Province of Loja open the hood .-- Quito .-- Entry liberating
army in Pasto Sucre Conquests .-- .-- .-- Battle of Pichincha Word Association Cheers Quito .--
.-- .-- Peru offer made to interview Bolivar and San Martin .-- State
Peru Congress .-- Reunion .-- Expedition to Colombia Maracaibo Naval
Combat .-- .-- Fortune shown favorable to Morales Republic .-- .--
Capitulation of Venezuela is free.

By a decree of Roscius, issued in Angostura on November 9, 1820, to May 6 Next year the first
Congress of Colombia was installed in the town of Rosario de Cucuta, with deputies elected freely
and legally emancipated provinces the power of Spain, whose number was twenty-two between Venezuela
and New Granada. Its principle dealing with the resignation Bolivar had made of his office politics,
and determined: that this loyal and selfless patriot, while giving
the state a definitive government means of a Constitution, continue
as to where the action in the performance of their duties.

Finally, on July 12, 1821, after the battle of Carabobo, the Basic Law was published that, under
the name of Republic of Colombia, met in a single national body to Venezuela and New Grenada with
a representative popular government, declaring his independence from all foreign domination
and all particular domain, and dividing the exercise of power supreme legislative, executive
and judicial.

Santa Fe de Bogota was declared the capital to Therefore, in better times, a city erected to that
effect with the name of the Liberator Bolivar.

August 30 was enshrined by the Constitution of the State, which differed from previous in some
essential points. The senators were not tenured, according to all charges Public choice principles
of periodic and alternative, and the executive would be exercised by a single individual. Among
the important laws given to the country had two, one 19 and another July 28, two notables. The first
stated that since the day of its publication is Free considered children that are begotten of slaves,
the other all the convents suppressed of regulars who did not have at least eight religious mass
on the same date, whichever National Education for all goods and
property, rights and remedies legacy communities who may be covered
by the Act.

This makes exception for the hospital, considered the usefulness of their services.

On 7 September, according to the power that the Constitution granted to Congress to appoint for
the first time the offices of President and Vice-President, the choice fell on Bolivar and Santander,
that for the first of these jobs and this for the second. Then, with date October 2, another
law dividing the territory into seven departments, which were: Orinoco, Venezuela, Zulia, Boyaca,
Cundinamarca, Cauca and Magdalena, and other various jobs after high Legislative body, leaving
Santander in front of the administration, the Liberator departed
Cucuta to Bogota, to make arrangements for the bell had projected
towards the Sud

So ended this year, fertile in remarkable events,
and in the first days of January the next, 1822, in accordance with
an executive order, the reunion of the military command was established
in the departments of Venezuela, Orinoco and Zulia.

Gen. Carlos Soublette, with the office of mayor, was the first front the direction of the war,
and Paez as commanding general of the same; Bermudez in the Orinoco, and Lino Clemente in Zulia.
Bolivar at this time was headed to Cali Popayan to await the forces that intend to give start
to the campaign of Quito. While this is done, and next to expire within three months of armistice
Sucre crossed the western mountains on February 9 and took to Zaragoza in the province Loja,
at which point the troops sent by the dictator of Peru San Martin came to meet.

Open the hood of Quito, heading towards Pasto, the Liberator blight in the Bottle troops under the leadership
of Don Basilio Garcia on March 7, but had to mourn the loss General Pedro Leon Torres. On June
8, entered victorious in Pasto, with prisoner Garcia and the troops who had been to this boss
Spanish.

Activity is both Sucre and Aymeric Batian fiercely on the side of Guayaquil, seizing the first,
one after another, Basin populations and Alausi, having to fight forever against superior forces
in number. Riobamba was taking place after April 22, after a brilliant battle Sucre which gave
further evidence of his good military skills.

Turubamba the plains of this city is headed to Quito, situated at the foot of achieving the heights
which form the crest of Pichincha among the peoples of Chillogallo and Magdalena thus flanking
and behind the enemy.

Hastened away during the night of 23 Mayo, and the next day, to the surprise of his opponents
mocked, appeared on the mountain, where they tried to evict those, but completely defeated and
lacking insurance shelter, surrendered by capitulation, the city of Quito on May 25, the day
when 280 albergo years before it first Spanish weapons. Aymeric, with the rest of their troops
remained in the hands of Sucre, the victor in the battle of Pichincha. Four days after citizens
of the conquered capital formally ratified the pact of union between Quito, Venezuela and New
Granada.

The surrender of Pasto and Quito assured freedom in a vast and beautiful country, no hitherto trod
by Republican plants, remained in the hands of Sucre 14 pieces of
artillery, 1,260 prisoners, of which 160 belonged to the officer class,
and finally, rifles and how many elements of war possessed enemies.

Shortly after taking the capital of this rich province, ie June 15, Bolivar entered it preceded
the warmest and expressive tokens of appreciation and enthusiasm of the people of transit. From here
he moved Guayaquil, where the shouts of joy were reproduced from then to Cuenca, from which
point put at the disposal of the government of Peru is a division of 4,000 Colombians.

San Martin ran to find Bolivar, and July 25 in Guayaquil embraced two brave warriors, having started
from both ends of the New World, were to confer about the independence of his country under the
burning sun of Ecuador.

Three days passed together these two American heroes, not a single moment they saw one without
the other, but the outcome of his talks remained shrouded in mystery night. Only known that Interviews
though the most attentive kingdom cordiality between them, their separation, however, were not those
that the friendship reveals the outpouring of enthusiasm or the tenderness of a Live affection.
Among the political ideas of these two eminent men stood perhaps a high fence.

The royalists occupied at the time, not only all of Upper Peru, but also most Lower, and were
very encouraged and hopeful because of his recent triumphs. The Patriots possessed only in
Lima and the countries located on the northern coast; also were separated
in different political parties, which undermined its force base the
common cause of South America, and metal resources were not over,
before the contrast, were short.

Such was the situation of Peru from late 1822 to mid-1823.

On 8 April this year, Colombia's Congress met again, and authorized on July 4 the freedom to
pass to get their aid to Peru, the most notable event of that legislature. We know that after
the interview had called dictator of that country and the illustrious Caracas. In the course
of the same year the city was preparing Montilla Axe an expedition
against Maracaibo, combined with the effect commanded naval forces
Colonel squad leader Jose Padilla, who can judge the risky venture
of force bar, an operation which was offered to fulfill and accomplish
his May 8 with only the loss General Bolivar's brig, commanded and
owned by Captain Nicolas Joly.

Once free to cross the lake, where I get to lord it in late June, and while General Francisco
Esteban Gomez, sick of Montilla, was headed against Maracaibo, Morales strengthened their squad
with two schooners that was bringing Captain Laborde Curacao. Gathered in Zapara Spanish fleet,
anchored on July 22 between Maracaibo and the island of Captain-Chico. The independents were doing
so in Altagracia Punta Piedras. Both fighters, in sight of one another, waiting for the wind
to be undertaken when patriots when they had been favorable, boarded
the 24, three hours after noon, the enemy and fight renidisimo'm locking
a winner Padilla.

The royalists had 800 casualties in dead and wounded, 420 prisoners from more official kind
of army and navy. The Patriots were 44 officers and men killed and 119 wounded.

Weapons Republican, favored for their courage and good cause, marching seeding for the way the
laurels of victory and adding one each day over the colossal stone building independence.
Where there had discouraged by their fruitless efforts the former rulers of Venezuela, ceded the
field to the brave and freedom fighters. On August 3 chapter Morales under the most generous
terms of the Republicans who doing so will be crowning glory and twelve days after the candle
is to that memorable general due to the island of Cuba. In the rest of the year Coro and Puerto Cabello,
the last bastion of Spanish domination in Venezuela, also fell into
the hands of the brave and meritorious children of the New World,
whose heroic came spilling blood for so many years, and finally to
leave the 1823, could exclaim, waving the flag of Colombia: "We are
already free."

CHAPTER XI

Bolivar in Lima .-- The public spirit in Peru .-- Lost. - Dissolution of Congress .-- The Libertador
organized a major expedition .-- Passage of the gorges of the Andes .-- Victoria Junin Colombians
in the Troops .-- .-- Break Spanish. - Combinations Bolivar .-- strategic directs the High Battle
of Ayacucho Peru .-- .-- .-- Entry Capitulaciones Bolivar in Lima .-- Call for a reunion of Congress
.-- The .-- reunion and actions Republic Surrender of Callao Bolivar .-- .-- Emancipation of
South America made Considerations .-- .-- Principia to disturbed
the order among Venezuelans decreed against Paez Deposition .-- .--
Revolt of Valencia. - Assembly .-- parties caused by the Federalists
of Caracas. - Bolivar is heading to Venezuela .-- Proclamation given
in Maracaibo. - Events of Peru.

The 1 deg. September, 1825 had made its entry into the liberator Lima, where he was sworn in
dictatorial power, with authorization to dispose of all resources of the country; but given
the opposition of some political parties, and realizing that the elements solvents that undermined
its noble undertaking would not be possible to reach the end which had proposed Trujillo retired. Thus
abandoning the capital, was soon occupied by the royal troops Canterac under General.

In early 1824 the state of the cause of independence was pitiful in Peru and marched despondently
to ruin. Missed the February 5 strengths of Callao, was dissolved
Congress, putting in Bolivar hope of their salvation.

The illustrious leader Colombian even if it were not for their ardent love for the cause of freedom
of South America, I could not watch with indifference the dangers that would come to threaten
the work done by the up there if the arms enthrone Spanish arrived in Peru, and when he received the
sad news was the latest disaster in the province of organizing troops Huamalies and waiting for reinforcements
from their republic to continue operations at its own risk may oppose in a little to the misfortunes
that occurred an army of 4,000 patriots country and 6,000 Colombians.

Then crossed the passes of the Andes, while those of Jauja Canterac garrisoned and placed their
outposts in Houses, and marched resolutely on Pasco. The Spanish general, who know the direction
followed by its opposite, is heading the same point in order recognition practice. Here he learned
that on August 5 had been taking for Bolivar the right of Lake Junin, and fell in the act to hinder
the enemy forces came to be at your back. By practicing this movement, and have three days
undertaken, Canterac was hit by Bolivar and the royalists suffered a major defeat in Or Pampa
Junin de los Reyes.

The winners Canterac followed in pursuit of that, on and in good order, was retiring to Tarma, Jauja,
Huancayo and Huamanga, and arrived at Cuzco with a loss more than 2,000 men. The liberating
army Huamanga not pass until after he had rested there for about a month, at which time, as he
had his boss, General Sucre was to Challuanca go on to threaten the enemy's rear, while he practiced
a recognition of the Apurimac, operation in which the winter came to surprise suspended and that
after this debian verified. Bolivar then moved by powerful causes, he separated from his army,
leaving him in winter quarters, and headed the Alto Peru in order to prepare the necessary means
to close the hood and at the same time to organize good governance
in that country.

Later, on December 9, the troops were crowned with laurel Sucre in Ayacucho, reaching a decisive victory
over Spanish arms, commanded by Laserna, then viceroy of Peru. A nearly 9,500 men ascended the
viceroy's forces, while not arriving at 6,000 the general command of the republic, but well combined
and skillfully directed the plan battle, the royalists were completely undone, remained in
the hands of Sucre, in addition de Laserna, 15 generals, 16 colonels, 68 lieutenant colonels,
484 officers, 3,200 soldiers, corporals and sergeants, 11 pieces of artillery, a large number
of rifles, ammunition and finally, all the military equipment belonging to the enemy, who had
been placed in the case of surrender by capitulation.

On this memorable day, the brightest of which took place in South America, with the head that
reached heroically distinguished Jose Maria Cordoba, English Miller and Gen. Lamar. According
to the foundations of the Spanish capitulation was forced to surrender countries still dominated
by them in the Upper and Lower Peru and the victors to spare the lives and property of the vanquished
and their supporters, paying also travel to the peninsula Army individuals who request them. The
immortalized the Battle of Ayacucho name of the brave son of Cumana, as good a patriot as a virtuous
citizen, as skilled as noble general.



"Well," said Sam, "that is a splendid story; but you must have suffered much more than I did,
and so as regards my little experience with the owl, well, I think I'll ould my tongue."

And so he did.

Winter Adventures of Three Boys--by Egerton R.  Young

CHAPTER EIGHT.

SUNDAYS IN THE GREAT LONE LAND--SERVICES AT THE MISSION--BY SKIFF OR CANOE IN SUMMER--BY DOG-TRAIN
IN WINTER--NAPOLEON, THE TAME BEAR, AND HIS LOAD--SERVICES AT SAGASTA-WEEKEE--MISSIONARY JOURNEYS--NATIVE
MINISTERS--THE QUEER SERMON--HAPPY CHRISTMAS TIMES--NEW YEAR'S, THE GREAT DAY--OO-CHE-ME-KE-SE-GOU--THE
KISSING DAY--VARIED EXPERIENCES--THE GREAT FEAST--HAPPY INDIANS--THANKSGIVING.

Sundays in the North Land! With only loss
of about 60 men killed and wounded on this day won the Venezuelan leader 8 flags, all enemy
artillery, more than 500 rifles, a large number of mounts, ammunition, provisions and cattle, so
for the fifth time saving to their homeland.

Despite preventive measures taken by Bolivar, and was sure that Boves related facility people to
take revenge for the last defeat of the royalists could not prevent the door the 5,000 riders
and 5,000 infants defeated Spanish Merino, whose strength is not reached half of this number.
More than l, 000 Republicans were on the battlefield, many of them were killed after being taken
prisoner. The colonel and commander Aldao Freites were killed in action, and among the prisoners,
Colonel Jalon, Cangado to some time by Lieutenant Colonel Marimon. Also perished in this fateful
day the secretary State and Tevar Antonio Munoz.

While Bolivar and Marino, who had saved with good, having dispatched emissaries to Escalona to
defend the city of Valencia, ran to extract resources from the capital, Boves, after to pursue due
to the Victoria and leading a column of 1,500 men under Ramon Gonzalez for the master to be
directed to Caracas with the rest of his people, is presented ahead of Valencia on 19 and
Escalona reducing it to close precincts of the Plaza Mayor, forced him to surrender, offering
to God to respect the lives and property Those who occupied the square, but two days the colonel Alcover,
Dr. Espejo, all officers, unless he could flee Escalona for a costume,
sergeants and several individuals Valencia perished cruelly murdered.

Shortly before the capture of the city, Caracas was also occupied by the Spaniards, and 6 Julio
Bolivar, afflicted by the sad spectacle of the many families as a funeral procession followed
his steps, walking towards the mountains of Barcelona and the coast Capaya the sea. Boves
by this time, following the example of Monteverde, seized the remote and built in absolute lord
of his acts, in Caracas as governor left the traitor Quero, Valencia Don Luis Dato officer,
and ordered Morales to depart in pursuit of Bolivar. During the ten days I spent in Caracas
circulated two pardons, and then automatically to all authorities and chief justice of the people
to be able to send hand shot those who had taken part in the deaths
of some prisoners, executed while Arismendi Colonel was acting governor
of that capital.

Achievement in traffic Bolivar still pick up and organize up to 2,000 men, took possession
did Aragua de Barcelona. Colonel Bermudez accompanied the Venezuelan leader as his second. On August
18, and leading a respectable force of 8,000 bayonets, Morales attacked the Republicans, after
a long battle came to declare victory for the royalists, albeit at a high price because they cost
a thousand men and more than two thousand injured.

Full of wrath, the Spanish leader to pass control to the sword, besides the prisoners, much of of
harmless neighbors, without regard sex or age.

Beset by such fatal reversals of fortune, a less energetic and so pure faith does not enthusiastic
for the freedom of his country face, would have despaired of your company, but the Liberator, which
resilience and perseverance were steadfast, hearing the advice of a prudent value is directed
at Cumana, where he joined Ribas, Marino, Valdes, Azcue and other brave officers, weight, measured
and study the circumstances that made their situation precarious, and, after a long debate,
decided the evacuation of the city. The few troops that were there came out on August 25 for
Maturin, and the squadron commanded by Bianchi, Marino and Bolivar became the voir with towards the
Margarita, as the Liberator had to make safe the great treasure that high Caracas clergy had
placed in their hands to meet the needs of the Republic. That treasure was composed of all
the jewels of the churches, and Bolivar in such difficult times, I had to make use of them to buy
weapons and other necessary to the creation of a respectable army,
able to help save the motherland, ensuring forever their children
the enjoyment of liberty, the object of his most ardent desires and
for which he sacrificed, not only the existence but also the good
fortune that their parents had left.

CHAPTER VI

A breach of trust .-- Judgement against Bolivar and Marino for their absence .-- Dismissal
of Liberation - New Maturin siege. - Defeats Morales Boves .-- .-- Death of Adversity pursues the Republicans .--
Maturin Morales fell to so sad .-- .-- Advantages Ribas of the Spanish arms .-- Interview Urdaneta
and Bolivar .-- This appears to account for their conduct to the government and is well received .--
Conquest of Santa Fe de Bogota Bolivar .-- Conflict with the governor
of Cartagena .-- Consequences the rebellion withdraw the Liberator
.-- .-- Cartagena Jamaica is taken by Morillo .-- New bloodshed .--
The republic seems to have come to an end .-- .-- Bolivar Margarita
Events threatened by the dagger of a traitor .-- Preparations made
by Brion.

Misfortune does not speak even ceased to grieve and to test the love of the heroic noble patrician;
had not ceased even to purify with fire of the most harsh torments his loyalty and diligence;
had not yet downloaded over his head the largest and most formidable of his punches. A new
defection, the seductive daughter of greed, came to clip the wings of his patriotic and halagueena
hope. The riches he had drunk the greedy heart of Bianchi, and with the greatest Bolivar cynically
declare that he was willing to strip, which would have verified live full if the claims of the holders
of that treasure, seeking to purchase the freedom of South America would not have gotten, sighting
the Margarita, the unfair ocean will cede a small part of jewelry and two ships of his squadron to
to guide him to Cartagena, but thwarted his plans were directed toward
and landed Carupano here on 5 September.

But a new misfortune awaited them there. During his absence, the military chiefs province were tried
as traitors, and for leaving the army, it was his opinion there was a bill of attainder against
them, and Ribas and Piar had earned the first two military officers. Ribas Carupano occurred in the
day after the arrival of Bolivar and Marino became a prisoner to it, and let free, but dismissed,
as noble as unfortunate Libertador. However, one of those inexplicable events in men, by one of
those quirks of luck, the same as stealing had occurred in a threatening manner to protect them;
and having held strongly demanded Ribas, will provide relief and
left for Cartagena day 8, more willing than ever to sacrifice for
their country.

About this time, with about 6,500 men, Morales stood before Maturin and intimated to surrender,
offering a most honorable capitulation to those who defended this point; but the people maturinense
reproduced again his old words, saying with integrity: "He preferred the destruction of slavery."
Bermudez had at his side to the best Pedro Zaraza, the meek and brave
Cedeno, Jose Tadeo Monagas asset, other distinguished leaders, 1,000
Some 300 riders and as infants, all brave, all good patricians.

Great was the victory of Morales Bermudez reached, despite the numerical superiority of the
forces commanded by him, in the battle that I present the 12th of September. After of having killed
more than 2,000 men, seizing up to 900 prisoners, became owner of 2,100 rifles, 6,000 beasts
of burden, 700 horses with their saddles, over 150,000 rounds, large number of cattle and
other provisions of mouth, without another sacrifice on his part
that the 75 people dead and about 120 wounded.

The Spanish leader fled to Urica with people who had left to expect there to Boves.

This general arrived some days later, and on December 5 forces and defeated Morales Urica near Ribas
and Bermudez. Cara cost this victory to Spanish commander in chief, as Morales picked up his
corpse on the battlefield, while Republican leaders, almost alone, from there a short time
returned to Maturin. It was not just the defeat they had to mourn supporters of American independence,
as many were experiencing by division of views, assumptions and unworthy
arrogant warlords advocates insubordination of freedom in the eastern
part of Venezuela.

Resistance was useless in Maturin could oppose Morales who escaped alive of the last melee.
The new Spanish army general, for that he acknowledged his officers, getting it all with fire and
sword, slew without mercy and without distinction of age or sex maturinenses loyalists. Bermudez
took refuge with fewer than 200 men in the mountains of Tigre; Ribas, in company with few,
if found to Urdaneta, walked towards the region Barquisimeto. This valiant warrior captured
while sleeping in the mountains of Tamanaco his head, with the same
red cap that I used to use constantly, was taken to Caracas an iron
cage and exposed to the public on the road to La Guaira.

During the last month of that year, Morales became owner of all the East, and blocking his squadron
to the coast from Trinidad Irapa, preventing escape to the Patriots. Also submitted at the
same time the western Venezuelan arms of Spain, Urdaneta came under the protection of New-Granada,
one day hoping to acquire the news reappearance of Bolivar. Violation effect in Pamplona, ​​and
let you way Tunja, where he directed to account for his conduct in
general government and encourage calm and full Always his outspoken
honesty and his enthusiasm never shot.

The government received him kindly, adopted all his actions, and as proof of his full conviction
and trust, we custom make to Bogota, which carried out the Dec. 12, giving the defeated an
honorable capitulation. This city was of course the seat of government, which ordered Caracas
descended the illustrious Magdalena Santa Marta to act against, and this departed the head of
the division of Urdaneta, reinforced by some recruits Granada.

The submission Santa Fe de Bogota brought recognition by Congress meeting provinces Tunja to try to
Bolivar, and a new effort to establish a constitutional government.

To facilitate the success of the company was authorized to take Bolivar arsenals Cartagena some
royalties and how much will I need to try, but the chief who commanded in that refused to place
it, and then we saw in the case of laying siege to their own coreligionarios. While running this
for the disgusting operation with the intention to punish disobedience, to maintain order and discipline,
without which it is impossible to go forward in proclaimed emancipation way, the Spanish general
Don Pablo Morillo anchored in Puerto Ghost, April 5, 1815, under
the command of an expedition that even marine force, consisting 15,000
men aided by 18 pieces of artillery, a regiment of dragoons, another
Hussars and some companies of sappers.

In view of these formidable reinforcement, and tired of fruitless struggle against such a cluster
of problems, children most of the creeping envy, and without giving up so expect better times
to begin anew the conquest of the liberties of his country, made
available to the chief Cartagena led forces, and three days of the
arrival of retired Morillo to Jamaica, where he later met Marino and
some other leaders and Venezuelan officials.

Shortly after the general Morillo laid siege to Cartagena, that because of that he had made suffer the Liberator
of provisions was exhausted and could not resist but a few days.

Making this important population provided the realistic means to reconquer New Granada, and soon
ran in torrents on the scaffold the blood of his determined and honest people.

The Republic had ceased to exist in appearance, but still sheltered in the mountains small and
scattered some items, such as living testimony that the fire of revolution
existed in the heart of the woods, prepared to produce new fires,
as in the hearts of the American South, willing and welcome to the
recovery of her always trampled rights, but in those moments they
saw drowned by brutal force.

For governor of the island of Margarita Morillo named Don Antonio Herrera, whose kind character not
being in harmony with the kidnappings and violent prison system in all parties took place, gave
room to stay soon dismissed, and went to replace him right person, but hard of heart, and therefore
in accordance with the arbitrary and abuse by the time the order of the day. The replacement
was none other than Lt. Colonel Don Joaquin Urreiztieta, which was opened followed by a ruthless
pursuit to sugetos main island. Among others who decided to sell their lives dearly, rather
than wait for it wickedly taken away, stripped of their estates and enclosed in gloomy dungeons,
Arismendi took refuge in the mountains decided to pay his, but weapons
in hand.

Meanwhile Providence seemed to protect the days of the Liberator in Jamaica, away from her bosom
the dagger traitor who had to leave them alone. A Spanish, paid for by Don Salvador Moxo, who
had replaced Cevallos as a trip east to the Peninsula, I get seduced Kingstown in one of the servants
of Bolivar, and one night, getting closer to the hammock I used to sleep, steel nail his murderer
in the heart of the person who was lying there. Al alas!

Bolivar launched by the victim woke up, he arrested the criminal and give the justice, the
confession of cheating oida server condemn him to suffer the supreme penalty.

This incident needs an explanation. The Liberator and a friend emigrated from Caracas, Amestoz called,
used to sleep in the same room. The first lay in a hammock and the second in a bed. But that
day, when the heat was extraordinary, having been Amestoz retired
earlier lay in the hammock while his friend was returning. She picked
the dream, and Bolivar on arrival, not to bother, took the bed was
empty. This casual exchange saved his life.  Mrs Ross here interposed, and stopped Sam's voluble utterances by saying that
they were all going over a little after noon, in response to a very cordial invitation from
Mr and Mrs Hurlburt, to witness the Indian feast and dine with them in the church.  This was
great news to all, and as there were only a couple of hours for preparation there was hurrying
in every direction.

"Put on your best bibs and tuckers, my hearties," said Sam to Frank and Alec, "for this day
is the event of your lives.  Rig yourselves up so gallantly and finely that the sweet, blushing
lassies over beyond, will be so struck with your noble presences that they will, for the day
at least, imagine themselves Indian maidens enough to at least comply with the customs of the
day."  But ere Sam had finished his long harangue, the blushing Frank and Alec were hunting
up their best apparel and selecting the warmest robes for their dog-sleds.

While all are getting ready at Sagasta-weekee let us take a look at the feast, or rather first
at the preparations necessary in such a land to feed ten or twelve hundred hungry Indians.
About two months before the time a great council is held.  The missionary is invariably asked
to be the chairman, and a clever writer of the Indian syllabics is appointed secretary. You know you are selling to the meek the parish ...

- And how are you now here in the village?

- Since the death of my father (God rest his soul) living at home: businesses have not been very
good, and will cost some time to fix yet. Yet the story, God by, say mass within two years
... Ea, bajémonos a bit to stretch my legs and take a bite ... Will
not you take a quarter pound or a drink, D. Andrew?

They were in front of a solitary hut on whose door waved a white flag
and red, giving testimony that there were worshiped Bacchus.

- Do
not take anything, but will come down to accompany you.

The devil is hurting me in the chair.

- You will not lose time - approaching Celesto said to hold the stirrup
and down as Could the voice .-- Are you going to see one of the best
party girls, straighter than a pine well-armed and well planted ...
It will suck you fingers ...

The faces that the seminarian made to
utter such words are not for described.

Her eyes aqueous sparkled like diamonds in Brazil and the volcanic nose quivered with joy.

- Come on, Amalia, sandunguera, give me a shot glass of rasa and this man what he likes. So You
could throw you in the cup, saucy, and I drink you with great satisfaction, but busting after a
grenade!

- So you do bad stomach, chaplain?

- I do not know, starry sky, the only thing I can say is that I stir
up a lot of nerves.

- For lime, honey, lime.

What do you take, sir? (To Andrew).

- A glass of water.

Amalia while washing the glass in a bowl placed at the end of the
counter, Andrés examined at your pleasure.

Celesto data seemed accurate. It was an arrogant girl figure and good
eyes logs and bruised arms, fat and too much red.

When he opened his mouth to laugh, taught healthy white teeth, but
nothing tiny.

- Give me another pink face, when I see you I dried
my throat ... Come, D. Andrew, do not home would take her to willingly?

-
And what I had to want this man in your house? - Laughing mischievously
asked her.

- To give you candy, princess - are not they, D. Andrew?

-
Go!

- I do not like sweets.

- What if I gave you the, star? - Asked
the seminarian with syrupy voice, entering the enclosed by the counter
and step closer to the girl cat.

- Bah ... then I will gladly eat
them - she said ironically.

- Really, honey? - Celesto asked while
grabbing her by the chin and sticking cardinalfish clear eyes, ignited
by a spark of love.

Andrew felt that it should go to see how the horses went. They had not moved from the site; quiet,
downcast, lost.

The carefully considered, reviewed their helmets to see how were
horseshoes, fixed gear, while inside the bar hear a cheerful and continued
to romp, sprinkled with tender phrases, laughter and not a few blows.

There, after for quite a while, went Celesto with pale cheeks and noses fatigue scorched than
before.

- Come on up ... There are to be stepped up ... What girl, D. Andrew! Right? ... It has a sister
who will be better that she still ... What more espetada girl and richer! - So formadita well
ahead as if I were twenty years and not more than fourteen ... Arre horse! Would not you repaired,
D. Andrew, how grateful the horse that the rider take a few drinks? It is well known, to run a
lazy horse, there as poured from his chest and back a mug of gin
... Well there where you see, D. Andrew, there is nothing Amalita
surly.

- Ya, I see you know you look for the folds.

Celesto satisfaction laughed until swallowing tears.

- Bah! Already have looked before I did many others. I enjoy a little with her when I come and go
... but there is no more ... Of course, D. Andrew, this only lasts
until take the higher orders, because I will not be a bad priest ...

-
You will do very well, otherwise, you'd better follow a different
career.

- Nothing, nothing, I am resolved to: the same day I ordered
that was that ... Out came outside women, and new life as God intended
...

He kept moving his tongue with increasing vigor seminarian while
the operation lasted on his head were the glasses of gin.

When he got tired of talking, singing some Trimmed picaresque song
obscene, laugh not a little to young courtier.

Joy is contagious, like sadness.

The Celeste got pegársele and soon came to him The duo, putting unusual exercise forces your
lungs faint.

Why not stopped walking at a brisk pace by the pleasant road, which
clung like a ribbon white skirts of the hills.

The valley was closing. Behind the wooded hills and crests poked some mountains announcing that
passengers would soon enter another craggy region in the heart of the mountains. Indeed, the
road ended abruptly near a strong tightness of the mountains, where they settled a village of little
importance. Thence along a path as soon as narrow width, which skirted the mountain in the
likeness of the road and was shaded by large tracts of farm adjoining
hazel.

The landscape was more and more wild. The valley had been transformed into ravine, where a
bustling river and crystalline ran through narrow but very delightful
meadows.

Here and there the canyon was amplified, as if to deserve such a name, sometimes closed till
you changing into true throat, where there was little more space than that occupied the road
and river.

This, as we walked towards his birth, was lost in flow, though gaining much in pleasantness and freshness,
more alive, more delicate sound. Large yellow pebbles which formed its bed dejábanse see very
clean, and even in the deepest wells, worked the edge of a cliff, explored the eyes all the
secrets of background ... The mountains Sometimes he stood on a peak, and were white and crowned with
ornate crest, including holes which showed the blue sky. Moss was in these large piers dark
green, that stood out bravely against the white of the limestone.

Crowd shrubs and occasionally trees, stuck the roots in their cracks and appeared as hanging on
gnarled and fantastic views on the river. "

The voice of the seminary, constantly singing its gross Anacreontics, echoed formidably in the
rocks.

Andrew was silent as a mute. He was overcome with emotion at this respect and vigorous nature,
which had not only seen in the landscapes in oil or gouache.

- Are we very far from Riofrio, friend?

- No, sir, and we entered the council of the branes. Riofrio, which is the capital, is in the center.
As we emerge from this tightness and go up a short repechito, we'll
see.

You will not like these peñascotes, right? accustomed to living in
cities ...

- On the contrary, I love: this is beautiful.

The seminarian turned his face inflamed gin, fearing that Andrew joke,
but seeing very seriously, made a slight grimace of surprise, and
herding the horse with hazel wielding, turned to pick up the thread
of his favorite song.

"Women who are overweight and tender And it has good leg ... And the priest to sin, Deserved to be
a countess, marquise, duchess And the priest cardinal. "

    
            And it brought peace to
            the song, until he spotted
      a girl who arrived with a basket on his
            head.

- Hello, Telva, good body: where did you go at this hour, chiquirritilla? I guess not Lada ...

At
the same time blocked his path with the horse and give you tap on
the cheek with the rod.

- Well, I'm Lada.

- What if you eat the
wolves?

- Little is lost.

- You'd lose a girl like the sun.

- Yes,
from noon!

Let me go, Celeste.

- In seguidita, but before you tell me where to go.

- A Lada, do
not you know?

- That's not true: you're going to Marin to bring fruit
to your aunt, and we went to see your cousin.

- Good Wins do I have
to see cousins ​​or uncles!

Come on, let me pass, I've been in a hurry.

Andrew had continued walking, the suspicion that the conversation
would be long and not very fun (for him at least).

Repechito rose that he had spoken Celesto, more advanced, and turn
a corner the road, suddenly ofreciose to view a spectacle that left
him suspended.

At his feet there in the background, discerns an enjoyable and virgin
valley, crossed by a crystal stream eses was doing, leaving them both
sides dazzling green pastures.

Close this valley some wooded hills darker tone. Behind the hills, Second, his brow raised
high mountains of white stone, beyond these alzábanse other even
higher, then higher ones yet, and so on an indefinite series of boulders,
leaning upon each other, as if it steep for a glimpse to this fresh
and delightful corner.

Phoenicia and began the evening twilight. Andrew was in ecstasy before that semicircle Immense mountains,
empty seats seemed a conference of gods. At the highest played almost the red clouds that
accompanied the sun in its descent. From the hills to mediated lower very short distance, although
the view is often misleading in such cases. Staining white on the dark green of the hills, planted
appeared, or rather, hanging over the valley some villages. At the heart was seen one bigger than
the other, resting between foliage of a superb vegetation .-- He must be Riofrío - is putting
the said Andrew hand over his eyes, by way of display, to examine
in greater comfort.

But the gentle village resisted inspection, half-hiding behind the trees, which served the
full extent of poetic stronghold. Could not be anything more beautiful. The river, lit by the oblique
rays of the sun, was a polished silver belt that imprisons him. Our traveler experienced the
sweet surprise of facing a treasure. He recalled the untouched valleys of serialized novels, and
agreed that he had never imagined anything so beautiful and demure. Happy thought, who was born
in this secluded retreat and never lost sight of him. At the same time came to his mind a rush
of melancholy reflections, inspired in part by its pitiful state, partly by the bitterness of
romantic writers, which was saturated.

But when it was entirely embedded in them, behold, a horse, harnessed and without rider, arrives and
crosses fast. He acknowledged the hack point .-- Canario Celeste! What have happened? If you
have killed! - And hastily turned around and went to the place where leave him. Celesto apuradísima
was in a state. Shrunken, folded, curled, lying at the foot of a road boundary walls, while Telva
stood a little higher, in attitude angry, flashing eyes, cheeks pale, ruthlessly throwing all the
stones that was at hand. And the tongue just as quickly moved with the hands.

- Shameless!

Pig! That will teach the seminar, great rascal! Ill take you hell you and all chaplains! Come,
come again and see how I pull these Nose bad!

Andrew stepped in and managed to throw the girl no more pebbles on the hapless seminarian I was
about to go badly if one of them was right, but the insults continued more and better, as he walked
slowly placate anger.

- The Demon of capellanzote! ... If you think you are dealing with a mort! ... Dirty! Dirty! Suciote!
... I'll tell your mother, he thinks he is a saint at home ... Anda walks with the saint! No,
the masses that you tell me the key here!

Thus went away shouting and slowly, while Andrew got up from ground
to the victim and shook hands with dust.

Celesto touched everywhere, to see if I had a spot of body bruised, and said with a sigh:

- What a great mare!

- I thought you had thrown the horse, it went ahead with great speed ...

- Yes, it smells like around the block has not waited.

Mount you, D. Andrew.

- Do you?

- I'll walk perfectly.

This was done.

Celeste was a little embarrassed.

- Of course, D. Andrew, this mess will conclude the day you take the higher orders - said after
walking a while in silence.

- You are right - Andres replied smiling ironically - that day ... that was that.

- Just ... that was that.

Calm down with all the valley through a narrow, zig-zag path. The rectory was the first in the
village, some distance away from the others. In front of her stopped. It was one story, very
old, large corridor of decayed wood and covered most of it by a vigorous
vine that imprisoned under dry with a thousand arms and acted as beautiful
wreath above, the vast village eaves swallows' nests, the door black
street and heading by using the environment as those of all that region,
for both of side garden, fruit trees which far outstrips the height
of the wall.

- Hello, Father!

... Mrs. Rita, Mrs. Rita! ... Come on, you despáchense, carambita that bring strangers! - began
to cry Celesto, applying at the same time harsh blows to the bottom
of the door, which was the one that was closed.

Almost simultaneously appeared in the corridor and the door respectively
Riofrío cure and his mistress.

- Who is it? - Asked the priest from
above and the love from the bottom.

- Almost anyone!

... His nephew in person, father - said Celeste.

- Shells! I'm glad ... I did not think it would be so timely. Here I go, there I go now ...

But progress had been made Mrs. Rita, with its morbid and pale face and figure of a dog granted,
to receive the visitor with enthusiasm bordering on frenzy.

- Virgen del Amor Hermoso! The Master Andrew! What is the poor skinny! If part heart!

And to utter such words, as Andrew had not dismounted, kissed one of the hands effusion. In our traveler
pleasantly surprised that his poor health depart the heart of a person who had never seen. Dismounted,
took leave affectionately Celeste, and embraced his uncle and escorted by the nurse, climbed the
winding stairs of the rectory.

V

The priest was nearing Riofrío in sixty years.

He was small and thick, short neck, chubby face and red, or rather, purple, clear, round eyes,
as paths a compass; agile in his movements, despite obesity, and
strong as an athlete.

The expression his features regular, hard, almost fierce, but when he had to say something, even
if as insignificant, v. gr., when asked the time or the weather was,
swelled such luck Bourbon nose, eyes wide open and nailed them with
such force the interlocutor, it needed a lot of presence of mind and
composure to not lie shaking.

Andrés deeply felt intimidated when her uncle asked her to take off
his boots and to set out the shoes.

- I think that there is no shoes
in the suitcase ... Originate in the trunk that brings a road - said,
with shrunken appearance and accent of one who confesses a crime.

-
What!

Do not bring shoes?

- No, sir - he dared to respond with a weak voice.

- Well, then you
will become a mine.

The priest took a moment in the dark alcove of the room, and left
holding a pair of sneakers like boats, which sank with a crash at
the feet of his nephew.

- Now take off that coat.

- What coat?

-
The ones you are wearing, man ... worthless ... paper looks ... You
are dying of cold.

Andrew realized he was referring to jaquette.

- No, sir, I have cold.

- Yes you have, put on that jacket lining, you'll see how quickly you go into heat.

In the jacket out to him his uncle fit comfortably over it, two nephews.

But Andrew was so scared that I got no reply.

- Now you need to hold
those heads, man, that head!

... The hat hurts the front ... Wait a minute, do I have a hat that
you come from knob.

It was a black velvet cap, high and vueludo, which covered her ears.

When looked the little mirror that hung above the dresser, was a
figure as dark and strange, so similar that of a shroud, he felt fear.

-
Sit in that chair now.

- I'm not tired.

- Sit down, I say, and respond
to what I ask.

"I will answer with all honesty?

- Yes, sir.

- How are you stomach?

- So, so.

- That's not saying anything ... You have promised me frankly ...

-
I am fairly.

The priest, who paced the room with his hands behind him, he stopped in front of his nephew,
and nailing in him a look of incredible ferocity, he said with strong
emphasis:

- Well, it is necessary to heal!

Andrew did not answer.

- Well, it is necessary to heal! - Repeated more loudly and without
ceasing to pierce with a glance.

- Will try - said Andrew muttered.

-
How?

- I will try.

- Ensure ... is good, is perfectly - the priest
said, softening a bit and continuing walks .-- The first thing to
do to heal is to take care of the coat, especially the coat the stomach.

Bring her belt, is not it?

- No, sir.

- What! Do not bring belt? - Said being still, petrified.

- No sir, I've missed.

- Tomorrow I'll put a flannel mine. It makes me five laps. To you I guess I will give you any
more.

- I give fifteen! - Thought desperately Andrew, who was sweating profusely and within the sheepskin.

The
priest continued walking and developing its therapeutic system founded almost exclusively in cotton
and wool. Andrew looked at him with keen curiosity while not without fear, imagining that
he had done badly in coming to fall into the clutches of the savage.

Once the description of the system, the curate of many things, not knowing, touching the family.
Thirty years ago it played one parish, without going beyond its terms four or five times to
go to the capital of the bishopric. Comrade had been the father Andrew, I had wanted in the
soul, but since her marriage had not been seen since. I once had fought as a matter of interest:
it had passed between them some very bitter letter that Andrew had found among the papers of
the minister. He told into one that "to reach the position he occupied on the bench, a speech
and some intellectual parts were needed.

"The priest replied that" to achieve the priestly state qualities
were also needed intelligence.

"The minister replied angrily:" When I have commanded you, man of God, also could not have ordered
the donkey you Valladolid took? "These and other obscenities they
had forgotten, apparently, on both sides.

The judge, when the priest spoke to his son, he said, "my cousin Lighter Fermin water. 'The
priest, when he referred to the magistrate, had always his finger to his forehead respect, to
indicate where the safe was his cousin.

Although some knew what he had passed after the death of one, was not aware of the various events
or the Brawls that the boy had with his guardian on grounds of interest. Andrew, a little
calmer and began to refer to often. At the point of breaking it face swelled so the priest, who
feared Andrés congestion.

- Poor fellow ... What is the good part?

- Who, my uncle?

... For very quiet walking and eating a third of my fortune, I've
given for not carrying my mother's brother to court.

- Fool! - Shouted
the priest sprang upon him with terrible eyes injected, but sudden
softening, he said: - It's not your fault ... Heredia to you after
all, as your father, like me, like my brother Pedro ... Some crackpots
all!

...

The conversation had lasted.

Mrs. Rita came to light a lamp oil, as the room was almost in darkness,
then spread the cloth for dinner on a table brown, black and polished
by years of use.

Soon came with a steaming pot, which he placed on the table, saying:

-
Dinner on the table.

- Holy Word! - Said the priest, rising.

Sitting in front of him, Andrew noted that the oil lamp light struck a table full hanging on
the wall, representing a soldier on horseback.

- What general is that, uncle? "- Asked, assuming it was a general.

- D. Ramón Cabrera - said the priest's voice cupping .-- Do not you know by his eagle eye? -
Y then extending his right hand on the pan, by way of blessing, he mumbled some Latin words,
that Andrew could not understand.
- A dinner, boy!

- Cabrera was a great general - Andrés said to
flatter his uncle.

- Who could doubt it, boy, who can doubt it! -
He said dropping the spoon on the plate .-- Only a spendthrift liberal
leader can call yet ... Walk, walk with the leader! ... If you have
seen in the battle of Muniesa with the telescope in hand, I understand
you, throwing lines and parallel ... Here, hidden behind the slope,
the cavalry to charge when needed ... Battalions in the rear of Navarre
... At the forefront of Spanish ... "Captain Tal, you display your
company and bother you guerrilla enemy flank right ... What Coronel,
protect yourself with a battalion captain may for the case of withdrawal
... Commander Tal, attack you with four companies that position ...
What Coronel, protect you with a battalion commander Tal in the event
of withdrawal ... Brigadier Tal, you leave with such and such regiments
on the left flank to take the enemy's rear ... Brigadier What, prepare
you to tackle head when I ordered. "  None but the two then knew what was meant, but the guilty rascal paled, and so
trembled that it seemed as though he would fall to the ground.  Very soon was he out of that
company.  Next day he asked to be transferred to another post, which request was cheerfully
granted.  It was a long time before Frank told of his contemptible conduct.  When Mr Ross at
length heard of it he communicated at once with the head officers of the Hudson Bay Company
in reference to conduct so dishonourable, and the result was that the poor fellow, who had
not improved over such actions in other places, was ignominiously expelled from the service.

Meanwhile the other sports were progressing finely. 

Prisoner Rico and occupied his papers, the conspirators offered Carbonell forgiveness and forgetting
his crime, wherever they occur in a term to their authority. Such as caused great alarm among
the initiated, awakening in their minds the fear of being denounced each other, and the crowd
rushed into the hands of the authorities, gullibility of the innocent men, novices in the
art of plotting.

Soon the prisons were crowded with Venezuelan honest and industrious. Had not yet run one month
after the complaint, when he was officiating at the Court of Spain, saying: "that with the exception
of two, who had sought refuge in foreign colonies, the other accomplices they were prisoners. "Don
Manuel Grail, captain retired and Don Jose Maria Espana were referred
fugitives.

But rather than forgive and forget, as he promised, in August the
same year ordered Hearing that the detainees were banished for life
and moved around the metropolis and others in Puerto Rico.

Some months later, the captain-general was replaced by Don Manuel de Guevara Vasconcelos who make use
of the wide powers inhuman that he was sworn in, condemned to be hanged and quartered for six of the
main conspirators. This unjust and unfair to proceed exacerbated the Venezuelan people, more
especially as the promoters of the conspiracy, Sebastian Jose Andres
and Laz, despite their greater offense by this circumstance and to
be recidivists deserved no other penalty than imprisonment in the
provinces of Panama and Puerto-Cabello.

Guevara opened so its entry into the remote and 1799, in which month of April was arrested Don
Jose Maria Espana, whom his evil star brought from Trinidad to La Guaira in search his wife, the tender
solicitude of this is not enough to keep you well-hidden or defended against Research by government
agents. On March 8, that is, nine days after his capture the poor suffered the penalty of the gallows
and his head, inside an iron cage, were exposed the public in La
Guaira, while their mutilated members were distributed among several
people and fixed anchors at the roadside.

But such measures only served to fester terror more and more the minds
and excite general hatred and discontent of a people worthy of better
luck, treated with such cruel way as the most abject of slaves.

So the failures of Spain closed the eighteenth century, contributing not a little in this way
accelerate the emancipation of Venezuela and all the other colonies, whose cries, carried Europe
by some of its most resolute patriots, asked France and England relief necessary to undertake
the holy work of its independence and trying to shake Always heavy, ominous yoke worked there
for three centuries by the Spanish with prejudice, injustice and impunity of fragrant natural
rights of those sacred who had their blood, those whose sweat and
toil was not even enough to feed their insatiable greed.

Among the zealous managers of the noblest of causes included the Peruvian Don Jose Caro, the Don
Antonio Narino and Granada, with its vast relationships and great name in Europe, the Caracas Don
Francisco Miranda. Filled all three of ardent patriotism, all three of the best animated desire
jeopardized whatever means were at hand to conclude in the old continent how to change the
political face of his country, giving an independent and republican
government that would guide people to prosperity and progress that
the general trend of the times and the wealth of America claimed.

Such was the situation in Venezuela to get lost in the immensity of time the last century, century,
to engender a Napoleon and Washington, was part of a spark of genius revolutionary man who later
was to deserve the glorious name of Liberation their country, and whose high deeds would come
to immortalize the chisel, bronze and pen. Simon Bolivar stepped on the threshold of life in
the city of Caracas on July 24, 1783. Decorated born talents and skills necessary to consummate
the work of independence of South America, and to be the repairer of the injustice that men had once
inferred to fearless and wise discoverer of the New World, trying, with the most noble elevation
the spirit at the same time risked their lives in the battlefields,
to perpetuate the memory Colon in the Confederation who endeavored
to form under the title of Colombia.

This honest, intelligent, noble, tireless and resolute patriot, had the misfortune of losing their
parents at a very early age. These were Juan Vicente and Maria de la Concepcion Palacios. His
filial affection, devoid of beloved objects, spilled over his chest
and consecrate the whole mud to their homeland, heaven only mother
he had kept and which later sacrificed glad your blood and fortune.
Some of the Indians wanted the distance to be at least doubled, but this could not be allowed. Is sensitive to this
accident by the lack I could do to defend the people, but nevertheless sent a rifle company
with Captain D. Santiago Road, only to sustain withdrawal of the cavalry, who found happily
covering this operation with fire the rifle, whose result had the opposing 30 dead and many
wounded, and ours only they were slightly D. José Antonio Castilla, Pomata chieftain and a soldier
your company.

Mantuviéronse rebels without moving what little remained of that day and all next night, the
din pore was unbearable. For our part, the guards were doubled and sentinels were appointed
cavalry pickets and some spearmen on foot, to be maintained continuously monitoring around the village,
so to avoid any fire, so that with the greatest caution and silence them in advance what was
possible to observe the movements the enemy, turning after few orders were necessary to avoid being caught.
At which time the attack broke Hill Quicksilver, and recognizing it was very difficult defend
him, was ordered to leave, and immediately took the enemy, which seems not expect rather than
possession of it to begin the attack of the people, because at ten o'clock the next day began
with an air moving down from the eminence, making boastful ostentation of his flock, to spread
around the slopes of the mountains which were presented in sight. Adelantáronse some to set fire to
the huts that were somewhat distant of the population, sheltered and supported some rifles
that fired the garrison, and were offensive to the main square, but was prevented by placing
one of the towers of the matrix six rifle fire that they might do about them, and stressing to
the position of Orcopata a squad of them with a company of cavalry, not only managed to scare
them away, pregnant but also cut off the royal road Chucuito, as intended.

In view of these events, the Indians went ahead with all its thickness,
to the slopes and foot of the mountain Queroni, so that left no open
another front to the town that to discover the lake from the top of
the hill immediately to Quicksilver.

They burned some ranch, not far from the church of San Juan, seized the outskirts of Guansapata,
the Indians refused Mañazo faithful who defended, and finally put one of their banners on
a rock very immediate to the population, whose highest point had a cross. In this critical situation,
was sent to the deputy militia riflemen Puno, D. Martin Sea and D. Evaristo Franco, who with
their pickets attacked the enemy suddenly in the place where they had placed the flag, which egecutaron
at great risk, but helped of living fire that made them, managed to reject in a short time
of that post, and than ours kept against the new reinforcements and supplies that they opposed
the Rather, it was necessary to highlight the captain D. Santiago Road, another squad of riflemen,
order that the reinforced, with which not only contained the Indians, but that aside to a considerable
distance, leaving owners in a situation so important. Logrose the same object part of the Cerro
de San José, where the rebels were also rejected by the ensign D. Juan Caceres, who rushed
to Pomata cavalry company, another Chucuito of patrolmen, and sheltered from the fire of the
riflemen, stationed in the tower church. The companies of cavalry of Puno, and the Tiquillaca, commanded
by D. Andres Calisaya, This second village chief, with others of the Chucuito, opposed to those
who tried attack by the Cerro de Queroni, but never locked combat, because undertaken fled
to the slopes of the mountain, and down when our retired. As was decided that Captain D. Juan
Asencio Monastery, with the assistant D. Francisco del Castillo, and some other officials from
other provinces, incorporated with the rifle company, advanced supported by the cavalry, as egecutaron
happily, pushing back the enemy to mountains, was the result of which free people everywhere. Function
lasted until six in the evening: it repeatedly attacked the enemy with all his might, that
as it is passed from 18.000 the combatants, and ours only came to 1.400. The fixed number of
the dead were, we could not investigate because they looked after they are removed promptly, but
in response to live and continued to fire they suffered, were to be believed many, and the highest
number of wounded. Of us was hurt Chucuito Governor a rifle bullet that pierced his left thigh,
and dislocated the same Orellana foot of a fall from his horse, which briefly noticed discomfort,
and continued the action. Other officers and soldiers were also wounded, and some of them dangerously,
but ended happily the result of his injuries.

At night, doubled the care and safety precautions to prevent a surprise; but the rebels abandoned
the site, leaving only a piece to conceal his withdrawal: to provide coverage to better their true
intention, which maintained its cautious view used to make some proposals to the clergymen
who placed themselves to parley its immediacy, again asking the person be handed the magistrate
Orellana, and publish the They sent camp, commanded by the traitor see José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, entertaining
part of the morning with these and other stratagems, something more
subtle and warned, regularly than a nation renowned thought humble
and uneducated, to disappeared all in search of the first who gave
up the effort.

Then Reconocióse was certain the entire withdrawal, and no doubt would go in much disorder,
it was decided remain upon the villa companies that were considered necessary for safekeeping,
and the rest of the troops out in scope, under the command of Colonel Chucuito militias, D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza, were pulverized to the rear with the prevention of too strive not with enemies. He managed
to achieve a league and a half away, on a mountain not very high, to the left the real way
of Cuzco. The minute they were immediate, the first alighted, and unite them without waiting
for the others, began the fire on some Indians, who separated the bulk of his army occupied
and defended a short stone eminence, where they were rejected instantly, and went to meet
with others, in the top of the hill, which was where they had their charges. There was renewed fighting
with incredible bravery of obstinacy and both sides, because without the rifle, he believed
more suitable for entertaining to the contrary, wreaking havoc on them, which was also defended
with courage and perseverance. However could have achieved a glorious action, if companies of cavalry
had copied to the forefront the few who fought with courage and bravery, but in spite of zealous
activity that sought to carry the fight their Commander Mendiolaza could not reduce the persuasion
or the example I gave, putting himself at the head of them, making he fire the enemies amid
a flurry of stones which they threw their slings from close range, and seeing that nothing could,
abandoned the attempt which had proposed stay in that place until the next day to continue the
attack, and play sent the call to retire to Puno, as they performed. But the same disobedience
of troops caused the disorder, and perish in the function and removed six of us: rather than
bought enemies to much price advantage because they had more casualties, having suffered more
than two hours, a high heat to them by the musketry.

Although it managed to repulse the rebels in Puno, who founded the trust in futility that were
directed against the Indians of that village where people traveled, caused dire misfortunes.
In the village of Coata wiped himself every day to Spanish and mestizos who may have to blows, and
the same happened in the Capachica. On the other part, the people of Yunguyo Desaguader Cepita
Chucuito province, declared by the party of rebellion and joined the province Pacajes, preventing
pass an extraordinary, Orellana dispatched by the Commander of the Peace, asking him appoint
a sugeto able to maintain and defend that position should be considered already in care to that
as a result of the fall of the horse was unable to continue as important Object: and considering
that he had been fruitless diligence, did not think of another thing that prevented damage to
lower than expected, and resist invasions that repetition of the
insurgents.

Also Chucuito Governor, then he knew the alteration of the first towns in the province, asking
the media to calm down, and having tried on board, war which seemed more appropriate, submit proposed
to contain armed men those movements, to which no Orellana agreed by the consideration that,
being arising the same cause as others, it was essential that the whole province were moved,
and Thus detachment getting locked in the center of it: as indeed it happened to that, the Governor
particular order, are sent to the chief's Pomata, D. José Toribio Castilla, who was killed
with 25 men who accompanied him on his own people, who took occasion to declare to the neighbors
discovered by the rebel side.

With the news of this second unfortunate event, the same magistrate determined to send all militias
in the province, who marched under the guidance of Captain D. Santiago Road and on arriving
at Juli recognized the bloody havoc of all the inhabitants of that town, which passed by the Spanish,
whose assets had been plundered, without getting rid of the sacred temples of anger and profanity,
taking the rebels for asylum after the mountaintops immediate. Upon entering our people in the population,
they found the plazas and streets flooded of blood and bodies thrown everywhere and found no
one who would give them reason of that fateful show: until the noise of some fusilazos who shot
at Indians who descended to the foot of some hills to bother them, they go to the priests
and a few others who managed to escape, tucked into the most secret places, and assured the captain
Road that there were no other hidden, gathered his people and went back to the campaign all
those who had had the happiness of freedom from the careful application
of the Indians and went back to the vicinity of YLAB, where he had
participated as occurred, and accordingly was determined in a council
of war to continue its withdrawal, but did not obey, until he forced
many Indians Acora people who suddenly declared by the usurpudor whose
novelty Orellana said to them that went for a body troops under his
command, only to sustain the withdrawal, because the just care of
their capital did not allow anything else, not least stay away from
it for long.

Shortly after his arrival, he received the news that the Indian rebels were on Puno: The Governor
communicated Chucuito, Moya, and called him, warning exploited the moments to help him. He
raised his field and was launched at twelve o'clock at night, leaving willing to follow him as
the only way in those critical circumstances, which effectively egecutaron immediate morning
to Chucuito Acora escorting the neighborhood, and those July and had escaped YLAB, whose populations
are immediately seized by the rebels, and delivered to the flames in jail, the gallows and
some private houses, looting in Furniture churches which tried to protect the sacred shadow of
his respect. For Azangaro part of our weapons were happier, as a small detachment, released by
Orellana under the command of D. Calisaya Andres, chief of the village of Tiquillaca, did not
Capachica only relief but also to cover those Pusi, Saman, and Caminaca Taraco that infested by
the rebels, chastened by death of some, and removing the livestock they had. So also D. Melchor
Frias and Castellanos, at the head of the faithful Indian peoples of Mañazo, Vilque, Cavana,
and Cavanilles, who had come forward to provide their people King's service, he traveled the road
of Arequipa, and he defeated a party of thieves, commanded by an Indian named Juan Mamani, who
had intercepted, slaying him and to many of his people, after a stubborn resistance, of whose
results were Free Spanish 20 wives who were prisoners, and the Indians
seized a faithful considerable deprivation, from how much they had
stolen from the people and roads.

Esponse is withdrawn as Chucuito militias to its capital, Captain D. Santiago Road, inquired of
the Board of War, established in Puno, if withdrawal should continue until incorporated into that
town with the other troops, stay in defense of the city, if attacked by enemies, since the
drain and Cepita, continued the conquest across the province, and in this case begged succor
you with live ammunition. Responded the Board, which is franquearian, not only ammunition but
also that it would strengthen with people who are considered necessary, then to report the
number of enemies who threatened, but at the same time he wrote privately to the Governor Moya
commander, to attempt to withdraw all the troops, provisions made to discover any animosity
between these two magistrates, who regularly undergoes Unfortunately, when many have part in
military operations, as everyone wants to own a glory that is envied even those who are unable to acquire
it, and that many misfortunes have followed hard after repair, as happened on this occasion,
for while it was decided, determined Chucuito attack the garrison of a party of Indians coming
to him. Standing in the road, and engaged in combat in the summit and slopes of a mountain of very
harsh and difficult climb, at a distance of half a league from the city, where the value was
not enough that the enemy attacked known to gain advantage, and came up to meet him the next
morning, already found the situation improved, but still fought a long time without fruit.

In the afternoon the enemy recognized the little damage they received from a mason, with which sought
to offend, and determined to seize him, as indeed he got, attacking precipitation suddenly and
those who defended him, who put in a shameful and hasty flight, which followed a total disorder
in others. Indians do not miscarry this favorable opportunity presented to them, and upload it again
with all the fugitives, followed them to lock them in the city, in the scope of which killed many
of the ours. The Indians did not dare to penetrate even into the population, and retired In
the foothills of the mountains that dominate it, after having set fire to a few ranches around,
satisfied with the benefits they had achieved, but the confusion extremity where were those
militants, led to a total lack of obedience, and without repair the danger to which esponian,
scattered and disordered fled to Puno, arriving many the same night, referring to that event
with mournful wailing and greatly exaggerated the number enemies that made up to the immense.
Novelty Difundióse instantly throughout the villa, and dismayed by this sort of tensions, which
Orellana came to suspect trying to leave their troops, so that was obliged to take great precautions
to avoid it, and to the Next morning, though the missing part of Lampa not just fears of new attack
Chucuito marched to three companies of cavalry, in order to investigate the situation of Indians,
and which enters the same city if the road was disengaged, but with orders not to engage in
any function, but only supports withdrawal Officers and soldiers who had remained, and also to pick
up the wretched Spanish of that neighborhood, and seek to free them
from the fury of the Indian rebels.

They let the enemies this task to the same city, but was cautious because immediately occupied
a gorge inevitably more difficult to withdrawal, which warned by the commander, while he was
gathering all who had been in Incas, it was necessary to throttle back, yet he was obliged to
open Step by force, whose stock lost some soldiers, unable to avoid the havoc The rebels did
in those who sought to save the shelter of this relief, in which also lost his life occasion
the priest of the Church of Santa Cruz de Juli, he could avoid the first risk of loss in the
commotion of his people. The first to arrive to Puno referred the conflict in which they supposed
to Chucuito, with news of which sent Orellana gets ready musketry all determined to go in
person to help her, and by the act of undertaking the , they arrived other circumstances that
varied widely, ensuring it had delivered the Most of the people, and came back a little with the
three companies incorporated of cavalry, and also was useless to go for those who had not been
able to pass the gorge where the rebels were posted, because inevitably had already perished.
Reasons they did suspend the output, and very soon gave him the most just cause for feeling
He recognized the deception and lack of many sugetos estimation, particularly of D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza and others, which forced him again to send balza be carried to the lake to the
immediate banks to Chucuito, to liberate some who had hidden in the straw, reed call, that
abounds.

Then they left the city cited the three companies of cavalry, entered
the Indian rebels without resistance, and executed the most atrocious
cruelties.

Killed more than 400 Spanish and mestizos of either sex, without reserve the creatures chest. Within
the priest's house, the cathedral seeking asylum, went to many unhappy sword. With sacrilegious
audacity desecrated temples, without the veneration and respect due serve a shield to those
who had hidden in them, because removing them at the doors of the church, they took away the lives
on the threshold of the house of the Lord. Determined to pass the same Orellana the third
day his troops to prevent some, if he could, so many horrors, but again penetrated with sorrow
to view the pitiful sight he found the streets and squares, and disastrous idea that the entire
population had reduced to ashes, and only had occasion to recognize the skill with which the
zeal of D. Claveras Peter had moved days before more than 240 Puno quintals of quicksilver and important
roles for SM, which were in the royal treasury, which also got involved in the fire all the
people. There was in it other than Spanish the two priests and a few clergy, who also awaited
the death that day, intifada the inhuman leader of the rebels, if not declared the camp site
where they supposed hidden SM flows, the danger averted by the arrival of Orellana, whom expressed with
tears of her heart, and then thought about returning to Puno, traffic which carried the enemy
to the Gorges, with intent to cut up, as it had been earlier: but they were frustrated the plan to
have bet some Rifle pickets who held them with the loss of three or four of the most daring.

At
the same time or with little difference, the Indians of that part of Azangaro, doubling their efforts,
back on the people of Capachica, whose faithful Indians had some mestizos rejection of the principles,
but finally gave in to the crowd, which empowered the population,
used the same cruelties on the other, from the sword and to all the
Spanish people white, which may have to blows.



At first the boys could hardly take in the situation, but quickly it dawned on them that here
was an imprisoned, half-starved man who must be helped out of his dangerous predicament.  What
had best be done was the question that Mustagan, Big Tom, and the other Indians were discussing.
Some suggested cutting down the big tree at once.  This was discouraged by some, who said that
the blows of the axe on the dead tree would dislodge so much dry, dusty, rotten wood that it
would about smother the imprisoned man.  So it was quickly decided that he must be pulled out
of the top where, it was quite evident, he had fallen in.  At once the tail-ropes of the sleds
and the packing and tie lines, which are also made of leather, were fastened together, and
an effort was made to get one end to the poor fellow inside.  In the meantime, while these
preparations were being made by the Indians, the boys endeavoured to hold some kind of conversation
with the imprisoned Pasche.

"Arrah, my man," shouted Sam, "and what are ye doing inside there?"

"I fell in," faintly came back to the listeners.

"Were ye looking for the cows?" persisted the irrepressible Sam, who was a great favourite
with Pasche, although he often unmercifully chaffed him. Stuck eyes
on her with an expression of joy and sincere affection, as if a garment should find hearts to
those who had not seen in a long time, as if Rosa was now a being that he owned. This view came to
the bottom of the soul of the village. They did not know what to say. Finally, Andrés uttered
some incoherent words about how well suited her suit your premium. Maximum Aunt Eugenia and
watched them grinning.

At eleven o'clock the solemn mass was celebrated in the parish, and as we were ringing the second
time, everyone in the house were placed outside to hear it. Aunt Eugenia, Andrew Rose, Max
and a nephew who had with them was thrown out, leaving it closed. People driving on the street
also started to move toward the church. Going Andrew front, with Rose and Max. Aunt Eugenia escorting
them shaking hands with the small. By the way, it was broken and very pleasant and shaded by
trees, as almost all of the mountain, Rosa and Andrew did not stop to speak with their eyes their
hearts, lips articulated words insignificant about the party, time or bonfire night. When Maximum
surprised including some loving gaze, looked down, smiling mischievously showed himself too complacent,
they pulled the tongue to be in love should say presence, was slightly pushed to Rosa to be
closer to the young, asked them questions an impertinent tantico the blush; adopted, finally, a
protective attitude that Andrew was very funny. At that time, the young courtier was the all
beautiful. His lips were constantly folded with a happy smile.

The church was more graceful than that of Riofrio, well enjalbegadita. I sat on a break that
made the foot of the mountain had an escort behind a vast and beautiful chestnut decline. As so many
people who came to hear the solemn mass was celebrated at this outdoors on an altar erected
in the rear of the church. Heard the faithful scattered under chestnut. Beneath the chestnut was
also a platform for singers formed with four banks. The altar was protected by a canopy or
awning made with blankets, to left had placed a pulpit for the preacher.

Andrew Rose, Aunt Eugenia and Max sat in the shade of a chestnut tree, awaiting the mass. The
contours of the church offered welcome perspective. The pilgrims swarmed by everywhere with
much merriment. Some clergy, in surplice, moved rapidly among the crowd, arranging the preparations.
The piper and drummer took their place of honor in the gallery, and rocketeer, always surrounded
by a swarm of boys, remained in secluded spot with a bundle of rockets on the one hand and a
lit fuse in the other, serious still, quiet, well persuaded of a high and paramount destiny.

Finally left the clergyman officiating, followed by the deacon and subdiácano. The chasuble and
layers rain the sun shone bright reflections bouncing. The crowd settled down to attend the divine
office with severe and prolonged noise, which was gradually fading. Burst out voice clerics
and supporters of the rostrum. Behind the clerics who held, by way assistant, also with surplice
dress, driving a huge censer was Andres Celesto. His nose gleamed in the sunlight like a chilli
pepper.

The Mass was long and heavy. Andrew did not notice. As the officiating priest and the crowd attending
prostrate, his eyes barely deviated from those of Rosa, which often made them also to him,
moist and ecstatic. The site occupied was very nice. There appeared from there all the beautiful
valley of Marin. Ran a light and healthy fresquecillo waving trees. The withered leaves fell off,
turned a moment and then fell like rain on the lawn. When the priest raised the Host, the bagpipes
and drums played with verve real progress, the man fired rockets profusion of them in an instant,
the crowd leaned further to the forehead almost touching the ground. Andrew felt a tenderness singular,
and before getting up, groped Rosa's hand and squeezed it gently.

Near the end of Mass, Celesto laboriously began to cleave the crowd kneeling giving kiss a scapular.
When I met with Andrew and Rosa was next, could not repress a movement of surprise, but immediately
recovered and handed them the scapular, which they devoutly kissed.

When it was over, Andrew, who knew the greed of the villagers in general and Rosa's relatives
in particular, instead of accepting the offers of Aunt Eugenia, invited to dinner at a tavern,
along with Max, and D. Celesto José the toilet, I had sung at mass. At the suggestion of seminary
student, well versed in these matters, Winery down the Don Pedro, situated in the valley, about
three hundred steps people. It was a rustic building, on the one hand looked at the orchard and the
other to a large irrigated field, which, being the only place plain and clear that there were
close, we celebrated the procession, with permission from the owner. As there were already
some people in the press, Andrés asked the bartender if they could serve food in Pomar. Yes, and
continuous act of brashly slipped into it. While traveled from one end to another to time,
Celeste, besides calling Andrew, wanted to pry and find out the reason of being Rosa there. The
young man replied that, unable to leave that day for being barefoot horse his uncle, had come
to the party in Marin, where he had met casually with Rosa.

Miron seminarian as saying to me with that! but respectfully silent.

They sat down to eat under an apple tree whose branches, earrings, touching the tips on the ground,
forming a natural arbor. Andrew lay next to Rosa as a lover surrendered, using all the joints
to tell the sugary words heard. The young escuchábalas stunned, spellbound, eyes wet, flushed
cheeks, like with delight that Honey, feeling, however, a bitter
in the background, a vague presentiment of misfortunes that threatened.

The

bartender served them a huge source of ham and tomato. All hotly attacked. Andrew, after making
Rosa dish was also served with long hand.

- Do you remember, my friend Celeste - said getting a good piece in
their mouth - from when you sorry I can not eat a plate of ham and
tomato?

- Man, it's true - the seminarian said he looked up with
admiration .-- It seems impossible what you've changed, D. Andrew!

Everyone congratulated him. Ate merrily ran quite a jug of wine drinking Andrés bottled cider:
cambiáronse many barbs among Celesto, Max, Andrew and the toilet. The yellowing foliage of
orchard the sun broke. The breeze of the mountain temples. Breathed an atmosphere perfumed by the
aroma of the herb and the stacked blocks. The joy took possession of all. Rosa, who had smiled
sadly until then recovered boisterous character. When finished, she, Max and Andrew began to frolic
among trees, chasing each other with shouts. They sat to rest short time formed a group under
a tree and then around the game harder.

Had entered the farm some countrymen of those who drank in the press, to continue doing in the company
of the toilet and Celeste. Aunt Eugenia chatted with the bartender a little further. After a
while, and fierce dispute broke out between Don José metaphysics and seminarian The villagers listened
open-mouthed. Concerned the difference between the substance and attribute, the things that
exist per se and those that only exist in relation to others. The champions held on, angry,
their views, as exemplified to defend the tangible objects before them, the pitcher, cups, forks.
Whether it was messing the dispute and the voices were so high, that Andrew and his friends approached.
And going from the abstract to the concrete, uttered reached the one and the other part of
offensive and ugly words. Finally, blew a slap. Data were instantly to believe that he had received
was Celesto left cheek, which, far from right, as advised by the Gospel, went on the tiny church,
angry and rough, and probably would have caused some serious damage with their hands sacrilegious
to not having Andrew and the villagers had. However, while making futile efforts to free herself, announcing
verbally irrevocable intention to cut the ears to the toilet. He was very pale, it seemed manifest
for the low, short sentences, which it considered sufficient correction inflicted, Rather deemed absolutely
necessary a reasonable charge of punches to complete the work begun.

However, the ads were not frightening to Celesto immediate effect, Thanks intervention of heavy
drinkers.

After a while, the seminarian and the toilet was the best of friends, and hugged and kissed
tenderly shedding tears. Andrés left the group laughing, and went back to play with Rose and
Max.

The sun had cleared enough already noon. Maximum suggested to go aside for a ride for the pilgrimage.
Andrew and Rose agreed willingly. The field was particularly animated praise: dance here, there
fandango, lunch elsewhere. The crowd swarmed all over with noisy clamor. Our young people crossed
the half slowly, stopping to contemplate dances and candy tables, where Andres invited to her
classmates. The people looked curiously. Andrew, who was stripped of his coat, he wore a short jacket
and tight pants, narrow and bowler hat. So that, with a knotty stick in his hand, looked more like
Jándalos Jerez newcomer to the salons sensitive poet courtiers, and was with Rosa very nice and
concerted partner. It was going to side with innocent pride, smiling and happy as a bride comes
from the church to show her husband. He also was paid just it: did not see the whole field more
graceful girl happier or taste.

But without knowing who brought her, and had spread that the pilgrimage had Rosa away from home
with the gentleman who accompanied her. And this was because of that both mirasen and such wicked
smile faces cautioned narrowed towards them, which, angry and annoying after all, determined
to become Pomar. Max dragged down to some of her friends and several young men with them.
Called after a blind man who played the violin, and orchards below, unseen people, put together
a lively group dance about drinkers, where blue and toilets were still giving mutual satisfaction.
Our Young played for the common joy, ruffled and wrapped more than anyone, danced the fandango
Rosa, This was not a little laugh, then threw bare legs tired so original. Rosa experienced also
drunk from the hustle and presented herself in her true self, cheerful, funny, picaresque. Occasionally,
however, crossed his face a shadow suddenly put serious pale, and stared doggedly at any object.
Andrew, as I warned, tried to distract her.

In one of the times when they sat together on the grass to rest, they
saw very fast and haggard at the tavern, who whispered a moment with
Celeste.

This act came Andrew and kept going, calling him aside, said:

- D. Andrew, you need to escape into seguidita ... Guards are there
...

- To take me?

- I think so, sir.

- Well, I did not escape me
- said the young man with resolution .-- I have committed no crime.

-
D. Andrew, for Christ's sake, to hide ... Look who does not know what
is exposed.

These peasants are very cunning and they are going to build a trap.

- Nothing, nothing, not escaped me.

To all this, Rosa had come, suspicious of what it was, and with a
voice yearning and trembling began to say:

- Hide, D. Andrew, hide
... By hiding the Blessed Virgin!

...

Some villagers came behind, and aware of the case, he pleaded the
same.

One of them came to say

- Come with me, D. Andrew, skip this field, and I will take you to
a place where those beagle dogs do not give you ... At night you can
go anywhere you like.

But all instances were useless. The boy stubbornly refused to move from the site. Al After
all, the patent-leather tricorn flashed past the guards at the door of the winery and moved through
the trees. Andrew could not keep his heart latiese faster. Behind the guards came Thomas, who
was left behind. The young man stepped forward and asked a Guard:

- You come to arrest me, right?

- Are you Mr. D. Andrés Heredia?

- Server.

- Yes, sir, bring order
to stop him and give his father the young man who has escaped with
you.

- Well, I am at your disposal.

And to Rosa, who was sobbing madly into the arms of Max, said in affectionate
tone:

- Do not worry, Rosie, we'll meet again soon.

The guards spoke a moment with Tom to tell, no doubt, could have her daughter. Andrew then went
fine.

- If you like, sir.

- Here we go ... Bye, D Joseph ... Celeste, tell me the favor of my uncle ... Hasta la vista, lords.

Bystanders
saw him march with awe and sadness. Before entering the winery ran
with Thomas.

The peasant looked down under the gaze of the young and provocative.

In the procession the people were already aware of the event, so everyone stopped dancing and
dances to see him pass.

      Andrew chatting with the
    guards marching, affecting
    indifference. When he had
    walked past a dance, a villager came up singing some song of an old
song of that region:

If you take me prisoner I have a thief: Take
me because I won A girl's heart.

Andrew could not help smiling, and turning his face back to the place made a salute hand. Civilians
also smiled.

After they left the procession, walked around for different sites Lada of the young know, saving
a hill and marching across the field after some distance. Lada, however, there was closer
than he suspected. Came at a time same as night.

During the trip the guards tratáronle very politely, leaving betrayed that did not give any importance
to his crime, and they suspected that all would remain in thistles water, but did not get
them to say whether Thomas had been in Lada to report it.

They left him in jail, housed in the best room, which was still very
dirty and dilapidated.

The warden was treated with respect and kindness, knowing, as the
guards, the detainee was not a criminal.

As was tired of the previous night and the emotions of the day dress lay on the cot they gave him, and
slept deeply for a few hours. Early morning and was there his uncle, who had left before dawn
Riofrío.

- But man! ... But man!

The young do not know what to say and hung his head. Fortunately there
were no more recriminations the cure.

Immediately began talking about the media get out of jail. He had his plan formed: go see the judge
and say who was guilty and all that had happened. And indeed, did so. Then he knew that Uncle
Tom was the one who had denounced as a raptor Andrés his daughter
Rosa.

The judge found that as the young man arrested was the son of a former minister Supreme Court, who
knew by name, public writer and farmer, was quick come to take his
statement.

Then, with bail, ordered the release.

- Hey, you're free - he told
his uncle taking him to lunch at an inn .-- What matters now demon
boy, is that you leave as soon as possible ... Moreover, I understand
you, runs my account ... I undertake to prove that such theft has
been no such pumpkins ...

This was done.

That same afternoon, Andrew went back to a mining railroad car, slept in the capital of the
province, and twenty-four hours of travel was planted in Madrid.

XVII

What fat! What dark! How changed you are, Heredia friend! Where you have got that way?

Wherever he went, reached the court heard these or similar exclamations. The Friends embraced
him warmly, the friends admired his manly bearing, although there
were those who came more regular said, because the tastes are very
many.

I must not ensure that such exclamations sounded good. For a few days enjoyed the surprise
of his friends and acquaintances, walking as if in triumph on his face tanned chat rooms and
theaters. He went back, and with pleasure, in the mind of Madrid. As brought provision of health,
came quickly to all the places where they worship pleasure, knotted old relationships, turned to
writing in the newspapers and read poetry in the classroom.

After the first time, when all pleasant emotions rushed the court to provided, after his voluntary
departure, when these emotions were spent, and spirit was at rest, most often acudiole memories
of Riofrio and his flirtation with Rosa. Al first attempted to drown him, stunned by occupations
and recreations, and succeeded, after no longer could. The image was represented Rosa sad
and painful, suffering the cruelties of his father, who, after the past, would, no doubt much
higher. And began to prick remorse, particularly at times when he was alone at home or view
of trees and flowers you brought to mind the beautiful countryside of the branes. There written
to his uncle to you aware of what had happened on his absence, and not just receive an answer.
One morning, at last, having lunch alone in the dining room at the inn, we The waiter brought
a letter. When he saw the envelope open quickly with a trembling hand. His uncle told him that the
proceedings against him would have no consequences, that Thomas had done his best to entangle
and engage it, but had not succeeded, because Rosa said repeatedly that he had fled home for
fear of punishment, not the instigation of Andrew.

These statements thereby ignited the wrath of Miller, who once came close to beat her to death.
The people were indignant some neighbors had reprimanded hard, but would not listen. Finally,
the matter was settled, because Thomas, seeing I could not get nothing of it, came to the good
and away from the lawsuit by 5,000 reais the priest gave him. Everything was therefore relaxed
by then. I could live without fear. The I had done, however, was a skull in a bad kind: peace
had destroyed a family.

D. Fermin, at the end of his letter, he severely reprimanded and with very good reason.

When our youngest finished reading, he was calmer. As he left the house went straight to a banker and
turned to the order of his uncle, the money in the process. After did his best to forget those
events in the bustle of life in Madrid, but not achieved in many days. After some time, however,
poignant memories of their idyllic love went softening, becoming more gentle and melancholy, it became
a poetic dream that used to caress her in moments of ill humor.

After three months of his return had fallen into the same lazy life, sterile and unhygienic before
going to the branes.

Awake, stood very little at home, instead sleep for a number grown in hours, which caused him frequent
trouble with the cook and servant room. The lunch lasted from nine to twelve. He could never meet
with this requirement the internal rules of the house. Lunch at one, two, and sometimes the three
p.m.. The dream was upon him in the morning, lethargy rather because
he was a real that was lethargy, tiredness incomprehensible that deprived
him of all forces.

When brought by instances of getting up, it still lasted a long time this languor: could hardly walk;
yawned often and would give anything to turn back to bed.

Were gradually dissipating the colors of their cheeks, even though the agency did not appear
suffer. However, after some other months, began again to feel some discomfort in the stomach
and enflaqueció paled further. Achacolo the disorder of sleeping hours and eating. Gave no importance,
followed by life itself.

By this time received a letter from his uncle in Rose's news that he had escaped again home
because they can not suffer constant abuse from his father, who blamed the ruin and misery
that had fallen. Lada had gone to and was serving at the home of wealthy gentlemen. Andrew
was moved by the letter. Suddenly came to his mind the impressions of the country six months
of life, felt something akin to nostalgia, desires vehement to renew
the simple pleasures that he enjoyed and longing to see Rosa.

Poor Rosa! For two days, his image is constantly pursued, then the occupations and pleasures that
was delivered with soul and life slowly drifted from his imagination.

He spent the summer in Madrid, because he dared not go back to Riofrío. The heats not tested well.
In winter the disease flared up a little stomach, in addition, we undertook a cold, persistent cough
which made him quite at night. And how they felt each day worse, was agreed to leave in the spring
with a friend, who gave him to spend two or three months in a recreation property in her mountain
of Catalonia.

Recobrose the stomach with
                                     the active life of the field, but the cough continued bothering you
enough.

To make it disappear, on the advice of doctors, went to take the
waters of Panticosa.

Failed to significantly alleviated. He returned in mid-state to Madrid
in September. Since that time no longer enjoyed a day of health worse
every day, thinner and paler. In November surprised a strong vomiting
of blood that made him realize the seriousness of his condition. Still
About a month went by the street, but having repeated with more force
was needed to stay home. And it turned out. In one of the last days
of expiring January in the arms of two friends who accompanied him
faithfully in those last harrowing moments.

FIN

NOVELS OF THE SAME
AUTHOR PESETAS

The Señorito Octavio, a tome. (Sold Out) 3

Martha
and Mary (illustrated by Pellicer), a tome.  Before she left me I told
her that in due form to-morrow I would enter her father's wigwam and open my pack of rich furs
before him, and by their value would win his consent.  Then she kissed me and quickly hurried
back again.  That night following was a bad night for me."

For a time Kinesasis paused in his narrative, and seemed, Indian though he was, to be deeply
moved, while his aged wife buried her head in her blanket and bowed to the floor.  Mr Ross,
who knew his story, respected the old man's feelings, and for a short time said and did nothing;
then he filled the calumet and gave it to him.  The tobacco and the rest quieted his perturbed
spirits, and handing back the pipe he continued his most fascinating story:

"Yes, that night I entered the village was indeed a bad night for me. Evil eyes had been on
Shakoona.  Cunning steps had followed her, and sharp ears had heard enough of our story to
find out what I was going to do next day with my valuable furs that I had been eight long moons
in hunting.  As I entered the outskirts of the village I was met by a young Indian with the
word that the wigwam of my relatives was cold and empty, as they had not yet returned from
their hunting grounds, which were in an opposite direction from the way in which I had come. 

Fifty novice in the abbey had continued. And all, except in the hours devoted a chivalrous
exercises, wearing the habit of the order.

In an April afternoon, finished the run, novices out of the choir, which had been singing psalms,
and were, as usual, to spend two hours of playing pleasure a large
courtyard.

There was a novice of obscure origin, which was contrary to the high nobility who boasted rightly
most of the others. This novice was Spanish.

Six years ago he had come to take refuge in the convent out of nowhere. The charitable abbot
gave him asylum, and he, with his deep humility, with its consistent application, with the
rare intelligence deployed in the study and the strength and agility he displayed in all physical
exercises, won the will of the venerable servant of God, who loved
him as a child and he naively admired.

From here you have the envy of other novices and especially the French. Tratábanle with disdain,
made him a thousand taunts and even insults directed at her, that he was suffering with resignation
evangelical. This is why he called plaque.

At that time the envy of the other novices had reached its height. Placido had to achieve brilliant
success. Had made a devout and inspired Latin hymn to the Blessed Virgin Mary, so full of
beauty and so rich in mystical love, which excited the monks, had sung in the choir, giving the
young poet a thousand praises and blessings.

His bad fellow, eager to humiliate him, and perhaps trusting that Placido was peaceful and suffered,
they confronted him, but he withdrew them with gentleness and modesty, and reached two of the
most insolent to the last extremity of the injury.

Recalling the dark its origin, cast in face and called her mother the most infamous way.

The lamb then became suddenly brave lion. For that, he had no weapons, but earned her fists. With
accurate and blow knocked to the ground, battered and with his mouth
bleeding, the first thing he had offended.

Then he just kept fighting against other three or four, leaning against the wall and harassed by
them.

It was so fast that nobody had come to intervene and restore peace
when other novices of noble French ancestry, participated in the contest,
saying:

- It is cowardice that you go so many against him depart,
Leave them to me alone, I will chasten him as deserves.

It was so compelling voice was so impressive the gesture of the boy,
who turned aside all forming wide circle around him.

French then came on plates, which stopped the blows dealt him, without
receiving none, and girded him with terrible force in his sinewy arms.

Astonishing
was the fight. Both remained strong. No let up or fell. Have in fashion
two bronze statues, if he had not felt the panting of the tired breath
fighters and if he had not been running and the sweat on his cheeks
burning.

Who knows how that battle was over! Mal was over, no doubt,
had it not abbot abruptly and gets to the point apart.

"Wahbunoo was very cold and repellent.  He would not believe my story, and so refused to have
me come to his wigwam.  So Shakoona and I had to meet when we could, and that was not often,
for the father was cruel and Oosahmekoo had many spies.  Still, we had many friends.  Miskoodell,
the little sister, was sharp and shrewd, and helped us greatly by warning us of danger.  So
did her brother, Netahwatee.  He was a good hunter, and had friends who had seen the furs.
He had been on the alert, and had found out that the young Indian who had invited me into his
wigwam had, during the winter, hung around the tent and had asked Shakoona to be his wife.
She had repelled him with scorn, and Netahwatee had told him that she was fond of Kinesasis,
and that even now he was away in the forest hunting, to bring in sufficient rich furs to buy
the consent of their father. So he had taken breakfast with his uncle, began out, to begin to
put into practice what had been prescribed.

Before the rectory was the way that right and drove down to the people and left and drove up
to Lada, the same one he had brought. Behind was a declining little garden with vegetables
and fruit trees after a forest garden, also decline, which belongs to the meek of the parish
and called the Mata. It was a shock in the true meaning of the word, but formed a grove of trees
of various kinds, planted by the predecessor of the current pastor, and who would not have in existence
over forty years. Because of that, which grow slowly, such as oak, walnut, beech, etc., still
did not have the build that had to reach over time, whereas others had in the fullness of its development.
Bananas could be seen splendid proud with its wide branches Peak ruffled leaves, dark elms magnificent
carved art glass and needles cathedrals, and very thick and made of tiny leaves, large and sturdy-looking
brown patriarchal exuberant health and freshness, they sported alongside their white birch delicate
stems. Wild acacias were also contending with a weak pillar vast vault of leaves, numerous ash elegant
figure, representing in his bowl well cut classical neatness; Espinera wild yew, poplar, mulberry
and other various kinds of trees, all fraternizing in the piece of land jungle parish hobbies
the former priest had been assigned.

Andrew felt an irresistible desire ensotarse in the thicket.

Despite the vague terror of the unknown that always inspires a forest, especially when there
have been more than Retiro de Madrid, and the reasonable fear that the bugs tend to there lair,
entered it resolutely.

Vegetation had never seen such a powerful, dedicated entirely to itself, free to aggrandize whims and
strange and monstrous bear. The good priest had thrown a handful of germs land in that tissue.
Nature had answered the call with a jolt formidable internal forces, raising the turf on a
huge temple moving domes, a cathedral whose shafts vegetables of all colors and sizes lined indefinite
series of sight. And their high arches and thick, sometimes torn by a special treat for that saw
the sky, down more pleasant freshness, more silence religious craft of stone of our Gothic churches.
Light, entering with effort through the manifold to the lattice, fell on the grass discreet,
mysterious, full of exquisite sweetness, inviting deep emotions and soft.

Experienced a delicious confusion by putting the plant at that site.

The sharp, penetrating odor of the jungle, full of balmy emanations, product of the sweat of trees
and earth, intoxicated him sweetly. The infinite variety of lights and shadows danced unceasingly,
the contrast the various shades of green, from deep black to gold, he obfuscated. He sat, or
rather, he fell on the grass, and rushed at once with admiration, fear, welfare and surprise, turned
its sights around, contemplating the sublime temple of nature. Dared not even lift a finger
not to disturb the quiet majesty and peace of their craft. Forgot at one point of his life,
its pleasures and its pains: believed to be born again in other regions higher, purer, happier.
Those trees full of vigor, filled with health and strength, he seduced: August immobility, recollection
with their drinks, he caused a sensation depressing: the strength of his huge arms, which spread
through space firm and powerful, full of sap, he instilled awe and envy. The forest was offered to all
wild life and lush, with the verve and the pride of Youth: no decayed tree, no plant withered,
all male, all healthy, yet strong. Never has the weak nature of our young man felt so humiliated.
Along those athletes crass and replete who held his muscles effortlessly holding the mass of
their tops, felt so poor, so small that he was astonished to live.

But this humiliation, far from causing pain, seemed to regenerate. A strange joy penetrated in
his heart and was spreading through him, flooding in such a way that
caused her anguish.

It was a joy that was squeezing his throat and blood cooling. Never experienced sensation of pleasure
so pure and so deep a sense of beauty. For the first time He who had written so many thousands
of verses! came face to face poetry, the heart said it clearly. It was genuine poetry, radiant
and clear, without verses or consonants far from cuttings, which arises from the communication
of a sensitive soul with nature. Was poetry at that time expressed a Blackbird, which came
to rest nearby, with his notes pure and crystalline. The forest shuddered to hear the cry that
piping, that sweet and melodious song which reflected the freshness, the harmonies, the mysterious
spells forest, directing them to the Maker as a morning hymn of thanksgiving. Andrew also
suffered shock. The emotion that had been seizing gradually overflowed into tears through their
eyes. What I felt was so fresh, so sweet, coming to harm. Crying it cooled.

VII

Rang for the third time the bells of the church, responding with a
busy concert and unintelligible to clear and calm song of the blackbird.

Andrew stood up for mass. Was church not far from the rectory.

When he reached it, had not yet finished the Rosary in the villages on Sundays preceding the
bloodless sacrifice. But only attend Rosary women and the devotees, lucid minds, the temperaments
of the village Voltaireans stay on the porch smoking and talking loudly.

Sometimes the voices are so high that the healing is on accuracy out to impose silence. For
this reason, I always pronounced a speech in which calls, among other
things, scribes, but the recalcitrant parishioners offended do not
give, and receive Shepherd stones down the head with an ironic smirk.

Our young man entered the church, which was small and poor, and after making a genuflection
before the altar, went to the sacristy, even the poorest little room
to the church, a round window through which came the sun's rays.

A chest with handles as a desk occupied the entire bottom of the larger canvas wall, a crucifix
horribly bloody hung over the ark. The first thing he encountered was with Celeste, kneeling
at the door, praying the rosary. Scattered about the room, some sitting, some kneeling, were:
the schoolteacher, who was an effeminate young blonde with farmer in suit holiday, the clerk of the place,
who worked all week and come Saturday Lada afternoon to spend Sunday with his family, his thin
face, aquiline nose, aspect of fox; a gentleman named D. James, son of the people, who had
recently arrived from America: olive color, small eyes and sunken diseased liver, forty-five
to fifty years old, the clerk and two or three people, whose appearance represented the transition
between the farmer and the gentleman.

- Good morning, gentlemen.

- Santos and good ones you have.

The string ended at once.

D. Fermin entered the sacristy as haughty and furious the conquistador who sets foot in a city
surrendered, came with incredible arrogance saying and cruelty:

- This night is cold as in December, I do not think we will have fruit this year.

The bystanders nodded, they had no other recourse. However, the clerk dared to humbly point
would not miss more than the early fruit, the next morning still
could be achieved.

- Do you? - Said the priest, fixing his eyes fraught
with threats.

- Yes, sir - "said the clerk with great presence of
mind.

Against what might be presumed, Fermin did not fall like a thunderbolt on it. He took a huge
herbs handkerchief to blow and replied:

- Do not know what to tell you, D. Felix, now all the sap up and just dropped flower ...

- That's what!

... The pears are hard crust, and the chestnut and walnut trees same - said the clerk with
increasing boldness.

It looked terrifying by the priest.

- I shall be glad, D. Felix, I rejoice, my pear Marco have taken a flower cart that year ... I do not
wish for something good, that I lose the harvest ... And you, D. Felix how has your Pomarada?

The
priest, as he spoke, had thrown from the bonnet and began to get the dawn of canvas helped by
the teacher and the sexton.

D. Felix gave a detailed description of the state his farm: Some orchards had charged much, others,
however, did not have a single apple .-- Something strange is happening with the cider - ended
by saying while fixing a fold of dawn, the teacher and the sexton
had left a bad .-- Before the orchards produced a year and lay other.

Now they are content to give a handful of apples every year.

- Merear, Domine, et portare manipulum fletus Doloris - murmured the
priest, placing the handpiece left arm .-- Come, D. Felix, God does
not offend you with these complaints.

A man Gentlemen (turning to the bystanders), which last year collected thirty-seven pipes ...

-
So what does that matter?

I have collected thirty-seven pipes of cider and I have fifteen days
ox de Pomar, and D. Pedro Marin has no more than nine, and two years
ago got into Winery near fifty pipes.

- Redd mihi, Domine quam stolam
inmortalitatis perdidi, etc .-- murmured the priest put on his stole
.-- But tell me how you have paid to pipes and how they have paid
to Don Pedro.

- Hum, hum! - Growled the clerk, caught in the trap.

-
Hey ... How are you?

Me to tell you, gentlemen, that you tell - said the cure triumphantly, and without waiting
the reply that the clerk was meditating, he got with a single stroke the chasuble over his
head, took his hat, bowed deeply the Christ bloodied, and left the sacristy, please contact the
altar.

Great sound in the church to the appearance of the priest, the women kneel, most of men as well.
In the sacristy operates a movement of concentration towards the door. Don Fermín, within
the sanctuary, leaning deeply, begin to recite dark hollow voice the prayers of the Mass, a child
next to him replied. The teacher Celesto the clerk and open a huge red letters missal, place
it on the ark of dress, and with shrill voice begin to sing. Impossible to give more disharmonious
and devilish. Andrew, after having referred to a moment in terror, took refuge at the door and from
there began exploring the corners of the church. Was entirely occupied by people of the village,
all farmers, women in front, dressed most part of black serge cloth, tissue color to the throat
and head covered with a blanket flannel, the men behind green baize jacket or yellow corduroy breeches,
white woolen stockings garters subject of color. Every attended with deep devotion and meditation
the mass.

The young courtier, not very fervent, walked over and again his eyes distracted by the competition
now looking at a woman who pinched her son to watch was then in an old man who prayed with
his arms crossed, later in children who were entertained to get his head through the railings
of the altar. There were some pretty nice faces between women, fresh and rosy, which, though
appearing much attention and devotion, did not stop back often, and with obvious curiosity, to the pale
stranger who leaning on the doorway of the sacristy. There was, in particular, a dark, funny
slightly aquiline nose, mouth, tiny and fresh, not too big eyes either, but black and alive, narrow
forehead, and adorned with curls of black hair, who managed to draw your attention .-- Go salt
girl! - thought, devouring both eyes. A young villager also Andrew had to wonder, because he looked long
and fixedly at a good time, no matter none of the nagging curiosity of it. After I had examined
her taste, gave a very slight grimace with the lips and narrowed his eyes again to the altar.
The stranger, the perception clear and fine learned man, guessed by this face that had not liked.
The swarthy face never again to bow to his side throughout the duration of the mass. Instead, Andrew
a kind of magnetic attraction, just might take your eye. By moving the missal to read the Gospel,
she got up, took a wax taper before her, placed on a stick, and went to turn it into one of
the two candles burning at the foot of the gate the altar. Then our hero beheld a figure higher
than low, slender and graceful, a chest raised and ruled that, shall we say to the detriment
of its purity, was not the least impression did from the beginning.

Upon arrival at the Offertory, the priest was about to preach to his parishioners. Some of these,
closest to the door, got out, the women sat, in the sacristy, the
clerk also sat on a bench, took the silver snuff bottle and began
to roll a cigarette: were quick to go with some others.

Andrew, the teacher and D. James remained at the door.

- "I have to tell you one thing - began the priest in the cavernous tone he could assume I have
.-- to tell you that you are a true Pharisees, because aparentáis
meet the requirements of Our Lord Jesus Christ and Our Holy Mother
the Church, and do, I understand you, mockery of them in secret.

You come to church, pray the rosary, you attend the processions, but because they do not cost you
any work. However, if a hand is, do not mind working in holiday, missing one of the first
commandments of the law of God, saying 'sanctify the parties ... " What are my parishioners in
times of grass, as now, is a true scandal, and is yielding to say, I understand you, all the
pious of the council. With the freshness up the grass on Sundays, load and go with the car screaming
by the middle of town, as if God did not look up, as if a key with your sin spine over the head
of our Redeemer. This is not good, not good, and I hope corrijáis you, if you will not be whitewashed
tombs of the Gospel tells us, full rot, do you understand me, and filth inside and clean on the
outside ... that's ...

"But someone will say:" So, under no circumstances, you can work on Sundays? ... I will reply,
I have identified ... If Juan, Pedro and Diego, for instance, have tended grass in the field, and
fear that they will lose not put it in the tinada as soon as possible,
either because the day dawns cloudy and threatening rain, or do you
understand me, because it is dry few days or for any other reason,
if they seize the Sunday morning to put it, and effectively put, trying
not to give scandal ... do not sin ... But if John, Peter or Diego
are set to stir the pot or put it on a Sunday to be more unemployed
on Monday, or because you understand me, want to conclude the sooner
this work to begin another or that they have it in the tinada before
other neighbors, or any other cause that is not legitimate ... then
sin mortally.

"Therefore, you know ... You can not work on holidays without a cause that While those that are
heard at the door ... Without just cause! ... Those who work sin mortally and are doomed, if
not cleaned in the sacred tribunal of Penance, to eternal punishment hell.

"Therefore, you know ... The third commandment of the law of God is "sanctifying parties. "Everyone
is required, I understand you, to keep the holy days of obligation, not only for the good of
our soul, but for the example you give good behavior of others. Those who miss this sacred precept
without commit a grave sin.

God rested the seventh day when he made the universe, and wants us to rest also ...

"Therefore, you know ..."

The priest still continued good effort while dragging the car of the word, repeating the same
concepts, sometimes with the same words, looking at the knuckles, to rub gently, new ideas and
arguments. The voice was deep, particularly when periods ending: at first, but that deep twang.

The
faces of the parishioners expressed resigned boredom. Women sat on the floor, watching the priest
face to face with distracted eyes. Men door yawning, opening the
mouth to the jaw out of joint.

Andrew, the teacher and D. Jaime, tired to listen, also retreated
to the bench where he was the scribe.

He set a animated conversation about what the neighbors would collect for the feast parish I
was not far away. The clerk, D. Jaime and another claimed that there were the cause of the neighbors
were opposed to be taxed, saying the factory was still some funds: the teacher and Celeste
defended the priest.

At last he finished his talk, and continued the service. All returned to their original positions.
The singers were just as they now say but amen and et cum spiritu tuo, responding the priest.
When he, after singing Mass solemnly ite est, his blessing to people, the bystanders turned
on each other, saying a "good morning" and rushing amical to collect the hats. Some left, others, including
Andrew, were waiting for the cure he entered the sacristy mumbling Latin, downcast eyes and
folded hands. After took off his cassock, he greeted his friends with expansion.

When our young man left the church bells rang merrily. The sun bathed and all the valley.
  He was
a thorough Indian in his actions and modes of thought, and only saw things from his own stand-
point.  He was very observant, and had been quietly studying these three young "palefaces,"
whom his master, the Ookemou, Mr Ross, had brought across the great sea. If only I had the stature of its Brother
John! But this, which very well could have fallen behind, was well accommodated in the sanctuary among
the priests, the mayor and several councilors, which stood in heart a wave of envy you even
more stifling than the knees of giants behind him. Such was his fate. Although considered more
intelligent than his brother, and serve long years of public administration in various provinces
of Spain, and had read the César Cantú Universal History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing
a volume, and possessed the same fortune, retirement more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain
that D. John, without Peñascosa never left or have read in the newspaper life to which he
subscribed, enjoyed far greater prestige in the village. This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate
for height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall, dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids
and look imposing, venerable bald, short white whiskers and a measured and stately march. These
extraordinary gifts, together talk to a measured and prudent, had captured the respect and even
the veneration of neighbors. So great was the astonishment of their time to the arrival of D.
Peregrin de Andalucía, where he had been employed recently heard him call ignorant and fool
his brother in a discussion with him at the casino was about the tobacco revenue. They lived together,
both single and delivered to the care of Ms Mariquita despotic, housekeeper and sole owner
of their lives and property.

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea
of ​​heads that stretched from the fence to the gate of the temple,
met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother.

Seeing the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank
site occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed
with anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger
and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

-
What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you want D.
come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible. Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male vigorous and expeditious nature,
ready to rise.

D. John is retained by the sleeve of his coat.

- No, let you ... Did not want to come ... You know his character.

-
For man is not like dish could you be there sweating latte! - Answered
sharply, while raising the shoulders.

The church is among the most spacious villa can be rendered. Truth Peñascosa with have seven to
eight thousand souls, no church has more than this. Perhaps to be too spacious, the sexton and
his assistants do not want to take care of cleaning often. Its appearance is murky and dirty.
On the walls, not many years ago whitewashed, hanging chains, dark, blurry pictures, a crowd of
legs, arms, heads and yellow wax still greater ones of boats and barges that the faith of the
sailors or their families have been there in memory of danger miraculously avoided. But for the function
to be held habíanla adorned as they could. Flower garlands surrounded the main altar covered
with white cloths pressed from fresh. They had hung some curtains in wall paintings near the altar
and some soil upholstered with carpet, dirty and and torn in several places, which came to light
forty years, in the solemn days. Ms Eloise, the godmother of the new priest, and the ladies
who had assisted in the noble endeavor to give race, have added some details to trim crude and sensitive
routine the sexton. Big pots of flowers placed in vases art drawn from the best town houses, some
damask curtains forming canopy over the altar, candlesticks, spiders. Where, of course, had fallen
to their particular attention and care was in rounding up young priest. Alba fine cambric embroidered
with neatness, stole, chasuble richest cloth of gold that could be found in the capital, cup,
gold too, with some stones precious. The kind lady had spared no money to give top or crown the
charity for some years to accomplish.
 It was arranged with the best of birch bark, and around outside, up to
within a few feet of the top, Kinesasis piled the dry moss of that country, which grows there
so plentifully.  He cut abundance of wood, and left plenty of frozen meat and fish on the high
staging outside. The only drawback was that the wigwam was situated on the outskirts of the
village, close to the dark forest. Andrew struggled weakly to free herself. The touch of those hands, a little deformed
by labor, plump black women, caused him exquisite delight. Tired of playing, sat down and gently
pulled the girl toward him by the fingertips. Rosa had rolled up shirt and looked round and smooth
arms, if they were not finished model of perfection sculpture, did not stop being so beautiful.
Andrew took out his handkerchief, wiped them carefully, and after some time petting the hearing,
it was decided to kiss them. The village will left to do, smiling and surprised that a gentleman
was humbled to sit on their lips rough peasant's arms.

- Come on - he said at last, - I'll pick up the jug, which is already
dark.

Rose again by the little path to the road, and turned to catch up. Andres was proposed you were
a bracero, as the gentlemen in the city, and seeing her in suspense, not knowing what was, I
said almost.

The shepherdess found him very funny. Let himself be led thus, releasing fresh every moment laughing,
and asking a thousand questions about courtly customs.

The road was lonely. But to turn one of its bends, tripped himself up against a man dress so singular
in that country, with black alpaca coat, pants and white vest and
Panama hat.

Was D. Jaime's uncle, Rosa. This, at the sight, he departed abruptly
Andrew, with signs of great distress.

D. Jaime, who had time to see them perfectly, greeted them with honeyed voice and let American.

- Good evening, gentlemen ... Do they come to take a little walk, right? OK ... evening invites.

-
No, sir, do not come for a walk - said Andrei Rosa .-- I found the
source, and was accompanying to his house.

- Okay, sir, all right.

The girls are bad at this hour alone on the road ... I come to your
house, Rosita: I was a great time chatting with Angela and Rafael
...

Rosa was content to smile, blushing all yet.

- Well, do not
mean to interrupt ... Keep on, keep going ... Until another little
while.

AND D. Jaime walked towards the village, while her niece and Andrew continued toward home. After
this meeting, stopped completely the joy of it: it was thoughtful, concerned. All efforts
were in vain to make her laugh Andrew.

He even fancied that he was a bit shaky.

- Come on, girl, do not worry so much because we have seen your uncle of bracero ... After all,
even if I tell your father is not a crime.

Rosa refused to be rushed, but his stubborn silence and haste to get home they said it Otherwise
clear. Upon arriving home, they parted.

Andrew urged her again to be disposed all fear. She repeated the same thing: that he had no
fear, but it was almost night insurance were waiting for dinner. And after promising to return
the next day Andrew was separated, giving a long and affectionate handshake.

It was dusk, so soft and melancholy in the field. The mountains closed the valley lost its landscape,
offering the reports and seen as monstrous packages. The piece of sky that revealed weakly
reflected the fading light of the sun, as was already long time, and barely breaking the lurid
light began to shine some tentative stars. Extinguíanse rumors that the farm work in such an
hour wake. And screamed no cars back from the land: no longer hear the screams of the countrymen
cattle prodding to get him into the barn, and did not sound the bells of the cows, and bellowed
happily calves to feel close to their mothers. Only the notes long,
sad, Ridge left a villager heard softly in the distance off.

The buzz growing overwhelming, insects had taken over the frenzied atmosphere. The soft cry, clear,
piping, toad once in a while breaking the monotony of this sound confusing and dizzying.

Andrew walked into the rectory, slowly, with hat in hand for better cooling, enjoying poetry
again locked in the narrow valley, the gentle peace that reigned in the countryside, the exquisite
sweetness of the hour placid and serene. At first, when turned from the house of Rosa, I felt some
fear and walked more quickly, but now with health had also entered self-confidence, believing
strong enough to overthrow any of a club, and from time to time to ensure this, was furious
turnstiles with his staff of holly. In between walked quietly, letting his gaze wander undecided
by the contours of the hills and trees, and thoughts run freely by pleasant memories of the day or
earlier. Not infrequently he has started this sweet delight the ringing slow, Argentina, melancholy,
church bells, turning to prayer. His vibrant and harmonious echoes woke up a sleepy countryside instantly
and then as a soft whisper lost in the dark of chestnut breast and
in the cracks rocks.

Would, therefore, the young courtier ambushed in his meditations,
when in front of him, one of side of the road, rose a shadow that
instantly took on human form.

And so came shortly after a voice that said prosaically:

- Good
night.

The young man had taken a step back and pressed hard his cane. On hearing the greeting was relieved
in one way and another flinch, because at the time failed to recognize
how the unexpectedly cut him off, which was none other than the American
D. Jaime, who had greeted not many minutes earlier near the house
of Rosa.

D. Jaime was quick to explain the meeting.

- I had sat down to rest
... The evening is so nice to not feel like getting at home, eh, sir?

Andrew, who had come to himself perfectly, he questioned this explanation in the domestic courts;
but merely answered:

- Yes it is very beautiful ... evening, not late.

But I expected my uncle to dine I can not enjoy it ... So bye, Don
Jaime.

- Aguárdese a moment, sir, we will walk together ... I also
go to the inn, because the end is the first dinner, right?

Andrew said not very satisfied:

- Sure!

And they matched, marching through the dark and uneven Glen Road towards
the village.

- You, sir, this country will be happy, right?

- Very.

-
So colorful, so green, so lush!

... And then with these as healthy air here to breathe ... You've become very good, sir ... looks
like another.

- I've improved a lot, true.

- Nothing like the good life and do
not remember business ... Conclude the work of head with the person
... I have done much harm.

"What work have had this huckster head stolid?" Said Andrew to himself, and aloud

- You're right, weak intellectual work: bodily exercise instead camp life and work miracles.

- Yes, sir, it is. But young people find it hard to take this simple
life.

A me that I am old, I do not care ... But you do not know how you
can live without its theaters and cafés and circles of educated people
they can talk science ... and know what happens in politics.

- Oh,
well!

Believe me, what happened to wonder.

- That is he knows how nice distraction, even among these bushes ...

Andrew warned watching the smarmy twang of these words and false laugh that accompanied them.

- Not at all. My distractions are identical to yours and around the world.

- Come, sir, do not say that by God.

We know that brings all local girls riots groups with little words. In particular, my niece Rosa can
not hide that is chaladita the poor.

"This guy wants me to pull the tongue, I understand why I expected,"
thought Andrew.

- Bah! joking and laughing with the girls, I do and
what you do and do it all.

Is a distraction than anything you have left.

- A lot, yes, sir, a lot yes, but the little jokes of a young man
so handsome, so elegant and funny how you tend to bring other result
than ours.

- Thanks, D. Jaime, it's favor.

I think when the jokes are innocent, or those of one nor the other produce results.

- That says, but do not think. No servant of the people or the contour has been achieved my niece
Rosa tame the more you ... It was a mountain goat, and you have put
soft and loving as a kitten ...

- What nonsense!

Neither do I talk to Rosa otherwise than with other young people, or It will be noticed me more
than any other man.

- The truth is that he has very good taste, sir ... Rosa is a very cool and very pimpollito
appetizing - Jaime said, as if he had not heard the words of Andrew.

-
It is indeed a very cute and funny girl ... but I have never spoken
rather than a good friend ... as well as his sister Angela ...

-
What raticos so nice about it have happened after the has been tame!

-
But do not tell you, man of God, I have no more relations with Rosa
than the pure friendship? - Andres said quite sharply.

- Do not bother,
sir, do not bother ... You young people are fond of the court have
fun when presented with opportunity.

There is nothing particular to play and have fun a bit with Rosita ...

- I do not have fun and play with Rosa: I treat like a very decent
girl, the daughter of a family whom I consider ... To play and have
fun in the sense that you seem to indicate, seek another class women.

-
Come, sir - said the Indian accent and sweet insinuating - that it
will escape occasionally a hug ... and more!

- Mr D. Jaime, you are
offending me.

I repeat to you that are not crossed my imagination anything like that ... And I am surprised that
you do to your niece's offense also believe it can suffer ...

- It's a joke, sir, no offense ... As I had nothing to talk, I took these follies just for
fun.

Because I know that you are unable ... and Rosita, although a little living of genius, is well educated
by his father ...

- I'm glad you do not think such nonsense ... and if you think, too bad for you wrong.

The Indian apologized again.

Andrew spoke a little against the town gossip; and these were bickering about it, so that our
young man suddenly cut and much to his pleasure the conversation.

-
Go, D. Jaime, I follow the presbytery, until the hearing.

- Go with
God, sir, have a good time.

Rose young Madrid moody and downcast the repechito was left to the
house his uncle, and while it was slowly approaching, I kept wondering
with some concern "- I wonder why that rascal wanted pry?"

XI

The idea that Andrew was formed, rumors and conjecture rather than
experience, mellow D. Jaime, was adequate.

Limited understanding, a troubled conscience, appetites awake gentle
and dangerous condition as the water stopped.

His father had embarked on fourteen years among other few thousand human sheep sent annually metropolis
the overseas colonies. At fifty had returned, without education, without religious beliefs and unhealthy,
but with thirty or forty thousand dollars, won on the back of a store selling rice and beef
jerky for blacks. The caged beast living that observed for thirty and six years was not calculated
to develop the germs of intelligence and goodness that providence of God does not deny any human creature.
Your thoughts, feelings and all acts of his will were vulgar and sordid. Instead, the enraged bulls
and startled his temper and inclined to the sensual pleasures, looking at them compensation of
that freedom, education and social intercourse here. Well was declared the clumsy Hobbies in
the dull look in his eyes, sunken and lost, and the cadaverous pallor the cheeks, which also
contributed the chronic ailment affecting her doing some years.

Upon arriving in the summer before his hometown had stayed at his brother Thomas, who thought that
he came with his fortune through the door. Soon wine regardless of its error. The Indian, if
I had money, and it showed. It took six months longer host at home, making many sacrifices by giving
her no more reward than some Light gifts to the girls and Rafael.

When asked for money to buy more cattle and should pay some peaks, D. Jaime was very bad face,
but gave it on loan to ten percent, made him special grace, for the most part it was placed
at twelve. Since then, the Indian was at his brother and on tenterhooks, afraid at every moment
new demands and also feared missing revenue than it had paid. If not was because Rosa thanks and
acted on his being alive and burning influence, had gone immediately. This influx of rude
nature, was what kept him and was also later he was forced to separate. Here's how.

No, a warm and flowing of their niece, or the extraordinary grace that printed their words and
attitudes, or the rare pride guarding their innocence, were what captivated D. Jaime. In this
way, their passion, even senile, would find excuses. All he saw and Rosa appreciated was the
way, or get closer to the truth, the flesh. Was unfit for feel or even understand other passions
increases. It seemed, so was a tasty morsel.

After several days of living near and contemplate long positions in all conceived for it a
clumsy and frantic fans. Display saved himself, because behind his vices, and even overcoming them
was the practical man, the villager selfish and suspicious. Feared who, knowing his weakness,
the family used to loot. Besides, would not be compromised. In imitation of many other villagers
who had come with money in Cuba before he aspired to enrich your blood and gain more prestige by joining
a Miss poor of the town, abandoned by this old and young. But while not shown, the sought some way
out. As carnal uncle, was approved for use with Girl certain familiarity that they would not be
allowed to other men D. Jaime used and abused. As he lived under the same roof and was in constant
contact with her for all the necessities of life, took advantage of its power very nicely more
than they would other guy less messy. "Rosita, Rosita .-- bring me this, go to the other .-- Rosita,
rises above this bank and get me those shoes .-- Rosita, Rosita .-- bind me this tape, hit me
button shirt. "And when I went and when they came up and when down, hands yellowed D. hairy Jaime's
pinched, the sobaban, the petted and squeezed.

Rosa, although sometimes embarrassed when touching rose point, and also showing some vague uneasiness
that she could not understand, received them with gratitude, thinking simply the favorite of his
uncle, or that more had been sympathetic to him. Not observe the unhappy that they are not so
frequent and lavish living in the light of the other as to be alone. And as time was slipping,
the Indian Burnt would melt more and more flattering, entertaining his shameful sensuality.

But there came a moment when the fire grew so that it was necessary to feed tossing fuel or off at
once, lest it burn alive. And chose the former. There was no need to think about marriage: that
the solemn nonsense judged not only by the benefits another union could report to you, but
because he missed forever on the shoulders burden the whole family. And regardless of who was the
daughter of his brother, a poor ignorant child respected him as an uncle and a gentleman, thought
otherwise. And not only thought but you put your thought process
of work.

Began to prepare the ground.
  Sleds were occasionally
upset, and if at the time anyone happened to be riding, he was buried in the snow, from which
he emerged none the worse for the plunge, but generally amidst the laughter of those more fortunate.
Several times a fox or some other animal ran across the trail, and then it required some effort
and sternness to control the dogs and prevent them from starting off after these animals, which
are their natural foes.  The older dogs had learned somewhat by experience the folly of trying
while thus harnessed to heavy sleds to capture wild foxes, and so merely confined their efforts
to loud barkings and a little more vigorous tugging at their traces.  The younger and less
disciplined trains, however, with less discretion and more zeal, at once dashed away from the
beaten trail made by the trains ahead of them, and recklessly plunged into the forest after
the game.

"Who would imagine," said Frank, "that dogs so heavily loaded could thus fairly fly over the
snow-covered logs and rocks and among the trees at such a rate?"

They learned then, and in many an experience afterward, of the latent strength there is in
an apparently wearied dog.  Only give him the stimulus to develop it, and it is simply surprising
to all who witness it.

Alec's fleet train was the most excited and intractable. Just remember having enjoyed a day of full
health. I've always had a quite frail, and have suffered almost constantly ... sometimes one, sometimes
another ... usually the stomach.

- Poor digestion?

- Yes, sir, have always been very difficult.

- With pain?

- I have not had until recently. During childhood I have suffered much. At fourteen or fifteen
I started to feel better, eat with increased appetite and fat I put
up because, of course, my temper, but when I reached twenty, I do
not know if the much study or derangement meals, or lack of exercise,
or all of this together, again exacerbated my illness, and I can say
that for a long time, my life has been an ordeal.

Next Best life changing, but I have become to fall for some time.

-
What jobs do you do?

The young man hesitated a moment and replied:

- I'ma writer.

- Mala profession is a nature like yours. The circumstances with which you work usually ...
to late at night, harassed by the lack of time ... lack exercise ... and intellectual work,
which already is debilitating ... What you say that in some time
now the disease has intensified the stomach?

- The stomach, not so
much: the worst is the weakness I feel in my body from For three or
four months.

A total lack of strength. As I climb four stairs, I get tired.

I can not lift the weight more insignificant ...

- Have you had any syncope, dizziness or feel you head?

- Dizziness,
yes, sir, but I've never even lost consciousness.

However, in recent often times I feared falling into the street.

- Do you cough you?

- A month ago I have a dry little cough, sputum, and on Monday I have
a little blood.

I was alarmed enough and went to see a doctor who knew ...

- Is the blood came in the form of vomiting or mixed with saliva?

-
Just a little bit between the saliva.

- Before, you had I not consulted?

-
Yes, sir, many times, but as it was a chronic illness, I was arranging
with the old remedies: baking soda, magnesia, Quassia ...

- Well,
give me your hand.

Dr. Ibarra was a long time looking at the pulse of youth.

Then carefully observed his eyes, eyelid down to it.

He stood a few moments thought.

- Would like to acknowledge the chest.

- When you like. Do I need to undress me?

- It would be better. This is not cold.

The young man began to take off quickly. Seemed calm at first sight. However, he I watched him
carefully, notice that had grown a little pale his face, and his hands were trembling. When she was
naked from the waist up, his eyes questioned doctor. He considered the torso miserable before him,
with deep shame. Ribs could be counted at a respectful distance: the neck out of its long and
narrow shoulders thin, and adorned with a prominent Adam's apple. Sign that made him lie on the
sofa and went to out of a closet a stethoscope. Then he placed his knees beside the sofa,
and began recognition. The doctor lingered for a long time to feel and repalpar chest, supporting
fingers and giving repeated taps on them. On the right side something caught his attention, because
they went there more often. Nothing disturbed the silence of the cabinet. The young man watched
askance at the doctor's impassive face. A fly began buzzing around sadly them. But sadder still
buzzing thinking by the brain of our patient, who I felt life slip out when he was on the threshold.
Every moment of the he had enjoyed flocked to his imagination: the
life he had adorned and smiling like a beautiful woman waiting for
him: to his pain and loss seemed kind at the moment I would be notified
that he would feel them forever.

However, if your ideas and put him sad memories, failed to relent.

There in his soul such a fund of strength and pride, which he considered
unworthy frightened by the prospect death.

The doctor took the instrument, he put on his chest and put his ear.

- Tosa you ... well ... not so strong ... Now you breathe hard and
rhythmically.

There was a long silence.

- Turn you a little ... well ... Tosa you again ... Just ... You breathe
hard ...

Another silence, during which the patient began to caress
a horrible idea.

- Now you talk.

- What do you want to talk?

-
Recite poems, as you are literate.

- Well, recite the ones I agree
at this time - said the young man smiled bitterly.

And he began to say aloud the poetry of Andrew admirable Chenier, entitled Le Jeune malade.

When
he had recited a few verses, the doctor interrupted him:

- Enough ... Follow your breathing quietly.

King became silent. A very long while he was a doctor with an attentive ear to in the depths of
our young befell chest, exploring the slightest movements, more subtle sounds, like the thief
who was night to enter a house.

A Sometimes she thought she felt the footsteps of death, such as
those of his enemy soldier, and the front wrinkled old man, but returned
to calm at the time, acquiring indifferent expression.

His attention was deepening.

Meanwhile, the patient had fixed his eyes on the ceiling, where the
signs were beginning to draw a grim decision.

Puckered eyebrows: the black pupils goodbye looks increasingly tough and sad.

The doctor finally lifted his head and coldly asked:

- What doctor
has told you that was in second grade of consumption?

- None - said
the patient with the same coldness.

The old man stood up briskly, and looked bewildered.

Then he crossed himself, exclaiming:

- Jesus, what an atrocity! - And smiling benevolently: - Have you made a crazy girl. What you have
earned to tell him he was dying?

- Know in a doubt.

- Thank you, what then?

- Then ... then ... then I do not know what had happened.

- Yes, I know you ... but better not say it. Fortunately, it went well the trick, because I
need not say that you do not have any lung injury: there is only
a slight disorder in the functions.

What you need, obvious to anyone, because it leads written on the
face: is the nineteenth century disease, particularly of large populations.

Are you anemic.

Inveterate dyspepsia who has not charged nor any injury stomach,
and is completely curable.

Not you, therefore, nothing to fear, for now.

I stress these words for you to understand the urgency to get a priest,
because the Eventually, the disease breeds and have you thought ...
And now offered for me serious difficulty.

Yo I can prescribe some medications to alleviate, but only momentarily.

Long as there are causes, not cure the disease radically, and will make you suffer life cruelly
and completed after her too soon ... Tell me you with frankly ...
We, the doctors, we are the confessors of the men who do not believe
in confession ... Are you married or single?

- Single.

- But you
have a woman who loves him too ...

- Perhaps ...-- said the young
man smiling and blushing slightly.

- Would you strength to get away
from it for a while?

The patient's face crumpled, and his eyes became fixed and hard expression.

- I do not want anything else.

- Perfectly ... And could you also leave your business and spend a
long time in the field, doing absolutely nothing?

- I think so.

-
Then we have saved.

No matter whether one place or another where you go, in the North or in the south, it is essential
that you rest and breathe cleaner air, to run you among the trees a few times and others in the sun,
you eat soft foods and nutrients, you get up early and not withdrawn later that barter, in short,
artificial life and unhygienic leading the other natural and simple, and give that poor body
which is crying out.

The old doctor was extended still quite giving advice about his conduct in the future. The young
man listened religiously, giving the reason in it. When he finished, got up and wanted to pay. The
doctor would not consent: I felt very sympathetic towards the young writers, and in this case knew
that the sympathy was even alive. Carried him off from hand to the door of the room, and gave
him another short farewell speech, giving affectionate pat on the shoulder

- Do not be mad, not crazy, girl. Be strong for life, you do not know what will happen when the
release ... And above all, more a bird in hand ... Men who are like
you courage and intelligence, should be reserved for large and useful.

You heal, to strengthen you your body and see how then do not feel such contempt for the existence
... Goodbye, young ... Do not let you write me soon since his retirement,
to send you a recipe.

We do not want to give drugs. I need to know the influence of the
change of life and Weather on your body ... D. Is your name Andrés
Heredia, is not it?

... Perfectly: I will not forget ... Goodbye, Mr. Hall, do not let
you leave Madrid as soon as possible.

Walking looked around the room, the doctor met with a client, sitting on a couch coughed pressing her temples
with his hands. Lowering his voice, said the young man's ear:

- The poor will heal in another field other than that you are visiting ... Goodbye, dear, goodbye.

II

Andrés
Heredia in child lost his father, a Supreme Court judge, who had the weakness of marriage, and old,
with a niece of eighteen years. His late marriage and some losses of fortune, that the slump
in public funds had experienced gave him in the grave. The unfortunate result of this union
was a sickly child and often, who grew up laboriously by dint of pampering and care.

On the death of his father inherited real income 40,000 which, together with the widow of his
mother, I agreed to live with being in court. The young widow did not remarry, but no lack of
good joints for it. Encrypted the yearnings and hopes all of his life in that child, who needed his
maternal request not to blow die of the many ailments he suffered in childhood: she was a joy to
intense and continuous irlas conquering and see more and more safe and robust. The boy, at the same time,
he discovered a sensitive natural and clear: adored his mother and proud with victories in the
school: every month diploma of honor, on all outstanding or significant tests advantage. Later,
when he reached sixteen years, brought him a newspaper which appeared some verses signed by him. Flattered
in his vanity of mother, the poor wife began to mourn. Since then, Andrew's career was set:
he was a poet. There was no Little Newspaper Literary Magazine of provinces was not compromised
to add some of his tearful compositions or floral poetry contest or game where it won a silver
inkstand, a book glossy, and perhaps another to the same natural flower poetasters reserved
most illustrious. The genre that most stood out were the legends. With a stone cross, a rebujos
couple of riders in separate layers, a well-appointed dressing room, a lady of rare beauty a castle
with pointed windows and a full moon night, our youth had enough to assemble a crib six thousand
devils very interesting, able to put goosebumps to anyone. When he had quite a number of compositions,
published (on request of some friends) a volume, and then another, then another. Flow cost him,
but it was well spent, because the newspapers where he had friends began to call him "the inspired
poet, our D. particular friend Andrés Heredia.

"Unfortunately, his mother died before seeing the pinnacle of glory died quickly from a pulmonary
consumption. Andrew, who only twenty years at the time, had the curator of his property to a
brother of the deceased, but did not want to live with him, and moved with some of his belongings
to the inn.

Here begins for the young Heredia one was very different from the rest of his former life. Passed
Suddenly the warm atmosphere of his home in the cool of the street, the sweet life and quieter than
the loving care of his mother made him look, the disheveled and nomadic of the inns. Too much
freedom it hurt. Its nature has changed considerably since the sixteen years. The rigorous
method, the orderly conduct, had managed to give a relative strength, so that, when he moved to
the inn, was strong enough to enjoy life. Moreover, the curator was wrong very very much for support
with relief. Of all these advantages began using long our young, appearing in the world with the
verve and the arrogance of a few years. He trod the theater often, and cafes and lounges, and
even less holy places, friendships and debts contracted; despeñose in affairs that are not
love. All smiled at first. But not much happened time without nature give the cry of alarm.
Was again raised by the former condition stomach, harsher than ever, the lack of method in the food
and the disdain of appropriate remedies. And the constant suffering that poisoned all the
pleasures, began significantly affect its character: it became a hypochondriac, pessimistic,
irritable. Came a moment that was forced to withdraw from social commerce, not to have every
moment a brawl. It was susceptible, suspicious, a word puzzled him, a look wounded him, not eight
days passed without the rims with a friend for any trifle. One of them, a doctor, after some
violent scene, he said he would not discuss more until it stand in cure. This made him come
to himself, he realized he was actually ill, fled with particular care any occasion of dispute,
and began to jaroparse remedies are usually given against bile.

He was not wrong with them: his stomach sang, ate with more appetite, and after he could return
to ordinary life, but resentful and broken.

At this time peace was given temporarily to the muses, and declined to write prose, not vile, but
poetic and curly like no other. Entered the magazine in a newspaper, on the occasion of soirees,
banquets, plays, bullfights and all sorts of public holidays and private, began to drop the
pen one million frasecillas pretty clever and neat, that there was nothing but praise from the ladies.
And as a natural consequence of the vogue Articles, also reached unprecedented him favor in the
halls. He was tried fine gentle, elegant, moms blocked him with smiles and compliments. But it was
not for the love lawful, liked to bite into the forbidden apple, and it is known that soon
gave many and heavy snacks. Certainly one of them cost him an affair of honor, which came slightly
wounded, but that earned him prestige among females. Lately, he had the bad chance to bind to
a woman not young, nor beautiful, nor rich, but so clever and expert, so infernal attractive in
a short time managed to tie his hands and feet, have you exhausted and submissive at his feet
like a slave. She was the wife of a senior employee who is his wife's adventures did not seem
to cold or heat. Andrew ceased to run into this woman's life left merry and boisterous, and
even treatment of his close friends, did not think since then more than to serve and celebrate their
idol. And in this way has been more than two years, losing love those fools their physical and
intellectual, because he had left the study, and even the pen and
it did not help to draw more than some bland compositions in honor
of his lady.

Upon reaching the older entered the free disposal of their property, he found not a little
diminished, thanks to good air your uncle knew them while handling. On this occasion there Strong
arguments and despondency among them, and even threats of litigation, he finally settled the
matter by informal intervention of some friends, not without losing Andrew in the transaction much
of their wealth. These troubles and all others are compensated for sweets its embarrassing moments
that you love posing. But at last, were also losing a lot of in its appeal: the employee's wife
was determined to abuse their power and demand higher sacrifices, while love is going to spend
on the chest of young evaporated. This there was tension between them, some more than a few quarrels
and uneasiness.

Andrew concluded by wishing a break, but was carried away from the usual, without the strength
to make a decision violent, as is always stale relationships.

Presented itself after it was inevitable. His health, always drawn and trembling, resented alarmingly.
They were not only unique thinness, fatigue and loss of appetite, the phenomena which warned in
his body. In recent times began to feel acute stomach pain at certain times of day, which left
him very depressed and sad. When I attacked on the street, clutching tightly the painful with
the fist of the stick, and so he walked with his face pale and distraught,
not hear or see anything around happened.

Fortunately, lasted a short time: the bismuth who prescribed the friend who used to got noticeable
relief available.

But a few days, sputum with blood, resulting in coughing, he was appalled. Would consumptive?
Such a thought filled him with dread. Never thought of death, but as an artistic he used for his
romantic poems, taking it out to shine, too by the way, support of the sincerity of his yearning
love, and as a means of achieving a balm for their penalties. But now, death was presented in a
much less sympathetic, pale, emaciated, stinking, their bony hands clutching at the fatal scythe
segarle warning to the neck; death was not consonant or gravel, completely naked rhetorical finery.
In his presence felt very different impression which had inspired the poem Love and Death, which
few months earlier he had published some literary magazine called The Ecos del Manzanares: felt
cold and scared and clinging to life without condition, which had so often cursed in verse.
He spent two days in extraordinary agitation, locked in his room, without seeing your friends
or other living rather than the home that served their short parts,
unresolved consult with a physician of experience for fear of getting
fatal certainty his misfortune.

The agitation, however, relented and became, as usually happens in depression and sadness. And
little by little, this depression, which very few escape in human identical case, vigorous
plant sprouted like resignation, or rather a stoic indifference male and born of the shame
of having been afraid. Alzose bravely to his heart the terrible ghost of phthisis, and said, "No one
dies but once ... Days before or days then ... Bah! Who cares? "And for a supreme effort of will was
serene, completely serene, watching his own mind with noble pride. Just a thought did relent
gently: "My mother died of consumption, there going to go hang with her." And shed some tears he
refreshes the soul. After all arranged things in mind, drawing a perfect bill of his will, washed,
dressed neatly and left home in search of the doctor's Ibarra, one of the most celebrated doctors
of Madrid, determined to know the truth of his state and while he still had life. Something
sinister, frightening, floating above its resignation, but he dared
to define it.

How different were your impressions when you leave the house! He entered a few moments by indifferent,
cold, in the spirit fainted and unsteadily. Upon leaving, he beat strong heart, his eyes shone,
cheeks were colored, dancing feet step up the ladder on a firm and cheerful. Ibarra is the doctor,
the doctor most famous court, a respected scholar in Europe, a demigod
of science, he had to promise life.

Life! To set foot on the street was beautiful and kind as ever. The sun slipping by the transparent
glass sky with sweet repose, and its rays fell on the city as soft and divine blessing. People
ran through the streets in lively movement, bright panes of the windows and balconies, crossed the
carriages to ride shaking the floor, and live firing of its wheels and pleasing reflections, a
mechanical piano raised its sounds in the middle of the street adjoining the toast of Lucretia,
a seller of purple crossed with the basket in hand, leaving behind if the environment scented;
escuchábanse the laughter of children playing on the balcony of a mezzanine, there was the pretty
blonde head of a young woman from another balcony explored much higher street, preventing the
rays of sun screen with pearly hand ... Everything was nice and pleasant,
all beat all singing, all gleamed. "If the ice were heavier
than the water, and continued sinking, the colder regions would continually be encroaching
on the warmer, to such a degree that in time the earth's habitable portions would be very much
diminished."

"Why is it," said Alec, "that the milk which we are carrying in chunks, wrapped up in paper
bags, when put into our cups of tea, does not melt as soon as do the lumps of white sugar of
the same size?"

"Closely examine a lump of frozen milk, and also a lump of sugar, and you will easily see the
reason," said Mr Ross.  "When milk is firmly frozen it is very solid indeed--so solid that
even hot water can only melt it on its surface. The
abbey is rich, so is the abbot, and nothing can better spend their money. Take this bag full
of gold, Hugo, Captain of the Archers, is ordered to surrender my harnessed the best horses in
our stables there. Run, put on to escape from your weapons, and go horseback riding.

Shedding tears of gratitude and respectfully kissing his hands, said goodbye to Plácido the abbot
and he embraced him and blessed him.

Plácido rode two hours, alone and armed by a thick pine forest and
trail just trite, who was meandering along the banks of a stream,
between towering mountains.

III

Night came fearful and grim. In this solitude assaulted sad Plácido thousand ideas. The childhood memories
arose in his mind with unusual clarity.

He recalled that six years ago, had been thrown from another nursing home and toughness severely sick
different. From his childhood, from the dawn of life, that he had only very confusing memories
grew up in the castle of the terrible D. Fruela, powerful magnate of the mountain. The Castle
was at a height near the coast.

From there, now leaving D. Fruela with good shot people on horseback to penetrate and cut Moorish
lands and plunder as he could, now embarked its satellites in some whips and galleys of his
property, and was to hack or hunt to more cruel pirates who infested those seas and invaded and
ravaged often coasts of Spain, were idolaters Norman of Norway and
the last Tule.

Placido collected for charity at the castle, the son of unknown parents,
was raised with love for Dona Aldonza, Don Fruela women.

Until the age of eight, lived Plácido in fraternal familiarity with Elvira, the daughter of Dona
Aldonza, which was slightly less than age him.

Children played together, and together they learned to read and Christian doctrine.

Elvira placid and felt that their souls had united with the bond of
affection more innocent.

Something had to suspect or foresee D. Fruela, and ordered his wife to move away at the foundling
treatment and the coexistence of their daughter.

Dona Aldonza submissive, to comply with orders of her husband, but not to the extent of avoided
comprehensive than the small page, the child was seen or spoke.

The lower frequency of treatment produced an opposite effect to that D. Fruela wanted. In candid minds
of his and her worship was changed into affection, and brightened and beautified with the finery
and splendor of the dreams the image of the beloved.

So the two came to meet fourteen. On a day that went hunting with D. Fruela Elvira's horse ran rampant
and was lost in the dense forest. Placid followed her to save her, and happened to arrive when the
horse she was riding stumbled and fell, knocking on the floor.

Elvira, fortunately, was not the least harm. Plácido dismounted with light, came to his aid
and lifted her in his arms.

Instinctively, without knowing what they did, giving both a thoughtless
impulse, perhaps driven by the invisible spirits and spirits of the
jungle, approached their faces and they kissed.

Placido thought is briefly transported to paradise, but the reality was more cruel to show
at once that was in the hard and rough ground. An infamous rain lashes fell on their backs.
D. Fruela had surprised and affronted him punished and angry. The pack of hounds and hounds and
huntsmen they approached.

Insulted the boy, although such a tender age, not reflected in danger or in the unequal struggle,
and spear in hand lunged D. Fruela to kill him. Elvira was brought,
ready to receive the wounds and save his father. Plácido slid down
the spear. The humiliation made him shed bitter tears. 

The ferocious
D. Fruela, far from pity, he incited the dogs to devour him, and ordered
the hunters who shot his sharp arrows.

- Save yourself, Plácido,
save yourself - then said Elvira .-- If you do not run away, my body
will serve shield and kill me before they kill you.

Plácido then
knew how dangerous, impossible for the defense. Most feared for the
life of her than for yours. It was light and agile as a deer, he knew
the most intricate sites lost the most forest paths, and soon disappeared
as if by magic, but not cry before your child's voice, which was contrary
to the firmness of tone:

- Being a parent it has saved you from death.
Now I run, but perhaps one day to find you again push yourself and
your hand as one pleased my shame.  Mr Ross, who was an old
traveller in this land, and one who had slept out hundreds of nights in this way, was not at
all discommoded by the tucking in. Bolivar
then dictated some provisions for the prosecution of the bell, and 24 came with destination Guasdualito,
pleased to have opened for the foundations of the much desired Republic of Colombia.

CHAPTER IX

Beginning of the year 1820 .-- Selection of peace negotiations .-- .-- Results Moments of hope for a policy
that Spain has adopted the Stipulation of an armistice .-- .-- Interview Morillo and Bolivar .--
The Spanish general .-- command is removed from the Don Miguel de la Torre .-- State Peru affairs
of military cantonments .-- .-- .-- Rupture of hostilities Battle Carabobo events that followed .-- .-- .-- Tribute paid
to the winner input Bolivar in Caracas .-- Conquest .-- State thriving on the cause of freedom .--
Disgrace of the expedition .-- Sucre Quito Urdaneta against it takes over .-- Prepare for the new campaign
Yagua and Actions .-- .-- Armistice Riobamba Aymeric agreed.

Fernando VII had to swear in the Cadiz Constitution of 1812, and in late March Morillo received
the news proposed as shown on 11 April, the restoration of peace by a fraternal reconciliation
between Spain and the Republic of Colombia. In its turn, June 7, 1820 proclaimed the chief
Spanish monarchy Code Spanish in Caracas, requesting a suspension
of hostilities followed by warlords patriots, as they open the necessary
negotiations between his government and Congress.

Nothing got with this management, because the Patriots answered, "that could only access when orders
part of the legitimate authority they recognized. "
In vain then went to Congress and particularly to Bolivar, who, as
the case required made a special call, which, with dignity and fortitude,
were rejected Morillo propositions. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made
as simple as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his
clothes and some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. Then Dona Sol was not called an ugly, black or white one, or a Dolores joyful,
or Rosa who smelled bad or was rough as cocklebur thistle.

Solomon's favorite and had been wearing were named because they deserved it. Pharaoh's daughter, who was,
no doubt, Meneftá II, UOM-anhet called, that is, Smash-hearts. Solomon inspired her first love,
deep and soft. Solomon was very young when married her, and she brought
a dowry to Gezer and twelve thousand horses to the back of his cavalry.
  I saw he was trying to find his master, so I did not disturb him. 

In the church sounded murmur caused by the whisper of the gossips, who disputed the site or reported
their impressions, the oohs and aahs of discomfort men. The heat was becoming intolerable
at times.  And Memotas softly laughed again, and others joined with him at Sam's
expense. I know everything that
happened and I dare not to blame. The affront that you have done was difficult, almost impossible
to tolerate. Is seen, God does not love you for the contemplative life. Is also impossible for
you to stay and not an hour in this holy house, where a scandal has promoted fierce, but excusable.
Moreover, the young man whom he fought is powerful by birth and wealth and you you can not
go on living where he is. I have no other recourse than to force you to leave immediately from
the abbey. 

PART SIX.

MADRID TO PARIS.

CAP. I. - El Escorial .-- The slope of the Guadarrama .-- What site
is worth a Real-.-- .-- The blind St. Cornelius Lorenzo - The Princely
House .-- Reflections .-- A scene from Castilian customs.

CAP.