The girls liked the trip, for it gave them an opportunity to gather checkerberries, pull "young
ivies," search for "twin sisters" and see the woods, birds and squirrels, with a chance of
espying an owl in the swamp, or a hawk's nest in some big tree; or perhaps a rabbit, or a mink
along the brook.

If they could contrive to get word of their trip to Catherine Edwards and she could find time
to accompany them, so much the more pleasant; for Catherine was better acquainted with the
woods and possessed that practical knowledge of all rural matters which only a bright girl,
bred in the country with a taste for rambling about, ever acquires.

A morning proclamation to gather broom-stuff having been issued at about this time, the three
girls set off an hour or two after dinner for the east pasture; Mrs. Edwards, who was a very
kind, easy-going woman, nearly always allowed Catherine to accompany our girls. Kate, in fact,
did about as she liked at home, not from indulgence on the part of her mother so much as from
being a leading spirit in the household. She was very quick at work; and her mother, instead
of having to prompt her, generally found her going ahead, hurrying about to get everything
done early in the day. Then, too, she was quick-witted and knew how to take care of herself
when out from home. Mrs. Edwards always appeared to treat Kate more as an equal than a daughter.
There are children who are spoiled if allowed to have their own way, and others who can be
trusted to take their own way without the least danger of injury, and whom it is but an ill-natured
exercise of authority to restrict to rules.

The Old Squire was breaking greensward in the south field that afternoon with Addison and Halse
driving the team which consisted of a yoke of oxen and two yokes of steers, the latter not
as yet very well "broken" to work. My inexperienced services were not required; but to keep
me out of hurtful idleness, the old gentleman bade me pick up four heaps of stones on a stubble
field near the east pasture wall. It was a kind of work which I did not enjoy very well, and
I therefore set about it with a will to get it done as soon as possible.

I had nearly completed the fourth not very large stone pile, when I heard one of the girls
calling me from down in the pasture, below the field. It was Ellen. She came hurriedly up nearer
the wall. "Run to the house and get Addison's fish-hook and line and something for bait!" she
exclaimed. "For there is the greatest lot of trout over at the Foy mill-pond you ever saw!
There's more than fifty of them. Such great ones!"

"Why, how came you to go over there?" said I; for the Foy mill-pond was fully a mile distant,
in a lonely place where formerly a saw-mill had stood, and where an old stone dam still held
back a pond of perhaps four acres in extent. The ruins of the mill with several broken wheels
and other gear were lying on the ledges below the dam; and two curiously gnarled trees overhung
the bed of the hollow-gurgling stream. Alders had now grown up around the pond; and there were
said to be some very large water snakes living in the chinks of the old dam. It was one of
those ponds the shores of which are much infested by dragon-flies, or "devil's darn-needles,"
as they are called by country boys,--the legend being that with their long stiff bodies, used
as darning needles, they have a mission, to sew up the mouths of those who tell falsehoods.

"Oh, Kate wanted to go," replied Ellen. "We went by the old logging road through the woods
from the cedar swamp. She thought we would see a turtle on that sand bank across from the old
dam, if we sat down quietly and waited awhile. The turtles sometimes come out on that sand
bank to sun themselves, she said. So we went over and sat down, very still, in the little path
at the top of the dam wall. The sun shone down into the water. We could see the bottom of the
pond for a long way out. Kate was watching the sand bank: and so was I; but after a minute
or two, Theodora whispered, 'Only see those big fish!' Then we looked down into the water and
saw them, great lovely fish with spots of red on their sides, swimming slowly along, all together,
circling around the foot of the pond as if they were exploring. Oh, how pretty they looked
as they turned; for they kept together and then swam off up the pond again.

"Kate whispered that they were trout. 'But I never saw so many,' she said, 'nor such large
ones before; and I never heard Tom nor any of the boys say there were trout here.'

"We thought they had gone perhaps and would not come again," Ellen continued. "But in about
ten minutes they all came circling back down the other shore of the pond, keeping in a school
together just as when we first saw them. We sat and watched them till they came around the
third time, and then Kate said, 'One of us must run home and tell the boys to come with their
hooks.' I said that I would go, and I've run almost all the way. Now hurry. I'll rest here
till you come. Then we will scamper back."

In a corner of the vegetable garden where I had dug horse-radish a few mornings before, I had
seen some exceedingly plethoric angle-worms; and after running to the wood-house and securing
a fish-hook, pole and line which Addison kept there, ready strung, I seized an old tin quart,
and going to the garden, with a few deep thrusts of the shovel, turned out a score or two of
those great pale-purple, wriggling worms. These I as hastily hustled into the quart along with
a pint or more of the dirt, then snatching up my pole, ran down to the field where Nell was
waiting for me, seated on one of my lately piled stone heaps.

"Come, hurry now," said she; and away we went over the wall and through brakes and bushes,
down into the swamp, and then along the old road in the woods, till we came out at the high
conical knoll, covered with sapling pines, to the left of the old mill dam. There we espied
Kate and Theodora sitting quietly on a log.

"Oh, we thought that you never would come," said the former in a low tone. "But creep along
here. Don't make a noise. They've come around six times, Ellen, since you went away. I never
saw trout do so before. I believe they are lost and are exploring, or looking for some way
out of this pond. I guess they came down out of North Pond along the Foy Brook; for they are
too large for brook trout. They will be back here in a few minutes, again. Now bait the hook
and drop in before they come back. Then sit still, and when they come, just move the bait a
little and I think you'll get a bite."

I followed this advice and sat for some minutes, dangling a big angle-worm out in the deep
water, off the inner wall of the dam, while my three companions watched the water. Presently
Theodora whispered that they were coming again; and then I saw what was, indeed, from a piscatorial
point of view, a rare spectacle. First the water waved deep down, near the bottom, and seemed
filled with dark moving objects, showing here and there the sheen of light brown and a glimmer
of flashing red specks, as the sunlight fell in among them. For an instant I was so intent
on the sight, that I quite forgot my hook. "Bob it now," whispered Kate, excitedly.

I had scarcely given my hook a bob up and down when, with a grand rush and snap, a big trout
grabbed worm, hook and all. Instinctively I gave a great yank and swung him heavily out of
the water, my pole bending half double. The trout was securely hooked, or I should have lost
him, for he fell first on some drift logs and slid down betwixt them into the water again.
Seizing the line in my hands, since the pole was too light for the fish, I contrived to lift
him up and land him high and dry on the dam, close at the feet of the girls.

"Well done!" Theodora whispered. "Oh, isn't he a noble great one, and how like sport he jumps
about! Too bad to take his life when he's so handsome and was having such a good time among
his mates!"

"Unhook him quick and throw in again!" cried Kate. "Be careful he don't snap your fingers.
He's got sharp teeth. Don't let him leap into the water. That's good! We'll keep him behind
this log. Now bait again with a good new worm."

"But they've gone," said Theodora. "They darted away when you pulled this one out. It scared them."

I had experienced some difficulty in disengaging my hook from the trout's jaw, but at length
put on another worm and dropped in again, not a little excited over my catch.

"I'm afraid they will not come around again," said Ellen. Kate, too, thought it doubtful whether
we would see anything more of the school. "I guess they will beat a retreat up to North Pond,"
said she.

We sat quietly waiting for eight or ten minutes and were losing hope fast, when lo! there they
all came again--swimming evenly around the foot of the pond in the deep part, as before, winnowing
the water slowly with their fins.

Again I waited till my hook was in the midst of the school; and this time I had scarcely moved
it, when another snapped it. I had resolved not to jerk quite so hard this time; but in my
excitement I pulled much harder than was necessary to hook the trout and again swung it out
and against the wall of the dam. With a vigorous squirm the fish threw himself clean off the
hook; but by chance I grabbed him in my hands, as he did so, and threw him over the dam among
the raspberry briars--safe.

"Well done again," said Theodora.

In a trice I had rebaited my hook and dropped in a third time; but as before the vagrant school
had moved on. They had seemed alarmed for the moment by the commotion, and darted off with
accelerated speed. But we now had more confidence that they would return and again settled
ourselves to wait.

"Oh, I want to catch one!" exclaimed Ellen.

"I wish we had more hooks," said Kate. "We would fish at different points around the pond."

After about the same interval of time and in the same odd, migratory manner, the beautiful
school came around four times more in succession; and every time I swung out a handsome one.
Kate then took the pole and caught one. Then Ellen caught one; and afterwards Theodora took
her turn and succeeded in landing a fine fellow which flopped off the dam once, but was finally
secured. In the scramble to save this last one, however, I rolled a loose stone off the dam
into the water; and either owing to the splash made by the stone, or because the trout had
completed their survey of the pond, they did not return. We saw nothing more of the school
although we had not caught a fifth part of them.

After waiting fifteen or twenty minutes we went along the shore on both sides of the pond but
could not discern them anywheres. It is likely that they had gone back to the larger pond,
two miles distant.

At that time, the very odd circumstances attending the capture of these trout did not greatly
surprise me; for I knew almost nothing of fishing. But within a considerable experience since,
I have never seen anything like it.

We laid the nine large trout in a row on the dam, side by side, and then strung them on a forked
maple branch. They were indeed beauties! The largest was found that night to weigh three pounds
and three quarters; and the smallest two pounds and an ounce. The whole string weighed over
twenty-two pounds. Going homeward, we first took turns carrying them, then hung them on a pole
for two to carry.

Our folks were at supper when we arrived at the house door with our cedar and our fish. When
they saw those trout, they all jumped up from the table. Addison and Halse had never caught
anything which could compare with them for size; both of the boys stared in astonishment.

"Where in the world did you catch those whopping trout?" was then the question which we had
to answer in detail.

Kate carried three of them home with her; and we had six for our share. The Old Squire dressed
two of the largest; and grandmother rolled them in meal and fried them with pork for our supper.
I thought at the time that I had never tasted anything one half as good in my life!

Next morning Addison got up at half past four and having hastily milked his two cows, went
over to the old mill-pond, to try his own hand at fishing there. He found Tom Edwards there
already; but neither of them caught a trout, nor saw one. Addison went again a day or two after;
and the story having got abroad, more than twenty persons fished there during the next fortnight,
but caught no trout.

Evidently it was a transient school. I never caught a trout in the mill-pond, afterwards; although
the following year Addison made a great catch in a branch of the Foy stream below the dam under
somewhat peculiar circumstances.

At the far end of the dam, a hundred feet from the flume, there was an "apron," beneath a waste-way,
where formerly the overflow of water went out and found its way for a hundred and fifty yards,
perhaps, by another channel along the foot of a steep bank; then, issuing through a dense willow
thicket, it joined the main stream from the flume.

Water rarely flowed here now, except in time of freshets, or during the spring and fall rains;
and there was such a prodigious tangle of alder, willow, clematis and other vines that for
years no one had penetrated it. From a fisherman's point of view there seemed no inducement
to do so, since this secondary channel appeared to be dry for most of the time.

In point of fact, however, and unknown to us, there was a very deep hole at the foot of the
high bank where the channel was obstructed by a ledge. The hole thus formed was thirty or forty
feet in length, and at the deepest place under the bank the water was six or seven feet in
depth; but such was the tangle of brush above, below and all about it that one would never
have suspected its existence.

An experienced and observing fisherman would have noted, however, that always, even in midsummer,
there was a tiny rill of water issuing through the willows to join the main stream; and that,
too, when not a drop of water was running over the waste-way of the dam. He would have noted
also that this was unusually clear, cold water, like water from a spring. There was, in fact,
a copious spring at the foot of the bank near the deep hole; and this hole was maintained by
the spring, and not by the water from above the dam.

Addison was a born observer, a naturalist by nature; and on one of these hopeful trips to the
mill-pond, he had searched out and found that hidden hole on the old waste-way channel, below
the dam. When he had forced his way through the tangled mass of willows, alders and vines and
discovered the pool, he found eighteen or nineteen splendid speckled trout in it.

Either these trout had come over the waste-way of the dam in time of freshet, and had been
unable to get out through the rick of small drift stuff at the foot of the hole; or else perhaps
they were trout that had come in there as small fry and had been there for years, till they
had grown to their present size. Certain it is that they were now two-and three-pound trout.

Did Addison come home in haste to tell us of his discovery? Not at all. He did not even allow
himself to catch one of the trout at that time, for he knew that Halstead and I had seen him
set off for the old mill-pond. He came home without a fish, and remarked at the dinner-table
that it was of no use to fish for trout in that old pond--which was true enough.

The next wet day, however, he said at breakfast to the Old Squire, "If you don't want me, sir,
for an hour or two this morning, I guess I'll go down the Horr Brook and see if I can catch
a few trout."

Gramp nodded, and we saw Addison dig his worms and set off. The Horr Brook was on the west
side of the farm, while the old mill-pond lay to the southeast. What Addison did was to fish
down the Horr Brook for about a mile, to the meadows where the lake woods began. He then made
a rapid detour around through the woods to the Foy Brook, and caught four trout out of the
hidden preserve below the old dam. Afterwards he went back as he had come to the Horr Brook,
then strolled leisurely home with eight pounds of trout.

Of course there was astonishment and questions. "You never caught those trout in the Horr Brook!"
Halstead exclaimed. But Addison only laughed.

"Ad, did you get those beauties out of the old mill-pond?" demanded Ellen.

"No," said Addison, but he would answer no more questions.

About two weeks after that he set off fishing to the Horr Brook again, and again returned with
two big trout. Nobody else who fished there had caught anything weighing more than half a pound;
and in the lake, at that time, there was nothing except pickerel. But all that Addison would
say was that he did not have any trouble in catching such trout.

The mystery of those trout puzzled us deeply. Not only Halstead and I, but Thomas Edwards,
Edgar Wilbur and the Murch boys all did our best to find out where and how Addison fished,
but quite without success.

Cold weather was now at hand and the fishing over; Addison astonished us, however, by bringing
home two noble trout for Thanksgiving day.

The next spring, about May 1st, he went off fishing, unobserved, and brought home two more
big trout. After that if he so much as took down his fish-pole, the rumor of it went round,
and more than one boy made ready to follow him. For we were all persuaded that he had discovered
some wonderful new brook or trout preserve.

Not even the girls could endure the grin of superior skill which Addison wore when he came
home with those big trout. Theodora and Ellen also began to watch him; and the two girls, with
Catherine Edwards, hatched a scheme for tracking him. Thomas had a little half-bred cocker
spaniel puppy, called Tyro, which had a great notion of running after members of the family
by scent. If Thomas had gone out, and Kate wished to discover his whereabouts, she would show
him one of Thomas's shoes and say, "Go find him!" Tyro would go coursing around till he took
Thomas's track, then race away till he came upon him.

The girls saved up one of Addison's socks, and on a lowery day in June, when they made pretty
sure that he had stolen off fishing, Ellen ran over for Kate and Tyro. Thomas was with them
when they came back, and Halstead and I joined in the hunt. The sock was brought out for Tyro
to scent; then away he ran till he struck Addison's trail, and dashed out through the west
field and down into the valley of the Horr Brook.

All six of us followed in great glee, but kept as quiet as possible. It proved a long, hot
chase; for when Tyro had gone along the brook as far as the lake woods, he suddenly tacked
and ran on an almost straight course through the woods and across the bushy pasture-lands,
stopping only now and then for us to catch up. When we came out on the Foy Brook at a distance
below the old dam, the dog ran directly up the stream till he came to the place where the little
rill from the hidden hole joined it; then he scrambled in among the thick willows.

We were a little way behind, and knowing that the dog would soon come out at the mill-pond,
we climbed up the bank among the low pines on the hither side of the brook.

Tyro was not a noisy dog, but a few moments after he entered the thicket we heard him give
one little bark, as if of joy.

"He's found him!" whispered Kate. "Let's keep still!"

Nothing happened for some minutes; then we saw Addison's head appear among the brush, as if
to look around. For some time he stood there, still as a mouse, peering about and listening.
Evidently he suspected that some one was with the dog, most likely Thomas, and that he had
gone to the mill-pond to fish; but we were not more than fifty feet away, lying up in the thick
pine brush.

After looking and listening for a long while, Addison drew back into the thicket, but soon
reappeared with two large trout, and was hurrying away down the brook when we all shouted, "Oho!"

Addison stopped, looking both sheepish and wrathful; but we pounced on him, laughing so much
that he was compelled to own up that he was beaten. He showed us the hole--after we had crept
into the thicket--and the ledge where he had sat so many times to fish. "But there are only
four more big trout," he said. "I meant to leave them here, and put in twenty smaller ones
to grow up."

The girls thought it best to do so, and Halstead and I agreed to the plan; but three or four
days later, when Theodora, Ellen and Addison went over to see the hole again, we found that
the four large trout had disappeared. We always suspected that Thomas caught them, or that
he told the Murch boys or Alfred Batchelder of the hole. Yet an otter may possibly have found
it. In May, two years afterward, Halstead and I caught six very pretty half-pound trout there,
but no one since has ever found such a school of beauties as Addison discovered.

CHAPTER XXI

TOM'S FORT

During the next week there was what is termed by Congregationalists a "Conference Meeting,"
at the town of Hebron, distant fifteen miles from the Old Squire's. Gram and he made it a rule
to attend these meetings; and on this occasion they set off on Monday afternoon with old Sol
and the light driving wagon, in Sunday attire, and did not return till the following Monday.
Wealthy went with them; but the rest of us young folks were left, with many instructions, to
keep house and look after things at the farm.

Haying was now over; and the wheat and barley were in; but an acre more of late-sown oats still
remained to be harvested, also an acre of buckwheat. There was not a little solicitude felt
for this acre of buckwheat. With it were connected visions of future buckwheat cakes and maple
sirup. I was assured by Ellen and the others who had come to the farm in advance of me, that
the maple molasses and candy "flapjacks," made on pans of hard snow, during the previous spring,
had been something to smack one's mouth for.

The Old Squire had bidden Addison, who was practically in charge, to mow the oats on Tuesday,
and the buckwheat on Thursday, if the weather continued good. Asa Doane was coming to assist
us. The oats were to be turned on Wednesday and drawn in on Friday. The buckwheat would need
to lie in the swath till the next week and be turned once or twice, in order to cure properly.

We had also a half acre of weeds to pull, in a part of the potato field which had thus far
been hoed but once; and an acre of stubble to clear of stones, preparatory to ploughing. The
Old Squire did not believe that abundant leisure is good for boys, left alone under such circumstances.

"If you get the loose stones all off the stubble and have time, you can begin to draw off the
stone heaps from the piece which we are going to break up in the south field," he said finally,
as he got into the wagon and took the reins to drive away. But he laughed when he said it;
and Addison laughed, too; for we thought that he had already laid out a long stint for us.
Halstead was grumbling about it to himself. "Wonder if he thinks we can do a whole season's
work in a week," he exclaimed, spitefully. "Never saw such a man to lay off work! Wants a week
to play in, himself, but expects us to stay at home and dig like slaves!"

"Oh, he doesn't want us to hurt ourselves," said Addison. "He will be satisfied if we manage
the grain, the weeds and the stones on the stubble. It really isn't so very much for four of
us. We could do it in one half the time, by working smart, and have the rest of the time to
play in."

Gram had left corresponding work for the girls, indoors, besides cooking, getting the three
daily meals and caring for the dairy.

We set to work that afternoon and pulled the weeds, finishing this task before five o'clock.
Ellen had found time to make a brief call on Kate Edwards; and at supper, she informed us that
Tom had invited us all to come to his "fort," that evening. "He is going to have a fire there
and roast some of his early Pine Knot corn," continued Ellen. "He says he has got a whole basketful
of ears, all nice in the milk and ready to roast."

"Where is his 'fort?'" I inquired, for this was the first that I had heard of such a fortification,
although the others appeared to know something about it.

"Oh, Tom thinks he has got a great fort over there!" said Halse. "It's no more a fort, like
some I've seen, than our sheep pen!"

"Oh, but it is," replied Ellen. "It is a terribly rocky place. Nobody can get into it, if Tom
hasn't a mind to let them."

"Pooh!" exclaimed Halse. "One little six pound cannon would knock it all down over his head."

"I don't think so," persisted Ellen.

"What do you know about cannon?" cried Halse.

"Well, I don't know much about them," replied Ellen. "But I do not believe that a small cannon
would knock down rocks as big as this house."

This argument increased my curiosity, and Addison now told me something about the so-called
fortress. "It is a queer sort of place," said he; "a kind of knoll, with four or five prodigious
great rocks around it. I guess we never have been over there since you came, though we passed
in sight of it the day we went to dig out the foxes. It is on the line between Mr. Edwards'
south field on one side, and the woods of our pasture where those big yellow birches and rock
maples are, on the other. Those great rocks lie close together there, on that little knoll,
just as if they had been dropped down there like so many big kernels of corn in a hill.

"From what I have read about geology," continued Addison, reflectively, "I think it is likely
that some mighty glacier, in long past ages, piled them there. One could imagine that a giant
had placed them there, or had dropped them, accidentally out of his big leather apron, as he
strode across the continent, in early times."

"Oh, hear him!" cried Halse. "Ad will be out giving lectures on geology next!"

"No," said Addison, laughing, "I don't want to give lectures. I don't know how the rocks got
there, but they got there somehow, for there they are. Two of them, as Nell says, are almost
as large as a house; and they all stand around, irregularly, enclosing a sort of little space
inside them, as large as--how big is it, Doad?"

"Oh, I should think that it was as large as our sitting-room," she replied.

"It is bigger than that," said Ellen. "It is as big as the sitting-room and parlor together."

"Perhaps it is," assented Theodora. "But it isn't like rooms at all; it is an odd place and
there are nooks like little side rooms running back between where the sides of the great rocks
approach each other. It is a real pleasant place, sort of gigantic and rustic. I don't wonder
that Thomas and Kate like to go there."

"None of these big rocks quite touch together," continued Addison, "but Tom has built up between
them with stones, all around, except one narrow place which he calls the fort gate. He has
built up all the open places, six or seven feet high, so that it is really like a fort: and
he has made a stone fireplace against one of the rocks inside, with a little chimney of flat
stones running up the side of the rock, so that he can have a fire there without being plagued
by the smoke."

"And he's got a woodpile in there," said Ellen, "and seats to sit on, round his fireplace.
It is a cozy place, I tell you; the wind doesn't strike you at all in there; and the knoll
is quite a good deal higher than the ground about it. You climb up a little path and turn the
corner of one big rock, and then go in between that one and another, for fifteen or twenty
feet, till you come to the open place inside, where the fireplace is. Tom and Kate gave a little
party there last fall. Tom was a number of days building the fireplace and the wall and getting
ready. We all went there one evening and Kate and I played there one afternoon, a week after
that. But I guess they haven't been there at all this spring and summer. I haven't heard them
say anything about it for a long time, till this afternoon. 'Tell the boys and Doad to come
over here this evening,' Tom said, as I was coming away. 'I'm going to roast corn down at my
fort to-night.'"

"Let's all go over after it gets dark and storm his fort!" exclaimed Halse. "We can take sods
and pitch them over the rocks into his fort after he gets in there and is roasting corn!"

"I don't think that would be a very polite way of accepting his invitation," said Theodora.

"That would be contrary to all the laws of war, to storm a neighboring nation's fort, before
war was declared!" said Addison, laughing. "That would be a sad piece of international treachery."

"Oh, dear, only hear the big words roll out!" cried Halse. "Ad's a walking dictionary."

"Well, dictionaries are always handy to have about," said Theodora, smoothing away the rudeness
of this ill-natured remark. Addison did not mind, however; it was only occasionally that Halse's
flings disturbed him.

"Yes, let's all go," said he. "We will get our milking off early and our chores done. Then
we will take a lantern and start; for it will be nine o'clock before we get back home, and
we shall have to go through the little piece of woods between here and the Aunt Hannah lot."

The girls had prepared a nice supper. Ellen had been making pop-overs, and Theodora had fried
a great panful of crispy doughnuts. They cut a sage cheese to go with these; and rather unwisely
Ellen made a pot of fresh coffee. It tasted much better than that which we ordinarily had at
breakfast; for she roasted the coffee, then ground it smoking hot from the oven, and poured
it into the pot before it had time to lose its delicate aroma. They set on a brimming pitcherful
of cream to put in it; and we each had two cupfuls, at table, in consequence of which we all
felt very bright and jolly throughout the evening. But this was not a wise procedure, from
a hygienic point of view; I scarcely slept at all that night.

In the twilight we loaded our pockets with early apples, then went across the fields, through
the pasture and over the hill, toward the fort. The great trees in the Aunt Hannah lot pasture
favored a covert approach, and we drew near, very quietly, to surprise our friends. It was
now dusk, and halting under a great beech, we reconnoitered the rocks on the knoll for some
moments. Smoke was rising from out the fort; at least we could smell it; and presently a pale
gleam of firelight shone up into the leafy top of a great black cherry tree which stood within
the space enclosed by the rocks. But not a word could we hear spoken inside, or about the fort.

"Perhaps Kate hasn't come down from the house yet," Ellen said. "Let's steal up softly till
we are at the foot of the knoll; then you boys rush up the path and surprise Tom. Shout 'Surrender,
your fort is ours!' as you rush in."

We approached, apparently without being discovered, and then emerging suddenly from under the
shadow of the great trees, ran up the path and around the corner of the rock at the gateway
with tumultuous cheers!

But we soon found that instead of surprising the fort, we had been beguiled into a trap, ourselves.
Kate and Tom had guessed our tactics, in advance, and were watching us all the while. We rushed
into the narrow passage, but found our progress arrested there by four or five stout bars;
and then bang! went Tom's gun, from the rocks over our heads. He and Kate were both up there
in a strong position; and Tom's only response to our shouts was, "Throw down your arms or we
will open fire on you with grape and canister!"

"We may as well surrender," said Addison, laughing. "Nell, you proved a very bad general. You've
lost your whole army before striking a single blow."

"So I see," replied Ellen. "I'm disgraced and shall be superseded at once."

In 1866 the circumstance of superseding one general by another was still very familiar in the
minds of every one, old and young, in the United States.

We were now admitted to the fort. To me, at that time, Tom's fort was a great novelty. I present
a photograph of it, as the knoll and rocks now appear; but the walls have mostly fallen down.
I believe that the place was stormed once by a party of boys who broke down much of the light
stone wall, in imitation of sieges, in ancient warfare. But that evening it was all new to
me and made a lasting impression on my boyish fancy. They had a fire burning; and a row of
short Pine Knot corn ears stood roasting in front of it. There were two long seats consisting
each of a board placed on piles of flat stones with another board for the back, held in its
place by short stakes, driven into the ground. The light shone on the great rough sides of
the schistose rocks and on the trunks of the cherry tree and two white birch trees inside the
enclosed space. It was so much shut in as to seem like a room in a house; yet overhead the
stars could be seen shining. Sufficient warmth was radiated from the fire to make us all quite
comfortable as we sat around.

Kate had brought down a large ball of butter and half a dozen case-knives. We buttered our
corn and feasted on it, then finished off on Early Sweet Bough, Sweet Harvey and August Pippin
apples. After every few minutes, Tom would ascend, by stone steps which he had built up, to
the top of the largest rock of the group, to see if any "enemies" were about, as he said. It
was possible that Alfred Batchelder, or the Murch boys, or Ned Wilbur, might come around and
scale the wall.

As we sat by the fire, regaling ourselves, we talked after the manner of the young to whom
everything under the sun looks possible of achievement, to whom life looks long enough for
every plan that tickles the fancy and to whom as yet the hard experiences of life have administered
few rebuffs.

Oh, for that splendid courage of youth again! that joyous confidence that everything can be
done! It is the heritage of young hearts. It is given us but once; and it was then ours.

"I would like to command a strong, big fort on the frontier of the country," exclaimed Tom.
"The enemy wouldn't surprise me. I would be ready for them. If they attacked me they would
get it hot, I tell you!

"I mean to study and try to get an appointment to West Point," he continued, enthusiastically.
"Then I may command a fort somewheres. I tell you, West Point is the place to go! Don't you
say so, Ad?"

"It is a good place to get a military education," replied Addison. "And a military education
is a great thing to have, if there is a war. But there may never be another war, Tom; most
of folks hope there will not be; but I shouldn't much wonder if there were another, before
many years."

"Oh, I hope not," exclaimed Theodora, fervently. In fact, the Civil War with its sad afflictions
was still too fresh in the minds of all in our family to be spoken of without a sense of bereavement.

"But I don't think that I should like a military life altogether," continued Addison. "Promotion
is dreadfully slow, unless there's war; and even after you are a general, there is no money
in it. I want to go into something that will give me all the money I want; and I want a lot of it."

"I had rather have fame than money," exclaimed Tom. "Nothing makes anybody feel so good, as
to know that folks are saying, 'He did a big thing. Nobody else could have done it.'"

"Tom, you want to be a hero," said Theodora.

"Well, I do," replied Tom. "I don't want to be such a hero as there are in novels. But I want
to do something that will put me right up in the world."

I remember that I felt much like that myself, but did not quite like to say so outright.

"The trouble is that in common every-day life there do not seem to be many chances to do great
things," remarked Addison, thoughtfully. "There are always a few distinguished men, like General
Grant, General Sherman and President Lincoln, but only a few. There couldn't be a thousand
famous men in a nation at once. We couldn't think of so many, even if they all had done great
deeds. We could not even remember the names of so many heroes. So it is pretty plain that only
a few, five or six, perhaps, of the millions of boys and girls in the country, can be really
famous. All the rest have got to take a lower place and make the best of it. But if a fellow
can plan and carry out enterprises to make lots of money, he can do a great deal with it in
the world."

"I don't care just for money!" cried Tom again; "I want to do something!"

"Tom, you ought to be an explorer," said Theodora; "a discoverer, like Livingstone, or Sir
John Franklin, or Dr. Kane. If you could discover the North Pole, or a new race of people in
Africa, you would be famous."

"I should like that," exclaimed Tom. "I should like to make a voyage up north. I can stand
any amount of cold; and I never saw the sun so hot yet that I couldn't work, or run a mile,
under it. Those folks that get sun-struck must be sort of sick, pindling fellows, I guess."

"Tom, I think that you would make a real go-ahead explorer," said Ellen. "I hope you will stick
to it."

"Well, it takes money to fit out exploring expeditions," said Addison. "But there are other
discoveries fully as important as those in the far north, or in Africa; discoveries in science
bring the best kind of fame, like those of Franklin, Morse, Tyndall, Darwin and Pasteur. There
is no end to the discoveries that can be made in science. It is the great field for explorers,
I think. Grand new discoveries will be made right along now, and the more there are made the
more there will be made; for one scientific discovery always seems to open the way to another."

"Oh, but I don't know anything about science," exclaimed Tom. "I don't believe I ever shall."

"No one does without hard study," replied Addison. "But any one can afford to study if by doing
so some splendid new invention can be brought about."

"Dora, what are we girls going to do?" said Kate, laughing. "It makes me feel lonesome to hear
the boys talk of the great exploits they mean to perform."

"There doesn't seem to be so much that girls can do," replied Theodora, with a sigh. "Still,
I know of one thing I wish to do very much," she continued with a glance at Addison.

"What is it?" said Tom. "What are you going to astonish the world with?"

"Oh, I haven't the courage to talk about it," replied Theodora. "And it looks so hard to me
and I shall need to study so long to get prepared, that I sometimes think I never shall do it."

"Well, girls can all make school-mistresses," said Addison.

"Kate is going to make something besides a school-mistress," said Ellen. "Kate means to study
chemistry and be a chemist."

"She said last winter that she meant to learn how to telegraph and be a telegraph operator,"
said Halse, laughing.

"Yes, I did," replied Kate, coldly. "But I have changed my mind. I don't know much about chemistry
yet, but I think I like it. I mean to study it and I mean to learn all about drugs, too, and
have a pharmacy in some large pleasant town. I'll make as much money as Addison; for I think
money is a great thing."

"Shall you have a soda-fountain in your drug store and sell soda with a 'stick' in it?" asked
Halse.

"I don't think so," replied Kate. "But if I do, I shall hire somebody like you to tend the
'stick' part of it."

Halse had sat poking fun at all the others, while they talked of their plans, pretending to
be on the point of fainting away, when Addison, Tom and Theodora discussed different pursuits
in life; and this retort from Kate hit him hard; he was angry. "I would not work for anyone
with a tongue like yours," he exclaimed.

"Never mind," replied Kate. "We will not quarrel about that now. It is rather too far ahead.
It will take you years and years to get education enough to tend a soda-fountain," she added,
mischievously. "Perhaps you know enough already about putting the 'stick' in it, as you call
it; I'm rather afraid you do from what I heard your friend Alfred Batchelder say a few days
ago. It doesn't sound well for little boys like you to talk about 'sticks' in soda."

Halse usually fared ill when he attempted jokes at Kate's expense. It seemed odd to the rest
of us that he did not learn to avoid such efforts; but he never did; he was always worsted,
promptly, and always got angry. "Tom, if I had such a sister as you've got, I'd tie a hot potato
in her mouth," he exclaimed.

"She is a terrible girl," said Tom, with a wink. "Her tongue is just like a new whalebone whip
with a silk snapper on it. Takes the skin right off. But as she is all the sister I've got,
I try to put up with her.

"She is a pretty good sister," he added, going across where Kate sat and sitting down beside
her. "I don't know what I should do without her."

"Thank you, Tommy dear," said Kate. "I know now that you want me to coax father to let you
take 'White-foot' (their colt) to the Fair. Perhaps I will; but it will not amount to anything.
You will not get a premium on White-foot, if you take him. He isn't big and handsome enough.
You've looked at him till your eyes think he is, but he isn't. I shall not tell father that
I think he will take a premium, because I want father to respect my judgment more than that."

"Kate, you don't know anything about colts!" cried Tom. "That's the best colt in this town!"

"O my! O my!" groaned Kate. "Once let a boy begin to dote on a colt, particularly if he calls
it his colt, and he can soon see beauty, size, speed, everything else in it, in matchless perfection.
It's a kind of disease, a horse-disease that gets into his eye. Tom's got it badly. Please
excuse his boasting!

"Here, Tom, pass this nice buttered ear of corn over to Halse, and tell him that I didn't mean
to hurt his feelings--quite so badly," she added. "I only meant to hurt them a little."

This was like Kate; she would always talk like that; but she rarely said more than was true
and never treasured up ill-feeling, nor wished others to do so.

But Halse would not accept her peace-offering.

"Ah, well," sighed Ellen, "I really am afraid that there is nothing I shall ever be able to
do that will bring me either fame or money. I cannot think of a thing that I am good for."

"Oh, yes, there is!" cried Addison. "You have a sure hand on pop-overs, Nell, pop-overs and
cookies."

"Right, Ad, I can make pop-overs," replied Ellen, laughing. "Perhaps I can get a living, cooking."

"Well, that is a pretty important thing, I think," remarked Thomas, candidly. "Somebody must
know how to cook, and I like to have victuals taste good."

"I do not think those who cook get much credit for their labors," said Kate. "Mother and I
are cooking every day and our men folks come in, sit down at table and swallow it all, with
never a word of praise when we cook well; but if we make a mistake, and bread, or cake, or
pie does not taste quite right, then they will growl and look at us as surly as if we had never
cooked well in all our lives. I think that is rather hard usage and poor thanks for long service.
Mother does not mind it. 'Oh, that is something you must get used to, Kate,' she says to me.
'Men folks always behave so. We never get much praise for our cooking.' But I do mind it. When
I've made a nice batch of tea rolls, or cakes, I want them to know it and to act as if they
appreciated it."

"That is just the way it is at our house," said Ellen.

"Yes," remarked Theodora. "The only way our boys ever show that they appreciate our good biscuit,
or cake, is by eating about twice as much of it, which of course makes it all the harder for
us to cook more. When we get a poor batch of bread it will last twice as long as good;--that's
one comfort."

"Why, Doad, I never heard you talk like that before," said Halse, with a look of surprise.

"No more did I," remarked Addison. "Theodora, I am scandalized."

"I know it is horrid," she replied. "But I have thought it, if I never have said it, many and
many a time, when I've nearly roasted myself over the hot stove, this summer, and thought I
had enough cooked to last two days, at least; and then in would march you three hungry boys,
to table, and eat it all up, eat my whole panful of doughnuts and finish off with eight or
ten cookies apiece, just because they were good, or a little better than usual. If they had
been a little poorer they would have lasted two days, surely."

"Doad, you are getting positively wicked," said Addison. "I don't see what has come over you.
You are not yourself."

"She is only telling the cold truth," exclaimed Kate. "Boys all seem to think that victuals
grow ready cooked in the house somewheres, and that the more they can eat the better it ought
to suit us. Here's Tom, a pretty good sort of boy generally, but he will come into the pantry,
after he has been racing about out-of-doors, and commit ravages that it will take me hours
of hot, hateful work to repair. Oh, he is a perfect pantry scourge, a doughnut-and-cooky terror!
Why, I have had what I knew must be half a big panful of doughnuts, or cookies, enough for
supper and breakfast, certainly; and then about three or four o'clock of a hot August afternoon,
I would hear Tom's boots clumpering in the pantry, and by the time I would get there, he would
be just sneaking out, grinning like a Chessy-cat, with his old mouth full and his pockets bulging
out. I will look in my pan and there will not be enough left to put on a plate once! Then I
know I have got to build a fire, get on my old floury apron and go at it again, when I've just
got cool and comfortable, after my day's work!

"When he does that, I sometimes think I don't know whether I love him well enough to cook for
him, or not. For when he is hungry and comes tearing in like that, he will carry off more than
he can eat. His eyes want all he sees. He will carry off lots more than he can possibly eat;
I've found it, time and again, laid up out in the wood-shed; and once I found eight of my doughnuts
hid in a hole in the garden wall. He thought that he could eat the whole panful, but found
that he couldn't."

"Oh, that was only laying up a store against days of famine," said Tom, calmly. "Some days
the pantry is awfully bare; and Kate, too, has a caper of hiding the victuals. I call that
a plaguey mean trick--when a fellow's hungry! I clear the pan when I do find it, to get square
with her."

"Well," Addison remarked, "the girls have presented their side of the work pretty strongly;
but I rather guess the boys could say something on their side;--how they have to work in the
hot sun, all day long, to plough and harrow and sow and plant and hoe the crops, to get the
bread stuff to cook into food. The girls want cooked victuals, too, as well as we. The hot,
hard work isn't all on one side."

"That's so!" echoed Tom and Halse, fervently.

"I often come in tired, hot and sweaty after a drink of water, in the sweltering summer afternoons,
and find our girls in the cool sitting-room, rocking by the windows, looking as comfortable
as you please, reading novels," continued Addison.

"That's so!" we boys exclaimed.

"Not that I grudge them their comfort," Addison went on, laughing. "I don't. I like to see
them comfortable. Besides girls ought not to work so hard and long as boys; they are not so
strong, nor so well able to work in the heat. But I think that a great deal of the hardship
that Kate and Doad and Nell complain of, about cooking over the hot stove, is due to a bad
method which all the women hereabouts seem to follow. They cook twice every day. Fact, they
seem to be cooking all the time. They all do their cooking in stoves, with small ovens that
will not hold more than three or four pies, or a couple of loaves of bread at once. By the
next day they have to bake again, and so on. In summer, particularly, their faces are red from
bending over the hot stove about half the time."

"But what would you do, Addison?" asked Theodora.

"I'll tell you what I would do," replied Addison. "I would do just what I suggested to Gram
last spring. The old lady was getting down to peep into the stove oven and hopping up again
about every two minutes. She looked tired and her face was as red as a peony. 'Gram,' said
I, 'I'll tell you what I'll do, if you want me to. I'll take the oxen and cart and go over
to the Aunt Hannah lot, and draw home some brick there are in an old chimney over there; and
then we will get a cask of lime and some sand for mortar, and have a mason come half a day
and build you a good big brick oven, beside the wash-room chimney. It can be seven or eight
feet long by four or five wide, big enough to bake all the pies, bread, pork and beans and
most of the meat you want to cook for us, in a week. Then after you have baked, Saturday afternoon,
you no need to have much more cooking to do till the next Saturday. All you need do over the
stove will be to make coffee and tea, boil eggs and potatoes once in a while and warm up the
food.' 'There's an oven that goes with the sitting-room chimney,' said she; 'I used always
to bake in it; but somehow I have got out of the way of it, since we began to use stoves.'
I couldn't get her to say that she wanted an oven, so I did nothing about it. But I know it
would be a great deal easier, after she got the habit of it again."

"But how could you have hot tea-rolls every night and morning, Addison, with an oven like that?"
asked Ellen.

"I should not want them, myself," replied Addison. "They nearly always smell so strongly of
soda that I do not like them; and I do not think they are wholesome. For my own part I like
bread better, or bread made into toast."

"Well, Ad, I think that sounds like a pretty good plan," said Kate. "Mother has an oven, too;
but we never use it now, except to smoke bacon in. I think it would save us a great deal of
hard work, if we baked in it once a week."

"Hark," said Tom, suddenly.

Far aloft, overhead, a faint "quark-quock" was heard.

"'Tis a flock of wild geese, going over," said Addison. "It's early in the season for them
to be on their way to the south."

"Gram says that's a sign of an early winter," said Ellen.

We sat listening to the occasional quiet note of the flock gander for some moments till they
passed out of hearing toward the lake. Addison then lighted our lantern; and after accompanying
Tom and Kate a part of the way to the Edwards place, across the fields, we bade them good night
and made our own way home.

Neighbor Wilbur had called at the door, during the evening, and left our mail on the doorstep.
There was a letter for me from my mother, and also a circular from some swindling fellow in
"Gotham," informing me most positively that for the sum of one dollar, a powder would be forwarded
to me by mail, which, when dissolved and applied to my upper lip, would produce a moustache
in the course of three or four weeks. I laid it away, thinking that I was perhaps not quite
old enough for so ambitious an effort, but that it might be of importance to me, later.

We went to "Tom's fort" again on Wednesday evening; and I remember that one of the stones in
the fireplace exploded that night. It burst in several pieces with a sharp report like that
of a pistol. One of these hit Halse, scorching his wrist somewhat. At first we thought that
someone had mischievously put powder in the fireplace; but after examining the pieces of stone
carefully, Addison decided that it had burst from some unequal expansion of its substance,
or of moisture in it, due to the heat.

That night, too, those long-delayed ambrotypes came home from artist Lockett. Lockett sent
them up to us by Mr. Edwards, who had driven to the village that day.

In the sitting-room, that evening, after returning from the "fort," we examined them with great
interest, each anxious to see what the result had been to us, personally. Halstead, I recollect,
was wofully disappointed in his. Truth to say, the picture was far from good; and it is supposed
that he destroyed it, later, in a fit of pique, for it mysteriously disappeared.

Indeed, the history of that day's little crop of ambrotypes is rather tragic. The Old Squire's
and Gram's, alas, were lost in the farmhouse fire (1883). Addison's and Theodora's shared the
same fate. Ellen lent hers to her first sweetheart, a college student named Cobb, at Colby
University. He was unfortunately drowned a few months later; and for some cause the ambrotype
was not returned. Little Wealthy's alone has survived the vicissitudes of time.

The pictures in this book are mainly from photographs taken subsequently.

CHAPTER XXII

HIGH TIMES

Truth to say, we had a pretty "high time" that week. When not at Tom's fort evenings, our youthful
neighbors came to our house. Sweet corn was in the "milk;" and early apples, pears and plums
were ripe. We roasted corn ears and played hide-and-seek by moonlight, over the house, wagon-house,
wood-shed, granary and both barns.

I am inclined to believe that the Old Squire did not leave work enough to keep us properly
out of that idleness which leads to mischief. For on the afternoon of the fourth day, we broke
one wheel of the ox cart and hay rack, while "coasting" in it. There was a long slope in the
east field; and we coasted there, all getting into the cart and letting it run down backwards,
dragging the "tongue" on the ground behind it: not the proper manner of using a heavy cart.

After we had coasted down, we hauled the cart back with the oxen which we yoked for the purpose.
The wheel was broken on account of the cart running off diagonally and striking a large stone.

We were obliged to own up to the matter on the Old Squire's return. He said little; but after
considering the matter over night, he held a species of moot court in the sitting-room, heard
all the evidence and then, good-humoredly, "sentenced" Addison, Halstead and myself to work
on the highway that fall till we had earned enough to repair the wheel, six dollars; and speaking
for myself, it was the most salutary bit of correction which I ever received; it led me to
feel my personal responsibility for damage done foolishly.

But it is not of the broken cart wheel, or hide-and-seek by moonlight, that I wish to speak
here, but of another diversion next day, and of a mysterious stranger who arrived at nick of
time to participate in it.

Generally speaking, Theodora did not excel as a cook. She was much more fond of reading than
of housework and domestic duties, although at the farm she always did her share conscientiously.
Ellen had a greater natural bent toward cookery.

But there was one article of food which Theodora could prepare to perfection and that was fried
pies. Such at least was the name we had for them; and we boys thought that if "Doad" had known
how to do nothing else in the world but fry pies, she would still be a shining success in life.
We esteemed her gift all the more highly for the reason that it was extra-hazardous. Making
fried pies is nearly as dangerous as working in a powder-mill; those who have made them will
understand what this means. I know a housewife who lost the sight of one of her eyes from a
fried pie explosion. In another instance fully half the kitchen ceiling was literally coated
with smoking hot fat, from the frying-pan, thrown up by the bursting of a pie.

Let not a novice like myself, however, presume to descant on the subject of fried pies to the
thousands who doubtless know all the details of their manufacture. Theodora first prepared
her dough, sweetened and mixed like ordinary doughnut dough, rolled it like a thick pie crust
and then enclosed the "filling," consisting of mince-meat, or stewed apple, or gooseberry,
or plum, or blackberry; or perhaps peach, raspberry, or preserved cherries. Only such fruits
must be cooked and the pits or stones of plums or peaches carefully removed. The edges of the
dough were wet and dexterously crimped together, so that the pie would not open in frying.

Then when the big pan of fat on the stove was just beginning to get smoking hot, the pies were
launched gently in at one side and allowed to sink and rise. And about that time it was well
to be watchful; for there was no telling just when a swelling, hot pie might take a fancy to
enact the role of a bomb-shell and blow the blistering hot fat on all sides.

After suffering from a bad burn on one of her wrists the previous winter, Theodora had learned
not to take chances with fried pies. She had a face mask which Addison had made for her, from
pink pasteboard, and a pair of blue goggles for the eyes, which some member of the family had
once made use of for snow blindness. The mask as I remember wore an irresistible grin.

When ready to begin frying two dozen pies, Theodora donned the mask and goggles and put on
a pair of old kid gloves. Then if spatters of hot fat flew, she was none the worse;--but it
was quite a sight to see her rigged for the occasion. The goggles were of portentous size,
and we boys used to clap and cheer when she made her appearance.

As an article of diet, perhaps, fried pies could hardly be commended for invalids; but to a
boy who had been working hard, or racing about for hours in the fresh air out of doors, they
were simply delicious and went exactly to the right spot. Few articles of food are more appetizing
to the eye than the rich doughnut brown of a fine fried pie.

That forenoon we coaxed Theodora and Ellen to fry a batch of three dozen, and two "Jonahs;"
and the girls, with some misgivings as to what Gram would say to them for making such inroads
on "pie timber," set about it by ten o'clock. Be it said, however, that "closeness" in the
matter of daily food was not one of Gram's faults. She always laid in a large supply of "pie
timber" and was not much concerned for fear of a shortage.

They filled half a dozen with mince-meat, half a dozen with stewed gooseberry, and then half
a dozen each, of crab apple jelly, plum, peach and blackberry. They would not let us see what
they filled the "Jonahs" with, but we knew that it was a fearful load. Generally it was with
something shockingly sour, or bitter. The "Jonahs" looked precisely like the others and were
mixed with the others on the platter which was passed at table, for each one to take his or
her choice. And the rule was that whoever got the "Jonah pie" must either eat it, or crawl
under the table for a foot-stool for the others during the rest of the meal!

What they actually put in the two "Jonahs," this time, was wheat bran mixed with cayenne pepper--an
awful dose such as no mortal mouth could possibly bear up under! It is needless to say that
the girls usually kept an eye on the Jonah pie or placed some slight private mark on it, so
as not to get it themselves.

When we were alone and had something particularly good on the table, Addison and Theodora had
a habit of making up rhymes about it, before passing it around, and sometimes the rest of us
attempted to join in the recreation, generally with indifferent success. Kate Edwards had come
in that day, and being invited to remain to our feast of fried pies, was contributing her wit
to the rhyming contest, when chancing to glance out of the window, Ellen espied a gray horse
and buggy with the top turned back, standing in the yard, and in the buggy a large elderly,
dark-complexioned man, a stranger to all of us, who sat regarding the premises with a smile
of shrewd and pleasant contemplation.

"Now who in the world can that be?" exclaimed Ellen in low tones. "I do believe he has overheard
some of those awful verses you have been making up."

"But someone must go to the door," Theodora whispered. "Addison, you go out and see what he
has come for."

"He doesn't look just like a minister," said Halstead.

"Nor just like a doctor," Kate whispered. "But he is somebody of consequence, I know, he looks
so sort of dignified and experienced."

"And what a good, old, broad, distinguished face," said Ellen.

Thus their sharp young eyes took an inventory of our caller, who, I may as well say here, was
Hannibal Hamlin, recently Vice-President of the United States and one of the most famous anti-slavery
leaders of the Republican party before the Civil War.

The old Hamlin homestead, where Hannibal Hamlin passed his boyhood, was at Paris Hill, Maine,
eight or ten miles to the eastward of the Old Squire's farm; he and the Old Squire had been
young men together, and at one time quite close friends and classmates at Hebron Academy.

In strict point of fact, Mr. Hamlin's term of office as Vice-President with Abraham Lincoln,
had expired; and at this time he had not entered on his long tenure of the Senatorship from
Maine. Meantime he was Collector of Customs for the Port of Boston, but a few days previously
had resigned this lucrative office, being unwilling longer to endorse the erratic administrative
policy of President Andrew Johnson by holding an appointment from him.

In the interim he was making a brief visit to the scenes of his boyhood home, and had taken
a fancy to drive over to call on the Old Squire. But we of the younger and lately-arriving
generation, did not even know "Uncle Hannibal" by sight and had not the slightest idea who
he was. Addison went out, however, and asked if he should take his horse.

"Why, Joseph S---- still lives here, does he not?" queried Mr. Hamlin, regarding Addison's
youthful countenance inquiringly.

"Yes, sir," replied Addison. "I am his grandson."

"Ah, I thought you were rather young for one of his sons," Mr. Hamlin remarked. "I heard, too,
that he had lost all his sons in the War."

"Yes, sir," Addison replied soberly.

Mr. Hamlin regarded him thoughtfully for a moment. "I used to know your grandfather," he said.
"Is he at home?"

Addison explained the absence of Gramp and Gram. "I am very sorry they are away," he added.

"I am sorry, too," said Mr. Hamlin, "I wanted to see them and say a few words to them." He
began to turn his horse as if to drive away, but Theodora, who was always exceedingly hospitable,
had gone out and now addressed our caller with greater cordiality.

"Will you not come in, sir?" she exclaimed. "Grandfather will be very sorry! Do please stop
a little while and let the boys feed your horse."

Mr. Hamlin regarded her with a paternal smile. "I will get out and walk around a bit, to rest
my legs," he replied.

Once he was out of the buggy, Addison and I took his horse to the stable; and Theodora having
first shown him the garden and the long row of bee hives, led the way to the cool sitting-room,
and domesticated him in an easy chair. We heard her relating recent events of our family history
to him, and answering his questions.

Meantime the fried pies were waiting and getting cold; and when Addison and I had returned
from the stable, we all began to feel a little impatient. Ellen and Kate set the pies in the
oven, to keep them warm; we did not like to begin eating them with company in the sitting-room,
and so lingered hungrily about, awaiting developments. "How long s'pose he will stay!" Halse
exclaimed crossly; and Addison began brushing up a little, in order to go in and help do the
honors of the house with Theodora.

"He is a pretty nice old fellow," Addison remarked to Kate. "Have you any idea who he is?"

But Kate, though born in the county, had never seen him. Just then the sitting-room door opened,
and we heard "Doad" saying, "We haven't much for luncheon to-day, but fried pies, but we shall
all be glad to have you sit down with us."

"What an awful fib!" whispered Ellen behind her hand to Kate; and truth to say, his coming
had rather upset our anticipated pleasure; but Mr. Hamlin had taken a great fancy to Theodora
and was accepting her invitation, with vast good-nature.

What a great dark man he looked, as he followed Theodora out to the table.

"These are my cousins that I have told you of," she was saying, and then mentioned all our
names to him and afterwards Kate's, although Mr. Hamlin had not seen fit to tell us his own;
we supposed that he was merely some pleasant old acquaintance of Gramp's early years.

He was seated in Gramp's place at table and, after a brief flurry in the kitchen, the big platterful
of fried pies was brought in. What Ellen and Theodora had done was, carefully to pick out the
two "Jonahs" and lay them aside. We were now all gathered around. Addison and Theodora exchanged
glances and there was a little pause of interrogation, in case our caller might possibly be
a clergyman, after all, and might wish to say grace.

He evinced no disposition to do so, however; and laughing a little in spite of herself, Doad
raised the platter and assayed to pass it to our guest.

"And are these the 'fried pies?'" he asked with the broadest of smiles. "They resemble huge
doughnuts. But I now remember that my mother used to fry something like this, when I was a
boy at home, over at Paris Hill; and my recollection is that they were very good."

"Yes, the most of them are very good," said Addison, by way of making conversation, "unless
you happen to get the 'Jonah.'"

"And what's the 'Jonah?'" asked our visitor.

Amidst much laughter, this was explained to him--also the penalty. Mr. Hamlin burst forth in
a great shout of laughter, which led us to surmise that he enjoyed fun.

"But we have taken the 'Jonahs' out of these," Theodora made haste to reassure him.

"What for?" he exclaimed.

"Why--why--because we have company," stammered Doad, much confused.

"And spoil the sport?" cried our visitor. "Young lady, I want those 'Jonahs' put back."

"Oh, but they are awful 'Jonahs!'" pleaded Theodora.

"I want those 'Jonahs' put back," insisted Mr. Hamlin. "I shall have to decline to lunch here,
unless the 'Jonahs' are in their proper places. Fetch in the 'Jonahs.'"

Very shamefaced, Ellen brought them in.

"No hokus-pokus now," cried our visitor, and nothing would answer, but that we should all turn
our backs and shut our eyes, while Kate put them among the others in the platter.

It was then passed and all chose one. "Each take a good, deep mouthful," cried Mr. Hamlin,
entering mirthfully into the spirit of the game. "Altogether--now!"

We all bit, eight bites at once; as it chanced no one got a "Jonah," and the eight fried pies
rapidly disappeared.

"But these are good!" cried our visitor, "Mine was gooseberry." Then turning to Theodora, "How
many times can a fellow try for a 'Jonah' here?"

"Five times!" replied Doad, laughing and not a little pleased with the praise.

The platter was passed again, and again no one got bran and cayenne.

But at the third passing, I saw Kate start visibly when our visitor chose his pie. "All ready.
Bite!" he cried; and we bit! but at the first taste he stopped short, rolled his eyes around
and shook his head with his capacious mouth full.

"Oh, but you need not eat it, sir!" cried Theodora, rushing round to him. "You need not do
anything!"

But without a word our bulky visitor had sunk slowly out of his chair and pushing it back,
disappeared under the long table.

For a moment we all sat, scandalized, then shouted in spite of ourselves. In the midst of our
confused hilarity, the table began to oscillate; it rose slowly several inches, then moved
off, rattling, toward the sitting-room door! Our jolly visitor had it on his back and was crawling
ponderously but carefully away with it on his hands and knees;--and the rest of us were getting
ourselves and our chairs out of the way! In fact, the remainder of that luncheon was a perfect
gale of laughter. The table walked clean around the room and came very carefully back to its
original position.

After the hilarity had subsided, the girls served some very nice large, sweet blackberries,
which our visitor appeared to relish greatly. He told us of his boyhood at Paris Hill; of his
fishing for trout in the brooks thereabouts, of the time he broke his arm and of the doctor
who set it so unskilfully that it had to be broken again and re-set; of the beautiful tourmaline
crystals which he and his brother found at Mt. Mica; and of his school-days at Hebron Academy;
and all with such feeling and such a relish, that for an hour we were rapt listeners.

When at length he declared that he positively must be going on his way, we begged him to remain
over night, and brought out his horse with great reluctance.

Before getting into the buggy, he took us each by the hand and saluted the girls, particularly
"Doad," in a truly paternal manner.

"I've had a good time!" said he. "I am glad to see you all here at this old farm in my dear
native state; but (and we saw the moisture start in his great black eyes) it touches my heart
more than I can tell you, to know of the sad reason for your coming here. You have my heartiest
sympathy.

"Tell your grandparents, that I should have been very glad to see them," he added, as he got
in the buggy and took the reins from Addison.

"But, sir," said Theodora, earnestly, for we were all crowding up to the buggy, "grandfather
will ask who it was that called."

"Oh, well, you can describe me to him!" cried Mr. Hamlin, laughing (for he knew how cut up
we should feel if he told us who he really was). "And if he cannot make me out, you may tell
him that it was an old fellow he once knew, named Hamlin. Good-by." And he drove away. The
name signified little to us at the time.

"Well, whoever he is, he's an old brick!" said Halse, as the gray horse and buggy passed between
the high gate-posts, at the foot of the lane.

"I think he is just splendid!" exclaimed Kate, enthusiastically.

"And he has such a great, kind heart!" said Theodora.

When Gramp and Gram came home, we were not slow in telling them that a most remarkable elderly
man, named Hamlin, had called to see them, and stopped to lunch with us.

"Hamlin, Hamlin," repeated the Old Squire, absently. "What sort of looking man?"

Theodora and Ellen described him, with much zest.

"Why, Joseph, it must have been Hannibal!" cried Gram.

"So it was!" exclaimed Gramp. "Too bad we were not at home!"

"What! Not Hannibal Hamlin that was Vice-President of the United States!" Addison almost shouted.

"Yes, Vice-President Hamlin," said the Old Squire.

And about that time, it would have required nothing much heavier than a turkey's feather to
bowl us all over. Addison looked at "Doad" and she looked at Ellen and me. Halse whistled.

"Why, what did you say, or do, that makes you look so queer!" cried Gram, with uneasiness.
"I hope you behaved well to him. Did anything happen?"

"Oh, no, nothing much," said Ellen, laughing nervously. "Only he got the 'Jonah' pie and--and--we've
had the Vice-President of the United States under the table to put our feet on!"

Gram turned very red and was much disturbed. She wanted to have a letter written that night,
and try to apologize for us. But the Old Squire only laughed. "I have known Mr. Hamlin ever
since he was a boy," said he. "He enjoyed that pie as well as any of them; no apology is needed."

CHAPTER XXIII

THE THRASHERS COME

Truth to say, farm work is never done, particularly on a New England farm where a little of
everything has to be undertaken and all kinds of crops are raised, and where sheep, cattle,
calves, colts, horses and poultry have to be tended and provided with winter food, indoors.
A thrifty farmer has always a score of small jobs awaiting his hands.

There were now brakes to cut and dry for "bedding" at the barn, bushes and briars to clear
up along the fences and walls, and stone-heaps to draw off, preparatory to "breaking up" several
acres more of greensward. The Old Squire's custom was to break up three or four acres, every
August, so that the turf would rot during the autumn. Potatoes were then usually planted on
it the ensuing spring, to be followed the next year by corn and the next by wheat, or some
other grain, when it was again seeded down in grass.

About this time, too, the beans had to be pulled and stacked; and there were always early apples
to be gathered, for sale at the village stores. Sometimes, too, the corn would be ripe enough
to cut up and shock by the 5th or 6th of September; and immediately after came potato-digging,
always a heavy, dirty piece of farm work.

Not far from this time, "the thrashers" would make their appearance, with "horse-power," "beater"
and "separator," which were set up in the west barn floor. These dusty itinerants usually remained
with us for two days and threshed the grain on shares: one bushel for every ten of wheat, rye
and barley and one for every twelve of oats. There were always two of them; and for five or
six years the same pair came to our barn every fall: a sturdy old man, named Dennett, and his
son-in-law, Amos Moss. Dennett, himself, "tended beater" and Moss measured and "stricted" the
grain as it came from the separator;--and it was hinted about among the farmers, that "Moss
would bear watching."

We were kept very busy during those two days; Halse, I remember, was first set to "shake down"
the wheat off a high scaffold, for Dennett to feed into the beater; while Addison and I got
away the straw. I deemed it great fun at first, to see the horses travel up the lags of the
horse-power incline, and hear the machine in action; but I soon found that it was suffocatingly
dusty work; our nostrils and throats as well as our hair and clothing were much choked and
loaded with dust.

We had been at work an hour or two, when suddenly an unusual snapping noise issued from the
beater; and Dennett abruptly stopped the machine. After examining the teeth, he looked up where
Halse stood on the scaffold, shaking down, and said, "Look here, young man, I want you to be
more careful what you shake down here; we don't want to thrash clubs!"

"I didn't shake down clubs," said Halse.

"A pretty big stick went through anyway," remarked Dennett. "I haven't said you did it a-purpose.
But I asked you to be more careful."

They went on again, for half or three-quarters of an hour, when there was another odd noise,
and Dennett again stopped and looked up sharply at Halse. "Can't you see clubs as big as that?"
said he. "Why, that's an old tooth out of a loafer rake. You must mind what you are about."

Halse pretended that he had seen nothing in the grain; and the machine was started again; but
Addison and I could see Halse at times from the place where we were at work, and noticed that
he looked mischievous. Addison shook his head at him, vehemently.

Nothing further happened that forenoon; but we had not been at work for more than an hour,
after dinner, when a shrill thrip resounded from the beater, followed by a jingling noise,
and one of the short iron teeth from it flew into the roof of the barn. Again Dennett stopped
the machine, hastily.

"What kind of a feller do you call yerself!" he exclaimed, looking very hard up at Halse. "You
threw that stone into the beater, you know you did."

"I didn't!" protested Halse. "You can't prove I did, either."

"I'd tan your jacket for ye, ef you was my boy," muttered Dennett, wrathfully. He and Moss
got wrenches from their tool-box and replaced the broken tooth with a new one. The Old Squire,
who had been looking to the grain in the granary, came in and asked what the trouble was.

"Squire," said Dennett, "I want another man to shake down here for me. That's a queer Dick
you've put up there."

The Old Squire spoke to Addison to get up and shake out the grain and bade Halse come down
and assist me with the straw. Halse climbed down, muttering to himself. "I want to get a drink
of water," he said; and as he went out past the beater, he made a saucy remark to Dennett;
whereupon the latter seized a whip-stock and aimed a blow at him. Halse dodged it and ran.
Dennett chased him out of the barn; and Halse took refuge in the wood-shed.

The Old Squire was at first inclined to reprove Dennett for this apparently unwarranted act;
he considered that he had no right to chastise Halse. "I will attend to that part of the business,
myself," he said, somewhat sharply.

"All right, Squire," said Dennett. "But I want you to understand you've got a bad boy there.
Throwing stones into a beater is rough business. He might kill somebody."

Halse did not come back to help me, at once; and at length Gramp went to the house, in search
of him. Ellen subsequently told me, that Halse had at first refused to come out, on the pretext
that Dennett would injure him. The Old Squire assured him that he should not be hurt. Still
he refused to go. Thereupon the old gentleman went in search of a horsewhip, himself; and as
a net result of the proceedings, Halse made his appearance beside me, sniffing.

"I wish it had stove his old machine all to flinders and him with it," he said to me, revengefully.

"Did you throw the stone into the beater?" I asked. The machine made so much noise that I did
not distinctly hear what Halse replied, but I thought that he denied doing it; and whether
he actually did it, or whether the stone slid down with the grain owing to his carelessness,
I never knew. Addison shook down till night; and the next day Asa Doane came to help us; for
the Old Squire deemed it too hard for boys of our age to handle the grain and straw, unassisted.

In May, before I came to the farm, Addison and Halse had planted a large melon bed, in the
corn field, on a spot where a heap of barnyard dressing had stood. There were both watermelons
and musk-melons. These had ripened slowly during August and, by the time of the September town-meeting,
were fit for eating.

The election for governor, with other State and county officers, was held on the second Monday
of September in Maine.

In order to raise a little pocket money, Addison and Halstead carried their melons, also several
bushels of good eating apples and pears, to the town-house at the village, early on election
day, and rigged a little "booth" for selling from. They set off by sunrise, with old Nancy
harnessed in the express wagon.

As I had no part in the planting of the melons, I was not a partner in the sales, although
Gramp allowed me to go to the town-meeting with him, later in the forenoon. The distance was
seven miles from the farm.

The boys sold thirty melons at ten cents apiece and disposed of the most of the apples at two
for a cent and pears at a cent apiece; so that the combined profits amounted to rather over
seven dollars. Sales were so good, that they had disposed of their entire stock by three o'clock
in the afternoon.

The polls were not closed, however, till sunset, that is to say voting could legally continue
till that time. Halse had called on Addison for a division of the money, at about three o'clock,
and received his share; he then told Addison that he was going home. Addison preferred to remain,
to learn how the town had voted; for he was much interested in a "temperance movement" which
was agitating that portion of the State that year.

The Old Squire had returned home, shortly after noon, and gone into the field to see to the
digging of the potatoes. When we came in to supper, at six o'clock, Addison was just coming
up the lane, on his way home.

"No doubt Williams is elected!" were his first words.

Williams was the Republican and Temperance candidate for representative to the State legislature.
Addison was much elated; and after we sat down to supper, he began telling Theodora about the
town-meeting; for some moments none of us noticed that one chair was empty. Then Gram said,
"Where's Halstead?"

"I don't know," said the Old Squire, suddenly glancing at the vacant seat. "Didn't he come
home with you, Addison?"

"No, sir," replied Ad. "He went home afoot, a little while after you left; at any rate he said
that he was going home. I haven't seen him since."

"I don't think he has come home," said Theodora. "I haven't seen him at the house."

"Well, he said he was coming home, and I gave him his part of the melon and apple money," replied
Addison. "That's all I know about it."

We thought it likely that he would come during the evening, but he did not, and we all, particularly
Theodora, felt much disturbed about him.

Late in the night (it seemed to me that it must be nearly morning) I was wakened by Halse coming
into our room. He crept in stealthily and undressed very quietly; but sleepy as I was, I heard
him first muttering and then whistling softly to himself, in what appeared to me a rather curious
manner. But I did not speak to him and soon dropped asleep again.

He was sleeping heavily when I got up in the morning. I did not wake him; and I noticed that
his clothes and boots were very muddy and wet, for it had rained during the latter part of
the night.

When we sat down to breakfast, he had not come down-stairs; and the Old Squire went up to our
room. What he learned, or what he said to Halse, we did not ascertain. At noon Gram said that
Halse was not well; but he was at the supper table that night.

As I had heard about the melon money I asked him that evening, after we had gone up-stairs,
if he could let me have the money which I had borrowed of Theodora and Ellen, for him. I said
nothing about my own loan to him, although I wanted the money. He made me no reply; two or
three nights afterwards I mentioned the matter again; for I felt responsible, after a manner,
for the girls' money.

"I hain't got no money!" he snapped out, with very ungrammatical shortness.

"Oh, I thought you had three dollars and a half," I observed.

"Well, I hain't," he said, angrily.

I said no more; but after awhile, he told me that he had set off to come home from the town-house,
but stopped to play at "pitching cents" with some boys at the Corners, and that while there,
he had either lost the money out of his pocket, or else it had been stolen from him.

I was less inclined to doubt this story than the one about the seed corn; for I had heard rumors
of gambling, in a small way, at the Corners, by a certain clique of loafers there. It was said,
too, that despite the stringent "liquor law," the hustling parties were provided with intoxicants.
I had little doubt that Halstead had parted with his money in some such way. I recollected
how odd his behavior had been after coming home that night; and although I could scarcely believe
such a thing at first, I yet began to surmise that he had been induced to drink liquor of some
kind.

A few nights after town-meeting, we lost five or six boxes of honey; some rogue, or rogues,
came into the garden and drew the boxes out of the hives. The only clue to the theft was boot
tracks in the soft earth and these were not sufficiently distinct to avail as evidence. In
a general way we attributed it to the bibulous set at the Corners. The Old Squire and Addison
had incurred the displeasure of Tibbetts and his cronies, from their avowed sentiments upon
the Temperance question. I do not think that Halse knew anything of the honey robbery. I asked
him the next day, whether he supposed the honey boxes had gone in search of his three dollars
and a half. He saw that I suspected him, and flatly denied all knowledge of it; but he added,
that if Gramp and Addison did not have less to say about rum-sellers, they might find themselves
watching a big fire some night!

I asked him if he thought that Tibbetts and his crew were bad enough to set barns on fire.

"Well, isn't the old gent and Ad trying to break up Tibbetts' business, all the time!" retorted
Halse.

"But do you stand up for them?" said I.

"I stand up for minding my own business and letting other folks alone!" exclaimed Halse. "And
that's what the old man and Ad had better do."

"Maybe," said I, for I was not altogether clear in my mind on that point. "But they are a bad
lot, out there at Tibbetts'; you say so, yourself."

"I didn't say so!" Halse exclaimed.

"Why, you told me that you thought they took your money, didn't you?" I urged.

"I said perhaps I lost it there," replied Halse in a reticent tone.

Addison believed that if Gramp would get a search warrant, a part of the honey might be found
in one of two houses, at the Corners; but the Old Squire would not set the law in motion for
a few boxes of honey. We young folks, however, were much exasperated over the loss of the sweets.

Two cosset lambs were also missing from our pasture at about this time; and as Addison and
I drove past the Corners, on our way to the mill with another grist of corn, the day after
the lambs were missed, we saw Tibbetts' dog gnawing a bone beside the road.

"Take the reins, a minute!" exclaimed Addison, pulling up. He then leaped out of the wagon
with the whip, so suddenly, that the dog left the bone and ran off. Addison picked it up and
examined it attentively. "It's a mutton bone, fast enough," said he. "It is one of the leg
bones; the hoof is on it and there's enough of the hide to show that it was smut-legged, like
ours. But of course we cannot prove much from it," he added, throwing the bone after the dog
and getting into the wagon.

On our return, we called at the Post Office which was at Tibbetts' grocery. The semi-weekly
mail had come that afternoon, and quite a number of people were standing about. I went in to
inquire for our folks' papers and letters; and as I came out, I saw the grocer emerging from
the grocery portion of the store.

"How d'ye do, Mr. Tibbetts," cried Addison. "I'm afraid your dog has been killing two of our
lambs."

"Ye don't say!" said Tibbetts. "What makes ye think so?"

"Why, I thought it might be he; I saw him gnawing the bone of a smut-legged lamb like ours,"
replied Addison, with every appearance of extreme candor. "Cannot say certain of course, but
I feel quite sure 'twas from one of ours."

Tibbetts looked at Addison a moment, then replied, "Wal, now, if ye can prove 'twas my dog
killed 'em, I'll settle with the Squire."

"I'm afraid we cannot prove it," replied Addison and drove off.--"I thought that I would blame
it all on the dog," he said, laughing.

Two or three days after that, Theodora, Ellen and Kate Edwards went out to the Corners to purchase
something at the store and, instead of returning by the road, came home across lots, following
the brook up through the meadows. They often took that route to and from the Corners; both
enjoyed going through the half-cleared land along the brook.

Beside an old log in the meadow, where evidently someone had recently sat, they picked up and
brought home with them, the bottom and about half the side of one of our lost honey-boxes;
bits of fresh comb were still sticking to it. The rogues who took it had manifestly sat on
that log while they regaled themselves.

After dark that evening, Addison and I carried the fragment out to Tibbetts' grocery and stuck
it up on his platform. Addison also wrote on it with a blunt lead pencil, "To whom it may concern.
This honey box was picked up on a direct line between the hives from which it was stolen and
this place."

"Even if we cannot prove anything," he said, "I want to let them know that we've got a good
idea who did it."

We thought that we had done a rather smart thing; but when the Old Squire heard of it, he told
us that we had done a foolish one.

"Better let all that sort of thing alone, boys," he said. "Never hint, or insinuate charges
against anybody. Never make charges at all, unless you have good proof to back you up. Tibbetts
and his cronies are too old birds to care for any such small shot as that. They will only laugh
at you. The less you have to say to them the better."

As Addison and I were talking over this piece of advice, later in the day, I asked him whether
he believed that Tibbetts or any of his crew would set our barns afire, if the Old Squire took
steps to enforce the liquor law against them.

"I guess they wouldn't dare do that," said Addison.

I then mentioned what Halse had said. Addison was greatly irritated, not so much from the covert
threat implied, as to think that Halse sided against the Temperance movement.

"Now you see," said Addison, "if we do make a move against Tibbetts, Halse will be a traitor
and carry word to him ahead. We shall have to watch him and never drop a word about our plans
before him." He then told me, confidentially, that the Temperance sentiment had grown so strong,
that its advocates hoped to be able to get Tibbetts indicted that fall and so close up his
"grocery."

Addison and Theodora, as well as the Old Squire, thought that if the Corners clique could be
broken up, Halstead would be a far better boy. Liquor was the only bond which held the clique
together there. If the illicit sale of liquor could be stopped at Tibbetts', not only Hannis,
but several others would leave the place; and probably Tibbetts himself would move away.

I do not think that it occurred to either Addison or Theodora that there was anything in the
least reprehensible in conspiring to drive grocer Tibbetts out of town. I am sure that I then
deemed it a good idea to drive him away, by almost any means, fair or foul.

CHAPTER XXIV

GOING TO THE CATTLE SHOW

About this time we began to hear raccoons, in the early part of the night. There were numbers
of these animals in the woods about the farm; they had their retreats in hollow trees and sometimes
came into the corn fields. I first heard one while coming home from the Edwardses one evening;
the strange, quavering cry frightened me; for I imagined that it was the cry of a "lucivee,"
concerning which the boys were talking a good deal at this time. One was said to have attacked
a farmer on the highway a little beyond the Batchelder place. The animal leaped into the back
part of the man's wagon and fought savagely for possession of a quarter of beef. Repeated blows
from a whip-stock failed to dislodge it, till it had ridden for ten or fifteen rods, when it
leaped off the wagon, but followed, growling, for some distance. As nearly as this man could
judge, in the dim light of evening, the animal was as large as a good-sized dog. The "lucivee,"
or loup-cervier, is the lynx Canadensis, which ordinarily attains a weight of no more than
twenty-five pounds, but occasionally grows larger and displays great fierceness and courage.

I made haste home and calling Addison out, asked him whether that strange cry which still issued
at intervals from the woodland, over towards the Aunt Hannah lot, was made by the much dreaded
"lucivee." He laughed and was disposed to play on my fears for a while, but at length told
me that it was nothing more savage than a 'coon. The wild note had struck a singularly responsive
fiber within me; and to this day I never hear a raccoon's hollow cry at night, without a sudden
recurrence of the same eerie sensation.

About this time we all became much interested in the approaching Cattle Show, which was to
be held at the Fair Grounds, near the village, during the last week of September. Thomas bantered
me strongly to raise two dollars and go into partnership with him in an old horse which he
knew of and which he desired to buy and enter for the "slow race." The horse could be purchased
for three or four dollars and was so very stiff in the knees as to be almost certain of winning
the "slow race," thereby securing a "purse" of ten dollars.

What with Thomas' enthusiasm, this looked to me, at the time, to be a very alluring investment.
Tom had also another scheme for winning the "purse" of the "scrub race," where every kind of
animal took the track at one and the same time. The Harland boys--where we went to mill--owned
a large mongrel dog that had been taught to haul a little cart. He was known to be a fast runner;
and Tom had intelligence that he was in the market, at a price of two dollars. If we could
secure him, there was little doubt that the scrub-race purse would easily drop into our hats.
I had to confess to doubts whether the Old Squire would consent to my embarking in such speculations.

"But you needn't show in it," said Tom quietly. "I'll do all the trading and keep them over
at our barn." The way being thus opened to a silent partnership, I began a canvass of all my
assets.

Thomas was also intending to enter a colt and a yoke of yearling steers for the premiums on
those classes of animals. Addison intended to enter one of the Old Squire's yokes of steers;
and Tom acknowledged to me that his own chance was slim on steers, since ours were the larger
and better-matched.

Gram usually sent in one or more firkins of butter, several cheeses and even loaves of bread
and cake. The Old Squire exhibited several head of cattle and sometimes his entire herd; also
sheep, hogs and poultry. Then there was always an extensive exhibit of apples, pears and grapes,
arranged on plates, as also seed-corn, wheat, barley, buckwheat, oats and garden vegetables.
We were occupied for fully a fortnight, that season, gathering and preparing our various exhibits.

In addition, Halstead and Addison expected to do a flourishing business selling apples, pears
and grapes; they also talked of opening an eating booth on the Fair Grounds, with baked beans,
cakes, pies and hot coffee; and they had agreed with Theodora and Ellen to prepare the food
beforehand, and take a share in the profits. The previous fall they had sold cider (moderately
sweet) and done very well; but Addison had become so rigid a temperance reformer, during the
year, that he would not now deal in cider.

This being my first season at the farm, I was not included as a partner in these lucrative
privileges, but expected to be admitted to them all the following year. Meantime I intended
to learn about it, and expected to derive a great deal of pleasure from attending the coming
exhibition. There were to be numerous "attractions," besides the slow race, and the scrub race,
which was for any kind of animal that had legs and could run except horses. I had finally raised
two dollars to invest with Tom in the old horse, named "Ponkus," previously alluded to, and
by a hard strain on my resources also became interested to the extent of another dollar with
him in "Tige," the cart dog, for the scrub race.

The Fair Grounds were located near the neighboring village, about seven miles distant from
the Old Squire's, and consisted of a large wooden building and a high fence, enclosing about
thirty acres of land. The admission fee was fifteen cents. The Fair continued three days: Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday, of the last week of September.

We set off at four o'clock of the opening day, Addison, Halse, Thomas and I driving three ox-carts,
loaded with farm products. We had also to lead "Ponkus" and a two-year-old Hereford bull behind
the carts, and manage a yoke of Durham steers for the "town team;" our progress was therefore
slow and it was nine o'clock in the forenoon before we arrived at the Grounds and had made
a disposition of our various charges.

A great crowd of people was pouring through the gate of the enclosure. Fully four thousand
people were already on the grounds; and a gaudy array of "side shows" at once attracted our
attention. There were counters and carts for cider, gingerbread and confectionery. Loud-voiced
auctioneers were selling "patent medicines" and knickknacks of all sorts.

Close at hand, a snare drum and fife, inside a tent, drew attention to "a rare and wonderful
show of wild animals," which the fakir at the door declared to consist of "a pair of bald eagles,
two panther cubs, a prairie wolf and Hindoo seal," and sometimes he said "prairie wolf and
Bengal tiger."

Then there were rather disreputable fellows with "whirl-boards" at "ten cents a whirl;" with
"ring-boards" at "five cents a pitch," and ten cents made when you lodged the rings on the
points. There was also a blind-fold professor of phrenology, who examined heads at fifteen
cents per cranium.

In the crowd, too, were even less reputable fellows, who sought to entrap rural youths into
"betting on cards," and making "rare bargains" in delusive watches. Altogether it was an animated
scene, for young eyes. Addison, Halse and Theodora were occupied with their "booth." Ellen
and Wealthy were with Gram in the Fair building, where the fruit and dairy products had to
be watched and presided over. The Old Squire was a member of numerous committees on stock and
other farm exhibits. We hardly caught sight of him during the day. For my own part I kept with
Thomas and "Tige," whose little wagon for racing we had brought down in one of the ox-carts.
We avoided the sharpers, for the good reason that we had very little money in our pockets.
We were cheated but once, by a youthful Philistine who had "tumblers to break," suspended in
a row by a string.

We paid him ten cents, and standing off at a distance of forty feet, threw a nicely-whittled
club at the row of suspended glasses. If we broke one, we were to receive twenty-five cents.
The safety of the tumblers lay in the extreme lightness of the clubs, which were of dry pine
wood, much lighter than their size indicated. Tom and I each threw the clubs twice. Not a tumbler
was injured. The proprietor called it a "game of skill;" but it was nearer a game of swindling.

But the slow race and scrub race were the features that interested us most. In explanation
I may say that a "slow race" is not an uncommon attraction at a county fair. Usually the object
in racing horses is to exhibit speed; but the "slow race" is for the slowest horse--the one
which is longest in hobbling a mile. To prevent cheating, no one is allowed to drive his own
horse; if he enters for the race he must drive a horse that has been entered by another person.
Of course, under such conditions each man drives over the track as quickly as he can, since
it is for his interest to do so. The "purse," or prize, at the Fair that fall was ten dollars;
that is to say, the man who entered the slowest old skeleton of a horse, received ten dollars,
together with the cheers and jeers of the crowd. Public sentiment is now more humane and wholesome.

What Thomas and I had in view was the ten dollars; and we did not believe there was a horse
in the county that could beat our old "Ponkus" at going slow.

There were no restrictions in the race. Anybody who had a horse was at liberty to enter him
for it. The time set for the race was four o'clock in the afternoon. A little before that hour,
Thomas drove Ponkus on to the track, in an old "thoroughbrace" wagon.

We found that as many as twelve different horses (or wrecks of horses) had been entered for
the race. It was an odd and venerable-looking troop that drew up near the judge's stand, which
was to be the starting point.

There was one horse with the "spring halt" in both hind legs, and he lifted his feet nearly
a yard high at every step. There was another with three "spavins" and a "ring-bone" on the
remaining leg. Still another had the "heaves" so badly that its breathing could be heard twenty
rods away. In fact, every one had some ailment or defect. The agents of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals had not yet made their way into our locality.

The owners surveyed the rival nags with a critical eye. The bystanders laughed and made bets.
The horse with the "spring halt," that lifted both hind legs so high, was the popular favorite
at first. But soon a fresh roar from the crowd told of the approach of another "racer."

A tin-peddler, with his cart and great bags of paper-rags on top, came in. The first glimpse
of the peddler's horse sent dismay to the rest of us. Besides being utterly stiff-kneed and
knock-kneed, it was really nothing but a moving skeleton. Its hair looked as dead as that on
a South American cow-hide, and nearly every bone in its frame might have been counted.

The crowd shouted, "Room! Room there! Room for old Rack-o'-bones! Don't breathe or he'll tumble
down! Is he balky? Will he kick? Check him up!"

The peddler had been passing the Fair Grounds on his way through the county, when some wag
had hailed him and induced him to enter his horse for the race. He was a little wiry man forty
or fifty years old, dressed in a soiled tweed coat and a boy's cloth cap.

He wanted to drive his horse, harnessed as it was in the tin-cart; but the rest of us cried
out against it; he therefore took the cart off the forward wheels, and strapped a salt-box
to the axle, to sit on. It was a queer sort of "sulky." There was not much to choose, however;
all the horses were in rickety wagons, or battered gigs.

The drivers "changed over." They then got the animals as nearly in line at the bar as possible,
ready for the word "Go." Just then it was discovered that one of the horses had a sharp stone
adroitly inserted in his shoe, so as to press up against the "frog" of his foot, and still
further cripple the poor beast. The judges promptly excluded this horse, and reprimanded his owner.

"Go!" was then shouted. And they went. The crowd whooped and cheered and whistled. Such a strident
chorus of "Get-daps," "Geh-langs," "Hud-dups!" and such frantic efforts to get those horses
into a trot were never before seen or heard in those parts! Each jostled and ran against others
in his wild efforts to get past his neighbors and rivals. One gig broke down, and the driver
had to mount on horseback; but he went the better for that, and got past all the rest. Altogether,
it was the noisiest, dustiest, most harum-scarum race that can be imagined! They got around
at last, the most of them, and began to look about. The peddler's horse was not to be seen.

"Where's Rack-o'-bones?" we asked each other. The shouts and gesticulations of the spectators
soon told us as to his whereabouts. The peddler's horse had not yet got half way round! A snail
could have crawled almost as fast. The animal could not step more than six inches at once,
to save its life.

The most amusing part of it to the crowd was that the little peddler did not understand about
the race, and thought that instead of winning he was hopelessly beaten. It took the judges
some minutes to make him comprehend that he had won the race. His small, greedy, gray eyes
shone when he was given the ten dollars.

"Don't envy him, boys," said one of the judges. "The man is entitled to the pity of the entire
assemblage for owning or using such a horse."

The slow race came off the first day; but our folks attended the Fair, not only upon the following
day, which was the principal day, but on the third day also. We did not reach home at night
till eight or nine o'clock, and were astir and off again by five o'clock next morning; for
we had our stock at the Fair Grounds to look after. Gram had hired Aunt Olive Witham to stay
at the farm that week and keep house; and she not only kept house, but kept the barn as well,
and did all the milking for us.

On the second day came the bona fide horse trots, of great interest to all owning horses troubled
with that dangerous disease--speed.

On the third and last day, a young fellow with a cageful of dancing turkeys divided public
attention about equally with a white-haired and long-bearded man from Newfoundland who "ate
glass tumblers," biting off and chewing up great mouthfuls of glass, as if it were a crust
of bread. Afterwards this same old Blue-nose fought with his own large Newfoundland dog, using
only his mouth, growling and snapping in such a frightful way that it was hard telling which
brute was the dog. But the final and most exciting feature of the day, was the "scrub race,"
which came off at four o'clock in the afternoon.

In this race any and every animal was allowed to take part, except horses. Men, boys, dogs
harnessed into carts and carrying their owners, cows, steers and goats, anything on four legs
or two, could compete except the genus equus. The prize was ten dollars to the winner, meaning
he, she or it, that first reached the judge's stand. An extra rail had been put up in the fence
enclosing the race-course, to keep the contestants on the track and out of the crowd.

Among the competitors were three men and about a dozen boys. The interest of the spectators,
however, centered on the four-footed "racers." Among these was a little black and white Canadian
cow, with fawn-colored legs and slim black-tipped horns. This creature was the property of
a Frenchman, who could speak scarcely a word of English. She was harnessed, like a horse, and
dragged an old pair of wheels. Jinnay, as her owner called her, galloped over the track at
an astonishing speed.

Then there was a boy with a stub-tailed, brindled bulldog. The dog was harnessed into a little
four-wheeled wagon, just big enough for the driver to sit in. Another lad, in a two-wheeled
cart, drove a great, curly, shaggy Newfoundland dog. And still another boy drove a small, stocky,
reddish-yellow dog, of no particular breed. This latter dog had erect, prick ears, and a very
surly expression of countenance. His tail was apparently as straight and stiff as a file. He
answered to the name of Gub, and his master to that of Jimmy Stirks.

Then there was an old man with a large, mouse-colored jackass, and another man with a mule.
The mule, however, was ruled out by the judges, on the ground that he had "horse-blood" in him.

All in good time Tom drove in with our "Tige."

At the word "Go" from the judges, there was a mad scratch for it. Men, boys, dogs, cows and
donkey started over the course, in most laughable confusion. Tige barked from pure delight
at the uproar, as he dashed on, swinging his great bushy tail.

The Frenchman with his cow was the popular favorite. Above all the din of the race, the voice
of the little Canadian could be heard screaming, "Mush daw! Mush daw!" as he plied his stick,
and sometimes, "Herret, Jinnay! Herret, twa sacre petite broot!" In the height of the confusion,
the jackass brayed. That was the final touch of fun for the crowd.

Tige might have won, if he had attended to his business; but his delight seemed to be in barking,
and chasing Jinnay. The little yellow "chunked" dog, with the prick ears, on the contrary,
never turned to right or left, but shot like an arrow straight for his mark. How those little
cart-wheels did buzz! And he won the race by eight or ten rods, leaving men, boys, and Jinnay
behind. His owner was a proud boy that afternoon, and a "great man" among his fellows; but
Tom and I were somewhat depressed.

Addison took a premium with his yoke of yearling Durham steers, much to the chagrin of Alfred
Batchelder who had also entered a pair for the prize. Alfred so far lost his temper as to talk
outrageously to Addison upon their way home, on the evening of the third day of the Fair, after
the awards had been announced. He alleged that the Old Squire, being on the stock "committees,"
had given Addison the premium, unjustly. For he thought (although no one else did) that his
steers were the best on the grounds. The charge was a baseless one; for the Old Squire was
not a member of the committee on steers that year, but only on oxen and horses.

A ridiculous accident happened as the people were coming home from the Fair that third night.
There was a great deal to be drawn home; and consequently a very long procession of carts and
wagons was tailing along the road, toward nightfall; also the cows and other cattle which had
been on exhibition. The Edwards family, the Wilburs, as also the Sylvesters and the Batchelders,
were well represented; and not only those from our immediate neighborhood, but others from
various places more remote. All were journeying homeward along the highway beside the lake;
not less than forty teams all told, loaded with every variety of farm produce, also the farmers'
wives and children.

It was very dusty, and horse teams were constantly driving past the slower ox-carts, for some
of the young fellows and a few of the older ones were quite ready to show off the paces of
their nags. After this manner they went on, with here and there two or three teams cutting
in ahead of the slower ones, till the forward teams reached "Wilkins Hill," a long, and in
some places, quite steep ascent in the road about two miles from the Old Squire's.

Near the top of the hill Roscoe Batchelder--an older brother of Alfred--who owned a "fast horse"
and had been driving past most of the other teams on the way home, overtook Willis Murch with
his ox-team, consisting of a yoke of oxen and a yoke of two-year-old steers. Willis had started
quite early from the Fair Grounds and hence, although driving slowly, had secured a long start
of the others. Just at the top of the hill, Roscoe, with a cigar in his mouth, whipped up to
drive past Willis, and feeling fine from some cause or other, cracked his whip at the steers
and gave a wild yell as he dashed past!

This startled the steers, unused to the excitements of the road; they sprang forward with a
jerk which somehow threw out or broke the pin through the "sword" at the forward end of the
cart body. With that the cart tipped up, dumping the entire load into the road behind. Among
other farm produce in the cart were eight or ten huge yellow pumpkins. At the Murch farm they
always raised fine pumpkins and generally carried a few large ones to the Fair. They cultivated
a kind of cheese-shaped pumpkins which often grew two feet in diameter, yellow as old gold.

When these great pumpkins were tipped out they began to roll down the hill. Immediately there
arose a shout of trouble and dismay from the teamsters below. Something very much like a stampede
ensued; for the pumpkins came bounding under the horses and oxen. One cart ran into the ditch
and upset. Alfred Batchelder's prize steers ran away and caught the hook of a chain which they
were dragging, into the wheel of a wagon belonging to the Sylvesters, and upset it. There was
a wreck of all the jelly and other prepared fruits and preserves in it, Mrs. Sylvester being
somewhat noted for her skill in these particulars. It was said that the greatly grieved woman
shed bitter tears, then and there.

Addison was driving our wagon home and had Gram and all the girls in it. He was pretty well
down toward the foot of the hill and hearing the outcry farther up, jumped out and seized old
Sol by the head, to keep him from bolting. In consequence of this prudent manoeuver our folks
came through the tumult uninjured and without damage. One pumpkin came rolling directly down
toward Addison; but by a dextrous kick he turned it aside.

Halstead and I, who were driving oxen and carts, did not fare quite as well; for the team in
advance, belonging to the Edwardses, backed down into us, and our cattle, running out into
the ditch, spilled a part of our loads, including our exhibits of apples and vegetables. Our
case, however, was not as bad as many of our neighbors, some of whom met with considerable
loss. We were occupied an hour or two gathering up the spilled loads.

So much for a youngster with a cigar in his mouth and a glass or two of beer inside him. If
an indignant community could have laid hands on Roscoe Batchelder that night, he would have
fared badly.

Addison and Halse had done a tolerable business with their cake, coffee and fruit stand. They
cleared about seven dollars each above expenses; and Theodora and Ellen received four dollars
apiece for their services as cooks. I was about the only one in the family who had not received
something in the way of premiums and profits. Both my ventures, in the "slow race" and the
"scrub race," had collapsed. The Old Squire laughed at me when he heard of my efforts to capture
prizes, and advised me to try more creditable schemes in future.

CHAPTER XXV

THE WILD ROSE SWEETING

Still another memory goes with that first Cattle Show in Maine--the Wild Rose Sweeting.

Afterwards I came to know that delicious apple well; but it was at the Fair that I first made
its acquaintance. Willis Murch was peddling them, and made the place resound, not unmusically,
with cries of "Wild Rose Sweetings! Straight from the Garden of Eden! The best apple that ever
grew! Only a few left!"--and he was actually asking (and getting) four cents apiece for them.

In some astonishment I drew up to him to see what it could be in the way of an apple to command
such a price and be in such evident demand. They were truly lovely apples to look at, but noticing
that I was still skeptical as to their exceeding merits, Willis kindly gave me one--by way
of removing all doubts. Truth to say, those doubts were at once removed.

The Wild Rose Sweeting, indeed, is really worthy of a biography, its history was so romantic,
its fate so sad. Let me try to be its humble biographer.

As a rule apple-trees that come up wild, bear fruit that is either sour or else bitter-sweet.
All such trees need to be budded, or grafted and cultivated, to be of value to man. It is only
once in a million times that a really good apple comes up as natural fruit.

The value to the world of such a choice apple may be enormous. The Baldwin, for example, which
first appeared growing wild in a Massachusetts town, could hardly be reckoned to-day as worth
less than a hundred millions of dollars. We can bud, graft, cultivate and do much to improve
existent apples; but it is only by chance that we propagate a new one that is really good.

The Wild Rose Sweeting was named by Miss Alice Linderman, a young lady from Philadelphia, who
had come to our northern hill country several years previously in the vain hope of recovery
from advanced pulmonary disease. She named it from the wild-rose tint on one cheek of the apple.

The tree was discovered by Willis, who kept the secret of it to himself as long as he could,
for his own behoof. He was sufficiently generous to give some of the apples to Miss Linderman,
but he demanded a cent apiece from others. He even asked four cents apiece after the fame of
the apples spread abroad.

The year after he discovered the tree Willis carried a bushel to the county fair, and began
peddling them at a cent apiece. Nearly every one who bought an apple came back for more. Willis
raised the price to three and four cents. Presently a gentleman who had bought two came back
and took the last ten in the basket at a dollar!

This fact shows better than any description could what a really luscious apple it was. There
was that in the flavor of it that impelled people to get more.

The Wild Rose Sweeting more nearly resembled the Sweet Harvey than any other apple to which
I can liken it. The flavor was like that of the Sweet Harvey thrice refined, perhaps rather
more like the August or Pear Sweeting; and it melted on the palate like a spoonful of ice-cream.

It will not seem strange to those who know something of the "apple-belt" of New England that
apple-trees, even good ones, should be discovered growing wild in back pastures and secluded
openings in the woods.

Oxford County, Maine, abounds in wild apple-trees. By looking about a little, the farmer there
can readily pick up enough young trees, growing wild, to set an orchard. They spring up everywhere.
For this is one of the world's natural apple regions. North and northeast of the Old Squire's
farm rose wooded hills; and extending back among them was a valley, down which ran a brook,
abounding in trout-holes at the foot of ledges and large rocks.

At one time the land here was cleared, but being stony and rough it had been used for pasture,
and was partly overgrown with bushes. There were thousands of young wild apple-trees here,
scrubby and thorny, where cattle had browsed them.

The boys often went fishing in this brook, spring, summer and fall. Far up the valley, at a
point where the brook flowed over a ledge, there was a well-known hole. Willis Murch was fishing
here one afternoon in the latter part of August, when he saw a red squirrel carrying an apple
in its mouth by the stem, and coming out from some thick young hemlocks that grew along the
west bank of the brook. He was sitting so still that the squirrel ran close up to him; but
when he suddenly thrust out his hand, the animal dropped the apple and scudded away with a
shrill chicker.

The apple rolled close to Willis's feet, and he picked it up. Apples were common enough, but
this one looked so good that he rubbed it on his sleeve and bit it. Then his eyes opened in
surprise, for this was no sour cider-apple, but far and away the best apple he had ever tasted.

"It must grow near here," he said to himself, looking curiously around. "That squirrel didn't
bring it far. The stem is fresh, too. He has just gnawed it off the tree."

Thereupon Willis began searching. He crept into the hemlocks on hands and knees. Presently
he came upon several other gnawed apples; but even with this clue, he was half an hour finding
the tree. There were four or five huge rocks back from the brook among the thick hemlocks.
At last he crawled in past two of these that stood close together, and came upon the apple-tree,
in a little sheltered amphitheater. It was at the foot of another large rock, twelve or fifteen
feet high. A tiny spring oozed out at the foot of the rock; and here this apple-tree had grown
up, unwatched and undiscovered save by the squirrels and birds. The tree was a thrifty one.
The trunk had attained a diameter of six inches; and when Willis found it, there were, he says,
four or five bushels of those delicious Sweetings, now just beginning to ripen. Willis first
ate all he desired, then took off his coat, made a bag of it, and shook down the ripest of
the apples to carry home to his family and the neighboring boys and girls.

"Won't they smack their lips!" he said to himself. "Won't they be up here for more!"

But on the way he took second thought, and craft entered his heart. "I won't tell them where
it is," he said to himself. "Let them hunt. They never will find it." For the place was a mile
and a half or two miles from the nearest farm.

Willis as yet had not thought of selling the apples or making a profit from his discovery;
that idea came into his mind later, after he found how fond every one was of them. But that
night when asked where this tree grew, Willis laughed and said darkly, "Oh, I know!"

Such secretiveness was deemed piggish, and was resented. Several declared that they could and
would find that tree and get every apple on it. Willis laughed and said, "Let me know when you do."

That was the beginning of the long search for "Willis Murch's good tree." First and last, hours,
days and, altogether, weeks of time were spent scouring the pastures, fields and clearings.
Willis was watched constantly, in the hope of tracking him.

Alfred Batchelder lay in wait for days together on a hill overlooking the Murch farm, expecting
to see Willis set out for the tree. At one time Alfred and another boy, named Charles Cross,
had thoughts of waylaying Willis, and extorting the secret from him by threats or torture!

Willis steered clear of them, however, and remained close-mouthed. He had grown very crafty,
and went to the tree by night only, or sometimes early on Sunday mornings, before other people
were astir.

During the August moon of the second season after discovering the tree, he brought home a bushel
of the apples on three different occasions by night; and he now began canvassing among the
farmers who had orchards, to sell scions, to be delivered in May of the following spring. After
eating the apples, not a few signed for them at fifty cents a graft.

It required a fair share of courage on the part of a boy of fifteen to go to the tree by night,
for the distance from Willis's home was fully two miles; and at that time bears and lynxes
frequented the "great pasture."

Willis afterward told the other boys that a bear came out in the path directly ahead of him
one night, as he was hurrying home with a bushel of Wild Rose Sweetings on his shoulder. The
creature sniffed, and Willis shouted to frighten it. He was on the point of throwing down his
apples, to climb a tree in haste, when the bear shambled away.

Willis seems now to have had great designs of selling scions to orchardists and nurserymen
over the whole country. Only a tiny twig, three inches long, is requisite for a scion for grafting
into other trees. The Wild Rose Sweeting tree would produce thousands of such scions. Willis,
who was a Yankee lad by ancestry, resolved to preserve the secret of the tree at all hazards.
He appears to have had dreams of making a fortune from it.

Thus far no one had been able to find the tree, as much from nature's own precaution in hiding
it as from Willis's craft. By the middle of September that autumn he had gathered most of the
apples, when the same chance which had first led his steps to the tree revealed it to the eyes
of his enemies.

For about that time Alfred Batchelder and Charles Cross's brother, Newman, went fishing up
the brook, and in due course arrived at the trout-hole where Willis had sat when he saw the
squirrel. They crept up to the hole, baited and cast in together.

There were no bites immediately; but as they sat there they heard a red squirrel chirr! up
among the thick hemlocks, and presently caught the sound of a low thud on the ground, soon
followed by another and another.

"He's gnawing off apples," said Alfred. "There's an apple-tree among those hemlocks."

Then the two cronies glanced at each other, and the same thought occurred to both. "Who knows!"
exclaimed Newman. "Who knows but what that may be the tree?"

They stopped fishing and began searching. They could still hear the squirrel in the apple-tree,
and the sounds guided them to the little dell among the rocks. There were a few apples remaining
on the tree; and they no sooner saw them than they knew that Willis Murch's famous tree was
found at last.

They were so greatly pleased that they hurrahed and whooped for joy. Then they secured what
apples there were left, ate all they wanted, and filled their pockets with the rest. No more
fishing for them that day. They had found the famous tree, and now were intent on thinking
how they could most humiliate Willis.

Neither of them knew of his grand scheme to sell scions; but it had long provoked their envy
to see him peddling Wild Rose Sweetings at the Fair for four cents apiece. They would find
him now and thrust a pink-cheeked apple under his nose!

But that would not be half satisfaction enough. They wanted to cut him off from his tree forever,
to put it out of his power ever to get another apple from it. Nothing less would appease the
grudge they bore him.

And what those two malicious youths did was to take their jack-knives and girdle that Wild
Rose Sweeting tree close to the ground. They went clear round the tree, cutting away the bark
into the sap-wood; and not content with girdling it once, they went round it three times in
different places.

That done, they went home in great glee, thrust the apples in Willis's face, and bade him look
to his good tree.

"We have found your tree, old Cuffy!" they cried to him. "You never will get any more apples
off that tree!"

Beyond doubt Willis was chagrined. He did not know that they had girdled the tree, but he thought
it not worth the while to go up there again that fall, since there were no more apples. Yet
even if Alfred and Newman had found it, and even if they got the apples next season, he supposed
that he would still be able to cut scions from the tree. Late in March, directly after the
sap started, he went up there with knife and saw to secure them.

Not till then did he discover that the tree had been cruelly girdled, and that the spring sap
had not flowed to the limbs. He cut a bundle of scions, some of which were afterward set as
grafts; but none of them lived. The tree was killed. It never bore again. Nor can I learn that
sprouts ever came up about the root. It was quite dead when I first visited the place.

Thus perished, untimely, the Wild Rose Sweeting. Ignorance and small malice robbed the world
of an apple that might have given delight and benefit to millions of people for centuries to come.

I have sometimes thought that an inscription of the nature of an epitaph should be cut on the
great rock at the foot of which the tree stood.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE OLD SQUIRE ALLOWS US FOUR DAYS FOR CAMPING OUT

So occupied were our minds with the Fair and its incidents, that not one of us had thought
to go or send to the post office during that entire week. We had even passed near it, without
thinking to call.

But on Sunday morning the Old Squire suddenly bethought himself of his religious newspaper,
The Independent, which he commonly read for an hour after breakfast. He called me aside and,
after remarking that he did not make a practice of going, or sending, to the post office on
the Sabbath, said that I might make a trip to the Corners and bring home the mail. As the post
office was at the residence of the postmaster, letters and papers could be taken from the office
on any day or hour of the week.

I went to the Corners, accordingly, and at the door of the post office met Catherine Edwards
who had also come there on a similar errand.

She looked very bright and smart that morning and laughed when she saw me.

"Your folks forgot the mail, too," said she. "Father told me to go down across the meadow,
so that the Old Squire's folks needn't see me, going to the post office; for you know father
stands in great awe of your grandpa's opinions. I shall tell him when I get home that he needn't
have been so cautious."

Kate did not hasten away; and I summoned courage to say, "Please wait for me," although it
cost me a great effort.

"All right," she replied. "I'll go on slow."

The postmaster had again to look up his glasses and was, I thought, a long while peering at
the letters and papers. At length he handed out my package and I hurried away. Kate had not
proceeded very far, however, and I soon overtook her. But she was obliged to take the lead
in conversation.

"Our school doesn't begin this winter till after Thanksgiving," she remarked. "Have your folks
heard who the schoolmaster is going to be?"

We had not.

"Well then, it is a young man, named Samuel Lurvy," said Kate. "He lives at Lurvy's Mills;
and they say that his father, who owns the mills, has sent him for three terms to the Academy.
Mr. Batchelder is our district school agent, you know; and his wife is a relative of the Lurvys;
that's the reason, father says, that he came to hire Sam. Our folks are a little surprised
and so are the Wilburs; for this Sam isn't more than nineteen or twenty years old; and mother
says that she doesn't believe that he can be a very good scholar, for his parents are very
ignorant.

"I was in hopes that they would have a good teacher this winter; for I want to make a start
in Algebra," Kate continued. "I suppose you are nicely along in your studies. They must have
better schools at Philadelphia than we do, away back here in the country."

It appeared, however, that whatever advantages I might have had in this respect, I was yet
not as far advanced in Arithmetic as Kate; nor yet in any other branch. I had barely reached
Compound Interest, while Kate had finished her Practical Arithmetic the previous winter.

"I could do all the examples in it when school was done last winter," she said. "I reviewed
it once this summer, under Miss Emmons; I think like as not I might trip on some of them now.
But I know that Theodora can do them all. She is a little older than I am; and she is a real
good scholar, though I don't think that she is quite so good as Addison. He is different, somehow;
he knows lots about everything and can talk real interesting with the teachers, in the classes.
I know he is hoping we will have a good teacher, so he can finish up all his common school
studies. You tell him that we are going to have Sam Lurvy, and see what he thinks about it.

"But it will be a long time before school begins," Kate continued, "nearly two months. We only
have about nineteen weeks of school in a year here."

By this time we had reached the meadow where the bridge spanned the meadow brook.

"Go easy on the bridge and look off the lower end of it," Kate advised. "We may see a big trout."

We did so and saw several trout, swimming away, but not very large ones.

"Well, I guess I shall go up the meadow and across the fields home," remarked Kate. "It is
nearer for me; and it is a little nearer for you; but perhaps you would rather go by the road,
seeing it is Sunday."

"I had rather go with you up the meadow," I said, but I felt somewhat abashed; and it seemed
to me very bold to take such a long walk through meadow, pasture and fields, with a girl, alone,
of about my own age, and not a cousin.

We proceeded up the meadow, following the meanderings of the brook, past numerous bush clumps.
At length, we drew near a large bend where the brook looked to be both wide and deep. "This
is the best trout hole on the meadow," Kate told me in a low tone. "Just wait a moment and
keep back out of sight, while I catch a grasshopper." She hunted about in the dry grass, alternately
stealing forward on tip-toe, then making a quick dash and pressing her hand suddenly on the
grass. "I've got two," she said, coming cautiously forward. "Now creep up still to that little
bunch of basswood bushes, on the edge of the bank. Get down low and crawl and don't jar the
ground. I'm going to throw in a grasshopper. Oh dear me, look at the 'molasses' the nasty thing
has put on my hand!"

Kate threw the grasshopper into the pool at the bend; and it seemed to me that it had barely
touched the water, when flop rose a fine trout and snatched it.

"Oh, if it wasn't Sunday and we had a hook here to put this other grasshopper on," said Kate
eagerly, "wouldn't it be fun to haul that trout out here!

"I caught ten here one day last June," she continued. "Oh, I do love to fish!--Do you think
it is very horrid for girls to fish?" she asked suddenly.

"Girls don't fish as much as boys, but I didn't know there was any harm in it," I said.

"I'm glad you don't think it isn't nice," said Kate. "Tom is always hectoring me about it.
I sometimes catch more than he does; and I think that is the reason he wants to plague me."

"But we must go away from here!" Kate exclaimed. "For I don't think it is quite right to want
to fish so badly, on Sunday. I think it is as bad to want to catch a fish as to catch one,
or almost as bad."

This being our moral condition, we veered off from the brook a little; and Kate pointed out
to me a bank of choke-cherry bushes, from which we gathered a few cherries, not very good ones.

"It isn't a good cherry year," said Kate. "Last year was. We got splendid ones off these same
bushes, last September."

Kate also pointed out to me some small bird pear trees, growing beside an old hedge fence across
the upper end of the meadow, where we climbed over and going through a tract of sparse woodland
entered the pasture below the Old Squire's south field.

"Oh, I do love to be out in the woods and pastures on a bright pleasant day like this!" exclaimed
Kate, with a long breath of enjoyment. "I wish I could camp out and be out of doors all the
fall. That makes me think, has Addison or Dora said anything to you about our making a trip
to the 'great woods' this fall, after the apples are picked?"

"I have heard Addison say that he would like to go," said I. "And Theodora said that they had
talked of making a camping trip once. But I haven't heard anything about it lately."

"Oh dear, I'm afraid they will all give it up," said Kate. "There is a place away up in the
woods where there is a nice chance to camp. Tom was up there once. It is quite a good ways.
We should have to camp out over night. Wouldn't that be fun? There's a brook up there full
of fish, they say; and there are partridges and lots of game. My folks will let Tom and me
go, if Theodora and Ellen and Addison go. Mother thinks Dora is the nicest girl there ever
was about here; she holds her up as a pattern for me, regularly. But I happen to know that
Dora enjoys having a good time, as much as I do.

"Now you put them up to go," Kate added, as we came to the west field bars, where our ways
homeward diverged. "Good-by. I've had a real nice walk."

It was certainly very polite for her to say that; for she had been obliged to do nearly all
the talking.

Addison and Theodora were standing out near the bee hives and saw me coming across the field
to the house. A great and embarrassing fear fell upon me, as I saw them observing my approach.
Even now, Catherine was still in sight, at a distance, crossing Mr. Edwards' field. My two
cousins had been waiting about for me to bring The Portland Transcript and The Boston Weekly
Journal, which they read very constantly in those days.

"Aha! aha!" exclaimed Addison, significantly. "Seems to me that you have been gone a long time
after the mail!"

"And who is that young lady we saw you taking leave of, over at the bars?" put in Theodora.

A very small hole would have sufficed for me to creep into at about that time!

"See how red he is," hectored Addison. "We've found him out. I had no idea he was any such
boy as this!"

"Dear me, no," said Theodora, pretending to be vastly scandalized. "Just see how bold he behaves!
I never would have thought it of him!" Thus they tormented me, winking confidentially to each
other; and an eel being skinned alive for the frying-pan would not have suffered more than
I did from their gibes.

For a number of days after the Fair, we found it difficult to settle down to farm work, so
greatly had it interrupted the ordinary course of events. When we did get to work again, our
first task was to pick the winter apples, the Baldwins and Greenings, and barrel them, for
market. Gramp did not allow these apples to be shaken off the trees; they must all be hand-picked,
then carefully sorted up and the first layers placed in the barrels in rows around the bottom.
Baldwins and Greenings, thus barrelled, will keep sound till the following March; but if care
be not used and apples which have fallen from the trees be put in, the barrel of fruit may
wholly decay before February.

It was pleasant, but tiresome work, climbing to the top of the great trees, holding on with
one hand and picking apples with the other. We were well provided with "horses," ladders and
hooks, however, and in four days, picked and put up one hundred and thirty barrels. Lest some
farmer's son well versed in this kind of work, be inclined to think my story large, I may explain
that there were six of us, including the two Doanes and the Old Squire; and I must also add
that the girls helped us at the sorting and barrelling.

The fact was, that we were all working with good will; for Addison had taken opportunity to
ask the Old Squire and Gram about making that excursion to the "great woods;" and although
the latter had not yet consented to allow Theodora and Ellen to go, Gramp had said that we
boys might have four days, after the apples were picked. Addison had told me about it, but
had said nothing to Halstead, for he had expressly stipulated with the old gentleman, that
Halse should not be allowed to accompany us.

Addison's plan to exclude Halse disturbed Theodora, however; she thought it was wrong to treat
him in that manner, even if we did not like his ways. Addison, however, declared that we would
be sure to have trouble, if Halstead went, he was so headstrong and bad-tempered. We had several
very earnest private discussions of the matter. Addison would not yield the point; he would
as lief not go, he said, as to go with Halse.

Thomas and Catherine Edwards, and Willis Murch, had been advised of the proposed expedition
and asked to go. We should thus make a party of seven, Addison urged, and would have a fine
time; for the Edwards young folks and Willis were good-tempered and intelligent, with tastes
much like our own. Ned Wilbur had been invited, but declined, having to choose between this
trip and a long promised visit to some friends, in another county.

The matter was pending all the time we were gathering apples. Theodora even argued for Halstead
with Gramp; but Addison stood in well with the old gentleman; he declared that he wished and
needed to take a gun with us, and that he, for one, did not dare go out with Halse, if the
latter had a gun; nor did he believe that any of us would be safe, if Halse had the handling
of one.

Unfortunately there was only too much truth in this latter argument. Theodora then urged that
Halse might be allowed to go and made to promise in advance not to take up the gun at all while
we were gone. Addison retorted that those might trust his promises who wished, but that he
would not.

Wealthy, whom grandmother judged too young to go, at length told Halstead of the proposed trip
and informed him that he, at least, would have to stay at home with her. Thereupon Halstead
began to question me in our room at night about the trip. I told him bluntly that Gramp did
not think it prudent for him to go, lest he should make trouble.

"So I've got to stay at home and work!" he exclaimed bitterly.

"Well, you might behave better when you are out, then," I said. "It's your own fault."

"What have I done?" he exclaimed.

"Picked a quarrel with 'Enoch' on Fourth o' July," said I, to refresh his memory.

"I don't care; he stoned me!" Halse exclaimed.

"But you began the fuss," I put in.

"Oh, you say that because Ad does. You and he are about alike!" cried Halse, angrily.

"Then there was town-meeting night," I went on to say. "I think you came home intoxicated that
night; I think you had been gambling, too."

"You say that again and I'll thrash you!" exclaimed Halse, now very hot.

"Well, I think so, or I shouldn't say it," I repeated.

In an instant Halse was upon me, as I sat on the side of our bed, and there was an unseemly
scuffle. Halse was the larger, and I think that I would have gotten the worst of the squabble,
but at this juncture, Addison, hearing the racket, rushed in from his room and pulled us apart.

"Who began this row?" quoth our separator.

"I did, and I'll thrash him!" shouted Halse. "He said I was drunk town-meeting night."

"Well, you were," said Addison. "We all know that."

Halse then tried to throw a boot at Addison who set him down violently in a chair.

"Do you know what I would do with you, if I were in the Old Squire's place?" cried Addison.
"I would put you at the Reform School, you little rowdy!"

Up jumped Halse to seize the other boot to throw, but was set down again, this time so hard
that the whole room shook. He sat panting a moment, then began to whimper. Theodora came to
the door.

"Oh, boys," said she in a low voice, "please don't. Do try not to disturb Gramp to-night; he
is very tired and has just gone to bed."

I suppose that we all felt ashamed of ourselves. I did; for I knew that I had been somewhat
to blame, to provoke Halstead so far. We fell asleep in anything but a kindly mood toward each
other; I had remained awake till Halse was snoring, being a little afraid of him, to tell the
truth. Even after he was asleep, he kept starting and muttering, he had become so much excited.

But for this incident I think that Theodora would have won her way, and Halse would have been
invited to go; she was very persevering, to carry her point, when she thought a thing was right.

But now we were so embittered that Halstead declared next morning he would not go with us,
if we asked him.

"But you will all be sorry for this before you get back!" he blurted out;--words which made
me feel uneasy, for they seemed to imply a threat of some sort. I said nothing about it, however,
not believing that he really would do anything.

That afternoon we finished picking the apples; and the Old Squire said that the hired men could
gather up those on the ground, for home use, subsequently. Since we were going on a trip, he
thought that we had better go at once, before the weather turned colder. The fact was, that
Ad had succeeded in interesting Gramp in the trip. The old gentleman owned a number of lots
of wild land, up in the "great woods." There had been stories that there was silver in some
of the mountains there; Addison often talked about finding mines; and as he already knew quite
a good deal about the different kinds of rocks and ores, the Old Squire thought that he might
possibly discover something of value.

That evening we were busy with our preparations for the trip; and I do not remember seeing
Halstead at all; Catherine and Tom Edwards came over, and Willis Murch a little later, to ask
about taking his gun. Addison thought that one gun would be enough to carry; for we found out,
as every camping party does, that our luggage would prove burdensome and must be reduced to
the least possible weight. We wanted to take, in addition to four "comforters" and two blankets,
only what things we could pack in two common bushel baskets which are convenient to carry,
either on one's shoulder, or for two persons where one lends a hand at either ear of the basket.
In one basket we packed our tinware, frying-pan, tin dippers, plates, etc., along with four
or five loaves of bread, sugar, coffee, salt, pepper, etc., and four dozen eggs. In the other
was stowed potatoes, pork, a little bag of coarse corn meal for mush, butter and a score other
little articles that are often forgotten at the start and sadly missed later on. Finally on
top of each basket was strapped the comforters and blankets.

It being past the middle of October, when frosty nights might be expected, we all wore thick
winter clothing and strong boots.

Gram had at last consented to allow Ellen and Theodora to go, although it must be said that
such a jaunt was not at all to the dear old lady's taste, and violated many of her traditions
of what girls should do.

There were none too many hours passed in sleep by any of us that night, I feel sure; for we
did not finish our preparations and packing, till towards midnight; and Addison waked us promptly
at five o'clock. When he came to my door to call me, Halse waked up and lay scowling, as I
dressed by the light of a candle. "You feel mighty smart, don't ye?" he said at length. I did
not blame him much for being out of sorts, and so did not reply.

"I hope it will rain every day you are gone!" he exclaimed. "I hope the 'Cannucks' will rob ye!"

There were rumors concerning parties of Canadian outlaws that were thought to infest the "great
woods," or at least to pass through it and rendezvous somewhere in its recesses, on their way
to and from Canada. Hence the name of Cannucks.

CHAPTER XXVII

AT THE OLD SLAVE'S FARM

We had breakfast at six; and then Asa Doane hitched up old Sol and Nancy to the farm wagon
on which we loaded our outfit and set off to take up our friends, Thomas and Kate, also Willis
Murch. We were to have four days, five, including Sunday (for this was Thursday); Gramp expressly
stipulated, however, that we should remain quiet in our camp over the Sabbath.

"Now, boys," said the old gentleman, coming out to see us off, "be prudent and careful, avoid
rash encounters with man or beast.

"Addison," he continued in a lower voice, "I shall expect you to see that everything goes right."

Gram's instructions to the girls had been given already and many times repeated. We drove off
in high spirits; and the old folks stood looking after us. Happening to cast a glance to the
upper windows of the house, I saw Halstead's face, with so black a frown on it, that I experienced
a sudden foreboding.

But the beauty of the early autumnal morning, and the exaltation which we all felt at starting
out for a holiday, soon dispelled other thoughts.

We had, as I now think, done wrong to exclude Halse; but it was a choice of evils. His disposition
was so peculiar, that we should most likely have had trouble, if he had gone with us; and yet
in leaving him behind, we were prompting him to some bad act on account of the slight.

Thomas and Kate were waiting for us by the roadside and, after a joyous greeting, climbed into
the wagon; we then drove on to take up Willis, whom we found equally on the alert. Each made
contributions to the common stock of provisions and outfit.

Half a mile above the Murch farm, the road entered the borders of the "great woods," and immediately
became little better than a trail, rather rough and bushy; yet a well-marked track extended
for five miles into the forest, as far as Clear Pond from the shores of which pine lumber had
been drawn out two years previously. From the pond a less well trodden trail led on over a
high ridge of forest land, to the northwest, for three miles, then descended into a heavily
timbered valley, to an old log structure known as "the skedaddlers' fort."

From "the skedaddlers' fort," there was still the faint trace of a path through the woods,
for two miles further, to the banks of Lurvy's Stream.

Thence the path continued along the bank of this large brook, for four or five miles, then
crossed it at a sandy ford, to a large opening in the forest, partly natural meadow and partly
cleared, called "the old slave's farm," where there were two deserted log cabins.

Years before, a negro, said to have been a slave who had escaped from one of the Southern States
and was fleeing to Canada, settled in the woods here by the stream, thinking perhaps that he
had reached Canada already. He cleared land, subsisted somehow, and made for himself a considerable
farm upon the naturally open intervale. He lived here alone for many years, seen at times by
passing lumbermen, or hunters. Some ludicrous stories are told of the fright which the sight
of a jet black man gave inexperienced whites who chanced to stumble upon him suddenly and alone
in the woods! There were certain ignorant persons who always considered this poor, lonely outcast
as being a near relative of "old Nick."

During the Civil War he disappeared from his "farm" and may have returned to the South, being
no longer in fear of bondage. A little cabin of hewn logs had sufficed him for a house and
a few yards distant another cabin gave shelter to his poultry and cow. These cabins having
stood unoccupied for many years in snow and rain, had bleached themselves into cleanliness,
and were not unfit to camp in for a few days. It was here that we had decided to make our headquarters,
while exploring the streams and forest adjacent.

We had taken an ax as well as a gun; and by stopping to clear an occasional windfall from the
old road and going slowly over the logs, stones and holes, the horses took us up to Clear Pond
in about two hours.

The deciduous trees were now nearly bare, save here and there a beech or a deep purple ash.
The golden red foliage of the sugar maples and the yellow birches lay rustling under foot.

The woods looked light and open since the leaves had fallen. Only the hemlocks and spruces
retained their somber density, with a few firs in the swamps and here and there a lofty pine
on the mountain sides. All the summer birds had gone already; but a few red-headed woodpeckers
were still tapping decayed tree trunks; and numerous jays made the woodland resound to their
varied outcries, first shrill and obstreperous, then plaintive. Far up a hillside of poplar,
a horde of crows were clamoring over some corvine scandal, perhaps.

It was a sylvan, but wholly lonely scene, save for the partridges rising, after every few rods,
from the path in rapid whirring flight, or standing still for a moment with sharply nodding
heads and a quick, short note of alarm, ere taking wing.

Willis, walking ahead with his gun, soon startled us with its near report, adding a fine speckled
cock to our prospective larder; erelong he shot another and still another. These fine birds
were very plenty in the borders of the "great woods."

On reaching Clear Pond, we were obliged to say good-by to our team. The wagon could go no further;
for here the more recent lumber road terminated, the trail beyond being older and much obstructed
by fallen trees.

Then began the real labor of carrying our baskets. Addison and I led off with one basket and
the ax; while Tom and Willis followed with the other. The girls came on at leisure, in the
rear; they were seeing a great deal that was novel in the woods; and having but light loads,
they could enjoy it better than we boys who were carrying the bushel baskets.

Going up the side of the wooded ridge, a pine marten was espied in full chase after a red squirrel,
up and down the trunk of a spruce.

"What a specimen he would make to mount!" Addison exclaimed, and dropping his "ear" of our
basket, unslung his gun and ran forward to get a shot; but the shy creature vanished in time
to save its life, through the thick tops of the adjacent trees. Near the top of the ridge,
he fired at a red-tailed hawk which had alighted on the top of a pine stub; the distance was
too great, however, and the hawk sailed away placidly.

After crossing the ridge, the path led us through denser, darker woods. A large animal which
Willis thought to be a bear, but Addison and Thomas deemed more likely to be a deer, was heard
to run away through a copse of cedar, a little in advance of us. We passed some very large
swamp elms here and several basswoods fully four feet in diameter.

At length, a few minutes before twelve o'clock, by the old silver watch (which Kate had brought
from home to keep time for us during the trip) we came out at the "skedaddlers' fort," where
we had planned to stop for lunch and make a pot of coffee. This was the first time I had heard
of this old structure, thus singularly named. But Willis, Thomas and Kate knew its history;
Addison and our girls had also heard accounts of it.

It stood in the midst of a little opening--now overgrown again--made by felling the great bass,
hemlock, and spruce trees, of which its log walls were built. In length, it may have been forty
feet, by about twenty-five in width. It was substantially roofed with logs and "splits" covered
with gravel. There were little ports, six or eight inches square, at intervals in the walls,
at a height of six or seven feet from the ground, and one heavy door, or gate, of hewn plank,
five or six inches thick. The little brook in the valley flows beneath one corner of the building,
ensuring water to those who may have dwelt within.

This log structure, suggestive both of warfare and refugee life, was a great puzzle to a party
of city young men who not many years ago penetrated these forest solitudes, on a hunting excursion.
They concluded that it was built at a time when defense against the Indians was necessary.
A writer for a New York magazine, who seems to have stumbled on this old "block-house," as
he calls it, also came to the conclusion that it was a relic of early border warfare.

It is nothing of the sort, however, and instead of being a hundred years old, it is less than
fifty. The city visitors did not make proper allowance for the rapidity with which, in a damp,
dense forest, everything made of wood becomes moss-grown and decays.

During the Civil War, there was a class of so-called "skedaddlers;" fellows undeserving the
name of citizens, who, when the Republic called for their services, ran away to Canada, or,
gaining some remote covert in the forest, defied the few officials who could be spared from
the front, to enforce law at home. But to the honor of our people it can be truthfully said,
that these weak-hearts were comparatively few in number. Such there were, however; and to a
party of them the "skedaddlers' fort" owes its existence. It was built at about the time the
first "draft" of men was ordered in 1862. There were two or three leading spirits, and altogether
a gang of eighteen or twenty men banded together in that vicinity to elude the enrollment.
They "skedaddled" one night--that was the time this ugly word originated--and took refuge in
the woods with their guns; and not long after, it is supposed, they built this log fortalice
in the depths of the wilderness.

In the dubious state of public feeling at that time, the people of the county did not say much,
directly, about the skedaddlers. No one, not of the gang, knew who or how many were at the
fort. At one time it was rumored that there were a hundred armed men in the woods, probably
an exaggeration. Several farmers lost young cattle, which it was supposed were stolen to supply
food for the fort. One story was, that a number of cows had been driven into the woods, to
furnish a supply of milk. It is hardly probable that these men could have been so ignorant
as to think that they would be able to resist the power of the government, if official action
were taken against them, although the fact of their building a fort gave color to such a supposition.
The wildest boasts were made, indirectly, through sympathizers with them. Ten thousand troops,
it was asserted, could not drive them out of the woods! The skedaddlers, it was said, were
about to set up a new State there in the wild lands and declare themselves free of the United
States! Another threat was that they would get "set off" and join Canada. If a Federal soldier
showed his blue coat in those woods (so rumor said), he would suddenly meet a fate so strange
that nobody could describe it!

Some months passed, when a boy named Samuel Murch--an older brother of Willis and Ben--who
trapped in the woods every fall, discovered the fort one day and reconnoitered it. He had followed
a cow's tracks up from the cleared land. Several men were seen by him about the stockade, and
there was a large camp-fire burning outside, with kettles hanging from a pole over it.

Every two or three days thereafter, Sam Murch, as he trapped, would go around for a sly peep
at the "fort;" and he kept people informed as to appearances there.

It chanced that in October, that fall, a young volunteer, named Adney Deering, came home on
a furlough. He had been wounded slightly in the leg, by a fragment of shell.

Adney, who was a bright, handsome young fellow, then in his twentieth year, looked very spruce
in his blue uniform. He was brimful of patriotism and gave graphic accounts of battles, with
warlike ardor. When he heard of the "skedaddlers" and their fort, he expressed the greatest
indignation and contempt for them. At a husking party one evening, several of the young men
proposed that Adney should go with them on a deer hunt in the "great woods," before he went
back to his regiment. Someone then remarked that, if he went, he had better not wear his uniform,
as threats had been made of shooting the first soldier who showed his head in the woods. This
aroused Adney's ire. "Let them shoot!" he exclaimed. "I will wear my uniform anywhere I choose
to go! I will go all through those woods and walk right up to the door of their 'fort!'"

Several of the older men then advised him not to go near the "fort."

"Pooh!" cried Adney. "I used to know many of those fellows. They are a set of cowards. Ten
to one, they wouldn't dare fire at a soldier!"

Others who were present thought they would dare; and Adney became excited. "It is a disgrace,"
he exclaimed, "that those skulkers are allowed to harbor there!" And he offered to wager that
he could take six soldiers and drive them out, without firing a single cartridge.

One or two of his friends laughed at this boast, which so exasperated Adney that he instantly
declared that he could drive them out alone. All laughed still more heartily at that. The laughter
only stimulated Adney to make good his rather loud boast, if possible; and the result was,
that he hit on the following stratagem for routing the "skedaddlers." There was no lack of
drums in the neighborhood, for in those days the boys, who were not old enough to volunteer,
had fond dreams of going to the War as drummer-boys. Adney went about privately next morning
with Sam Murch and induced three or four young fellows to take drums and go with him into the
woods that afternoon. Under Sam's lead the little party arrived in the vicinity of the "fort,"
shortly before nightfall. Adney then stationed one of the boys with his drum at a point to
the northeast of the log fortress, at a distance of about half a mile from it, in the thick
woods. Another was posted farther around to the north; and still another to the northwest.

Adney's orders to them all were to keep quiet at their posts until they heard him fire a gun.
Then all three were to beat the "long roll," then a quickstep; in fact, they were to make all
the drum-racket they could, as if a number of companies, or regiments, were advancing on the
fort from all quarters, except the south.

Adney himself went down near the fort, just at dusk, and contrived to give the inmates a glimpse
of his figure in his army blue--as if he were a spy, reconnoitering the place. He then withdrew,
and ten or fifteen minutes later, fired off his gun, when at once from three different points,
in the darkening forest, there burst forth the roll of drums, Adney calling out in military
accents, "Steady! Close up! Forward! Forward!"

The result showed that the young soldier's estimate of the valor of the skedaddlers was a perfectly
correct one. For no sooner did they hear the roll of drums, than, fancying that they were being
surrounded by a force of soldiers, they deserted their fort and skedaddled again, out through
the woods on the south side. From the stories they afterward told, it is pretty clear that
they did some remarkable running that night, and were about as badly frightened as they could
be. Six or seven of them kept to the woods and made their way into Canada, where they lived
till after the close of the War. One, the "Lieutenant" of the gang, ran home--as his wife told
the story--and hid under a pile of old straw in the back yard. Several others were known by
their neighbors to be lurking at their homes, keeping in cellars and chambers, during the following
week. In short, this well-planned "attack" of Adney's broke up their rendezvous in the "great
woods," and the fort was never occupied afterwards. The young soldier, who had approached near
enough to witness the stampede, bivouacked his small drum-corps there that night very comfortably,
and marched home in triumph next morning. The affair created much merriment and many jokes;
and the moral would seem to be, that a fellow who will sneak off when his country calls for
his services, is never a person to be feared as a warrior.

It was not a very pleasant place to linger in; and directly after we had taken our luncheon,
we resumed our journey along the old trail, having a hard jaunt before us (as Addison well
knew) to reach the "old slave's farm" before nightfall. There were a great many windfalls across
the trail from the "fort," to the stream; we were an hour at least making the two miles, and
the path along the bank was even worse, for freshets had lodged great quantities of drift stuff
on the flats, so that, at last, we abandoned the trail altogether and took to the less obstructed
woods, a little back from the banks.

The stream is a pretty one, being here not above forty or fifty feet in width, running over
a sandy bed, sometimes pebbles, and again bending around in a deep pool where there are trout
of good size, or at least were then.

It seemed a very long way to the opening; the girls were becoming tired; and we boys with the
baskets had quite enough of it, long before we reached the ford which Addison and Thomas, who
had been here before, remembered to be near two very tall pines. Several times we feared that
we must have passed it; but finally, at about four o'clock, the great bushy opening on the
other side of the stream came in view. Immediately then Addison saw the pines, and taking off
our boots and stockings, we all walked across on a sandy bar over which the water ran in a
shallow, being nowhere over a foot deep. It was quite cold, however, so that we were glad to
replace socks and boots, after crossing.

The old slave's cabins stood about two hundred yards from the brook and, as above described,
were situated some twenty yards apart. The land about them had been cleared at one time and
put into grass, or corn. But low clumps of hazel-nut bushes were now growing around the cabins.
About a year previously a party of deer hunters had camped here for a few days and, thinking
the cabins snug and pleasant, had cleared them out nicely and built bunks in them to sleep
in. We found the remains of their old couches of fir boughs still in the bunks. Their camp-fire
had been made in the open space, midway between the two cabins; and they had constructed a
species of stone fireplace for setting their kettles in.

"Here we are!" Addison exclaimed, as we set down our baskets. "What say to this for a camping-place,
girls!"

"Oh, this is jolly!" cried Kate. "And won't it be nice, Doad, we girls can have a whole cabin
all to ourselves! Now which one can we have?"

"You are privileged to take your choice," replied Addison. "Take the one you like best."

The girls went peeping into each, to examine them well, and were in doubt for some moments.
In fact, there was not much to choose betwixt the two.

At length, Kate announced that they would have the one "the old slave" lived in, himself.

"No doubt he spent many a lonesome hour there," said Theodora. "I should like to know his history."

"That's what nobody can find out," said Tom. "But I am glad he lived here and left his hut
for us to camp in."

We sat on the grassy sward of the old yard and rested for some minutes, then began our preparations
for supper.

"Now we must all fall to with a will," said Addison. "It is a job to get things fixed up nice
for night."

"Addison, you be captain and tell us each what to do," suggested Kate. "We will all obey and
work like good soldiers;--for we all want some supper, I guess."

"Well, then," said Addison, "what do you want for your supper?"

"Poached eggs on toast!" cried Ellen.

"I think some of those partridges would go well," said Kate.

"Would it take long to fricassee them?" Addison asked.

"Oh, not very long," said Theodora.

"I can dress them off in ten minutes," said Willis, "if you don't insist on their being picked
and will let me skin them instead; for I can take their skins off, feathers and all, in just
one minute apiece."

"Go ahead," exclaimed Addison; "Tom, get dry wood from that drift-heap down by the brook and
build a nice camp-fire; and Kate, you and Doad unpack the baskets and get the coffee-pot, tin
kettle and frying-pan ready. While you are doing that, the rest of us can throw out those old
yellow boughs from the bunks, then cut new ones and make the bunks all up sweet and fresh for
night; and after that we will drag up a lot of wood for our camp-fire, through the evening."

"Shall we not keep a camp-fire burning all night?" Theodora asked.

"Oh, yes! let's not let the fire go out!" cried Ellen. "We're a dreadful ways from home, up
here in the great woods! How many miles have we come, Ad?"

"About seventeen miles, all told."

"Yes; do let's have a good roaring fire all night," said Kate.

It quite frightened the girls to think how far they were from home, in the forest, now that
the sun began to sink behind the tree tops.

"All right!" laughed Addison. "Gather lots of wood. It will take piles of it to burn all night."

But Theodora made a discovery which gave them a good deal of comfort.

"We've got a door to our cabin!" she called out from inside it. "Quite a good door. See," she
said, swinging it. "We can shut our cabin up, just like any house, and fasten it, too. Here's
a great button on the door-post. Nothing can get in to hurt us after we shut and button our
door. Have you got any door to your cabin?"

Investigation of our cabin disclosed no door. There was a button on the door-post; but the
door had been removed.

The girls laughed at us. "A fine house you've got!" said Kate. "No door! You will be carried
off before morning by a panther."

"Never mind us," replied Addison. "Fasten up your own door, snug and tight."

"When we get ready to go to bed," said Willis, "we will turn our button; I guess that will
answer for us.

"But I've got the partridges all dressed," he continued, "and I'm going to cut them up and
put them into the tin kettle, to parboil, and then, when they are partly cooked, you can put
them into the frying-pan, if you like."

"Can't you thicken up some kind of a flour and butter gravy to go with those partridges, Kate?"
said Tom.

"Why, bless you, Thomas, there's no flour!" replied his sister.

"I think I could use Indian meal instead of flour," said Theodora, "though I wouldn't promise
it would be as good, since it might taste a little coarse."

"Well, try it, anyway," said Tom; "for I like that kind of a gravy first rate."

"Oh, it just makes me laugh to hear boys talk about cooking," exclaimed Kate. "They do have
such droll ideas!"

"Well, I know what I like," said Tom; "and I wouldn't give much for a girl that cannot make
a gravy."

"Oh, the nice, agreeable boy! So he should have his gravy on his partridge," teased Kate.

"I've too much regard for the reputation of our family to quarrel with my sister before folks,"
laughed Thomas. "She's an awful provoking thing, though!"

"Oh, the dear boy!" retorted Kate.

"Somebody give me some cold water to hold in my mouth," groaned Tom. "She must have the last
word, anyway."

That was quite a common kind of encounter between Tom and his sister Kate; yet I never saw
brother and sister more attached to each other. Only about a year and a half younger than her
brother, Kate was a match for him in about everything and rather more than a match in repartee.

Meantime Theodora was toasting some squares of bread to put in the partridge fricassee, and
looking about for a dish to manufacture Tom's butter and meal gravy in.

There was a copse of little firs, standing about a low, wet piece of ground, a few hundred
feet away. To these we had recourse for the material to fill the bunks.

Thomas having collected a woodpile of good proportions, proceeded to put on fourteen potatoes
to boil, reckoning two for each member of the party; and as the partridges were boiling briskly,
fast progressing to the cooked condition, Catherine made coffee. It was agreed, however, that
after that evening, we were to take coffee but once per day; and everybody voted to have it
in the morning.

Addison now busied himself devising a "table;" and in this matter he was assisted by the labors
of the previous party of deer-hunters who had left a large board behind them, to be set on
forked stakes, driven into the ground; there were also two rough benches for seats.

It was not till after dusk had fairly settled over the wilderness that our supper was pronounced
ready by the many cooks who had taken a hand in its preparation. The camp-fire was replenished,
so that a genial glow and plenty of light was diffused about; and then our meal began. We had
the three partridges quite well cooked; and Thomas had his dear gravy. There were boiled potatoes
and some pork, fried crisp, to suit Willis; also boiled eggs for all and plenty of toasted
bread with butter. Kate had also brought a lot of "cookies," which went well with coffee.

Addison sat at one end of the table and dished out the partridges. Theodora presided over the
coffee; and Ellen and Kate looked after the toast. The long jaunt had given us fine appetites
and we cleared the rude board of the eatables, enjoying it as only a hungry party of campers,
who have had their own supper to get and have waited an hour or two for it to cook, can enjoy
such a meal.

Dishes had then to be picked up, and water brought and heated; for dishes must needs be washed.

"Oh dear!" sighed Ellen. "I did hope I could get to a place once where there were no dishes
to be washed. I always have it to do at home."

"You've got to that place!" exclaimed Thomas. "I'll wash them, if you girls will agree to eat
off them next meal and find no fault."

"I'll wipe them if Tom'll wash them!" cried Willis. "'Tis tough for girls always to have to
wash dishes."

"I agree to find no fault for one," said Ellen.

"We might do as they are said to do in the lumbering camps," remarked Addison; "that is to
eat off the same plates without washing, till we forget what we ate off them last."

"I object to such a plan as that!" cried Theodora. "I would rather wash them all, myself."

Tom and Willis washed the dishes that night, however; and the girls sat back on their bench
and smiled and pinched each other, to see the performance.

By the time the dishes question was disposed of and everything had been tidied up and the fire
once more attended to, the darkness of an October night had fallen. Everything outside the
circle of our firelight was veiled in obscurity. There was no moon and it was a little cloudy,
at least, the stars did not seem to show much. Very soon as we sat on our benches in front
of the girls' cabin, we began to hear various wild notes from the great somber forest about us.

"What is that kind of plaintive cry that I hear now and then near the stream?" Theodora asked.
"It's like the word seet! I have heard it several times since dark, once or twice back of the
cabins, and now out there by the two pines."

"That? Oh, that is the night note of a little mouse-catching owl," said Addison. "Some term
it the saw-whet owl, I believe. There are numbers of these little fellows about at night, in
these woods. They catch lots of woods mice and such small birds as chickadees."

"But hark! what was that strange, lonesome, hollow cry?" said Ellen, as an outcry at a distance,
came wafted on the still air.

"Oh, that's a raccoon," said Tom. "He's trying to attract the notice of some other 'coon. You'll
hear him for fifteen or twenty minutes now, every minute or so."

"They came into our corn-field last year," said Willis. "We heard them every night, calling
to each other. I set a trap, but never could get any of them into it."

Willis went on to relate several raccoon stories which his older brothers had told him. "Hullo!"
he suddenly interrupted himself. "Hear that? away off up there by the foot of the mountain?"

"I know what that was," said Tom. "That was a screamer."

"What is a 'screamer?'" Theodora asked.

"Oh, it's a kind of wild-cat," replied Thomas. "You tell her, Addison."

"If it is a wild-cat, it is the same as the 'lucivee,' or loup-cervier," replied Addison. "But
I have never heard one cry out at night; so I cannot say for certain."

"Oh, I have," said Willis. "They have little tassels on the top of their ears and are about
as big as a fair-sized dog. But they never come near a camp; they are so shy that you never
can get sight of one, though the lumbermen tell stories of having fights with them. They've
got long claws and could scratch like sin, if they were cornered up anywheres."

"Sometimes they will follow after anybody for a long ways," said Thomas. "Father told me that,
when he was a boy, the mill stream at the village got so low one fall that they could not grind
wheat or corn there. So grandpa sent him over to Pride's grist mill, in Willowford, with the
horse and wagon and a load of corn. There were a lot of grists in ahead of him; and before
the miller got around to grind out father's corn, it was dark, and he had to drive home, thirteen
miles, in the evening. It was woods nearly all the way then; and after he had gone a mile,
or two, and it had come on very dark, so dark he could hardly see his hand before him, he heard
a snarling noise behind him. Turning round, he saw two bright spots just behind the wagon.
It scared him; he started the horse up, but those spots came right close along after him. Every
time he looked around, he would see them, and he could hear the creature's feet pat in the
road, too, as it ran after the wagon. He kept the horse trotting along pretty fast and held
the butt of his whip all ready to strike, if the creature jumped into the wagon. It didn't
jump in, but kept near the hind end of the wagon; and it followed father for as much as two
miles, till he met a man with an ox team. He was so taken up watching for those eyes, back
there in the dark, that he came near running into the ox team; but the man shouted to him to
pull up. He told the man that something had been chasing him; but the eyes had disappeared;
and he saw nothing more of them. Father thinks now that it was a 'screamer,' though it might
have been a panther. There were lots of panthers in the woods, in those days."

"Are there any now?" asked Theodora, looking a little uncomfortable.

"No," said Addison. "I don't think there are."

"Well, I'm not so sure of that," said Thomas. "There may be one passing through here, once
in a while. Did you ever hear the Old Squire tell the story of the panther that he and my grandfather
killed, when they were boys?"

"No," said Addison. "The old gentleman never talks much of his early exploits."

Ellen said that she had heard Gram speak of it once.

"Tell the story, Tom," said I.

"Oh, you get the old gentleman to tell it to you, sometime," replied Tom. "I can't tell it
good. But 'twas real scarey and interesting. Something about a cow. The panther killed my grandfather's
father's cow, I believe. The men were all away. It was in the winter time; and those two boys
followed the panther's track away up into the great woods here somewheres and shot it. It's
a real interesting story. You get the old gentleman to tell it to you some evening."

"We will," said Theodora. "I'll ask him the first night after we go home."

"My! Did you hear what an awful noise that was, just now?" exclaimed Kate.

We had all heard it--a singular yell, not wholly unlike the human voice, yet of ugly, wild
intonation. Addison and Thomas exchanged glances.

"Queer what a noise a screech owl will make," the former remarked, after a moment's silence.

"Dear me, was that a screech owl?" said Theodora.

"Oh, I guess so," replied Addison carelessly. "They make an awful outcry sometimes."

Tom did not say anything, but he told me next day that it was a bear which had made that cry,
only a little ways from the camp; and that he had winked to Addison not to tell the girls,
for they were looking nervously about them, after hearing the "screamer" story.

It was not a cold night, for October; yet as the evening advanced the fire felt very comfortable.

As we sat talking, several striped squirrels came out in sight into the firelight. There were
hundreds of these little fellows there in the clearing, gathering the hazel nuts for their
winter store. The hazel nuts were very large, nearly the size of those sold as filberts. The
squirrels made their winter burrows in the ground about the old stumps. Kate had gathered a
pint dipper full of the nuts before dark; and as we sat talking, we cracked them with round
stones from the stream. Once we heard a great rushing and running, as of large animals through
the bushes, at no great distance away.

"Hear the deer go!" Willis exclaimed.

Tom laughed. "We will pop over some of them to-morrow," said he. But he whispered to me a few
minutes later, that he expected two bears were having a squabble over there in the brush. By
and by we heard them running again; and this time they passed around to the south of our camping
place, and we heard them go, splashing, through the stream and away into the woods on the other
side. Willis jumped up and gave a loud so-ho! which resounded far across the darkened wilderness;
and then for a time all the wild denizens of the forest seemed to remain quiet, as if listening
to this unusual shout.

"Oh, don't, Willis!" cried Ellen. "It seems as if you were telling all these wild creatures
where we are!"

"So I am," said Willis; "if they want to call on us, they will find a load of buckshot all
ready for them."

"What time is it, Kate?" Addison at length asked.

"Twenty-five minutes to ten," she replied.

"Well, we want to get an early start to-morrow morning," said Addison. "So I guess we had better
go to bed and try to get as much sleep as we can. I'm for one."

"So am I," said Theodora. "But I don't believe I shall sleep much."

"Oh, you need not be the least bit afraid," said Addison.

"We'll look out for you, girls," said Thomas. "I will kindle up a good fire, so that it will
shine right into your cabin; and you can close and button your door. You need not be one bit
afraid to go to sleep. Nothing will come near this fire."

"You are going to keep the camp-fire burning all night, Addison, aren't you now?" said Theodora.

"Oh, yes," replied he, cheerily. "If I don't get too soundly asleep," he added, in a lower
voice, at which Tom and Willis laughed, well knowing that it is one thing for a tired party
to talk of tending a fire all night, but quite another thing to actually do so, as the morning's
cold ashes generally show.

"If I don't miss of it," said Tom, "I'm going to have a rare dish for breakfast. I hope I sha'n't
over-sleep."

"What is it?" Ellen asked.

"Oh, you will find out at breakfast," he replied.

"Well, good-night, boys," said Kate. "I hope you will all sleep well, but not so well as to
forget the camp-fire."

"No, please now do not let that go out," added Theodora.

"We will look out for it," said Willis--"in the morning!"

Good-nights were interchanged; the girls then went into their cabin and not very long after
shut and fastened their door.

We boys, in the doorless cabin, soon spread up our own bunks; we were all tired, and novel
as the situation was to me, I think I had not been lying down over ten or fifteen minutes,
when I fell soundly asleep.

As a rule, healthy young folks, from twelve to fifteen years of age, do not lie awake much
in the night, under any circumstances. Once asleep, they are not apt to wake, till well rested.
The normal condition of a boy of that age, is to be in the open air all day, actively employed,
either in play, or work, which keenly interests him, and to have all the good food he wants,
at suitable hours. To a boy thus engaged, the period from the time he falls asleep in the evening
till next morning, is apt to be one of utter oblivion. That is the way to sleep. Older persons,
troubled by insomnia and its usual cause, bad digestion, would do well to return to these simple
and health-giving modes of life, best seen in an active boy, or girl.

Somebody shook me. I thought I had but that moment fallen asleep. It was Thomas. "Wake up,"
he whispered. "Let's you and I go catch some trout for breakfast. They say this brook is full
of them. I brought along my hooks. Come on."

The word trout is a good one to get a sleepy boy's eyes open with; I rose at once.

"Let's go out still," whispered Tom, "so as not to wake the girls. I don't want them to see
us start off, for we may not have any luck, you know; and it's a thing I never could stand,
to come back from fishing, with no fish, and have folks asking me where my fish are."

Addison was awake and lay regarding us, sleepily; but Willis had already got up and gone out
with the gun. It was quite light and nearing sunrise; there was a slight frost on the crisp
grass about the cabins. The fire had gone out, hours before; not even a smoldering ember or
a wreath of smoke, remained of it. The squirrels had already begun to "chicker" in the hazel
copses; and a large pileated woodpecker was calling out loudly from the top of a tall pine
stub, off in the opening.

We had nothing for bait, except a bit of white, fat pork. First we went down to the ford. "Look
there," said Tom, pointing to our tracks of yesterday in the sand and some more recent impressions,
nearly or quite as large. "See those bear tracks! Some bear has been smelling about here, during
the night! Oh, this is quite a place for game. But don't talk bear much before the girls, or
we shall get them so skittish that we cannot stir. They'll feel quite courageous this morning,
when they wake up and find nothing has carried them off, if they don't see these bear tracks."
Thomas proceeded to scuff the tracks over with his boot.

We then cut two hazel fishing rods, tied a line and hook to each, baited the hooks with a scred
of the pork, and then going down the stream, till we came to a pool at a bend, crept carefully
up to the verge of the bank and gently dropped in our hooks.

"Shake 'em just a little easy," whispered Tom; for as yet my education in the art of trout
fishing had been neglected. "Shake the bait easy, and kind o' bob it up and down; and if you
get a bite don't yank very hard, just a little pull, and then swing him out on to the bank."

His words were hardly out, before I felt a vigorous tug at my hook, and quite forgetful of
advice, gave a tremendous jerk and flung a half pound trout clean over our heads and into the
hazel bushes!

"Gracious! you've scared every fish in this hole!" exclaimed Tom. "But that's a good trout.
Pick him up and string him. I guess I'll go up stream now, and you fish on down stream. When
we each get a dozen, we will go to the camp; but don't stay too long, anyway."

Tom was a little disgusted, I suppose, with the way I yanked out that trout, and thought that
I had better fish by myself. He went off up the brook. I determined to catch a dozen as quickly
as he did. So I strung my half-pound fish on a hazel twig, and scud along to the next bend
of the brook. I had no more than looked to my bait and dropped in there, when I had a bite
and (this time more carefully) swung out a thumping big trout that would have weighed near
a pound! His sides were well specked with red; he was a beauty!

Taking him off the hook, after some trouble with him in a bunch of brush, I strung him, dropped
in again, and had a third one out--smaller--in less than half a minute. The brook was plainly
well stocked with trout. Baiting again, I tossed in and caught a fourth in less time than it
had taken me to cut off the scred of pork. I got a fifth and a sixth, both good-sized, and
had my seventh bite, when, jerking, I lost him, and the hook, catching on a dry pine branch
which stuck out from a pile of drift, was broken. It was the only one I had, and I stamped
the ground with vexation. Tom would beat me now; and as it would do no good to linger after
the hook was gone, I took my string of half a dozen--weighing fully three pounds--and went
back to camp as fast as I could, in order to show good time on the half dozen.

I was in a few minutes ahead of Thomas. But he brought a dozen nice ones, though some of his
were smaller than mine. He had one larger than my largest, however. The eighteen, as we laid
them out on the grass, were a pretty lot to look at, with the sunshine playing on their spotted
sides.

Meantime, I had heard Willis's gun several times, and Tom said that he had heard it, too. "He's
shooting partridges, or else gray squirrels, I guess," Tom remarked. "Gray squirrels, where
they have fed on hazel nuts for a month or two, make a luscious good stew."

Addison had just come out and kindled a fire; and before we had our trout dressed, ready to
fry, Willis came in with a string of four partridges, but no squirrels.

"Are the partridges plenty?" Ad asked.

"Well, there's some. They seem a little shy, though," replied Willis, taking the cap off the
tube of the gun, which had a percussion lock. "I shouldn't wonder if some hunter had been firing
among them, by the way they fly," he added. "But we can get all we shall want."

"Aren't the girls up yet?" said Thomas. "Wonder what they would say if they knew the fire all
went out by eleven o'clock! There's lots of bears round here, too."

"That's so," said Willis. "I've seen bear sign out here in the opening this morning in more'n
a dozen places."

"Well, keep quiet about it," said Thomas. "We'll call it deer. When any of us speak of deer,
we boys will know that it's bear. It's of no use to scare the girls; and the bears won't touch
us this time of year anyway."

We began getting breakfast. Potatoes were put to roast in the embers; but the chief dish was
to be trout. Thomas began frying them in butter and meal and set a big tin platter down by
the fire to keep them hot, after he had taken them from the pan. Willis tended the fire and
kept the embers banked over the potatoes; and Addison got on water for coffee. About this time
the door of the girls' cabin was heard to creak; and we saw Catherine and Theodora peeping out.

"What lazy things girls are!" Addison exclaimed, derisively. "Here it is nigh seven o'clock
and you sluggards are not out yet."

"Oh, we've been awake and up a long time," said Kate. "It was fun to lie and hear you boys
pottering about, trying to get breakfast, and to hear you talk, too. I suppose we shall all
be obliged to go down to the brook to wash our faces," she added. "I don't believe any of you
boys have thought of washing your faces yet! Tom looks frowzy; I won't say anything about the
others."

"No," said Addison. "We don't think of such a thing as washing our faces up here!"

"Well, then, you had better, if you are going to take breakfast with us; hadn't they, Theodora?"

"Indeed, they had!" cried Theodora. "I decline to sit down to breakfast with any fellow who
hasn't washed his face."

Thereupon the three girls set off for the ford, with combs, soap and towels.

"You will see a lot of deer tracks down there in the sand," Thomas called after them, with
a wink to the rest of us.

Our breakfast was nearly ready, and with everything keeping warm by the fire, we now ran down
to the ford, to perform our own rather tardy ablutions. The girls, looking fresh as pinks,
had finished theirs and were gathering more hazel nuts, and Theodora and Kate had crossed the
ford to gather a few bunches of high-bush cranberry fruit, which they espied hanging temptingly
out over the stream, on that side. These cranberries make a nice relish for meat, or fish.

"Come on, girls!" Tom called out, as soon as we had doused our faces and ran a comb through
our locks. "Come on now, lively! Breakfast is all ready and I've got something nice, I assure ye."

We went back to the cabins together.

"I didn't know that deer made such big tracks as those down there in the sand," said Theodora.
"I thought deer made little tracks more like sheep tracks."

"Oh, caribou deer make tremendous tracks, as big as a man's almost, because they step down
upon their fetlocks and their feet are hairy," said Thomas, with a wondrous wise look to the
rest of us.

"But are there caribou deer in Maine?" Theodora asked.

"Oh, a good many," replied Addison.

"Don't ask them any more questions, Doad," said Kate. "They are deceiving us about something,
I don't know what, exactly. But let them enjoy it, if they find so much sport in it."

We sat down to breakfast at once, and the trout were delicious, at least we all thought so;
and so were the baked potatoes, eggs and toast.

"Now," said Addison after we had finished, "my program for to-day is to climb the mountain
over on the other side of the stream, and search for some mineral ledges which I have heard
of there. I don't want the others to go with me, unless they want to, and would rather do that
than anything else. There are plenty of nice trips to make. Those who wish can go to dig spruce
gum upon the side of that dark-looking mountain on the far side of the opening here; or they
can go fishing, or hunting, or go out here and collect hazel nuts for winter. For we can carry
home a bushel of nuts with us if we choose."

"We might get ten bushels," said Thomas, "if we could only dig out the hoards of these squirrels
that have been at work all the fall."

"Then there is another trip that I want to make," said Addison. "They say there is a mountain
side, about five miles up here to the northeast of us, that is covered with balm o' Gilead
trees, thousands of them. I want to find out if that is really so, and if the trees are easy
to reach. For I have heard that druggists, in Boston and New York, pay four dollars a pound
for the buds of this tree, when gathered at the proper season, in the early spring, to use
for liniments and other medicines. If that is so, and there are great numbers of the trees,
I want to make a trip up here about the first of May, next spring, and gather two bushel baskets
full. I don't see why a small party might not earn a couple of hundred dollars in a few days."

"Good idea!" exclaimed Catherine. "And will you include us girls in your money-making party?"

"Of course," said Addison, "If you will go and help gather the buds, it shall be share and
share alike."

"Then Addison," said Kate, laughing, "I guess I will join your expedition to-day. For you seem
to be a pretty good business man, and I like folks that look out for making money."

"My sister Kate is a great girl for money," said Thomas.

"That is so," replied Kate. "I think that money is a great institution. I would like to get
lots of it."

"I know that we all want to go on each and all of these trips," said Theodora. "I do, at any
rate. So why not all go with Addison to-day, then go to look for the balm o' Gileads to-morrow;
and then all go after spruce gum the next day."

"Next day is Sunday!" exclaimed Ellen.

"Well, then, Monday," said Theodora.

"But Monday we have to go home," said Willis. "My father told me to get back Monday and no
mistake about it."

"Well then, we shall have to make a short trip after gum and go hazel-nutting and fishing all
in one day," said Addison. "I don't see but that Tom and Willis will have to make the exploring
trip up to the balm o' Gilead place to-day, if they are willing."

"All right," said Thomas.

"Why not make the trip this forenoon," said Willis, "and so come around to join you at this
mountain over across where you are going for minerals."

"That will suit me," said Addison.

Our plans for the day were laid accordingly; and half an hour later, Addison and I, with the
three girls, set off on our excursion to the mountain side; while Tom and Willis took the gun
and went up the brook, in the direction of the balm o' Gilead hill.

"We shall get around where you are by noon," said Thomas. "You will hear us shouting for you."

Our party of five had first to ford the brook, then make a trip of two miles or more through
the forest. We took a lunch of bread and cheese, and a dipper along with us, as it was doubtful
whether we should return till late in the day. The forest on the intervale between the stream
and the mountain was mainly of spruce, basswood, yellow birch and a few firs. The balsam blisters
on the leaden gray trunks of the latter were now plump and full, and when punctured, yielded
each a few drops of balsam, as clear as crystal--the same "Canada balsam" which microscopists
make so much use for preserving their "slides" of specimens. The French Canadians call the
tree epinette blanche; it is very abundant in the swamps of the eastern provinces.

The yellow birches were large trees of very solid wood, displaying trunks shaggy with curling
bark and moss. Many of the basswoods, too, were very large; the trunks of these when old had
furrowed bark not wholly unlike sugar maples, but rather less rugged, and more regularly grooved.
The great white ash trees, too, presented similar furrowed bark, but of lighter gray tint.

The spruces which were here most numerous, varied from a foot to two feet in diameter, being
such as are ordinarily cut for lumber throughout Maine and Canada. These are the trees which
afford the chewing gum, sold in the larger towns and cities. Kate was not long discovering
some fine great lumps of it which studded a seam in a large spruce. "Lend me your knife, Addison,"
she exclaimed. "I want to dig some gum. Come here, girls."

Enough was dug in a few minutes to keep our whole party chewing all that day and at intervals
for many subsequent days. It is a rather bootless kind of effort, at best, though it may tend
to develop the muscles of one's jaws.

In the course of an hour we reached the foot of the mountain, then began climbing up the side
of it, which was quite steep and rough. Boulders of all sizes obstructed the way and we soon
came to high ledges of bare gray rock which Addison declared to be mostly of granite. Through
these rocks and ledges, however, there ran a great many veins of white quartz. Some of these
veins were narrow, only an inch, or a few inches, thick; but others were wider and we presently
found one of lovely tinted rose quartz not less than a yard thick.

"Oh, how beautiful!" Theodora exclaimed; she and Kate sat down by it, admiring the fine rosy
tint. They wished to break off pieces to carry home; but we had brought no sledge, or other
stone mason's tools. By searching about at the foot of the ledge below, however, Addison found
a number of rosy fragments which had broken off in the lapse of time and fallen down the hillside.
Such specimens are attractive to gather up, but heavy to carry home.

The girls having grown somewhat fatigued by this time, Addison and I left them at the rose
quartz ledges, and went on more rapidly, to search for other minerals. We climbed higher up
the mountain side, then went back and forth for nearly an hour. At last we came to the place
he was in search of, a long crevice extending up and down the rough face of a ledge which rose
almost perpendicularly to a height of forty feet.

The crevice was only wide enough to thrust in one's fingers and seemed to be lined with large,
hexagonal crystals, as clear as water. The points of these crystals, which had beautiful facets,
jutted out past each other in many places, and seemed to match together like teeth in opposed
jaws. Still higher up in the same ledges, there were scores of quartz veins, converging and
crossing each other in a network; and in some of this white quartz there were minute, bright,
yellow specks which Ad said was gold. He thought that there was both gold and silver in this
ledge, and that if the top were blasted off, the quartz beneath would be found still richer
in these precious metals;--that being the theory of mining engineers, as he had heard his father
explain it.

After we had looked it over for a time, I went back to conduct the girls to the place; and
with half an hour of hard climbing, they arrived at the foot of the crag.

Immediately then we discovered Addison, laboriously at work, attempting to break out fragments
containing the crystals, by beating on the adjacent rock with a large stone. He had already
succeeded in crushing off some of the crystals; but he ruined far more of the handsome points
than he secured whole.

"Oh, aren't they beautiful!" was Theodora's first exclamation. "Do let's get a lot of them!"

"Is this what the hunters call the 'diamond ledge?'" Catherine asked.

"Yes," replied Addison, "but of course these crystals are only of quartz and by no means very
valuable, save to put in collections of minerals. They are nothing but quartz rock."

"But they are very pretty," said Kate. "I would like to get a lot of them to set around our
front doorstep."

"If only we had drills and a hammer, with a few pounds of gunpowder, we could throw out handsome
specimens!" exclaimed Addison. "Sometime, let's get some tools and come up here. Who knows
what lovely ones there may be deeper down in the crevice!"

As he was speaking, we heard a distant halloo, away to the north of us. "That's Tom and Willis,"
said I. "They're coming round this way."

We answered their shouts and soon heard another halloo.

"They'll find us now," said Addison.

"Let's spread our luncheon down here in the shadow of the crag," said Theodora.

There was no water at hand, so I took the little pail in which the lunch had been brought,
and set off down the mountain in quest of some. Descending into a little hollow, I found a
spring issuing from beneath a large rock. It was very cold water; the spring was shallow, yet
with the dipper, I was able slowly to dip up a three quart pail nearly full. It was a delicate
task to carry it up the steep mountain side, without spilling it. When at length I rejoined
the party, at the foot of the crag, Tom and Willis were coming up from another direction.

"Hullo, Ad!" exclaimed Tom. "Seen any game?" I thought from the way he spoke that he and Willis
had seen something in that line.

"No," said Addison, "we have been looking for something different. Have you seen any?"

"Yes, sir-ee!" said Tom.

"What was it?" inquired Kate.

"Deer," said Tom with a knowing look at the rest of us boys.

"You don't say so!" exclaimed Addison. "Really deer! How snug did you get to a deer?"

"Snug enough to put our hands on him!" said Willis, with a chuckle.

"What, have you killed a deer?" asked Addison, incredulously.

"Really and truly we have!" said Tom, with a ring of exultation in his voice. "'Twasn't a very
big one, though," he added.

"No," said Willis, "it was only a yearling deer. We came upon him behind a tree root. He only
ran a few steps and then turned round to snuff at us. Tom let him have a load of heavy shot
and knocked him stiff as a mitten."

"We shot two hedgehogs, too, up there at the balm o' Gilead hill," said Tom.

"Did you skin that deer?" Addison inquired, laughing.

"Yes; and we've got ten or twelve pounds of the meat, wrapped up in the skin."

"But where is the skin?" I asked.

"Oh, we left the skin, with the meat wrapped up in it, back here a few steps by a rock," replied
Thomas. "I thought," he added with a knowing glance at us boys, "that I wouldn't bring such
a thing as a green hide right up here where you had your luncheon spread out."

"Thomas," said Kate, looking sharply at him, "you are telling some kind of crooked story."

"Willis," said Thomas carelessly, "go get that deer hide."

Willis hesitated an instant, then went off through the bushes and in a few moments returned
with a gory skin, rolled up, with the hair side carefully turned in.

"Want to examine it, Kate?" said he, holding it towards her.

"No, no," said Catherine and Theodora both in a breath. "Do take the dreadful thing away! But
there's something wrong about your story all the same, Tom," Kate added with a searching look
at him. "I can tell when you are fibbing just as well as need be; and I shall find out what
you boys are looking so funny at each other for, yet."

"You are a very knowing girl, Kate," said Tom. "But let's have some luncheon and change the
subject."

"Not till you go down to the spring and wash your hands," said Catherine, "after handling that
dreadful thing."

Peace having been restored by the washing of hands, luncheon was eaten.

"Yes," said Willis, "and we saw two minks and a fish-cat, as we went up the stream; but they
all three got out of sight before Tom could draw a bead on them."

"Wise minks," said Ellen.

"And Willis thinks that he caught a glimpse of a 'screamer,' just as we were going through
a little fir thicket," Tom remarked.

"I'm almost sure it was one," corroborated Willis. "Oh, I wish we had a lot of traps and could
stay up here a fortnight. I should like two dozen mink traps and a couple of big traps."

"What do you want of such big traps?" said Kate carelessly. "To catch deer in?"

"Of course not," said Willis. "No hunter around here ever sets traps for deer."

"I was thinking I had never heard of such a thing," replied Catherine, demurely.

"But how about the balm o' Gileads?" Addison asked suddenly.

"Oh, there's quite a growth of them!" replied Tom. "On the slope of the mountain, there are
twenty or thirty old trees and no end of young ones coming up. I should think there was fifty
acres of them altogether, shouldn't you, Willis?"

"I should," said Willis. "There would be buds enough there, though I should think it would
be a stint to gather them."

"Oh, I don't think it would be such a very bad job," said Tom. "We could bend down the tops
of the young trees and pick the buds off fast. I believe I could pick five or six pounds a
day, anyhow."

"Five pounds would be twenty dollars, according to Addison's reckoning," said Theodora.

"Very fair wages for us!" said Kate. "I would even work for less."

"None of your jokes!" exclaimed Addison.

"I think that I could get a living, digging spruce gum up here," Kate went on. "Spruce gum
is said to bring a dollar per pound, when nice and clean; I could dig gum days, and scrape
it clean evenings, and live in the 'old slave's cabin;' that is, I could if the 'deer' didn't
scare me away," she added, with a significant glance at us boys which made us feel rather foolish.

"Kate, you are almost as knowing as your grandma!" exclaimed Tom, derisively; "and you're not
a quarter as old yet. Fact, you are almost too knowing for your age."

"Don't think other folks are too knowing because you are a little backward yourself, Thomas!"
cried Kate. "Your deer stories are not quite right; there is something weak in them."

"Take a swallow of cold water in your mouth, Tom," said Addison, laughing.

Luncheon being disposed of, we gathered up our specimen crystals and the fragments of rose
quartz, packed the crystals in moss, in the pail, and then tied up the rose quartz in one of
our jackets. The latter made a rather heavy pack and, together with the pail, proved quite
a load down the mountain and back through the woods to the opening. Willis took the deer skin;
and Tom carried the deer meat. We returned across the wooded intervale, seeing no game but
a partridge, which Willis shot, and reached the ford and the cabins at about four o'clock in
the afternoon.

All of us were somewhat tired and sat down on the grass, or the benches, to rest awhile. The
sun had already sunk near the tree-tops again; for by October 20th the afternoons are short
in Maine. It was chilly, too.

"There will be a harder frost to-night than there was last night," Addison remarked.

Thomas brought wood and kindled a fire. "We must be stirring," he said. "It takes a long time
to get dinner."

"What are we going to have to-day for dinner?" Ellen asked.

"Deer steak, I suppose," said Catherine, laughing.

"We must have those partridges that Willis shot this morning," said Addison.

"I can catch more trout," said Thomas.

"No; let's have the trout for breakfast," remarked Theodora. "They are splendid, fresh caught,
for breakfast."

Willis went to get the partridges which he had hung up in a clump of hazels, a little way back
of the cabins, but immediately returned, saying that they were missing. "Some creature has
smelled them and pulled them down, I guess," said he.

"Suppose it was a deer?" asked Kate.

"Keep quiet," said Tom. "You've said enough about deer."

"If she says deer again, let's tie that green deer hide over her head, Tom!" exclaimed Willis.

"You will not hear me say anything more, but I shall go on thinking, all the same," replied
Catherine.

Theodora had gone into their cabin, to fetch our tin ware and frying-pan.

"Why!" she exclaimed, coming hastily out, in some fluster, "almost all our bread is gone!"

"Then somebody's been here," said Addison, "while we were away."

"Everything in the baskets has been pulled over," said Theodora.

We went to examine and found the baskets had really been disturbed, but nothing save bread
had been removed.

"Some hungry hunter, I guess," said Addison. "Well, I hope it did him good."

"I reckon there's where the partridges went," said Tom.

"Well, he wasn't a very bad visitor," said Willis, "or he might have stolen a good deal more."

"Indeed, he might," said Theodora.

"But I wish he had left our bread and butter alone," exclaimed Ellen. "Who knows how dirty
his hands were!"

"This raid cuts our dinner down a little,--losing those partridges," said Tom. "So let's have
our venison and some eggs fried with it."

But on looking into the basket, all the eggs were found to have disappeared, save eight!

"Worse and worse!" Addison exclaimed. "We shall have to fall back on potatoes, and do some
good hunting and fishing during the rest of our stay here."

Tom was already slicing up the rather odd-looking venison, getting it ready to fry. Addison
brought water and put on potatoes to boil; and Kate declared that she was going to make a dish
of Indian meal mush, and have some of it to fry for breakfast, next morning.

Willis took the gun and slipped away, intending to knock over a few more partridges, to go
with the one he had just shot, across the stream.

Ellen, too, went out to gather hazel nuts.

A dark bank of clouds had risen in the west, and the wind began to blow a little; it was not
quite as pleasant as on the previous evening.

In the course of an hour our dinner was ready. Ellen had gathered a quart of nuts, and Willis
came in with another partridge. It was not a good night for shooting, he said; and when he
went inside our cabin to set aside the gun, he privately told Addison and me, that he had heard
a dog bark off in the woods, to the west of the opening. Somehow it made us feel uneasy to
think that some person, or persons, might be hanging about the place, though they had not shown
themselves very evilly disposed toward us, having merely taken a loaf or two of bread and some
eggs. Still there was no knowing who they were, or what their intentions might be.

The table was rigged up and we sat down to it as before. The fried venison was good and went
well with our potatoes; and we had an egg apiece. But Kate's corn meal mush was the best dish,
for we had plenty of butter and sugar to garnish it; and we also toasted some cheese.

The sky had grown wholly overcast; and by the time we had finished our dinner, night came on.
We had still to collect wood for a camp-fire; and all four of us boys set about this task at
once and also carried armfuls of dry pine from a stub, a little way off, into our cabin to
have in the morning for our fire, in case of rain. The wind was blowing and the air felt chilly
and raw. There was not much pleasure in sitting out of doors, even before a fire; so we at
length carried our benches into the girls' cabin and placed them around, just inside the open
door, where the firelight shone in pleasantly. It was much more comfortable there than out
in the wind. The smoke also drifted into our own cabin a good deal, but here we were quite
out of it.

Nell produced her pailful of hazel nuts, and with this rather late dessert for our dinner,
we whiled away an hour or more, Thomas or Addison going out now and then to tend the fire and
keep it blazing brightly.

"What shall it be to-morrow," Theodora at length said; "fishing, or hazel-nutting?"

"Fishing in the morning and hazel-nutting in the afternoon will be a good plan, I guess," Addison
remarked,--when, as he spoke, we heard a rather strange sound off in the woods. It was the
first wild note of any kind which had come to our ears during the evening; the inhabitants
of the forest seemed not to be musically inclined that night.

"I would like to know what made that noise," Tom said. "That wasn't a bear, nor a 'screamer.'"

We sat listening and pretty soon heard it again, a peculiar, long-drawn-out, hollow note.

"It doesn't sound like an animal's cry," said Addison. "It is more like a noise I have heard
made by blowing through some big sea-shell."

"Not very likely to be sea-shells up here in the woods," remarked Theodora.

"Are there really any Indians in the 'great woods?'" I asked.

"I think not," said Addison.

Just then we heard the noise again. It seemed to be nearer and appeared to have moved around
towards the stream.

"Well, that beats me all out for a noise!" exclaimed Willis. "I can't even guess what makes it."

"Nor I," said Tom. "Never heard anything like it."

To hear a mysterious sound like that, off in the wilderness, at night, will disturb almost
anyone. Addison kept laughing and trying to talk of other things. Thomas stepped out as if
to fix up the fire, but slipped into the other cabin and got the gun. He came out to one side,
however, so that the girls did not see him from where they sat, and stood the gun against their
cabin. All the while Addison was talking on, telling the girls how the Indians cooked hedgehogs
by coating them all over with clay, then roasting them under their camp-fires. The girls were
not very good listeners, however, for we kept hearing that same hollow, moaning noise, and
it did not seem to be very far off. We were all pretty sure that it was not an animal, and
concluded that it must be a man, or a number of men; but why they were making such a strange
noise as that, we could not understand.

Suddenly the sound burst forth close at hand, apparently near the stream. It startled us all
badly, and Thomas reached for the gun.

"I think, boys," said Kate quite calmly, yet with a curious little flutter in her voice, "that
we had better all get inside the cabin here and shut the door."

"Perhaps we had," said Addison. "For if it is anybody who means mischief, it is foolish for
us to sit in the light here where we can be seen so plainly."

Thereupon we all beat a retreat inside the cabin, shut the door and buttoned it; the firelight
shone in, however, both through cracks in the door and chinks betwixt the logs. Tom drew the
partridge charge from his gun and put in another heavier one, with five or six buckshot, mixed
with the bird shot.

A moment or two after, we heard the noise again; and this time it seemed to be just in the
rear of the other cabin. Addison stood with an eye at a crack, looking out.

"It's human beings, fast enough," he said in a low voice.

The girls were of course a good deal alarmed. We made the door fast with a prop in case an
attack should be made.

Suddenly a large stone fell on the roof with a tremendous bump and clatter! It caused the girls
to cry out in affright!

"Ad, this is somebody trying to scare us!" Tom muttered.

"Or murder us!" cried Ellen.

"You don't suppose it is Halse, do you?" I asked. "He threatened us with something or other!"

"Maybe," said Addison, doubtfully. "No; I don't believe he would dare come up here alone in
the night," he added, after a moment's thought. "Halse is a great coward in the dark."

On the whole it did not seem likely that Halstead would be so many miles from home, in the
woods, at that time of night.

Another stone struck on the roof, and soon a third struck the door! Then several seemed to
fall on the roof at once, which led us to surmise that there was more than one person concerned
in the attack.

Both Addison and Tom kept their eyes at the cracks, looking out to see if any of our assailants
showed themselves.

"They are standing out there in that hazel clump, just beyond the other cabin," Addison muttered.
"I can see the bushes move there, every time a stone is thrown."

Just then a tremendous thump came against the door!

"I'll let them know they can't pelt us like that!" exclaimed Tom, taking up the gun. "Open
the door just a crack, Ad, so I can push the muzzle out."

"I would not fire right at the bush," said Addison. "But fire high to let them know we are armed."

Tom thrust out the gun--and next instant we were all nearly deafened by the report!

Immediately following the report, too, there came a loud cry, a cry that thrilled me through
and through, for I thought that I recognized the voice. Theodora cried out, "Oh, that's Halse!
You've shot him! You've shot him!"

"That did sound a little like Halse!" cried Willis.

We were terror-stricken, yet uncertain. Addison cautiously opened the door and stepped out.
Tom and I followed him. Willis, however, caught up the gun and began hastily to reload it.

"Halse!" Addison at length called out. "Are you there, Halse?"

Theodora followed us out and also Kate. "Oh, I'm so afraid he's killed!" Theodora cried out,
almost sobbing.

Several of us called out; but there was no reply; and we could now hear no movement in the hazels.

"Do let's go and see," implored Theodora; and then Addison and Thomas took brands from the
camp-fire and, waving these about, went out cautiously towards the bush clumps. We kept close
behind them, Willis with the gun loaded; he was afraid that this was some trick to draw us
into an ambush.

But on reaching the hazels, there was nothing to be found, save three round stones as big as
a man's fist or bigger, evidently brought there from the bed of the stream, to throw at the cabin.

"Oh, dear!" exclaimed Theodora. "I suppose he has dragged himself away somewheres. I know he
was hit by the way he cried out."

"I did not aim right at the bush," said Tom; "but I suppose the gun may have scattered."

"Plague take him!" exclaimed Willis. "I don't much care if he is hit."

"Oh, don't talk so!" cried Ellen.

"No; don't talk so," said Catherine. "If he is hit and has crept away, we must find him if we can."

"Of course," said Addison who was peering about on the ground, "we will do all we can to find
him and care for him, if it really was he."

"Halse! Halse!" Tom shouted, as loudly as he could. "Answer, Halse, if you are hurt! We will
take care of you!"

There was no reply.

"He may be dead by this time!" lamented Theodora.

Then we began searching in earnest; we rekindled the fire, and taking brands, looked the ground
all over for twenty rods or more from the cabins, in that direction. Not a trace could be discovered.

"I guess he wasn't hurt much," Willis said privately to me.

But that wild outcry had taken a dreadful hold on Theodora's fancies. With the tears starting
constantly to her eyes, she searched and implored the rest of us to keep looking about. I half
expected we might come upon Halse in the bushes; for I knew that if one of those heavy shot
had struck him, it might cause a fatal wound.

Tom, too, felt very badly and very nervous; so did Kate.

At last we went back to the cabin, for it seemed of no use to search longer. Theodora was so
wrought up, that she even wanted to start off for home in the darkness, to notify the Old Squire.
Nothing could persuade her that Halse was not wounded or killed.

But Addison said at once that we could not think of making such a trip in the night; that we
would wait till morning and see what could be discovered then; and he advised the girls to
go to sleep and get as good a night's rest as they could.

"It will do no good to cry, or keep awake, Doad," he said. "We can do nothing till daylight."

Accordingly we went to our own cabin and left the girls to shut themselves into theirs and
sleep if they could. We all felt very much disturbed; yet I, for one, fell asleep and slept
through the rest of the night quite soundly. I doubt whether Theodora slept, however. She was
awake and out with Addison long before I roused up. Catherine and Ellen, too, were astir, and
they had all four been searching, ever since it had grown light enough.

Willis had gone to fish for trout; he came back with a fine string of them, just as I was waking
up. As he sat dressing them to fry for breakfast, he declared again that he was not at all
afraid that Halse was much injured.

But all the rest of us had our fears, and not much interest was felt in breakfast or anything
else, save to get ready to start for home, as quickly as possible. For Addison had decided
that the best thing to do, under the circumstances, was to go home and see what could be learned
there of Halse's movements.

We therefore ate a breakfast of such food as could be most quickly prepared, then packed up
our luggage, and began our long trip back home, through the woods. It was far from being a
pleasant walk. The zest and anticipation of our outing had departed. We plodded drearily on
and reached Clear Pond at about one o'clock. Here, after a hasty lunch, Addison ran on ahead,
to reach home and come back with the team. The entire burden of the baskets, guns, etc., now
fell on Tom, Willis and me; the girls were tired, and we got on slowly.

At last, after two or three hours, we heard Addison coming along the winter road with the horses
and wagon, while still at a considerable distance. The girls sat down to wait for him to come
near enough to speak. Theodora, in particular, feared the worst.

But as soon as Addison came in sight, where we were sitting on a log by the side of the trail,
he swung his hat, and shouted, "All right!"

"Thank Providence!" burst from Theodora's lips; and we all jumped up and shouted for joy.

"But was it Halse?" exclaimed Tom and Kate and I, all in a breath.

"Yes, it was," replied Addison with a touch of scorn in his voice. "He and Alf Batchelder."

"And he isn't hurt?" Theodora asked.

"Well, no, not by us," said Addison dryly. "The Old Squire has held a private interview with
him out at the west barn. Halse may not be quite as comfortable now as he might be."

"Good enough!" shouted Willis, Tom and Kate in chorus; and I am afraid that Ellen and I joined
in the sentiment. Theodora only looked unhappy.

"Halse has confessed," Addison continued, after we were all in the wagon, jogging on homeward.
"The Old Squire made him tell everything and disciplined him afterwards. It was like this.
After dinner yesterday, Halse pretended that he was sick and went up-stairs. Gram followed
him up there with the Vermifuge bottle. She found him in bed. He wouldn't say what ailed him.
After she went down-stairs, he got out on the ell roof and ran away, over to Batchelder's.
Alf and he then put their heads together and started for the old slave's farm, intending to
play they were Cannucks and frighten us nearly to death. That was old Hewey's moose-horn that
they were booing through; they borrowed it of the old man, on their way up, pretending they
were going moose-hunting."

"Then Halse wasn't hit after all," said Kate.

"No; it was Alf. We were all wrong about that voice. One of Tom's little partridge shot struck
Alf on his wrist. It did not injure him much, but drew blood and frightened him.

"They then cut sticks for home; and Halse tried to get into his room over the ell roof at about
three o'clock this morning. But our folks had already discovered that he had run away. The
Old Squire heard him on the roof and nabbed him just as he was crawling in at the window.

"He was quite a subdued, tearful-eyed, peaceable-looking boy, when I saw him an hour ago,"
Addison concluded, with a curl of his lip.

"But let's not say a word to plague him any further," said Theodora.

"Oh, I shall not speak of it," replied Addison.

"Nor I," said Willis. "But I would like to have had hold of the Old Squire's whip a spell."

And thus, in this miserable way, our first camping trip terminated. It was raining the following
morning and continued very wet for several days; we were not able to return to "the old slave's
farm" that fall.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE OLD SQUIRE'S PANTHER STORY

It seemed good, even after only three days' camping out, to sit down in the house again and
see the supper table nicely set and Gram at the head of it. She welcomed us home as warmly
as if we had been absent for weeks; the Old Squire was still a little disturbed, from his recent
"interview" with Halstead.

Halse, himself, did not come to supper; and nobody mentioned his name during the entire evening.

Little Wealthy was plainly overjoyed to see us back and, despite the pout which she had worn
when we went off without her, talked very fast to us and told us of all the occurrences during
our absence.

"Aunt Olive" was with us for a week; she and Gram and Wealthy had begun to dry apples; and
after supper, Aunt Olive brought in three bushel basketfuls of bruised Baldwins and Greenings,
along with some natural fruit; she also produced the old paring machine, coring knives and
a hank of stringing twine and needle, and in short made ready for a busy evening.

"Now, young folks," quoth she, "you've been off and had a fine time; and I s'pose you're all
ready to make the apples fly! It will not take us long to do up these three bushels to-night,
if you all work smart."

It was an invitation not to be refused, under the circumstances, though Theodora and Ellen
made wry faces. They disliked to cut apples, it is such dirty, sticky work and blackens one's
hands so badly. Addison took up the paring machine, good-naturedly.

"Here's my old friend of last year," said he, screwing it to the leaf of the kitchen table.
"I pared bushels with it last fall, and I guess I'll pare them now, while the rest of you trim
and core and string them. We must have dried apples, I suppose, for pies and sauce; at least,
Gram says we must."

He fixed an apple on the fork of the machine and then in a moment had whirled the skin off
it, in a long, thin ribbon which descended into the basket set beneath the table. I thought
it looked to be fun;--but that was before I understood the business as well as I subsequently
came to do.

Finding that we had mustered in good force to cut the apples, Gram got out her basket of socks
to darn and presently summoned Theodora to assist her. The Old Squire sat at the other side
of the table and began to read his Maine Farmer, which had come that night from the post office;
but he stopped reading often to hear what Addison had to tell of our trip. Ellen and I trimmed
and halved the apples, as Addison pared them; "Aunt Olive" cored and Wealthy strung the cored
halves.

At length, when Gramp seemed to have looked his paper pretty nearly through, Theodora said
that we had a particular favor to ask of him that evening.

"Ah!" said the old gentleman, looking over the top of his glasses. "What can Theodora want?"

"But I want you to promise to grant it before I tell what it is," replied Theodora.

The Old Squire laughed. "That's asking quite a good deal," he remarked. "But I hope I am not
running much risk."

"Well, then, grandfather," said Theodora, "we all want you to tell us the story of the panther
that you and Mr. Edwards shot up in the great woods when you were boys. Thomas and Catherine
have been telling us about it; and we want to hear the story."

"Yes, sir," said Addison. "Please tell us about that."

The old gentleman hedged a little. "Oh, that is not much of a story," said he.

"Come, Squire, I've heard tell o' that 'ere catamount that you and Zeke Edwards killed; but
I never could get the particulars," said Aunt Olive. "Jest give us the particulars."

Gramp tried to put us off. "I'm no great hand at stories," he said. "You must get Hewey Glinds
to tell you bear and catamount stories."

"But you promised me, Gramp," Theodora reminded him.

At length, after some further excuses, the Old Squire was induced to make a beginning, and
having begun, told us the following story which I give in words as nearly like his own as I
can now remember.

"It was in the year 1812. I was little more than a boy at that time, and the country was quite
new here. We had a clearing of about fifty acres and had not yet built our present buildings;
and our only neighbors, nearer than the settlement in the lower part of the township, where
the village now stands, were the Edwardses. Old Jeremy Edwards came here at about the same
time that my father came.

"Eighteen-twelve was the time of our second war with England. Soldiers for it did not volunteer
then; troops had to be raised by draft. Father and neighbor Edwards were both drafted. I well
remember the night they were summoned. Mother and Mrs. Edwards cried all night. But there was
no help for it. There were no such things as substitutes then. They had to go the next morning,
and leave us to take care of ourselves the best we could.

"Little Ezekiel Edwards--Thomas's and Kate's grandfather--was just about my age; and the men
being away, everything depended on us. Those were hard times; we had a great deal to do. We
used to change works, as we called it, so as to be together as much as we could; for it was
rather lonesome, planting and hoeing off in the stumpy, sprouted clearings. That was a long,
anxious summer! We heard from father only once. He was somewhere near Lake Champlain.

"We were getting things fixed up to pass the winter as well as we could, when one night, about
the first of November, Ezekiel came running over to ask if we had seen anything of old Brindle,
their cow. It had been a bright, Indian-summer day, and they had turned her out to feed; but
she had not come up as usual, and was nowhere in sight. It was dusk already, but I took our
gun and, starting out together, we searched both clearings. Brindle was not in the cleared land.

"'We shall have to give her up to-night, Zeke,' said I; 'but I will go with you in the morning.
She's lost or hedged up somewhere among windfalls.' We heard 'lucivees' snarling, and as we
went back along, saw a bear digging ground-nuts beside a great rock. These were common enough
sounds and sights in those days; still, we did not care to go off into the forest after dark.

"Several inches of snow came during the night and the next morning was cloudy and lowering.
Zeke came over early. Brindle had not come in. He brought his gun and had taken Skip, their
dog; and we now started off for a thorough search in the woods. Everything looked very odd
that morning, on account of the freshly fallen snow. The snow had lodged upon all the trees,
especially the evergreens, bending down the branches; and every stump and bush was wreathed
in white.

"As the cows used frequently to follow up the valley--where the road now is--to the northward,
we entered it and kept on to where it opens out upon Clear Pond, at the foot of the crags which
you probably noticed as you passed. There is just a footpath between the crags and the pond,
which is very deep on that side. About the pond and the crag the trees were mostly spruce.
This morning they looked like multitudes of white tents, lined with black. And this appearance,
with the ground all white, and the not yet frozen water looking black as ink, made everything
appear so strange, that although we had several times been there before, we now scarcely knew
the place.

"As yet we had seen no traces of Brindle. But just as we came out on the pond, at the foot
of the crag, we heard a fox bark, quite near at first, then at a distance. Skip sprang ahead
among the snowy spruces, but came back in a few moments, and, looking up in our faces, whined,
then ran on again.

"'He's found something!' exclaimed Zeke.

"We hurried forward on his track, and a few rods further, saw him standing still, whining;
and there, under a thin covering of snow, near the water, lay old Brindle, torn and mangled,
and partially eaten.

"A feeling of awe crept over us at the sight.

"'Dead!' whispered Zeke.

"'Something's killed her!' I whispered back.

"There were fresh fox tracks all around, and the carcass had been recently gnawed in several
places. Some transient little fox had been improving the chance to steal a breakfast. But what
savage beast had throttled resolute old Brindle?

"With strange sensations we gazed around. Not a breath of air stirred the snow-laden boughs;
and the wild, gray face of the precipice, towering above us, seemed to grow awesome in the
stillness.

"Looking more closely, we now discerned, partially obscured by the more recent snowflakes,
some broad footprints, as large as old Brindle's hoofs, leading off along the narrow path between
the crag and the pond. After examining our priming, we followed slowly on these tracks, Skip
keeping close to us, and glancing up earnestly in our faces.

"Very soon, however, the tracks stopped. Beyond a certain point there were no footprints. Skip
whined, almost getting under our feet in his efforts to keep near us. Suddenly then a piercing
scream broke the stillness, and on a jutting rock, fully twenty feet above us, and in the very
attitude of springing, we saw a large gray creature, its claws protruding on the ledge, its
ears laid back and its long tail switching to and fro! It screamed again, then leaped down.
Zeke and I started to run back along the path, but both stumbled on the snowy rocks. Next moment
we heard a yell from Skip, then a loud growl. The panther had seized him; and then we saw it
go bounding back up the rocks, grappling and gathering up the dog in its mouth, at every leap.
Climbing still higher, it gained a projecting ledge, along which it ran to a great cleft, or
fissure, seventy or eighty feet above the path. There it disappeared.

"Its onslaught had been so sudden, that for some moments we stood bewildered. Then, remembering
our danger, we turned to run again, but had taken only a few steps when another scream rooted
us to the path! The panther had come out in sight and was running to the place where it had
climbed up.

"Frightened as we were, we knew that it was of little use to run and both pulled up. As long
as we stood still, the animal crouched, watching us; but the moment we stirred, it would rise
and poise itself as if to spring. We were afraid if we ran that the animal would bound down
and chase us.

"How long we stood there, I don't know, but it seemed very long. We grew desperate. 'Let's
fire,' Zeke whispered; and we raised our old flint-locks. They were well charged with buckshot,
if they would only go off. The panther growled, seeing the movement, and started up; but we
pulled the triggers. Both guns were discharged. We then sprang away down the path, but glancing
back, beheld the panther struggling and clinging to one of the lower ledges to which it had
jumped, or fallen, from the rocks above.

"'We hit him!' exclaimed Zeke. 'Hold up,'--and we both turned.

"For a long time the beast clung there, writhing and falling back. Screech after screech echoed
from the mountain side across the pond. We could see blood trickling down the rock.

"The animal grew weaker, at length, and by and by fell down to another rock, where, after fainter
struggles and cries, it finally lay still. We loaded and fired again, and the fur flew up,
but there was no further movement. Skip and Brindle were avenged, as much as they could be;
but it was a long time before the Edwards family ceased to lament their loss.

"We went to the place twice afterwards during the winter. A mass of gray fur was still lying
on the rock, thirty or forty feet above the path. And for years after, we could see some of
the panther's bones there."

To us young folks who had so recently been camping in the "great woods" and had passed along
the foot of this very crag where the panther had been shot, the Old Squire's story was intensely
interesting. We could vividly imagine the scene and the fears of the two pioneer boys, on that
snowy November forenoon, more than fifty years ago.

When I went up to bed that night, I found Halse soundly asleep. He did not wake and I did not
disturb him; but he was astir and dressing, when I waked next morning, and before we went down,
he began to laugh and to ridicule us, on account of the fright we were in at the cabin when
those stones were tumbling on the roof. "And I broke up your camping trip, anyway," he added,
exultantly. "You were the scaredest lot of chickens I ever saw! Shut yourselves up in your
shanty and fastened the door with props!"

I did not much blame him for wanting to crow a bit, after all that had happened.

On the whole it was fortunate that we came home when we did. The storm continued; all next
day it poured and drove furiously; but apple-cutting went on blithely indoors. What was rare
for him, Addison had a bad cold with a very sore throat; and we all retired early that night,
not having as yet caught up all arrears of broken sleep from the camping trip.

But it was not to be a night of rest; and I for one was destined to have an exciting experience
before morning. Shortly after midnight there came an obstreperous knocking and thumping at
the outer door, so loud that it waked us in our beds up-stairs. It was repeated twice; and
then I heard the Old Squire below call out, "Who's there?"

"It's me," replied a troubled voice.

"Well, but who's 'me?'"

"Bobbie Sylvester. And please, sir, my folks want you to send one of the boys after the doctor,
quick!"

There was a sudden exclamation of wrath and indignation from Addison in his room, with a chain
of comments, which it is not necessary to remember.

"Why, what's the matter?" we heard the Old Squire call out. But just then we distinguished
the murmur of Gram's voice, and a moment later heard her coming up the stairs to speak to us.

"Boys," said she, "one of you must ride to the village after the doctor for Mrs. Sylvester."

"But, Gram, it's a terrible night," Ad expostulated.

"I know it, boys," said she. "It's a bad night, but somebody must go."

"Let Sylvester go himself, then!" cried Addison, angrily.

"Well, but you know he hasn't any horse, and has rheumatism," said the old lady.

Then began to dawn on me what I came to know full well later, that whenever certain of our
poorer neighbors were taken ill, or an additional small member was about to be added to their
families, they were very prone to come hurrying to our door at dead of night, beseeching some
of us to ride seven miles to the village for the doctor.

Addison was really unfit to go. No doubt he felt unusually irritable. "By the holy smoke!"
he exclaimed. "I wish there wasn't a baby under the Canopy!"--and while I was trying to puzzle
out and piece together all these darkling hints and inferences, the Old Squire came up stairs
and after a word with Addison and Gram, told me that I would have to rig up, get on old Sol's
back and take my first turn riding for Dr. Cummings. That settled it.

Thereupon I began dressing in haste, Halstead lying at his ease and crowing over me as I did
so; and I am sorry to add that I was in a mood so un-cousinly that I at length gave him a swipe
with my thick jacket as I put it on to hasten down stairs.

It was still raining fiercely; but they rigged me up as best they could for the trip--buttoned
me into an old buffalo coat (it was a huge fit for a boy, thirteen), tied a woollen comforter
around my neck, and another one over the top of my cap, to hold that on my head and keep my
ears warm. Wool socks, a pair of large boots, and some heavy mittens completed my outfit.

Gram herself went to the stable and looked to the saddle. I mounted; Gramp pulled the great
door of the stable open, and I rode forth into the rain and darkness.

After a few moments outside, I could see objects, in outline. So much rain had fallen that
the road was completely saturated. I got on pretty well, however, until I came to the meadow
a mile from home, where the road crossed low ground and a large brook. There was a plank-bridge
here twenty feet long. The brook was now very high--a good deal higher, in fact, than any of
us had anticipated. It had risen several feet since nightfall.

The moment I came to the meadow I found that there was water all over it, and also in the road,
extending back two hundred yards from the bridge to the foot of the hill. I could not see how
it looked, and, of course, did not fully realize how high and rapid the stream had grown. Old
Sol splashed through the water till we came near the bridge. There the water was up to my feet,
in the road. On pulling up, I could hear it rushing and swirling along over the bridge. I supposed
the bridge was undisturbed, for there were stones laid on the planks at each end, I could see
nothing save a black expanse all round me. Hesitating a moment, I summoned my courage and dug
my heels into old Sol's sides. He went forward till his feet touched the first planks. There
he stopped and snorted. I gave him the spur. He leaped forward and seemed to strike his feet
on planks. But, as was afterwards ascertained, some of them were washed out, and all of them
were afloat. At his next spring his legs went down among them. Then the full force of the current
struck him, he rolled over sidewise, and horse and boy went off the lower end of the bridge,
in eight feet of swift water.

It is needless to say that I was holding to the horse's mane for dear life. As we rolled over
the "stringer" of the bridge, I was partly under the horse. We went down and I distinctly touched
bottom with my left foot, but clutched the horse's mane with both hands and hugged the saddle
with both legs. It seemed to me that we rolled over before we came to the surface. Then we
went under again, but a moment later, the horse got foothold in shallower water, and floundered
out on the further side of the brook.

If I had let go of him I would certainly have been drowned; for the skirts of the buffalo coat
had been driven by the current over my head, and with all those water-soaked clothes on, not
even a powerful swimmer could have got out. I felt as if I weighed a ton. My cap was gone,
and with it, my comforters.

I wasn't very much frightened, I hadn't had time to be, though I remember thinking when we
rolled off the end of the bridge, that no doctor would get to the Sylvesters' that night.

The horse waded off the meadow to a set of bars, and we got back into the road; and on coming
to the foot of the hill I dismounted and partly wrung some of my clothes, though it still rained
heavily. If I had not been on the further side of the stream, I'm sure I would have gone home,
for I felt awfully cold and homesick.

The road was badly gullied, and I had still another brook to cross; but the stream there was
not so rapid, and after reconnoitering the bridge as well as I could in the dark, I ventured
upon it, and found that I could pass.

I do not think that I was more than an hour and a half reaching the village. It was so dark
that I had difficulty in finding the doctor's house, though I knew the place. A moment later
I dismounted, and knocked at his door. After a while a window was raised, and Dr. Cummings
asked what was wanted. I told him, and I can safely assert that he did not seem overjoyed.

"How are the roads?" he asked, after some hesitation.

"Pretty bad."

"Hum! And the bridges?"

I replied that I thought one of them had been washed away.

"Washed away? How did you get over then?"

"My horse swam."

"Well, I'll tell you," said the doctor. "I'm about used up, and have just come in from a hard
ride. You call Dr. Green. He's a young man, just settled here. I don't want to be hoggish with
him. Call Dr. Green."

Dr. Green was a young homoeopathist who had come to the village the year before. It was said
that Dr. Cummings did not like him, also that Dr. Green reciprocated the sentiment.

"Shall I tell Dr. Green that you sent me for him?" I asked, as I got on my horse.

Dr. Cummings did not reply.

I then went to Dr. Green's door, and did my errand there. "Have you been for Dr. Cummings?"
was his first question.

"Yes," said I, "and he sent me to you."

"He's a shirk," said the young doctor, "but I'll go."

He came out directly, saddled his own horse and set off with me, asking no questions about
the road. It still rained, and the wind was in our faces. I led the way. The doctor followed.
He kept up pretty well. He had on a suit of yellow oil-skin, and I could see that some ways back.

When we got to the hill near the meadow, I pulled up and told him about the bridge. "You can
try it," said I, "if you want to, but I am going to wait till it gets light before I try it again."

"You are a pretty fellow," said he. "Why didn't you tell me of that before?"

"I was afraid you might not come," said I, "and it was my business to get a doctor."

"Go ahead, then," said he, grittily. "Let's try it."

"No, thank you," said I. "Once in that brook is enough for me, in one night."

"Well, then," said he, "do you know any other bridge or ford?"

I knew of a bridge two miles above. The road was like porridge, but we reached it, tried it
carefully, and at length got across without swimming. The remainder of the way was comparatively
uneventful; and we reached the Sylvesters' just as day began to dawn. Four old ladies were
there, including Gram. They greeted the doctor with great glee. He was late--but all was well.

Nevertheless, that was a good trip for young Dr. Green. The folks thereabouts said that he
must be a staunch young fellow to turn out on such a night. I always felt that they might have
added a word for me, too.

The doctor told me a while ago that that ride was worth a thousand dollars to him.

"Well, then, doctor, suppose we divide that thousand," I said.

"Why?" said he. "What for?"

"Well, I went after you that night, and piloted you up there," said I.

"That's true," said he, "but you must collect your fee of the patients, as I do."

"Little there's left for me when you are done with them," said I.

I found my cap and comforters about a fortnight after that, in the top of some choke-cherry
bushes below the bridge.

CHAPTER XXIX

THE OUTLAW DOGS

Not a little farm work still remained to be done;--our farm work, in fact, was never done.
For a fortnight after our return from the camping trip, we were busy, ploughing stubble ground,
drawing off loose stones and building a piece of "double wall" along the side of the north
field. There was also a field of winter rye to be got in. The Old Squire was, moreover, preparing
to re-embark in the lumbering business at certain lots of timber land which he owned up in
the "great woods." Loggers would be hired for this work, however, for Addison, Halstead and
I expected to attend the district school which was announced to begin on the Monday after Thanksgiving.

It was mostly dull, hard work now, all day long, and often we were obliged to husk corn, or
dry apples, during the evening. The only amusement for a time was one or two husking parties,
and an "apple bee" at the Murches'.

On the morning of the 30th of October we waked to find the ground white with snow; several
inches had fallen; but it went off, after a day or two; the weather had grown quite cold, however.
Ice formed nearly every night. The cattle were now at the barns, but the sheep were still running
about the pastures and fields. On the night of the 5th of November the upper part of the lake
froze over, as well as the smaller ponds in the vicinity. I found that the boys thereabouts
knew how to skate, and was not long in buying a pair of skates, myself. I had much difficulty
in learning to use them for several days; at length, I caught the knack of it, and felt well
repaid for a good many hard falls, when at last I could glide away and keep up with Halse,
Addison and Thomas Edwards, who skated well. Even Theodora and Ellen could skate.

For a week that fall Lake Pennesseewassee was grand skating ground. Parties of boys from a
distance came there every evening and built bonfires on the shore to enliven the scene.

I think that it was the third day before Thanksgiving that eight of us went to the lake, at
about four in the afternoon, to have an hour of skating before dark. We found Alfred Batchelder
there in advance of us. As Alfred did not now speak to our boys, he kept a little aloof from us.

Near the head of the lake is an island and above it a bog. We had skated around the head of
the lake, and keeping to the east side of the island, circled about it, and were coming down
on the west side along an arm, some two hundred yards wide, where there was known to be deep
water. We thought the ice perfectly firm and safe there, since that on the east side of the
island, over which we had just skated, had proved so. All of us were at full racing speed,
and Alfred was keeping six or eight rods further out, but parallel with us. Suddenly we heard
a crash and saw Alfred go down. The water gushed up around him.

There was no premonitory cracking or yielding. The ice broke on the instant; and so rapidly
was he moving that a hole twelve or fifteen feet long was torn by the sheer force with which
he went against it. As he fell through, he went under once, but luckily came up in the hole
he had made, and got his hands and arms on the edges of the ice, which, however, kept bending
down and breaking off. The breaking and his fall were so sudden that he had not even time to
cry out till he came up and caught hold of the ice.

