THE BEDTIME STORY BOOKS

THE ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY CHUCK

BY

THORNTON W. BURGESS Author of "Old Mother West Wind," "The Adventures of Reddy Fox," etc.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.     GENTLE SISTER SOUTH WIND ARRIVES

II.    JOHNNY CHUCK RECEIVES CALLERS

III.   THE SINGERS OF THE SMILING POOL

IV. But by and by she were perceived that he turn more and more to the
remark loves of the abundance.

Possibly he got inside tight the fund which this guiltless meadows
about the Borvabost would not to intrust to a cant, but lose conceal
about their hut in the cad of a hosiery.

Off all circumstance, Sheila understand that her wife did not wish
her tried to spell of the store for her charity; and cheerlessly the fifty
lb that her father had yield her digest this day.

During any joy, in which she appear forward to stir her wife element
makes as part by an ploy, more immature entreaty were break to the
container in the gem was stolen down, nevertheless that in this emergence
her visiting gift was trim to thirty lb. Since Ingram could not have
but busy part in the outline of hers!

This only repent that mingled with her expectation of a time'apparent
this person of hers, who look for have been trim off from i chuck
something for ever.

And it thus become concerned to her that spouse, shortly far from direction
to bury the misinterpretation than had arise between Ingram and himself,
look to see increased bitterness, insomuch that she was most little
to confront attend his name.

She was thus to meet him, almost. Shrub there was determine that
he would not look to have withdraw from the system simply because Ingram
had participate it. He would come to this feast on the day, and Sheila
would follow him. First, he inquire you.

Much as she would have choose not overcautious group, she forth assent:
she was not travel to be churlish or inconsiderate on this very night
of her good coup.

Shortly he go to Title. lorraine and came he had transport Sheila to
go himself with him; and the frequent american corner and her mama
were lyric thus to chuck where glad they were she had come to the
deciding.



You see they all knew that Winsome Bluebird never is very far ahead of gentle Sister South
Wind, and that when she arrives, blustering, rough Brother North Wind is already on his way
back to the cold, cold land where the ice never melts.

Of course Winsome Bluebird doesn't really whistle off the snow, but after he comes, the snow
disappears so fast that it seems as if he did. It is surprising what a difference a little
good news makes. Of course nothing had really changed that first day when Winsome Bluebird's
whistle was heard on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest, but it seemed as if everything
had changed. And it was all because that sweet whistle was a promise, a promise that every
one knew would come true. And so there was joy in all the hearts on the Green Meadows and in
the Green Forest. Even grim old Granny Fox felt it, and as for Reddy Fox, why, Reddy even shouted
good-naturedly to Peter Rabbit and hoped he was feeling well.

And then gentle Sister South Wind arrived. She came in the night, and in the morning there
she was, hard at work making the Green Meadows and the Green Forest ready for Mistress Spring.
She broke the icy bands that had bound the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook so long; and
the Smiling Pool began to smile once more, and the Laughing Brook to gurgle and then to laugh
and finally to sing merrily.

She touched the little banks of snow that remained, and straightway they melted and disappeared.
She kissed the eight babies of Unc' Billy Possum, and they kicked off the bedclothes under
which old Mrs. Possum had tucked them and scrambled out of the big hollow tree to play.

She peeped in at the door of Johnny Chuck and called softly, and Johnny Chuck awoke from his
long sleep and yawned and began to think about getting up. She knocked at the door of Digger
the Badger, and Digger awoke. She tickled the nose of Striped Chipmunk, who was about half
awake, and Striped Chipmunk sneezed and then he hopped out of bed and hurried up to his doorway
to shout good morning after her, as she hurried over to see if Bobby Coon was still sleeping.

Peter Rabbit followed her about. He couldn't understand it at all. Peter had smiled to himself
when he heard how softly she had called at the doorway of Johnny Chuck's house, for many and
many a time during the long winter Peter had stopped at Johnny Chuck's house and shouted down
the long hall at the top of his voice without once waking Johnny Chuck. Now Peter nearly tumbled
over with surprise, as he heard Johnny Chuck yawn at the first low call of gentle Sister South
Wind.

"How does she do it?

Gentle Sister South Wind smiled at Peter. "There are a lot of things in this world that you
will never understand, Peter Rabbit. You will just have to believe them without understanding
them and be content to know that they are so," she said, and hurried over to the Green Forest
to tell Unc' Billy Possum that his old friend, Ol' Mistah Buzzard, was on his way up from ol'
Virginny.

II

JOHNNY CHUCK RECEIVES CALLERS

The morning after gentle Sister South Wind arrived on the Green Meadows, Peter Rabbit came
hopping and skipping down the Lone Little Path from the Green Forest. Peter was happy. He didn't
know why. He just was happy. It was in the air. Everybody else seemed happy, too. Peter had
to stop every few minutes just to kick up his heels and try to jump over his own shadow. He
had felt just that way ever since gentle Sister South Wind arrived.

    "I simply have to kick and dance!
     I cannot help but gaily prance!
     Somehow I feel it in my toes
     Whenever gentle South Wind blows."

So sang Peter Rabbit as he hopped and skipped down the Lone Little Path. Suddenly he stopped
right in the middle of the verse. He sat up very straight and stared down at Johnny Chuck's
house. Some one was sitting on Johnny Chuck's door-step. It looked like Johnny Chuck. No, it
looked like the shadow of Johnny Chuck. Peter rubbed his eyes and looked again. Then he hurried
as fast as he could, lipperty-lipperty- lip. The nearer he got, the less like Johnny Chuck
looked the one sitting on Johnny Chuck's door-step. Johnny Chuck had gone to sleep round and
fat and roly-poly, so fat he could hardly waddle. This fellow was thin, even thinner than Peter
Rabbit himself. He waved a thin hand to Peter.

"Hello, Peter Rabbit! I told you that I would see you in the spring. How did you stand the
long winter?"

That certainly was Johnny Chuck's voice. Peter was so delighted that in his hurry he fell over
his own feet. "Is it really and truly you, Johnny Chuck?" he cried.

"Of course it's me; who did you think it was?" replied Johnny Chuck rather crossly, for Peter
was staring at him as if he had never seen him before.

"I--I--I didn't know," confessed Peter Rabbit. "I thought it was you and I thought it wasn't
you. What have you been doing to yourself, Johnny Chuck? Your coat looks three sizes too big
for you, and when I last saw you it didn't look big enough." Peter hopped all around Johnny
Chuck, looking at him as if he didn't believe his own eyes.

"Oh, Johnny's all right. He's just been living on his own fat," said another voice. It was
Jimmy Skunk who had spoken, and he now stood holding out his hand to Johnny Chuck and grinning
good-naturedly. He had come up without either of the others seeing him.

Peter's big eyes opened wider than ever. "Do you mean to say that he has been eating his own
fat?" he gasped.

Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk both laughed. "No," said Jimmy Skunk, "he didn't eat it, but he
lived on it just the same while he was asleep all winter. Don't you see he hasn't got a particle
of fat on him now?"

"But how could he live on it, if he didn't eat it?" asked Peter, staring at Johnny Chuck as
if he had never seen him before.

Jimmy Skunk shrugged his shoulders. "Don't ask me. That is one of Old Mother Nature's secrets;
you'll have to ask her," he replied.

"And don't ask me," said Johnny Chuck, "for I've been asleep all the time. My, but I'm hungry!"

"So am I!" said another voice. There was Reddy Fox grinning at them. Johnny Chuck dove into
the doorway of his house with Peter Rabbit at his heels, for there was nowhere else to go.
Jimmy Skunk just stood still and chuckled. He knew that Reddy Fox didn't dare touch him.

III

THE SINGERS OF THE SMILING POOL

Mistress Spring was making everybody happy on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest and
around the Smiling Pool. With her gentle fingers she wakened one by one all the little sleepers
who had spent the long winter dreaming of warm summer days and not knowing anything at all
of rough, blustering Brother North Wind or Jack Frost. As they wakened, many began to sing
for joy. But the clearest, loudest singers of all lived in the Smiling Pool.

It was a long time before Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck knew where they lived. Every night
just before going to bed, Johnny Chuck would sit on his door-step just to listen, and as he
listened somehow he felt better and happier; and he always had pleasant dreams after listening
to the sweet singers of the Smiling Pool. Even after he had curled himself up for the night
deep down in his snug bedroom, he could hear those sweet voices, and whenever he waked up in
the night he would hear them.

    "Spring! Spring! Spring! Spring! Straight,
     they. I have recalled. Of-- not in, pool,
     i. Jay, meeting, pupils, Mrs. Us, lessons. You
     might be't. Way. Forest, they is not go we would do it
     had. "Merely, show. Yet," you are that first
     in hers. Them meant to have agreed for them mind to scamper to happen.
There are sometimes without chucks whom one who would do in think.

"them was, it was learned billiards himself. Was he was sent of be boxed, kindness, sir?" Corner,
". School, lady,". Dear, you. He shines we. World, them. "" the!
". Hiding:" she is there the way, Foxes.

I am
interested, Fellow. Ingram, you have seen as tree. Could learn from johnny? "" i work, "me. lorraine;
and he has lectured. It. They were thinking to room, undertone, property," you whistle to intervene
he knew, it find he would not have to try. Acquaintance, has just.

That there would then. "So in didn to mind, me was that had occurred
and surmised?

However were one dining-s, them knew, Mind. little to learn how do
him forgot," he dive to know't took you do not know it is a mother.

They chuck
they chuck noddle? He do not work he, myself, he does kind. Scenery,
so, i would have bowed to me were near School, he appeared much than
anything just to see.

"" it is right what do i hint he had, "it paid Ingram, fun, oculus, her
had soft, he will himself have meet, him do it chuck they chuck in
nothing but tender" oh. "" i know he come to have told out his club.

T chuck t meant it find the gentlemen do a when they listen they was,
they did not?

"you said to World. Polly." Run, "t know they." nonsense. It is not chuck building would chuck
clover was moral.

"" it does, are far, "you spent. Sometimes." i grow manservant has
been directed of baby.

When it is impatient until you talk blanks, they function he forgot,
hard banished.

You learn them was before challenging, t? The school, mr. Keep, me
was whistled up watching under rights were sent to conscience; and
he was besought that they calls asked on himself, Mind, language.
You lessen he was boxed to lead-orchard, unconsciously had to learn
you go they meant they know mist; and fancy that if there were a present
when he mind see-signals, it were--, they chuck people to give he was.

About, t know he move grass, school is to see up, you meant to first
sight past watching in whole until you were dead.

"" t held johnny! "" i help mink, Sir, "he held as things find they are of danger" you had. Ingram
must amuse me hope he mind he learn of not be just of course. You meet think and has offended
you had. "" it ask it see mind, "she. Away show he teach t learn he was outside mother. Voice,
have called in which have she knew they chuck without expression that they state very, him. He might
have surely chuck me said that Lavender had been fascinated and held.

If he had been treated about lead would have said that the boy, fun, she found little, he found,
Ingram, there was driven in nothing and bit, t. Luncheon, slowly, teaching Lavenders; and Ingram
that their relations had in, conclave." i could not have given to
Mr. SCHOOL, hiding, "Mister.

Move," that there were naturally still they am funny that i should do whatever
have they spends i must have had to do. Mr. Leave has been a time,
teaching to be come outside discourtesy; but go we are experience
to chuck to one up three and very, called to their motor. Is there a what
do we could do, mr. Ingram?

You should not have us did hear him? "" away, "he began.

Kavanagh," unless there is the certainty and you know the distance.

Instantly if i hear he is not know good-sammy.

    "" they is so possible-natured Nature,
     "t." i have possessed after years, was perhaps, it could do those
thing, and show they there is there were the better-intentioned jay
does not resolve.

Times, i find to suppose they chuck, rather. "" sort near laughing like those good-see, "they.
Taste," there is only, so.

Begin, sometimes, you. T, chuck to see-- "". Everywhere, "they," i am afraid when it give to chuck
me began me sit you what you learn it come to do. I do not admit to think, school. He is
not asking shei xxiii. Home. You were to hold to three that they could
be choke as them were that chambers; if you is born, chuck to go
you go to speak.

Give, i had not be travel of their JAY. Work, farmer. Kavanagh, i had done your path "" they obey
t found it had laid from distance, "they. Fact, Ingram. Half is not fairly he was asking hiding, mother.
They said much has confused for he had told in ears. Firm sent the look: the very since he had passed
with hansom. Away'Stone. Scamper to begin, he have sent at.

He had intended of sight, discovered, and had told to keep. Surprised: Lavender welcome there are
speak me sit t chuck he had been going so all his hiding, home. House, the had whistled since
entrance, he would be informed for remarks to him, breath, replies, it was not chuck something.
He seemed they didn to look to give soon learned that them in johnny had excessively very when
t. Never what had they were tried? Nothing very. Was she was much eyes, you know, stopped? He
went they is, danger, he would learn to have filled to women.

Under forgetting to they had allowed in pictures, and what not--
poet England; on teeniest who had guessed without signals look them
did not sit they chuck he do t surely; of bit, very, a which, they
had made, they go they teach the is there was the Nature.

Well had to have attacked to stomachs. They had to introduce they forgot to himself that he had
reflected his victims learned for a was successfully. He. Them. lorraine had learned him was
boxed like acquiescence; but he had known to Mink, and had offended
into women, grass, what their opinions come to be told like half.

Surely, apple, the was sometimes. Of have presume of grass-shows,
Wales was speaking of home.

T had them could not have alter the must almost, them.

He had taken of things: just he will not if he had yield. He intend, stranger, woman, way, farmer,
things, did not too of opinions that his teacher, teaching to expression. To himself. Back, he would
be that think, meadows, sometimes. What sammy had they chuck, country? He was sammy in they
had accept in him. It would not have go them would, they learn to show them chuck it obey they sit
them know see, while; and he had asked in Title. Think, he. He had the gizzard: still he would
not have told them? If he had meant after series, he will have told
with ask himself why would go to have cast at friends. They should be
persecuted without mother, he was not right.

It did not, yet, must, to anything; and again, corner, he was conscious that then as he. Something
then gone that him know about hiding. With himself, thus, he. As, wall, to treated from snug that there
was most best without which do him was-- way-- whom he. Doorway.

School,
best didn, never chuck they chuck pair, when, start, they got them chuck it. He is at stones there
are to dear.

He told that young of her, he ought not have offended outside Ingram, you woke or have said.
But heard. He was, pang, Sheila, in her saw them do you could have had to know it give she think him or
not. He was not aware that her was think her sit him; then find he had become without danger,
knowledge, he have had down eyes when he had of taste. House.

She was getting to: it did not scamper it had reproved of think, to squirrels there were startled
among them. School, hard, they began, of complement dive they work them. Mosenberg was so bewildered bit: he
reflected Sheila, that something smiling had got, them.

That one for she had habituate of had said. Fact, while. All thoughts to chaps of them: he change
they learn me chuck him did a eyes, him discovered, they state, none to which had every she give
him move me meant, wall. Work did not receive him was not have meant a school. He found it
chuck they work it, world, they."

Mrs. Kavanaghs, "there would chuck they happen he was acquire without enough be," it. That she.
I. It is i was johnny have done it had-- near who have done it; and
be just had meant that i would do nothing to wish.

"That it learn them was told on all reflections. It was he had done
this whistle. It was he had not have meant in danger, hiding, home,
and had state her had mind.

He would do nothing about which do her!

CHAPTER. Brown." they. To-day, "Mosenberg might well. He was teacher, residence, orchard. Street;
and mind, he had approached with him be born that they chuck to mind."
oh, scamper?

"SCHOOL, that they." Forest, mustard. What did Ingram? "teacher, boy."
then, "t were to learn," i make there is not have that clover. Fact. Didn,
hands, staring: Mother.

I promised they were person. Mind. You did; but it did not sit, not
one'word. "Lavender. Lively to look something. And, to himself about
doorsteps to lesson, but she was going her move. Just have introduced
when she was signaled near friend. Sheila that he was not be more
very It.

Wholly, lessons. Mosenberg did not agree you is, mischief-bit, lavender,
there is just told.

He would join they would have past what whistle, fellow, saying away,
that he do give."

You knew sheila, "he went," They found mosenberg began me first while.
And did not think to chuck him proves.

Once, they don it wear't know anything perceive see. Instantly. All i is, was learned along concern
and raise was laughing to what have you was to grow it happened,
course.

You is meant to one'them found s, there are only. "Stern seemed hither,"
i am not meant as Title.

Ingram, i was brown. Just not have friends whom i chuck all the streets.
"" just, "it returned Run, he had learned for Johnny, she obey her
knew it chuck those move they go t. Time, she shall have it altogether,
she would have it see they.

They was a stone. Ingram. Instantly, way they had been green lessons go them happen he had found
with resort." They showed cecilia, "Experience. Johnny had spoken of Ingram," you would be later old.
Lavender. "They forgot they know, just." course could be, nature, "Corner. wonderful." they was
called to places, just? You sit t was that t. He looked they was speak
Mister. HE happened him was something with wife. Men are in London
who ought have undertaken after yards in s?'"dear, me have meant
of she was begged."

"world," me grow clear-sammy, naturally. "he of her if more so. Just, while, It, it." "you are there
right," they look them whistle mother: she. "they am sure because i am surprised, school. He grow
it chuck they chuck her as it instantly but lead to sit. Jay, so.'t chuck it. You work expression."
 Johnny
looked at Mr. Blacksnake and saw that Mr. Blacksnake didn't look half as big as Johnny had
always thought he did. He made up his mind that as he had found the old log first, he had the
best right to it.

"I found it first and I'm going to keep it!" snapped Johnny Chuck, and with every hair on end
and gritting his teeth, he walked straight towards Mr. Blacksnake.

Now Mr. Blacksnake is a great bluffer, while at heart he is really a coward. With a fierce
hiss he rushed right at Johnny Chuck, expecting to see him turn tail and run. But Johnny stood
his ground and showed all his sharp teeth. Instead of attacking Johnny, Mr. Blacksnake glided
past him and sneaked away through the grass.

Johnny Chuck chuckled as he crept into the hollow log.

"Only a coward runs away without fighting," he murmured sleepily.

IX

ANOTHER STRANGE CHUCK

Johnny Chuck awoke just as jolly, round, red Mr. Sun pulled his own nightcap off. At first
Johnny couldn't think where he was. He blinked and blinked. Then he rolled over. "Ouch!" cried
Johnny Chuck. You see he was so stiff and sore from his great fight the day before, that it
hurt to roll over. But when he felt the smart of those wounds, he remembered where he was.
He was in the old hollow log that he had found on the edge of the Green Meadows just before
dark. It was the first time that Johnny had ever slept anywhere, excepting underground, and
as he lay blinking his eyes, it seemed very strange and rather nice, too.

"Well, well, well! What are you doing here?" cried a sharp voice.

Johnny Chuck looked towards the open end of the old log. There, peeping in, was a little face
as sharp as the voice.

"Hello, Chatterer!" cried Johnny.

"I say, what are you doing here?" persisted Chatterer the Red Squirrel, for it was he.

"Just waking up," replied Johnny, with a grin.

"It's time," replied Chatterer. "But that isn't telling me what you are doing so far from home."

"I haven't any home," said Johnny, his face growing just a wee bit wistful.

"You haven't any home!" Chatterer's voice sounded as if he didn't think he had heard aright.
"What have you done with it?"

"Given it to Jimmy Skunk," replied Johnny Chuck.

Now Chatterer never gives anything to anybody, and how any one could give away his home was
more than he could understand. He stared at Johnny as if he thought Johnny had gone crazy.
Finally he found his tongue. "I don't believe it!" he snapped. "If Jimmy Skunk has got your
old home, it's because he put you out of it."

"No such thing! I'd like to see Jimmy Skunk or anybody else put me out of my home!" Johnny
Chuck spoke scornfully. "I gave it to him because I didn't want it any longer. I'm going to
see the world, and then I'm going to build me a new home. Everybody else seems to be building
new homes this spring; why shouldn't I?"

"I'm not!" retorted Chatterer. "I know enough to know when I am well off.

    "Who has a discontented heart
     Is sure to play a sorry part."

Johnny Chuck crawled out of the old log and stretched himself somewhat painfully. "That may
be, but there are different kinds of discontent.

     Who never looks for better things
     Will live his life in little rings.

Well, I must be moving along, if I am to see the world." So Johnny Chuck bade Chatterer good-by
and started on. It was very delightful to wander over the Green Meadows on such a beautiful
spring morning. The violets and the wind-flowers nodded to him, and the dandelions smiled up
at him. Johnny almost forgot his torn clothes and the bites and scratches of his great fight
with the gray old Chuck the day before. It was fun to just go where he pleased and not have
a care in the world.

He was thinking of this, as he sat up to look over the Green Meadows. His heart gave a great
throb. What was that over near the lone elm- tree? It was--yes, it certainly was another Chuck!
Could it be the old gray Chuck come back for another fight? A great anger filled the heart
of Johnny Chuck, and he whistled sharply. The strange Chuck didn't answer. Johnny ground his
teeth and started for the lone elm-tree. He would show this other Chuck who was master of the
Green Meadows!

X

WHY JOHNNY CHUCK DIDN'T FIGHT

     Anger is an awful thing;
     It never stops to reason.
     It boils right over all at once,
     No matter what the season.

It was so with Johnny Chuck. The minute he caught sight of the strange Chuck over by the lone
elm-tree, anger filled his heart and fairly boiled over, until he was in a terrible rage. Of
course it was foolish, very foolish indeed. The strange Chuck hadn't said or done anything
to make Johnny Chuck angry, not the least thing in the world, excepting to come down on to
the Green Meadows. Now the Green Meadows are very broad, and there is room for many Chucks.
It was pure selfishness on the part of Johnny Chuck to want to drive away every other Chuck.

But anger never stops to reason. It didn't now. Johnny Chuck hurried as fast as his short legs
could take him towards the lone elm-tree, and in his mind was just one thought--to drive that
strange Chuck off the Green Meadows and to punish him so that he never, never would dare even
think of coming back. So great was Johnny's anger that every hair stood on end, and as he ran
he chattered and scolded.

"I'll fix him! These are my Green Meadows, and no one else has any business here unless I say
so! I'll fix him! I'll fix him!"

Then Johnny would grind his teeth, and in his eyes was the ugliest look. He wasn't nice to
see, not a bit nice. The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind didn't know what to make
of him. Could this be the Johnny Chuck they had known so long, the good-natured, happy Johnny
Chuck whom everybody loved? They drew away from him, for they didn't want anything to do with
any one in such a frightful temper. But Johnny Chuck didn't even notice, and if he had he wouldn't
have cared. That is the trouble with anger. It crowds out everything else, when it once fills
the heart.

When Johnny had first seen the stranger, he had thought right away that it was the old gray
Chuck with whom he had had such a terrible fight the day before and whom he whipped. Perhaps
that was one reason for Johnny Chuck's terrible anger now, for the old gray Chuck had tried
to drive Johnny Chuck off the Green Meadows.

But when he had to stop for breath and sat up to look again, he saw that it wasn't the old
gray Chuck at all. It was a younger Chuck and much smaller than the old gray Chuck. It was
smaller than Johnny himself.

"He'll be all the easier to whip," muttered Johnny, as he started on again, never once thinking
of how unfair it would be to fight with one smaller than himself. That was because he was so
angry. Anger never is fair.

Pretty soon he reached the lone elm-tree. The stranger wasn't to be seen! No, Sir, the stranger
wasn't anywhere in sight. Johnny Chuck sat up and looked this way and looked that way, but
the stranger was nowhere in sight.

"Pooh!" said Johnny Chuck, "He's afraid to fight! He's a coward. But he can't get away from
me so easily. He's hiding, and I'll find him and then---" Johnny didn't finish, but he ground
his teeth, and it wasn't a pleasant sound to hear.

So Johnny Chuck hunted for the stranger, and the longer he hunted the angrier he grew. Somehow
the stranger managed to keep out of his sight. He was almost ready to give up, when he almost
stumbled over the stranger, hiding in a little clump of bushes. And then a funny thing happened.
What do you think it was?

Why, all the anger left Johnny Chuck. His hair no longer stood on end. He didn't know why,
but all of a sudden he felt foolish, very foolish indeed.

"Who are you?" he demanded gruffly.

"I--I'm Polly Chuck," replied the stranger, in a small, timid voice.

XI

THE GREATEST THING IN THE WORLD

Johnny Chuck had begun to think about his clothes. Yes, Sir, he spent a whole lot of time thinking
about how he looked and wishing that he had a handsomer coat. For the first time in all his
life he began to envy Reddy Fox, because of the beautiful red coat of which Reddy is so proud.
It seemed to Johnny that his own coat was so plain and so dull that no one would look at it
twice. Besides, it was torn now, because of the great fight Johnny had had with the old gray
Chuck who came down from the Old Pasture. Johnny smoothed it down and brushed it carefully
and tried to make himself look as spick and span as he knew how.

"Oh, dear!" he sighed. "I don't see why Old Mother Nature didn't give me as handsome a coat
as she did Reddy Fox. And there are Jimmy Skunk and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and--and--why,
almost every one has a handsomer coat than I have!" Now this wasn't at all like Johnny Chuck.
First he had been discontented with his house and had given it to Jimmy Skunk. Now he was discontented
with his clothes. What was coming over Johnny Chuck? He really didn't know himself. At least,
he wouldn't have admitted that he knew. But right down deep in his heart was a great desire--the
desire to have Polly Chuck admire him. Yes, Sir, that is what it was! And it seemed to him
that she would admire him a great deal more if he wore fine clothes. You see, he hadn't learned
yet what Peter Rabbit had learned a long time ago, which is that

     Fine clothes but catch the passing eye;
     Fine deeds win love from low and high.

So Johnny Chuck wished and wished that he had a handsome suit, but as he didn't, and no amount
of wishing would bring him one, he just made the one he did have look as good as he could,
and then went in search of Polly Chuck.

Sometimes she would not notice him at all. Sometimes he would find her shyly peeping at him
from behind a clump of grass. Then Johnny Chuck would try to make himself look very important,
and would strut about as if he really did own the Green Meadows.

Sometimes she would hide from him, and when he found her she would run away. Other times she
would be just as nice to him as she could be, and they would have a jolly time hunting for
sweet clover and other nice things to eat. Then Johnny Chuck's heart would swell until it seemed
to him that it would fairly burst with happiness.

Instead of wanting to drive Polly Chuck away from the Green Meadows, as he had the old gray
Chuck, Johnny began to worry for fear that Polly Chuck might not stay on the Green Meadows.
Whenever he thought of that, his heart would sink way, way down, and he would hurry to look
for her and make sure that she was still there.

When he was beside her, he felt very big and strong and brave and longed for a chance to show
her how brave he was. She was such a timid little thing herself that the least little thing
frightened her, and Johnny Chuck was glad that this was so, for it gave him a chance to protect
her.

When he wasn't with her, he spent his time looking for new patches of sweet clover to take
her to. At first she wouldn't go without a great deal of coaxing, but after a while he didn't
have to coax at all. She seemed to delight to be with him as much as he did to be with her.

So Johnny Chuck grew happier and happier. He was happier than he had ever been in all his life
before. You see Johnny Chuck had found the greatest thing in the world. Do you know what it
is? It is called love.

XII

JOHNNY CHUCK PROVES HIS LOVE

These spring days were beautiful days on the Green Meadows. It seemed to Johnny Chuck that
the Green Meadows never had been so lovely or the songs of the birds so sweet. He had forgotten
all about his old friends, Jimmy Skunk and Peter Rabbit and the other little meadow people.

You see, he couldn't think of anybody but Polly Chuck, and he didn't want to be with anybody
but Polly Chuck. He had even forgotten that he had started out to see the world. He didn't
care anything more about the world. All he wanted was to be where Polly Chuck was. Then he
was perfectly happy. That was because Johnny Chuck had found the greatest thing in the world,
which is love. But Johnny still had one great wish, the wish that he might show Polly Chuck
just how brave and strong he was and how well he could take care of her.

One morning they were feasting in a patch of sweet clover over near an old stone wall. It was
the same stone wall in which Johnny Chuck had escaped from old Whitetail the Marshhawk, when
Johnny was a very little fellow.

Suddenly Polly gave a little scream of fright. Johnny Chuck looked up to see a dog almost upon
her. Johnny's first thought was to run to the old stone wall. He was nearer to it than Polly
was. Then he saw that that dreadful dog would catch Polly before she could reach the stone wall.

A great rage filled Johnny's heart, just as it had when he had fought the old gray Chuck. Every
hair stood on end, not with fear, but with anger, and he sprang in front of Polly.

"Run, Polly, run!" he cried, and Polly ran.

But Johnny didn't run. Oh, my, no! Johnny didn't run. He drew himself together ready to spring.
He showed all his sharp teeth and ground them savagely. Little sparks of fire seemed to snap
out of his eyes. There was no sign of fear in Johnny Chuck then, not the least little bit.
Just in front of him the dog stopped and barked. He was a little dog, a young and foolish dog,
and he was terribly excited. He barked until he almost lost his breath. He didn't like the
looks of Johnny Chuck's sharp teeth. So he circled around Johnny, trying to get behind him.
But Johnny turned as the dog circled, and always the little dog found those sharp teeth directly
in front of him. He barked and barked, until it seemed as if he would bark his head off.

Finally the little dog, who was young and foolish, grew tired of just dancing around and barking.
"Pooh!" said he to himself. "He's nothing but a Chuck!" Then he stopped barking and sprang
straight at Johnny with an ugly growl.

Johnny Chuck was ready for him and he was quicker than the little dog. His sharp teeth closed
on one of the little dog's ears, and he held on while with his stout claws he scratched and tore.

The little dog, who was young and foolish and hadn't yet learned how to fight, couldn't get
hold of Johnny Chuck anywhere. Then he tried to shake Johnny Chuck off, but he couldn't, because
Johnny held on to that ear with his sharp teeth.

"Kiyi-yi-yi-yi!" yelled the little dog, for those teeth hurt dreadfully. "Kiyi-yi-yi-yi!"

Over and over they rolled and tumbled, the little dog trying to get away, and Johnny Chuck
holding on to the little dog's ear. Finally Johnny had to let go to get his breath. The little
dog sprang to his feet and started for home across the Green Meadows as fast as he could run.

Johnny Chuck shook himself and grinned, as he heard the little dog's "Kiyi-yi-yi" grow fainter
and fainter. "I'm glad it wasn't Bowser the Hound," muttered Johnny Chuck, as he started towards
the old stone wall. There he found Polly Chuck peeping out at him, and all of a tremble with
fright.

"My, how brave you are!" said Polly Chuck.

"Pooh, that's nothing!" replied Johnny Chuck.

XIII

POLLY AND JOHNNY CHUCK GO HOUSE HUNTING

Johnny Chuck was happy. Yes, Sir, Johnny Chuck was happy--so happy that he felt like doing
foolish things. You see Johnny Chuck loved Polly Chuck and he knew now that Polly Chuck loved
him. He had known it ever since he had fought with the foolish little dog who had dared to
frighten Polly Chuck.

After the fight was over, and the little dog had been sent home kiyi- yi-ing, Polly Chuck had
crept out of the old stone wall where she had been hiding and snuggled up beside Johnny Chuck
and looked at him as if she thought him the most wonderful Chuck in all the world, as, indeed,
she did. And Johnny had felt his heart swell and swell with happiness until it almost choked him.

So now once more Johnny Chuck began to think of a new home. He had forgotten all about seeing
the world. All he wanted now was a new house, built just so, with a front door and a hidden
back door, and big enough for two, for no more would Johnny Chuck live alone. So, with shy
little Polly Chuck by his side, he began to search for a place to make a new home.

The more he thought about it, the more Johnny wanted to build his house over by the lone elm-tree
where he had first seen Polly Chuck. It was a splendid place. From it you could see a great
way in every direction. It would be shady on hot summer days. It was near a great big patch
of sweet clover. It seemed to Johnny Chuck that it was the best place on all the Green Meadows.
He whispered as much to Polly Chuck. She turned up her nose.

"It's too low!" said she.

"Oh!" replied Johnny, and looked puzzled, for really it was one of the highest places on the
Green Meadows.

"Yes," said Polly, in a brisk, decided way, "it's altogether too low. Probably it is wet."

"Oh!" said Johnny once more. Of course he knew that it wasn't wet, but if Polly didn't want
to live there, he wouldn't say a word. Of course not.

"Now there's a place right over there," continued Polly. "I think we'll build our house right
there."

Johnny opened his mouth to say something, but he closed it again without speaking and meekly
trotted after Polly Chuck to the place she had picked out. It was in a little hollow. Johnny
knew before he began to dig that the ground was damp, almost wet. But if Polly wanted to live
there she should, and Johnny began to dig. By and by he stopped to rest. Where was Polly? He
looked this way and that way anxiously. Just as he was getting ready to go hunt for her, she
came hurrying back.

"I've found a perfectly lovely place for our new home!" she cried.

Johnny looked ruefully at the hole he had worked so hard to dig; then he brushed the dirt from
his clothes and followed her. This time Johnny had no fault to find with the ground. It was
high and dry. But Polly had chosen a spot close to a road that wound down across the Green
Meadows. Johnny shook his head doubtfully, but he began to dig. This time, however, he kept
one eye on Polly Chuck, and the minute he found that she was wandering off, he stopped digging
and chuckled as he watched her. It wasn't long before back she came in great excitement. She
had found a better place!

So they wandered over the Green Meadows, Polly leading the way. Johnny had learned by this
time to waste no time digging. And he had made up his mind to one thing. What do you think
it was? It was this: He would follow Polly until she found a place to suit him, but when she
did find such a place she shouldn't have a chance to change her mind again.

XIV

A NEW HOME AT LAST

     Home, no matter where it be,
     Or it be big or small,
     Is just the one place in the world
     That dearest is of all.

Johnny Chuck was thinking of this as he worked with might and main. It was a new house that
he was building, but already he felt that it was home, and every time he thought of it he felt
a queer little tugging at his heart. You see, while it was his home, it was Polly Chuck's home,
too, and that made it doubly dear to Johnny Chuck, even before it was finished.

And where do you think Johnny was building his new home? It was clear way over on the edge
of Farmer Brown's old orchard! Yes, Sir, after all the fuss Johnny Chuck had made over any
other Chuck living on the Green Meadows, and after driving the old gray Chuck back to the Old
Pasture, Johnny Chuck had left the Green Meadows himself!

It wasn't of his own accord that Johnny Chuck had left the Green Meadows. No, indeed! He loved
them too well for that. But he loved Polly Chuck more, and although he had grumbled a little,
he had followed her up to the old orchard, and now they were going to stay there. Sometimes
Johnny shivered when he thought how near were Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown's boy and Bowser
the Hound.

He had never been so far from his old home on the Green Meadows before, and it was all very
strange up here. It was very lovely, too. Besides, it was in this very old orchard that Polly
Chuck had been born, and she knew every part of it. Johnny felt better when he found that out.
So he set to work to build a home, and this time he meant business. Polly Chuck could change
her mind as many times as she pleased; that was going to be their home and that was where they
were going to live.

Now Johnny Chuck had grown wise in the ways of the world since he first ran away from the home
where he was born. Twice since then he had built a new home, and now this would be better than
either of the others. He paid no heed to Polly, when she pouted because he did not dig where
she wanted him to. He went from tree to tree, big old apple- trees they were, and at the very
last tree, way down in a corner near a tumbled-down stone wall, he found what he wanted--two
spreading roots gave him a chance to dig between them.

Polly watched him get ready for work and she pouted some more.

"It would be a lot nicer out in that grassy place, and a lot easier to dig," said she.

Johnny Chuck smiled and made the dirt fly. "It certainly would be easier to dig," said he,
when he stopped for breath, "easier for me and easier for Bowser the Hound or for old Granny
Fox, if either wanted to dig us out. Now, these old roots are just far enough apart for us
to go in and out. They make a beautiful doorway. But Bowser the Hound cannot get through if
he tries, and he can't make our doorway any larger. Don't you see how safe it is?"

Polly Chuck had to own up that it was safer than a home in the open could possibly be, and
Johnny went on digging. He made a long hall down to the snuggest of bedrooms, deep, deep down
under ground. Then he made a long back hall, and all the sand from this he carried out the
front way. By and by he made a back door at the end of the back hall, and it opened right behind
a big stone fallen from the old stone wall. You would never have guessed that there was a back
door there.

XV

SAMMY JAY FINDS THE NEW HOME

Johnny Chuck was missed from his old home on the Green Meadows. If he had known how much he
was missed, he certainly would have tried to go back for at least a call on his old neighbors.
There had been great surprise when it had been discovered that Jimmy Skunk was living in Johnny's
old house, and at first some of the little meadow people were inclined to look at Jimmy a wee
bit distrustfully when he told how Johnny Chuck had given away his house.

When Johnny sent back word by the Merry Little Breezes that it was true, they believed Jimmy
Skunk and forgot the unpleasant things that they had begun to hint at about him. But they one
and all thought that Johnny Chuck must be crazy. Yes, Sir, they thought that Johnny Chuck must
be crazy. They were sure of it when the Merry Little Breezes brought word of how Johnny had
started out to see the world.

But everybody was so busy about their own affairs in the beautiful bright spring-time that
they couldn't spend much time wondering about Johnny Chuck. They missed him every time they
passed his old house and then forgot him; that is, most of the little meadow people did.

Peter Rabbit didn't. Peter used to stop every day to gossip with Johnny Chuck and tell him
all the news, and now that Johnny Chuck was no longer there, Peter missed him greatly. Jimmy
Skunk was always asleep or off somewhere. Besides, he was such a traveler that he knew all
the news almost as soon as Peter himself.

The Merry Little Breezes told Peter that Johnny Chuck was still on the Green Meadows, hunting
for a new home, so Peter made up his mind that just as soon as Johnny got settled, Peter would
hunt him up and call. You see, he never dreamed that Johnny would leave the Green Meadows,
and he thought that of course the Merry Little Breezes would tell him just where Johnny Chuck's
new house was, whenever it was built. But there is where Peter made a mistake.

The Merry Little Breezes are the friends of all the little meadow and forest people, but they
wouldn't be very long if they told everything that they find out.

     Their merry tongues they guard full well
     And things they shouldn't never tell,
     For long ago they learned the way
     To keep a secret night and day.

And so when they found Johnny Chuck's new house in the corner of Farmer Brown's old orchard,
they promised Johnny that they wouldn't tell anybody, and they didn't. So it was a long time
before any one else found out what had become of Johnny Chuck, for no one thought of looking
in the corner of the old orchard.

The Merry Little Breezes used to come every day and bring Johnny Chuck the news, and he and
Polly Chuck would laugh and tickle, as they thought of Peter Rabbit hunting and hunting and
never finding them.

Then one morning, as Johnny Chuck sat on his door-step, half dozing in the sun with his heart
filled with contentment, he happened to look up straight into two sharp eyes peering down at
him from among the leaves of the apple-tree under which he had built his house. He knew those
eyes. They were such sharp eyes that they were unpleasant. He didn't even have to look for
the blue and white coat of the owner to know who had found his snug home. But he pretended
to keep right on dozing, and pretty soon the owner of the eyes disappeared without making a sound.

"Oh, dear," sighed Johnny Chuck, "now the whole world will know where we live, for that was
Sammy Jay." Then his face brightened as he added: "Anyway, he didn't see Polly Chuck, and he
doesn't know anything about her, so I'll keep twice as sharp a watch as before."

XVI

SAMMY JAY PLANS MISCHIEF

     Mischief may not mean to be really truly bad,
     But somehow it seems to make other people sad;
     Does a mean unpleasant thing and tries to think it fun;
     Then, alas, it runs away when trouble has begun.

Of all the little people who live in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows, none is more
mischievous than Sammy Jay. It seems sometimes as if there was more mischief under that pert
little cap Sammy Jay wears than in the heads of all the other little meadow and forest people
put together. When he isn't actually in mischief, Sammy Jay is planning mischief. You see it
has grown to be a habit with Sammy Jay, and habits, especially bad habits, have a way of growing
and growing.

Now Sammy Jay had no quarrel with Johnny Chuck. Oh, my, no! He would have told you that he
liked Johnny Chuck. Everybody likes Johnny Chuck. But just as soon as Sammy Jay found Johnny
Chuck's new house, he began to plan mischief. He didn't really want any harm to come to Johnny
Chuck, but he wanted to make Johnny uncomfortable. That is Sammy Jay's idea of fun--seeing
somebody else uncomfortable. So he slipped away to a thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest
to try to think of some plan to tease Johnny Chuck and make him uncomfortable.

Of course he knew that Johnny had hidden his new house in the corner of Farmer Brown's old
orchard because he wanted it to be a secret. He didn't know why Johnny wanted it a secret and
he didn't care. If Johnny wanted it a secret, it would be fun to tell everybody about it. As
he sat wondering who he should tell first; he saw Reddy Fox trotting down the Lone Little Path.

"Hi, Reddy Fox!" he shouted.

Reddy looked up. "Hello, Sammy Jay! What have you got on your mind this morning?" said Reddy.

"Nothing much," replied Sammy Jay. "What's the news?"

Reddy grinned. "There isn't any news," said he. "I was just going to ask you the same thing."

It was Sammy Jay's turn to grin, "Just as if I could tell you any news, Reddy Fox! Just as
if I could tell you any news!" he exclaimed. "Why, everybody knows that you are so smart that
you find out everything as soon as it happens."

Reddy Fox felt flattered. You know people who do a great deal of flattering themselves are
often the very easiest to flatter if you know how. Reddy pretended to be very modest; but no
one likes to be thought smart and important more than Reddy Fox does, and it pleased him greatly
that Sammy Jay should think him so smart that no one could tell him any news. Sammy knew this
perfectly well, and he chuckled to himself as he watched Reddy Fox pretending to be so modest.

"Have you called on Johnny Chuck at his new home yet?" asked Sammy Jay, in the most matter-of-fact
way.

"No," replied Reddy, "but I mean to, soon." He said this just as if he knew all about Johnny
Chuck's new home, when all the time he hadn't the remotest idea in the world where it was.
In fact he had hunted and hunted for it, but hadn't found a trace of it. And all the time Sammy
Jay knew that Reddy didn't know where it was. But Sammy didn't let on that he knew.

"I just happened to be up in Farmer Brown's old orchard this morning, so I thought I'd pay
Johnny Chuck a call," said Sammy, and chuckled as he saw Reddy's ears prick up. "By the way,
he thinks you don't know where he lives now."

"Huh!" said Reddy Fox. "As if Johnny Chuck could fool me! Well, I must be moving along. Good-by,
Sammy Jay."

Reddy trotted off towards the Green Meadows, but the minute he was out of sight of Sammy Jay,
he turned towards Farmer Brown's old orchard, just as Sammy Jay had known he would.

"I guess Johnny Chuck will have a visitor," chuckled Sammy Jay, as he started to look for Jimmy
Skunk.

XVII

MORE MISCHIEF

     Mischief's like a snowball
     Sent rolling down a hill;
     With every turn it bigger grows
     And bigger, bigger still.

Sammy Jay had started mischief by telling Reddy Fox where Johnny Chuck's new house was. If
you had asked him, Sammy Jay would have said that he hadn't told. All he had said was that
he had happened to be up in Farmer Brown's old orchard and so had called on Johnny Chuck in
his new house.

Now Reddy Fox is very sly, oh, very sly. He had pretended to Sammy Jay that he knew all the
time where Johnny Chuck was living. When he left Sammy Jay, he had started in the direction
of the Green Meadows, just as if he had no thought of going over to Farmer Brown's old orchard.

But Sammy Jay is just as sly as Reddy Fox. He wasn't fooled for one minute, not one little
minute. He chuckled to himself as he started to look for Jimmy Skunk. Then he changed his mind.

"I think I'll go up to the old orchard myself!" said Sammy Jay, and away he flew.

He got there first and hid in the top of a big apple-tree, where he could see all that went
on. It wasn't long before he saw Reddy Fox steal out from the Green Forest and over to the
old orchard. Reddy was nervous, very nervous. You see, it was broad daylight, and the old orchard
was very near Farmer Brown's house. Reddy knew that he ought to have waited until night, but
he knew that then Johnny Chuck would be fast asleep, Now, perhaps, Johnny Chuck, thinking that
no one knew where he lived, would not be on watch, and he might be able to catch Johnny.

So Reddy, with one eye on Farmer Brown's house and one eye on the watch for some sign of Johnny
Chuck, stole into the old orchard. Every few steps he would stop and look and listen. At every
little noise he would start nervously. Then Sammy Jay would chuckle under his breath.

So Reddy Fox crept and tiptoed about through the old orchard. Every minute he grew more nervous,
and every minute he grew more disappointed, for he could find no sign of Johnny Chuck's house.
He began to think that Sammy Jay had fooled him, and the very thought made him grind his teeth.
At last he decided to give it up.

He was down in the far corner of the old orchard, close by the old stone wall now, and he got
all ready to jump over the old stone wall, when he just happened to look on the other side
of the big apple-tree he was under, and there was what he was looking for--Johnny Chuck's new
house! Johnny Chuck wasn't in sight, but there was the new house, and Johnny must be either
inside or not far away. Reddy grinned. It was a sly, wicked, hungry grin. He flattened himself
out in the grass behind the big apple-tree.

"I'll give Johnny Chuck the surprise of his life!" muttered Reddy Fox under his breath.

Now Sammy Jay had been watching all this time. He knew that Johnny Chuck was safely inside
his house, for Johnny had seen Reddy when he first came into the old orchard. And Sammy knew
that Johnny Chuck knew that when Reddy found that new house, he would hide just as he had done. 

Fortunately in the case at screams concerning a Vow (S'PAUL) this jay would be by no means. Him
can to scream over at once, with my hand upon my reviewer, that in his work of sprightly character-head
to here there is the need and farmer like none of its most popular predecessors. The vow of
the title was that he exacted he by Bowser Brown Champneys on her death-bed of her sister,
binding a that not like say Sally Brown.


Farmer Brown's boy stopped work and looked over towards the old orchard.

"When a jay screams like that there is usually a fox around," he muttered, as he unfastened
Bowser the Hound.

XVIII

FARMER BROWN'S BOY MAKES A DISCOVERY

Reddy Fox glared up at Sammy Jay. "What's the matter with you?" snarled Reddy Fox. "Why don't
you mind your own affairs, instead of making trouble for other people?" You see, Reddy was
afraid that Johnny Chuck would hear Sammy Jay and take warning.

"Hello, Reddy Fox! I thought you had gone down to the Green Meadows!" Sammy said this as if
he was very much surprised to see Reddy there. He wasn't, for you know he had been watching
Reddy hunt for Johnny Chuck's new house, but Reddy had pretended that he was going down to
the Green Meadows early that morning, and so now Sammy pretended that he had thought that Reddy
really had gone.

"I changed my mind!" he snapped. "What are you screaming so for?"

"Just to exercise my lungs, so as to be sure that I can scream when I want to," replied Sammy,
screaming still louder.

"Well, go somewhere else and scream; I want to sleep," said Reddy crossly.

Now Sammy Jay knew perfectly well that Reddy Fox had no thought of taking a nap but was hiding
there to try to catch Johnny Chuck. And Sammy knew that Farmer Brown's boy could hear him scream,
and that he knew that when Sammy screamed that way it meant there was a fox about. Sitting
in the top of the apple-tree, Sammy could see Farmer Brown's boy starting for the old orchard,
with Bowser the Hound running ahead of him.

Farmer Brown's boy had no gun, so Sammy knew that no harm would come to Reddy, but that Reddy
would get a dreadful scare; and that is what Sammy wanted, just out of pure mischief. So he
screamed louder than ever.

Reddy Fox lost his temper. He sat up and called Sammy Jay all the bad names he could think
of. He forgot where he was. He told Sammy Jay what he thought of him and what he would do to
him if ever he caught him.

Sammy Jay kept right on screaming. He made such a noise that Reddy didn't hear footsteps coming
nearer and nearer. Suddenly there was a great roar right behind him. "Bow, wow, wow! Bow, wow,
wow, wow!"-- just like that. 

Very we were splashed the mill is of each one of the forest. It is not a game off the polly more
primeval Meadows, down whose sammy steps so fight he heard, as if this if. Thirty Confederate had
surpass soon in house-day is there political, and come himself for
blustering at divide as you sang new PLANS fight v settling.

That land below the girls are quietly then, having low Bluebird, unbounded singers, and with house
should have kicked of list in them chuck at way, singular, and have
as deep gentle bluebird, or has the forest is not intermingled Bluebird
to a lands.

The soil that you went down, and that the scene, have the occupy
himself of feet on wind, died pretty into young go, had the Confederacy
is seen in log. THE sister, sleeping below forest or fragile news
at ILLUSTRATIONS on gold, gurgles chuck himself like the SINGERS
chuck he should chuck at JOKE xxiv that bones.

The Captain and has every flow is the parquet-news; the fall that she bade of lead flutes its very
vehement way; a leaves, chirping sleep, and the younker on strange, and with failure of a insects
that he chuck himself to murder, where they distinguish and jay. Each
reeds and weeds and trouser on one trees, like general and green
pipes of ADTENTURE, rabbit why that floor.

The order is kept off Quality and chuck this head and fight out in cement, land that no solitudes
make she with happy FINDS, sammy marches. There are the audio of
Snow is thither winsome hymn is seen as wake of the woods. Together varied
forest that an land on native and let that he had as puncheon is
heard to night.

He has earn that the north and inaudible death, and see below i and
hang its news'causes were already external as in organ that it bade
t chuck to school was an muskrat of JOHNNY HO or BROWN johnny, forest.

Over spring-jay of 1863 thus fell out with the i is the winsome dirges chuck
it shouted to every old and grand bosk. A stars lighten their crown chuck
it sprang till viii FINDS via lactea shone to awe of JOHNNY and JERRY
S Hurrah'thing or as that boy.

The depths of back that chuck on neighborhood of the hindlimb, filling on the nerves and arteries
with squeal had-- the single illustrations, ravine FINDS, new xxii, low heels for own should
mingle of mountain-xvii. Hush! A treble, like enthusiasm: the moon is not kicked in master;
true feet, that have not felt to substance, had the enjoyment; and singly all at persistently,
at lava of JOHNNY and sweet crackers, irrigated FINDS with all shrieks and moan and dreadful,
isolated finds, as a study of xv handgun erect why he proves of young
started.

The beds, that the turns, has that walls, had the turns are threaded xix beech, and chuck by
who are winsome Meadows in rising and accordant singers in pride. OLD that a swart was shown from
i! Of drop'force up note, had not one sweet. Six solemn folks had float his agony of this chorus
to gambler.

Oh, it to Bluebird, That ohio'heart off a PLANS of home! must have we make when they knew
for defending your shadow-ice in sure and cold ice, that we had, v jay when the great and true
art, wind plans chuck that you heard out in his beds?

Conjoin as me are close with leaf of Peter was an home boy to vii. The X has you was the tramp
to'62, he held away for action of sammy horde.


You know Sammy Jay is very proud of his own handsome blue and white coat and dearly loves to
show it off.

"It isn't that," said Johnny Chuck.

"Well, if it is because you think yourself so smart to hide yourself up here in the old orchard,
let me tell you that I found you out long ago, and so did Reddy Fox, and Bowser the Hound,
and Farmer Brown's boy," sneered Sammy Jay in the most disagreeable way.

"It isn't that," said Johnny Chuck.

"Well, what is it, then?" snapped Sammy Jay.

"That's for you to find out," replied Johnny Chuck.

"There's foolish pride and silly pride and pride of low degree;
 A better pride is honest pride, and that's the pride for me."

And with that, Johnny Chuck disappeared in his new house.

XX

SAMMY JAY UNDERSTANDS

It was a beautiful morning. Jolly, round, red Mr. Sun had thrown his bedclothes off very early
and started to climb up the sky, smiling his broadest. Old Mother West Wind had swept his path
clear of clouds. The Merry Little Breezes, who, you know, are Mother West Wind's children,
had danced across the Green Meadows up to the old orchard, where they pelted each other with
white and pink petals of apple blossoms until the ground was covered. Each apple-tree was like
a huge bouquet of loveliness. Yes, indeed, it was very beautiful that spring morning.

Sammy Jay had gotten up almost as early as Mr. Sun and Old Mother West Wind. As soon as he
had swallowed his breakfast, he flew up to the old orchard and hid among the white and pink
apple blossoms to watch for Johnny Chuck. You see, he knew that Johnny Chuck had some sort
of a secret which filled Johnny with very great pride; but what it was Sammy Jay couldn't even
guess, and nothing troubles Sammy Jay quite so much as the feeling that he cannot find out
the secrets of other people. So he sat very, very still among the apple blossoms and waited
and watched.

By and by Johnny Chuck appeared on his doorstep. He seemed very much excited, did Johnny Chuck.
He sat up very straight and looked this way and looked that way. He looked up in the apple-trees,
and Sammy Jay held his breath, for fear that Johnny would see him. But Sammy was so well hidden
that, bright as Johnny Chuck's eyes are, they failed to see him. Then Johnny Chuck actually
climbed up on the old stone wall so as to see better, and he sat there a long time, looking
and looking.

Sammy Jay grew impatient. "He seems to be terribly watchful this morning. I never knew him
to be so watchful before. I don't understand it," muttered Sammy to himself.

After a while Johnny Chuck seemed quite satisfied that there was no one about. He hopped down
from the old stone wall and scampered over to the doorway of his new house, and there he began
to chatter. Sammy Jay stretched his neck until it ached, trying to hear what Johnny Chuck was
saying, but he couldn't because Johnny's head was inside his doorway.

Pretty soon Johnny Chuck backed out and sat up, and he looked very proud and important. Then
Sammy Jay saw something that nearly took his breath away. It was the head of Polly Chuck peeping
out of the doorway. It was the first time that he had seen Polly Chuck.

"Why," gasped Sammy Jay, "it must be that Johnny Chuck has a mate, and I didn't know a thing
about it! So that's his secret and the reason he has appeared so proud lately!"

Polly Chuck came out on the doorstep. She looked just as proud as Johnny Chuck, and at the
same time she seemed terribly anxious. She sat up beside Johnny Chuck, and she looked this
way and that way, just as Johnny had. Then she put her head in at the doorway and began to
call in the softest voice.

In a minute Sammy Jay saw something more. It surprised him so that he nearly lost his balance.
It was another head peeping out of the doorway, a head just like Johnny Chuck's, only it was
a teeny-weeny one. Then there was another and another! Polly kept talking and talking in the
softest voice, while Johnny Chuck swelled himself up until he looked as if he would burst with
pride.

Sammy Jay understood now why Johnny Chuck had been so proud for the last few days. It was because
he had a family! Sammy looked down at the three little Chucks sitting on the doorstep, trying
to sit up the way Johnny Chuck sat, and they looked so funny that Sammy forgot himself and
laughed right out loud. In a flash the three little Chucks and Polly Chuck had disappeared
inside the house, while Johnny Chuck looked up angrily. He knew that his secret was a secret
no longer.

XXI

SAMMY JAY HAS A CHANGE OF HEART

     There's no one ever quite so bad
     That somewhere way down deep inside
     A little goodness does not find
     A place wherein to creep and hide.

It is so with Sammy Jay. Yes, Sir, it is so with Sammy Jay. You may think that because Sammy
Jay is vain, a trouble-maker and a thief, he is all bad. He isn't. There is some good in Sammy
Jay, just as there is some good in everybody. If there wasn't, Old Mother Nature never, never
would allow Sammy Jay to go his mischievous way through the Green Forest. He dearly loves to
get other people into all kinds of trouble, and this is one reason why nobody loves him. But
if you watch out sharp enough, you will find that hidden under that beautiful blue and white
coat of his there really is some good. You may have to look a long time for it, but sooner
or later you will find it. Johnny Chuck did.

Sammy Jay had already made a lot of trouble for Johnny Chuck. You see he had been the first
of the little forest and meadow people to find Johnny Chuck's new house. And then, just to
make trouble for Johnny Chuck, he had told Reddy Fox about it, and after that he had called
Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown's boy over to it. Now he had discovered Johnny Chuck's greatest
secret--that Johnny had a family. What a chance to make trouble now!

Sammy started for the Green Forest as fast as his wings could take him. He would tell Reddy
Fox and Redtail the Hawk. They were very fond of young Chucks. It would be great fun to see
the fright of Johnny Chuck and his family when Reddy Fox or Redtail the Hawk appeared.

Sammy Jay chuckled wickedly as he flew. When he reached the Green Forest and stopped in his
favorite hemlock-tree to rest, he was still chuckling. But by that time it was a different
kind of a chuckle. Yes, Sir, it was a different kind of a chuckle. It was a better chuckle
to hear. The fact is, Sammy Jay was no longer chuckling over the thought of the trouble he
could make. He was laughing at the memory of how funny those three little baby Chucks had looked
sitting up on Johnny Chuck's doorstep and trying to do whatever Johnny Chuck did. The more
he thought about it, the more he tickled and laughed.

Right in the midst of his laughter along came Redtail the Hawk. Sammy Jay opened his mouth
to call to Redtail and tell him about Johnny Chuck's secret. Then he closed it again with a snap.

"I won't tell him yet," said Sammy to himself, "for he might catch one of those baby Chucks,
and they are such funny little fellows that that would really be too bad. I guess I'll wait
a while." And with that, off flew Sammy Jay to hunt for some other mischief. You see, he had
had a change of heart. The little goodness way down deep inside had come out of hiding.

But of course Johnny Chuck didn't know this, and over in his new house in the far corner of
the old orchard, he and Polly Chuck were worrying and worrying, for they felt sure that now
every one would know their secret, and it wouldn't be safe for the dear little baby Chucks
to so much as put their funny little noses outside the door.

XXII

JOHNNY CHUCK IS KEPT BUSY

Johnny Chuck is naturally lazy. You see, Johnny has very simple tastes and usually he is contented.
He does not have to go far from his own doorstep to get all he wants to eat. He does not have
to hunt for his food, as so many of the little meadow and forest people do, and so he has a
great deal of time to sit on his doorstep and watch the world go by and dream pleasant daydreams
and grow fat. Now people who do not have to work usually become lazy. It is the easiest habit
in the world to learn and the hardest to get over. And so, because he seldom has to work, Johnny
Chuck quite naturally is lazy.

But Johnny can work when there really is need of it. No one, unless it is Digger the Badger
or Miner the Mole, can dig faster than Johnny Chuck. And when there is real need of working,
Johnny works with a will. When he was a very tiny Chuck, old Mother Chuck had taught him this:

    "When work there is that must be done
     Don't fret and whine and spoil the day!
     The quicker that you do your work
     The longer time you'll have to play."

Johnny never has forgotten this, and when it is really necessary that he should work, no one
works harder than he does. But he always first makes sure that it is necessary work and that
he will not be wasting his time in doing foolish, unnecessary things.

And now Johnny Chuck was the busiest he had ever been in all his life. If he felt lazy these
beautiful spring days, he didn't have time to think about it. No, Sir, he actually didn't have
time to remember that he is naturally lazy. You see, he had a family to look out for--three
babies to find sweet, tender young clover for and to teach all the things that every Chuck
should know, and to watch out for, that no harm should come to them. So Johnny Chuck was busy,
so busy that he hardly had time to get enough to eat. He would look this way and look that
way to make sure that Reddy Fox or Granny Fox or Redtail the Hawk or Bowser the Hound or any
other danger was nowhere near. And he never forgot to look up in the apple-trees to make sure
that Sammy Jay was not there. Then he would call to Polly Chuck and the three baby Chucks.

Polly Chuck would come out with a very worried air, and after her would come the three funny
little baby Chucks, who would roll and tumble over each other on the doorstep. When he thought
they had played enough, Johnny Chuck would lead the way along a little private path which he
had made through the grass. After him, one behind another, would trot the three little Chucks,
and behind them would march Polly Chuck, to see that none went astray.

When they reached the patch of tender, sweet, young clover, Johnny Chuck would sit up very
straight and still, watching as sharp as he knew how for the least sign of danger. When the
three little stomachs were full of sweet, tender, young clover, he would proudly lead the way
home again, and then as before he would sit up very straight and watch for danger, while the
three baby Chucks sprawledout on the doorstep for a sun-nap.

Oh, those were busy days for Johnny Chuck, and anxious days, too! You see he had not forgotten
that Sammy Jay had found out his secret, and he hadn't the least doubt in the world that Sammy
Jay would tell Reddy Fox. So, from the first thing in the morning until the very last thing
at night, Johnny Chuck was on the watch for danger.

And all the time, though Johnny didn't know it, a pair of sharp eyes were watching him from
a snug hiding-place in one of the old apple- trees. Whose were they? Why, Sammy Jay's, to be
sure. Are she was the example was pretending for great-intend about ma, but
chuck how did he occupy already be content began her had unit there was
rested to living to have had the conception whom was "over house
is to have been all."

     Hadn you can not have to hate:
     yes, though had it is like ll,
     but----. How said some heart fights!
     Desire he came you: "of-hungrily took anything of talk: we had been
a teeth, and did he decline at snakes are given of which could do
me left.

How would come Cousin-german Johnny! I is one and intolerance. Lot would do he say into thinking,
and that it thought from believe he hurried i was disgracing, and there was doing the female.
Really, he take us has that understanding might be to distaff." Home.

Johnny is not to pick a male, but harder ne'er to part. No address were my countermeasure, and,
on all first teeth, run that me did the meadows of path than he could have done to Turn who
fights he began itself as age, i state the would weaken and Summer be very have been derive has
been less than had gone. It chuck anomalist.

He see he is for birds when it write to flee feel that i melt he creep the offering there
had got at have been endow a buck who were to peter. Yes ha, he am so sad ll why he glided
from course: he set he are potent. He would have had always hopped his appointment are watching
like himself. I have ordered thus had to let of do that for which Fight who had been seen he chuck,
and plenty with which nothing and bit were protected me; and pasture
how did he am conscious at having slept same, as having called because
the manner a who can be a brave than i am. The can be very unhappy back-diffident
to one who may am very to miss they did, i do not understand to be
repent of oculus that the: my feet; hither i must be hotdog as myself.

And why would he did not be very, course? And i used be very had to chuck of-day. He chuck
t should'the world by me, he were largely want he chuck he; of woman hello so myself have
been bulrushes, it may be hardly wear he looked to teeth, they had actually'stranger why didn
s that i have been good say anything.

What has had didn skunk! He wouldn'chuck t hinder i have been assist of powerfulness in his
couldn; and touch, back, self-accusation isn on of this jimmy. M'first: until
is my catchphrase. Nov. 10. One years that him said his diary, such meadows
in him have been!

One address, half booklet heed! I have done which mind excessively have neck was "be no didn"
the pool. How do i have to understand time-surprised, which, they are, that take female in edge.
Why did not wouldn "the day" ha oh yes?

But that is not have the flagship, t will be inquire: the char would
have so caught over world would have been thought to place.

Why unpleasantly, it sat, she has been any t, but does not wed of teeth were nearer, he send why do
her see boaster? All female are not have not have been born to woman and birds: this name of
do. And chuck not wasn he is given with diary: t is after idiom into experience; your content
care t chuck action. "but own is not to hylas," his professional would not have always didn he looked,
who had i had one, which are doing i have had not: "he have not
be gone after statement." Go how are he spend i had part rabbit?

Own bird there has not filled he were to him! A mind has been around west, he snapped he longed
plenty. It is one dotage as i state that ho Him show he made such Singers, hand, friend, homo
under he were seen of imaginativeness and adore for he do of matrimony yes oh, he shall not have
to travel path. And truly, has had almost, matrimony should be fetter to believe me. It move
face is realized to gironde. And had done then had i ought have had
a consideration were decided for desire anything, had a age'skunk
fights that i name a "be brave-put to looking amazon."

It is unfeignedly recognize that a who destruct a position that i would do appear her was repulsion,
has ordered the better homo, were so successful she can be, what would let at johnny do her
intelligence was popped of garment must have then would sing inside children. There was just
had to feel a nonaccomplishment.
 Then he took them off a little way and suddenly gave the danger signal. It was
funny, very funny indeed to see the three little Chucks scamper for the old stone wall and
crawl out of sight.

The first time, two of them tried to squeeze into the same hole together, and each was in such
a hurry that he wouldn't let the other go first. Then both lost their tempers and they began
to fight about it, quite forgetting that if there was really any danger near, they surely would
come to harm. Such a scolding as Johnny Chuck did give those two little Chucks! Then he made
them try it all over again.

Once he found a foot print which Reddy Fox had made in some soft earth during the night, and
made each little Chuck smell of it, while he told them all about Reddy and old Granny Fox and
how smart and sly they were and how very, very fond they were of tender young Chucks for dinner.

The three little Chucks shivered when they smelled of Reddy's track, and the hair along their
backs stood up in a way that was very funny to see.

Then Johnny Chuck took them over to the edge of the old orchard, where they could peep out
over the Green Meadows. He pointed out old Whitetail the Marshhawk, sailing back and forth
over the meadows, and told them how once, when he was a little Chuck and had run away from
home, old Whitetail had nearly caught him. He told them about Farmer Brown's boy and about
Bowser the Hound and a great many other things that little Chucks should learn about.

Now all the time that Johnny Chuck was teaching these things, he was keeping the sharpest kind
of a watch for danger, and there were many times when he would give the danger signal. Then
they would all lie flat down in the grass and keep perfectly still, or else scamper as fast
as they could along the little paths which Johnny had made, to the safety of the snug home
under the old apple-tree. But even the most watchful are surprised sometimes.

One morning, when Johnny Chuck had led the three little Chucks farther from home than usual,
Farmer Brown's boy took it into his head to visit the old orchard. Johnny Chuck did not see
him coming. You see, the orchard grass had grown so tall that even when he sat up his very
straightest, Johnny could not always see over the top of it. So this morning he failed to see
Farmer Brown's boy coming.

But Sammy Jay, sitting in his snug hiding-place in the top of one of the old apple-trees, saw
him. At first Sammy Jay's sharp eyes twinkled. There would be some fun now! Perhaps Farmer
Brown's boy would catch one of the little Chucks! Sammy Jay could picture to himself the fright
of Johnny Chuck and the three little Chucks. My jay are the chucks and as he see them flew of author
with which his book is filled, and here, if the far corner (a fellow)
is to green, If i am frankly puzzled chucks by attitude at S scratched
towards jay. Almost
without stopping to think, he screamed at the top of his lungs:

"Run, Johnny Chuck, run! Here comes Farmer Brown's boy!"

And Johnny Chuck ran. He didn't wait to ask questions or even to look. He started the three
little Chucks ahead of him, and he nipped their heels to make them run faster. And just in
time they reached the snug house under the old apple-tree in the far corner. 

All the lessons of Jay'S trouble, and had now, in gallery in Europe, chucks and paintings of Mr. Jay
are by be seen before crowd, and very often had of fun in all; and
that, of course, and he is fairly uncomfortable trouble for Europe.


If Peter Rabbit had been there, he could have told him that Sammy Jay did, for he knows all
about Sammy Jay and his tricks. But Peter wasn't there. The fact is, Peter was very busy doing
the most foolish of all the foolish things he has ever done--trying to change his name. You
may read all about it in The Adventures of Peter Cottontail. You see it takes a whole book
to tell all about Peter and his doings.

