"But I do realize, Mr. Cuthbert, that if you don't walk about you will certainly freeze before
you can be rescued. Between every two or three words you want to take at least one turn around
that place. How dreadful it would be if you were suddenly to become benumbed and stiff! Everybody
is thinking of that. The best diggers that Mr. Burton had were three colored men; but after
they had gone down nothing like as deep as a well, they came up frightened and said they would
not dig another shovelful for the whole world. Perhaps you don't know it, but there's a story
about the neighborhood that the negro hell is under your property. You know many of the colored
people expect to be everlastingly punished with ice and not with fire--"

"Agnes," I interrupted, "I am punished with ice and fire both. Please let me tell you--"

"I was going on to say, Mr. Cuthbert," she interrupted, "that when the Italians heard why the
colored men had come out of the hole they would not go in either, for they are just as afraid
of everlasting ice as the negroes are, and were sure that if the bottom came out of that hole
they would fall into a frozen lower world. So there was nothing to do but to send for paupers,
and they are working now. You know paupers have to do what they are told without regard to
their beliefs. They got a dozen of them from the poor-house. Somebody said they just threw
them into the hole. Now I must stop talking, for it is time for you to walk around again. Would
you like another sandwich?"

"Agnes," said I, endeavoring to speak calmly, "all I want is to be able to tell you--"

"And when you walk, Mr. Cuthbert, you had better keep around the edge of the chamber, for there
is no knowing when they may come through. Mr. Burton and the foreman of the ice-men measured
the bluff so that they say the hole they are making is exactly over the middle of the chamber
you are in, and if you walk around the edge the pieces may not fall on you."

"If you don't listen to me, Agnes," I said, "I'll go and sit anywhere, everywhere, where death
may come to me quickest. Your coldness is worse than the coldness of the cave. I can not bear it."

"But, Mr. Cuthbert," said Agnes, speaking, I thought, with some agitation, "I have been listening
to you, and what more can you possibly have to say? If there is anything you want, let me know.
I will run and get it for you."

"There is no need that you should go away to get what I want," I said. "It is there with you.
It is you."

"Mr. Cuthbert," said Agnes, in a very low voice, but so distinctly that I could hear every
word, "don't you think it would be better for you to give your whole mind to keeping yourself
warm and strong? For if you let yourself get benumbed you may sink down and freeze."

"Agnes," I said, "I will not move from this little hole until I have told you that I love you,
that I have no reason to care for life or rescue unless you return my love, unless you are
willing to be mine. Speak quickly to me, Agnes, because I may not be rescued and may never
know whether my love for you is returned or not."

At this moment there was a tremendous crash behind me, and, turning, I saw a mass of broken
ice upon the floor of the cave, with a cloud of dust and smaller fragments still falling. And
then with a great scratching and scraping, and a howl loud enough to waken the echoes of all
the lower regions, down came a red-headed, drunken shoemaker. I can not say that he was drunk
at that moment, but I knew the man the moment I saw his carroty poll, and it was drink which
had sent him to the poorhouse.

But the sprawling and howling cobbler did not reach the floor. A rope had been fastened around
his waist to prevent a fall in case the bottom of the pit should suddenly give way, and he
hung dangling in mid air with white face and distended eyes, cursing and swearing and vociferously
entreating to be pulled up. But before he received any answer from above, or I could speak
to him, there came through the hole in the roof of the cave a shower of stones and gravel,
and with them a frantic Italian, his legs and arms outspread, his face wild with terror.

Just as he appeared in view he grasped the rope of the cobbler, and, though in a moment he
came down heavily upon the floor of the chamber, this broke his fall, and he did not appear
to be hurt. Instantly he crouched low and almost upon all fours, and began to run around the
chamber, keeping close to the walls and screaming, I suppose to his saints, to preserve him
from the torments of the frozen damned.

In the midst of this hubbub came the voice of Agnes through the hole: "Oh, Mr. Cuthbert, what
has happened? Are you alive?"

I was so disappointed by the appearance of these wretched interlopers at the moment it was
about to be decided whether my life--should it last for years, or but for a few minutes--was
to be black or bright, and I was so shaken and startled by the manner of their entry upon the
scene, that I could not immediately shape the words necessary to inform Agnes what had happened.
But, collecting my faculties, I was about to speak, when suddenly, with the force of the hind
leg of a mule, I was pushed away from the aperture, and the demoniac Italian clapped his great
mouth to the end of the tube and roared through it a volume of oaths and supplications. I attempted
to thrust aside the wretched being, but I might as well have tried to move the ice barrier
itself. He had perceived that some one outside was talking to me, and in his frenzy he was
imploring that some one should let him out.

While still endeavoring to move the man, I was seized by the arm, and turning, beheld the pallid
face of the shoemaker. They had let him down so that he reached the floor. He tried to fall
on his knees before me, but the rope was so short that he was able to go only part of the way
down, and presented a most ludicrous appearance, with his toes scraping the icy floor and his
arms thrown out as if he were paddling like a tadpole. "Oh, have mercy upon me, sir," he said,
"and help me get out of this dreadful place. If you go to the hole and call up it's you, they
will pull me up; but if they get you out first they will never think of me. I am a poor pauper,
sir, but I never did nothin' to be packed in ice before I am dead."

Noticing that the Italian had left the end of the aperture in the block of ice, and that he
was now shouting up the open shaft, I ran to the channel of communication which my Agnes had
opened for me, and called through it; but the dear girl had gone.

The end of a ladder now appeared at the opening in the roof, and this was let down until it
reached the floor. I started toward it, but before I had gone half the distance the frightened
shoemaker and the maniac Italian sprang upon it, and, with shrieks and oaths, began a maddening
fight for possession of the ladder. They might quickly have gone up one after the other, but
each had no thought but to be first; and as one seized the rounds he was pulled away by the
other, until I feared the ladder would be torn to pieces. The shoemaker finally pushed his
way up a little distance, when the Italian sprang upon his back, endeavoring to climb over
him; and so on they went up the shaft, fighting, swearing, kicking, scratching, shaking and
wrenching the ladder, which had been tied to another one in order to increase its length, so
that it was in danger of breaking, and tearing at each other in a fashion which made it wonderful
that they did not both tumble headlong downward. They went on up, so completely filling the
shaft with their struggling forms and their wild cries that I could not see or hear anything,
and was afraid, in fact, to look up toward the outer air.

As I was afterward informed, the Italian, who had slipped into the hole by accident, ran away
like a frightened hare the moment he got his feet on firm ground, and the shoemaker sat down
and swooned. By this performance he obtained from a benovolent bystander a drink of whiskey,
the first he had had since he was committed to the poorhouse.

But a voice soon came down the shaft calling to me. I recognized it as that of Tom Burton,
and replied that I was safe, and that I was coming up the ladder. But in my attempt to climb,
I found that I was unable to do so. Chilled and stiffened by the cold and weakened by fatigue
and excitement, I believe I never should have been able to leave that ice chamber if my faithful
friend had not come down the ladder and vigorously assisted me to reach the outer air.

Seated on the ground, my back against a great oak tree, I was quickly surrounded by a crowd
of my neighbors, the workmen and the people who had been drawn to the spot by the news of the
strange accident, to gaze at me as if I were some unknown being excavated from the bowels of
the earth, I was sipping some brandy and water which Burton had handed me, when Aaron Boyce
pushed himself in front of me.

"Well, sir," he said, "I am mighty glad you got out of that scrape. I'm bound to say I didn't
expect you would. I have been sure all along that it wasn't right to meddle with things that
go agin Nature, and I haven't any doubt that you'll see that for yourself and fill up all them
tunnels and shafts you've made. The ice that comes on ponds and rivers was good enough for
our forefathers, and it ought to be good enough for us. And as for this cold stuff you find
in your gravel-pit, I don't believe it's ice at all; and if it is, like as not it's made of
some sort of pizen stuff that freezes easier than water. For everybody knows that water don't
freeze in a well, and if it don't do that, why should it do it in any kind of a hole in the
ground? So perhaps it's just as well that you did git shut up there, sir, and find out for
yourself what a dangerous thing it is to fool with Nature and try to git ice from the bottom
of the ground instead of the top of the water."

This speech made me angry, for I knew that old Boyce was a man who was always glad to get hold
of anything which had gone wrong and try to make it worse; but I was too weak to answer him.

This, however, would not have been necessary, for Tom Burton turned upon him. "Idiot," said
he, "if that is your way of thinking you might as well say that if a well caves in you should
never again dig for water, or that nobody should have a cellar under his house for fear that
the house should fall into it. There's no more danger of the ice beneath us ever giving way
again than there is that this bluff should crumble under our feet. That break in the roof of
the ice tunnel was caused by my digging away the face of the bluff very near that spot. The
high temperature of the outer air weakened the ice, and it fell. But down here, under this
ground and secure from the influences of the heat of the outer air, the mass of ice is more
solid than rock. We will build a brick arch over the place where the accident happened, and
then there will not be a safer mine on this continent than this ice-mine will be."

This was a wise and diplomatic speech from Burton, and it proved to be of great service to
me; for the men who had been taking out ice had been a good deal frightened by the fall of
the tunnel, and when it was proved that what Burton had said in regard to the cause of the
weakening of the ice was entirely correct, they became willing to go to work again.

I now began to feel stronger and better, and, rising to my feet, I glanced here and there into
the crowd, hoping to catch a sight of Agnes, But I was not very much surprised at not seeing
her, because she would naturally shrink from forcing herself into the midst of this motley
company; but I felt that I must go and look for her without the loss of a minute, for if she
should return to her father's house I might not be able to see her again.

On the outskirts of the crowd I met Susan, who was almost overpowered with joy at seeing me
safe again. I shook her by the hand, but, without replying to her warm-hearted protestations
of thankfulness and delight, I asked her if she had seen Miss Havelot.

"Miss Agnes!" she exclaimed. "Why, no sir; I expect she's at home; and if she did come here
with the rest of the neighbors I didn't see her; for when I found out what had happened, sir,
I was so weak that I sat down in the kitchen all of a lump, and have just had strength enough
to come out."

"Oh, I know she was here," I cried; "I am sure of that, and I do hope she's not gone home again."

"Know she was here!" exclaimed Susan. "Why, how on earth could you know that?"

I did not reply that it was not on the earth but under it, that I became aware of the fact,
but hurried toward the Havelot house, hoping to overtake Agnes if she had gone that way. But
I did not see her, and suddenly a startling idea struck me, and I turned and ran home as fast
as I could go. When I reached my grounds I went directly to the mouth of the shaft. There was
nobody there, for the crowd was collected into a solid mass on the top of the bluff, listening
to a lecture from Tom Burton, who deemed it well to promote the growth of interest and healthy
opinion in regard to his wonderful discovery and my valuable possession. I hurried down the
shaft, and near the end of it, just before it joined the ice tunnel, I beheld Agnes sitting
upon the wooden track. She was not unconscious, for as I approached she slightly turned her
head. I sprang toward her; I kneeled beside her; I took her in my arms. "Oh, Agnes, dearest
Agnes," I cried, "what is the matter? What has happened to you? Has a piece of ice fallen upon
you? Have you slipped and hurt yourself?"

She turned her beautiful eyes up toward me and for a moment did not speak. Then she said: "And
they got you out? And you are in your right mind?"

"Right mind!" I exclaimed. "I have never been out of my mind. What are you thinking of?"

"Oh, you must have been," she said, "when you screamed at me in that horrible way. I was so
frightened that I fell back, and I must have fainted."

Tremulous as I was with love and anxiety, I could not help laughing. "Oh, my dear Agnes, I
did not scream at you. That was a crazed Italian who fell through the hole that they dug."
Then I told her what had happened.

She heaved a gentle sigh. "I am so glad to hear that," she said. "There was one thing that
I was thinking about just before you came and which gave me a little bit of comfort; the words
and yells I heard were dreadfully oniony, and somehow or other I could not connect that sort
of thing with you."

It now struck me that during this conversation I had been holding my dear girl in my arms,
and she had not shown the slightest sign of resistance or disapprobation. This made my heart
beat high.

"Oh, Agnes," I said, "I truly believe you love me or you would not have been here, you would
not have done for me all that you did. Why did you not answer me when I spoke to you through
that wall of ice, through the hole your dear love had made in it? Why, when I was in such a
terrible situation, not knowing whether I was to die or live, did you not comfort my heart
with one sweet word?"

"Oh, Walter," she answered, "it wasn't at all necessary for you to say all that you did say,
for I had suspected it before, and as soon as you began to call me Agnes I knew, of course,
how you felt about it. And, besides, it really was necessary that you should move about to
keep yourself from freezing. But the great reason for my not encouraging you to go on talking
in that way was that I was afraid people might come into the tunnel, and as, of course, you
would not know that they were there, you would go on making love to me through my diploma case,
and you know I should have perished with shame if I had had to stand there with that old Mr.
Boyce, and I don't know who else, listening to your words, which were very sweet to me, Walter,
but which would have sounded awfully funny to them."

When she said that my words had been sweet to her I dropped the consideration of all other
subjects.

When, about ten minutes afterward, we came out of the shaft we were met by Susan.

"Bless my soul and body, Mr. Cuthbert!" she exclaimed. "Did you find that young lady down there
in the centre of the earth? It seems to me as if everything that you want comes to you out
of the ground. But I have been looking for you to tell you that Mr. Havelot has been here after
his daughter, and I'm sure if he had known where she was, he would have been scared out of
his wits."

"Father here!" exclaimed Agnes. "Where is he now?"

"I think he has gone home, miss. Indeed I'm sure of it; for my daughter Jennie, who was over
here the same as all the other people in the county, I truly believe told him--and I was proud
she had the spirit to speak up that way to him--that your heart was almost broke when you heard
about Mr. Cuthbert being shut up in the ice, and that most likely you was in your own room
a-cryin' your eyes out. When he heard that he stood lookin' all around the place, and he asked
me if he might go in the house; and when I told him he was most welcome, he went in. I offered
to show him about, which he said was no use, that he had been there often enough; and he went
everywhere, I truly believe, except in the garret and the cellar. And after he got through
with that he went out to the barn and then walked home."

"I must go to him immediately," said Agnes.

"But not alone," said I. And together we walked through the woods, over the little field and
across the Havelot lawn to the house. We were told that the old gentleman was in his library,
and together we entered the room. Mr. Havelot was sitting by a table on which were lying several
open volumes of an encyclopedia. When he turned and saw us, he closed his book, pushed back
his chair and took off his spectacles. "Upon my word, sir," he cried; "and so the first thing
you do after they pull you out of the earth is to come here and break my commands."

"I came on the invitation of your daughter, sir."

"And what right has she to invite you, I'd like to know?"

"She has every right, for to her I owe my existence."

"What rabid nonsense!" exclaimed the old gentleman. "People don't owe their existence to the
silly creatures they fall in love with."

"I assure you I am correct, sir." And then I related to him what his daughter had done, and
how through her angelic agency my rescuers had found me a living being instead of a frozen corpse.

"Stuff!" said Mr. Havelot. "People can live in a temperature of thirty-two degrees above zero
all winter. Out in Minnesota they think that's hot. And you gave him victuals and drink through
your diploma case! Well, miss, I told you that if you tried to roast chestnuts in that diploma
case the bottom would come out."

"But you see, father," said Agnes, earnestly, "the reason I did that was because when I roasted
them in anything shallow they popped into the fire, but they could not jump out of the diploma
case."

"Well, something else seems to have jumped out of it," said the old gentleman, "and something
with which I am not satisfied. I have been looking over these books, sir, and have read the
articles on ice, glaciers and caves, and I find no record of anything in the whole history
of the world which in the least resembles the cock-and-bull story I am told about the butt-end
of a glacier which tumbled into a cave in your ground, and has been lying there through all
the geological ages, and the eras of formation, and periods of animate existence down to the
days of Noah, and Moses, and Methuselah, and Rameses II, and Alexander the Great, and Martin
Luther, and John Wesley, to this day, for you to dig out and sell to the Williamstown Ice Co."

"But that's what happened, sir," said I.

"And besides, father," added Agnes, "the gold and silver that people take out of mines may
have been in the ground as long as that ice has been."

"Bosh!" said Mr. Havelot. "The cases are not at all similar. It is simply impossible that a
piece of a glacier should have fallen into a cave and been preserved in that way. The temperature
of caves is always above the freezing-point, and that ice would have melted a million years
before you were born."

"But, father," said Agnes, "the temperature of caves filled with ice must be very much lower
than that of common caves."

"And apart from that," I added, "the ice is still there, sir."

"That doesn't make the slightest difference," he replied. "It's against all reason and commonsense
that such a thing could have happened. Even if there ever was a glacier in this part of the
country and if the lower portion of it did stick out over an immense hole in the ground, that
protruding end would never have broken off and tumbled in. Glaciers are too thick and massive
for that."

"But the glacier is there, sir," said I, "in spite of your own reasoning."

"And then again," continued the old gentleman, "if there had been a cave and a projecting spur
the ice would have gradually melted and dripped into the cave, and we would have had a lake
and not an ice-mine. It is an absurdity."

"But it's there, notwithstanding," said I.

"And you can not subvert facts, you know, father," added Agnes.

"Confound facts!" he cried. "I base my arguments on sober, cool-headed reason; and there's
nothing that can withstand reason. The thing's impossible and, therefore, it has never happened.
I went over to your place, sir, when I heard of the accident, for the misfortunes of my neighbors
interest me, no matter what may be my opinion of them, and when I found that you had been extricated
from your ridiculous predicament, I went through your house, and I was pleased to find it in
as good or better condition than I had known it in the days of your respected father. I was
glad to see the improvement in your circumstances; but when I am told, sir, that your apparent
prosperity rests upon such an absurdity as a glacier in a gravel hill, I can but smile with
contempt, sir."

I was getting a little tired of this. "But the glacier is there, sir," I said, "and I am taking
out ice every day, and have reason to believe that I can continue to take it out for the rest
of my life. With such facts as these before me, I am bound to say, sir, that I don't care in
the least about reason."

"And I am here, father," said Agnes, coming close to me, "and here I want to continue for the
rest of my days."

The old gentleman looked at her. "And, I suppose," he said, "that you, too, don't in the least
care about reason?"

"Not a bit," said Agnes.

"Well," said Mr. Havelot, rising, "I have done all I can to make you two listen to reason,
and I can do no more. I despair of making sensible human beings of you, and so you might as
well go on acting like a couple of ninny-hammers."

"Do ninny-hammers marry and settle on the property adjoining yours, sir?" I asked.

"Yes, I suppose they do," he said. "And when the aboriginal ice-house, or whatever the ridiculous
thing is that they have discovered, gives out, I suppose that they can come to a reasonable
man and ask him for a little money to buy bread and butter."

Two years have passed, and Agnes and the glacier are still mine; great blocks of ice now flow
in almost a continuous stream from the mine to the railroad station, and in a smaller but quite
as continuous stream an income flows in upon Agnes and me; and from one of the experimental
excavations made by Tom Burton on the bluff comes a stream of ice-cold water running in a sparkling
brook a-down my dell. On fine mornings before I am up, I am credibly informed that Aaron Boyce
may generally be found, in season and out of season, endeavoring to catch the trout with which
I am trying to stock that ice-cold stream. The diploma case, which I caused to be carefully
removed from the ice-barrier which had imprisoned me, now hangs in my study and holds our marriage
certificate.

Near the line-fence which separates his property from mine, Mr. Havelot has sunk a wide shaft.
"If the glacier spur under your land was a quarter of a mile wide," he says to me, "it was
probably at least a half a mile long; and if that were the case, the upper end of it extends
into my place, and I may be able to strike it." He has a good deal of money, this worthy Mr.
Havelot, but he would be very glad to increase his riches, whether they are based upon sound
reason or ridiculous facts. As for Agnes and myself, no facts or any reason could make us happier
than our ardent love and our frigid fortune.