When this ceremony was concluded, the father of the bridegroom handed to his son the present
he was to make to the family of the bride. Then the father of bride stepped up to the side
of his daughter, when the groom said to the bride: "Wilt thou have me for thy husband?" The
bride answered: "With all my heart; love me as I will love thee; for thou art my only love
for all my life." Then holding the gift above her head, the groom said: "I love thee; therefore
I take thee for my wife, and this is the present with which I buy thee," and then he handed
the present to her parents. Upon his head he wore a tuft of feathers, and in his hand a bow,
emblematic of authority and protection. The bride held in one hand a green twig of the laurel-tree,
and in the other an ear of corn--the twig indicated she would preserve her fame ever fair and
sweet as the laurel leaf; the corn was to represent her capacity to grow it and prepare it
for his food, and to fulfil all the duties of a faithful wife. These ceremonies completed,
the bride dropped the ear of corn which she held in her right hand, and tendered that hand
to the bridegroom, who took it and said: "I am thy husband." She replied: "I am thy wife."
The bridegroom then went round and gave his hand to every member of the family of his wife.
He then took his bride by the arm and led her around and she took the right hand of all the
family of the bridegroom. This done, he walked with her to his bed, and said: "This is our
bed, keep it undefiled."

There obtained among these primitive beings a most curious and most disgusting custom. The
young marriageable females were permitted to prostitute themselves for gain, in order to provide
a marriage portion; and she who could thus enrich herself was the most distinguished and the
most sought. But after marriage, she was compelled to purity, both by their laws and by public
sentiment; and in all the intercourse of the French with them, no instance of infidelity was
ever known in a wife.

The great sun was indeed their Lycurgus. If before his advent among them they had any laws,
these had become obsolete, and his edicts adopted universally. Their traditions represent him
as living to extreme old age, seeing his descendants of the fourth generation. These were all
little suns, and constituted the nobility of their nation, which extended at one time to the
country above, as far as St. Louis and across to the Wabash. These traditions were carefully
kept. Every two years there were selected from the most intelligent boys of the nation ten,
to whom these traditions were carefully taught by the depositories of them who had kept them
best for the greatest time. They were careful to exact that no word or fact should be withheld,
and this lesson was daily taught until the boy was a man, and every legend a familiar memory.
These he was compelled to repeat daily lest the memory should rust, and for this purpose they
went forth to all the villages repeating all of these legends to all the people.

There were others selected in like manner to whom the laws were taught as the traditions, and
in like manner these were taught the people. In every community there was a little sun to administer
these laws, and every complaint was submitted to him, and great ceremony was observed at every
trial, especially criminal trials. The judge, or little sun, purified himself in the forest,
imploring the enlightenment of the Good Spirit, and purging away the influence of bad spirits
by his purification; and when he felt himself a fitted tabernacle of pure justice, he came
forward and rendered his judgment in the presence of all the villagers of his jurisdiction,
whose attention was compulsory.

It was one of the laws established in the beginning of the reign of the Great Sun, that his
posterity should not marry inter se, but only with the common people of the nation. This custom
was expelling the pure blood of royalty more and more every generation, and long after the
arrival of the Natchez upon the Mississippi, the great and little suns were apparently of the
pure blood of the red man. Their traditions, however, preserved the history of every cross,
and when Lasalle found these at Natchez and the White Apple village, nearly every one could
boast of relationship to the Great Sun. At that time they had diminished to an insignificant
power, and were overawed by their more numerous and more powerful neighbors, the Choctaws and
Muscagees or Alabamas. Their legends recorded this constant decline, but assigned no reason
for it. They could now not bring more than two thousand warriors into the field. Gayarie says
not more than six hundred; but those contemporaneous with planting the colony of Orleans say,
some two thousand, some more, and some estimate them as low as the number stated in that admirable
history of Louisiana whose author is so uniformly correct. And here let me acknowledge my obligations
to that accomplished historian, and no less accomplished gentleman, for most of the facts here
stated, and if I have used his own language in portraying them to a great extent, it was because
it was so pure and beautiful I could not resist it, the excuse the Brazilian gave for stealing
the diamond.

With regard to these people, their mode of life was that of most of the other tribes. They
lived principally by the chase; their only cultivation was the Indian corn, pumpkins, and a
species of wild beans or peas, perfectly black, until their intercourse with the French, and
then they only added a few of the coarser vegetables. From whom they derived the pumpkin is
not known.

Their wars were not more frequent or more destructive than those of their neighbors; and their
general habits were the same. Still they were going on to decay, and they contemplated with
stolid calmness their coming extinction. They felt it a destiny not to be averted or avoided
by anything they could do, and were content with the excuse of folly for all its errors and
sins. It is the will of God, or the Great Spirit, as the Indian phrases it. They were more
enlightened than their neighbors, as historians have stated, because, I suppose, they were
more superstitious. They bowed to fate, the attribute of superstition everywhere, and made
no effort at relief from the causes of decay.

Their religion, like all the aborigines of the continent, consisted in the worship of the Great
Spirit typified in the sun, to whom was addressed their prayers and all their devotion. The
sacred fire was the emblem on earth; their Great Sun had brought it from the sun and given
it as holy to them to be forever preserved and propitiated by watching and prayer. In every
village and settlement they erected mounds upon which the temple of the sun was built, and
where was deposited the sacred fire. Mounds, too, were built for burying-places, and in these
are now to be found in great abundance the flat heads and other bones of this remarkable people.

They had a tradition that an evil spirit was always tempting them to violate the laws, and
the regulations of their religious belief. That at one time he had so nearly extinguished the
holy fire in their temples, and the love of the sun in their hearts, that the Great Spirit
came and fought with them against him, until finally he was conquered and chained in a deep
cave, whence he still continued to send out little devils to tempt and torment their people.
It was these who brought disease and death; these who tempted to lie, steal, and kill; disobedience
in their wives when they refused to perform their duties or became bellicose, as wives sometimes
will, of every people on earth. It was a trite saying, shut up the cave in your heart and smother
or put out the bad spirit. It was a belief that these imps or little devils found much more
easy access to the caves in the hearts of women than into those of men, and that they encouraged
them to come and nestle there. Is the belief alone the Indian's? There are some within my knowledge
whose experience at home might readily yield belief to this faith of the savage.

Their traditions, too, told them of the great waters coming over all the land, and destroying
all the inhabitants except those who had boats; and that the latter were carried away by the
waters and left by them on all the land that was permitted again to come above the waters;
and that by that means people were planted everywhere. These traditions are quite as rational
as most of the speculations as to how the earth was populated, especially that which we learn
in the cradle, of Adam and Eve's mission.

It was death, by their law, to permit the holy fire to become extinguished in the temples.
To prevent such a calamity, it was preserved in two temples at different points; when accidentally
extinguished in one, it was to be obtained from the other; but not peacefully. The keepers
must resist and blood must be spilt in order to obtain it. Soon after they became acquainted
with the French, the fire was extinguished in the great temple at the White Apple village by
the lazy watcher. Knowing his fate, he stealthily lighted it from profane fire. Great misfortunes
following this, and shortly thereafter the loss of the holy fire in the other temple near the
Grindstone ford, on the Bayou Pierre, in Claiborne County, Mississippi, they sought after the
legal and holy manner to procure fire from the White Apple village. Yet the calamities continued.
The watch who had suffered the fire to fail in the first temple, conscience smitten, confessed
his sin and paid its penalty.

They now had only profane fire, and the whole nation was in the agonies of despair. The cause
of all their calamities was now no longer a secret. They extinguished the profane fire, and
in prayer, fasting, and continued oblations, they propitiated the sun to send them fire that
was holy, to protect and preserve them. It was the folly of ignorance and superstition, and
availed nothing; but, like all prayer, was considered a pious duty, though nothing was ever
known to result therefrom, and nature moved steadily and undeviatingly forward in obedience
to the fixed, immutable, and eternal laws affirmed by the all-wise Creator. There was gloom
upon every brow and despair in every heart. The curse pronounced by the first Great Sun had
come--destruction and death to all the Natchez--because of the extinction of the holy fire.
At length a tree was stricken by lightning near the White Apple village temple, and set on
fire. The men of the temple saw the answer to their prayers in this, and hastened to re-kindle
the holy flame from this fire, so miraculously sent them from heaven. It was to them a miracle,
because, though perfectly in obedience to natural laws, they did not comprehend them, and like
unto all people under similar circumstances, all in nature is a miracle which they do not understand,
and cannot satisfactorily explain. But there was no efficiency found in this, and the trouble
went forward.

The French had come among them, and taught them the value and corrupting influence of money.
Boats had ascended and descended the Great River, and communication, through this channel,
had been established with Canada. They were grasping, by degrees, the lands, building forts
and peopling the country. They had introduced the black man, and the wiser of the Natchez saw
in the future the doom of their race. They saw the feuds fomented between the numerous tribes
along the coast of the Mississippi by the French, and the destruction of these by bloody wars.
They saw, too, to offend the French was sure to bring destruction upon the offending party.
Their neighbors were made, through French influence, to fall upon and destroy them. The Chickasaws
and Choctaws--great nations, having multitudes of warriors--were under the dominion of these
pale-faced intruders, and they feared they might be turned upon them in an unsuspecting hour.

There was among the Natchez a mighty chief and warrior. He was of great stature and fame, being
seven feet high and powerfully proportioned. He had a large beard, and was called the chief
of the Beard, because he was the only man of all the tribe who had this facial ornament or
incumbrance. He was a mighty warrior and was wise in counsel. He believed he saw great evil
to the Natchez in the increase of the French and the extension of French power. He knew, and
told his people, this was the foreboding of the extinction of the holy fire. He went forth
with the chief of the Walnut Hills, named Alahoplechia, and the chief of the White Clay, Oyelape,
among their neighbors of other tribes, the Chicasaws and Choctaws, preaching a crusade against
the French; urging them to unite with the Natchez, the Homochittas, and the Alabamas, and to
attack and destroy the last man of the French settlements at Mobile, Boloxy, Ship Island, and
New Orleans, as they were mischievous intruders from across the Salt Lake, whence they were
yearly bringing their people to rob them of their homes and appropriate them.

There had come to them red men from the Wabash and Muskingum, who bore to them the sad news
of the encroachments of the pale-faces upon their people and their hunting-grounds. "Soon,"
said the bearded chief, who was the leading spirit of the mission, "these white faces will
meet along the Great River. They will forget the arrow of truth and the tomahawk of justice.
They will only know power and oppression. Then they will be mighty as the hurricane when the
Great Sun hides his face in wrath and the tempest tears the forest. Who can resist him then?
The holy fire has been sent again from heaven, from the Great Spirit, our God, the Great Sun.
It tells us to save our people from this fearful destruction which comes with the white man.
These pale-faces are cunning; they must not know of our union. We must not counsel long, or
they will learn our intentions. We must strike at once. The Choctaws must strike at Mobile.
At the same moment, Homochittas, Boloxies, and Homas, you must strike at Boloxi. The Chickasaws
and the Natchez will fall upon New Orleans and Rosalie." (The latter is the Indian name for
what is now Natchez.) His advice was startling, but unheeded. In order to precipitate a war,
on his return with the chiefs who accompanied him and two warriors, they murdered a trading-party
of French, at the hills where is now Warrenton, in Warren County, Mississippi.

This murder was communicated to the French who, under Bienville, were sent by Cordelac, then
Governor of Louisiana, to take revenge, by waging war upon the Natchez. Bienville was hated
by Cordelac, because he had refused the hand of his daughter, formally tendered him by her
father. He only gave the young and sagacious commander a small force with which to wage this
war--such an one as would have been overwhelmed at once had he attempted open field movements.
Knowing this, he proceeded to an island opposite the village of the Tunicas, where he entrenched
himself and invited a conference. Three spies were sent by the Natchez to reconnoitre; but
they were baffled by Bienville with superior cunning. They were sent back as not the equals
of Bienville, and with a message to the Great Sun that he must come with his chiefs, that he
desired to establish trading-posts among them, and would only treat with the first in authority.
They came with a consciousness that the French were ignorant of these murders, and were immediately
arrested and ironed. Bienville told them at once of the murder, and of his determination to
have the murderers and to punish them. He had the Great Sun, the Stung Serpent, and the Little
Sun. The latter was sent to bring the heads of the murderers, and he returned with three heads;
but Bienville, after examining these, told the chiefs they had treacherously deceived him,
and that those were not the heads of the murderers. After a night's consultation they concluded
it was impossible to deceive him, and in the morning confessed the whole truth, proposing to
send Stung Serpent to bring the real murderers. But knowing the wily character of this chief
and his influence with his tribe, he was not permitted to go. The young Sun was dispatched,
and succeeded in bringing the chief of the Beard and the chief of the Walnut Hills, with the
two warriors; but Oyelape had fled and could not be had. He had probed to the truth of the
French expedition; and being guilty, cunningly and wisely made his escape.

The death sentence was passed upon these, and the two warriors were shot at once; but the two
chiefs were reserved for execution to another day. Upon the sentence being communicated to
them they commenced to chant the death-song of their people, which they continued to do throughout
all the time, night and day, until led forth for execution.

The Great Sun, Stung Serpent, his brother, and all the other Indians were brought out to witness
the execution. When the two condemned chiefs were brought forward, these witnesses of their
death sang the death-song; but the chief of the Beard looked sternly at them, and defiantly
at the executioners; and taking his position, turned to his people and, addressing them, said:

"Let there be joy in the hearts of the Natchez. A child is born to them of the race of their
Suns. A boy is born with a beard on his chin. The prodigy still works on from generation to
generation.' So sang the warriors of my tribe when I sprang from my mother's womb, and the
shrill cry of the eagle, in the heavens, was heard in joyful response. Hardly fifteen summers
had passed over my head when my beard had grown long and glossy. I looked around, and saw I
was the only red man that had this awful mark on his face, and I interrogated my mother and
she said:

  "'Son of the chiefs of the Beard,
  Thou shall know the mystery
  In which thy curious eye wishes to pry,
  When thy beard from black becomes red.'

"Let there be joy in the hearts of the Natchez! A hunter is born to them--a hunter of the race
of the Suns. Ask of the bears, of the buffaloes, of the tigers, and of the swift-footed deer,
whose arrows they fear most! They tremble and cower when the footstep of the hunter with the
beard on his chin is heard on the heath. But I was born with brains in my head as well as a
beard on my chin, and I pondered on my mother's words. One day, when a panther which I slaughtered
had torn my breast, I painted my beard with my own blood, and I stood smiling before her. She
said nothing; but her eye gleamed with wild delight, and she took me to the temple when, standing
by the sacred fire, she thus sang to me:

  "'Son of the chiefs of the Beard,
  Thou shall know the mystery,
  Since, true to thy nature, with thine own blood
  Thy black beard thou hast turned to red.'

"Let there be joy in the hearts of the Natchez; for a mighty chief, worthy of the race of their
Suns, has been born to them in thee, my son--a noble chief with a beard on his chin. Listen
to the explanation of this prodigy. In days of old a Natchez maid of the race of their Suns
was on a visit to the Mobelians. There she soon loved the youthful chief of that nation, and
her wedding-day was nigh, when there came from the big Salt Lake on the south a host of bearded
men, who sacked the town, slew the red chief with their thunder, and one of those accursed
evil spirits used violence to the maid when her lover's corpse was hardly cold in death. She
found in sorrow her way back to the Natchez hills, where she became a mother, and lo! the boy
had a beard on his chin, and when he grew old enough to understand his mother's words she whispered
in his ear:

  "'Son of the chiefs of the Beard,
  Born from a bloody day,
  Bloody be thy hand, and bloody be thy life
  Until thy black beard with blood becomes red.'

"Let there be joy in the hearts of the Natchez. In my first ancestor a long line of the first
of hunters, chiefs, and warriors of the race of their Suns had been born to them with beards
on their chins. What chase was ever unsuccessful over which they presided? When they spoke
in the council of the wise men of the nation, did it not always turn out that their advice,
whether adopted or rejected, was the best in the end? In what battle were they ever defeated?
When were they known to be worn out with fatigue--with hardship, hunger or thirst, heat or
cold, either on land or water? Who ever could stem as they the rushing current of the Father
of rivers? Who can count the number of scalps which they brought from distant expeditions?
Their names have always been famous in the wigwams of all the red nations. They have struck
terror into the breasts of the boldest enemies of the Natchez; and mothers, when their sons
paint their bodies in the colors of war, say to them:

  "'Fight where, and with whom you please;
  But beware, oh! beware of the chiefs of the Beard.
  Give way to them as you would to death,
  Or their black beards with your blood will be red.'

"Let there be joy in the hearts of the Natchez. When the first chief of the Beard first trimmed
the sacred fire in the temple, a voice was heard which said: 'As long as there lives a chief
of the race of the Suns with a beard on his chin, no evil can happen to the Natchez nation;
but if the white race should ever resume the blood which it gave in a bloody day, woe, three
times woe, to the Natchez! Of them nothing will remain but the shadow of a name.' Thus spake
the invisible prophet. Years rolled on, years thick on years, and none of the accursed white-faces
were seen; but they appeared at last, wrapped up in their pale skins like shrouds of the dead,
and the father of my father, whom tradition had taught to guard against the predicted danger,
slew two of the hated strangers, and my father, in his turn, killed four.

  "'Praise be to the chiefs of the Beard,
  Who knew how to avenge their old ancestral injury,
  When with the sweet blood of a white foe
  Their black beards they proudly dyed red.'

"Let there be joy in the hearts of the Natchez. When I saw the glorious light of day there
was born to them a great warrior of the race of their Suns--a warrior and a chief with a beard
on his chin. The pledge of protection, of safety, and of glory stood embodied in me. When I
shouted my first war-whoop the owl hooted and smelt the ghosts of my enemies, the wolves howled,
and the carrion vultures shrieked with joy; for they knew their food was coming, and I fed
them with Chickasaws' flesh and with Choctaws' flesh until they were gorged with the flesh
of the red man. A kind master and purveyor I was to them--the poor, dumb creatures that I loved.
But lately I have given them more dainty food. I boast of having done better than my father.
Five Frenchmen have I killed, and my only regret in dying is, that it will prevent me from
killing more.

  "'Ha! ha! ha! that was game worthy of the chief of the Beard!
  How lightly he danced. Ho! ho! ho!
  How gladly he shouted. Ha! ha! ha!
  Each time with French blood his beard became red."

"Sorrow in the hearts of the Natchez! The great hunter is no more. The wise chief is going
to meet his fathers. The indomitable warrior will no more raise his hatchet in defence of the
children of the Sun. O burning shame! He was betrayed by his brother-chiefs, who sold his blood.
If they had followed his advice they would have united with the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and all
the other red nations, and they would have slain all the French dogs that came prowling and
stealing over the beautiful face of our country. But there was too much of the woman in their
cowardly hearts. Well and good! Let the will of fate be accomplished. The white race will soon
resume the blood which it gave, and then the glory and the very existence of the Natchez nation
will have departed forever with the chief of the Beard; for I am the last of my race, and my
blood flows in no other human veins. O Natchez, Natchez! remember the prophet's voice! I am
content to die; for I leave no one behind me but the doomed, while I go to revel with my brave
ancestors.

  "'They will recognize their son in the chief of the Beard;
  They will welcome him to their glorious homestead
  When they see so many scalps at his girdle,
  And his black beard with French blood painted red.'"

He stood up in proud defiance before the admiring French; his noble form expanded to its full
proportions, hatred in his heart and triumph in his eyes. Facing his foes, he viewed the platoon
selected to deal him his death, and lifted his eyes and hands to the sun. The officer gave
the command, the platoon fired as one man, and the great chief of the Beard passed away.

This was the beginning of difficulties with the French, and also the commencement of the utter
destruction of the Natchez. War succeeded war, until the last of this people, few in number,
broke up from the Washita, whither they had fled for security years before, and went, as they
fondly hoped, too far into the bosom of the deep West to be found again by the white-skins.
But Clarke and Lewis found them high up on the Missouri, still preserving the holy fire, the
flat heads, and their hatred of the white race. Their bones are even now turned up by the plough
near the mounds of their making, and soon these mounds will be all that is left to speak of
the once powerful Natchez. I have stood upon the great mound of their temple at the White Apple
village, forty years ago, then covered with immense forest-trees, at the graves of the great
grandfather and mother of my children. To these was donated, in 1780, by the Spanish Government,
the land on which the temple and the village stood. It is a beautiful spot in the centre of
a lovely and most picturesque country. It was here these Indians feasted the great La Salle
and his party when descending the Mississippi. They were the first white men that had descended
the river, and the first white men the Natchez had ever seen.

La Salle, who first discovered the mouth of the Mississippi River, was a man of most remarkable
energy and enterprise. He had been engaged in commercial pursuits for some time in Canada;
but, seized with the spirit of adventure--very probably inspired by the reports of the Jesuit
missionaries, who were going and returning from the vast wilderness--and inspired with the
belief (then common) that the rivers west, and particularly the great river found by De Soto,
debouched into the Pacific Ocean, he determined to learn the truth, and projected and commenced
the ascent of the St. Lawrence and the navigation of the lakes as a means of reaching the Mississippi.
It required almost superhuman daring to undertake such an enterprise; but there was enough
in La Salle to accomplish anything possible to human capacity. His followers, like himself,
were fearless and determined and, with a few small boats, or skiffs, he commenced his perilous
adventure. It was like walking in the dark over uncertain ground; for every step was over unexplored
territory, the moment he passed the establishments of the Jesuits, who were then pioneering
to propagate their creed among the aborigines of the new continent.

His first winter was spent on the spot, or in the immediate neighborhood of where Chicago now
stands. Here he invited to his camp the neighboring Indians, and endeavored to learn as much
as possible of the geography of the country he was about to explore. Parties were sent out
with these Indians to ascertain if there was any stream or water-communication leading from
Lake Michigan to the West, and which might connect it with the Mississippi. Sufficient of the
language of the tribes about him had been acquired to establish a means of intelligent intercourse
with them. They were curious to know the objects of the visit of the white strangers to their
country. Always suspicious of strangers--supposing all, like themselves, treacherous and cruel--they
kept on the alert and were chary of giving any information they might possess as to this, or
any other matters about which the white men asked; but, watchful of their movements, and seeing
from their explorations their intentions, they became convinced of the sincerity of their inquiries,
and readily pointed out the portage dividing the waters of Chicago Creek and those of the Illinois
River.

When the spring came, and the snows had melted away, and the boats were all over the portage,
with the assistance of the savages, the expedition was renewed in the descent of the Illinois.
The Indians had been so kindly treated, and so sincerely dealt with, that every suspicion that
made them fear the whites was dissipated, and they were loath to part from them, and many accompanied
the party until they were about entering the territory of hostile neighbors. Of these they
seemed to entertain great fears, and every means of persuasion and warning were used to prevent
their white friends hazarding themselves to the power of these enemies. When the last were
to leave, they manifested more emotion than is usual with the savage, and one of La Salle's
party more facetious than the Indian designated them the Crying Indians.

La Salle was a wise as well as a bold adventurer. His policy with all the tribes he encountered
was kindness and truth. These were human beings, and he correctly judged influenced by the
motives and impulses of men. They had never seen white men before, and there could be no cause
of quarrel, and there was little in the possession of the whites, the use of which was known
to the Indian to tempt his cupidity. He manifested no fears in approaching them. Their curiosity
tempted them to come to him, and once met, his kindness and gentleness won them; and he experienced
no opposition or trouble from any he met; but succeeded in gaining much information from his
communications with them. When he reached the Mississippi he began to doubt the accepted theory
of its discharging its waters into the Pacific, and upon reaching the mouth of the Missouri
and counseling with the chief of the tribe he met there, he at once determined the speculation
a delusion, and decided to prosecute his journey to the mouth of the mighty stream, now with
almost irresistible impetuosity hurrying on his little flotilla. This chief by many signs and
diagrams marked with his finger upon the sand of the beach, described the country out of which
flowed the Missouri, and into which went the Mississippi, and seemed to comprehend at least
the extent of its constantly accumulating waters and great length. Like all the other savages,
he represented the dangers below as being too formidable for the small party of La Salle. He
described the Natchez Indians and gave them a terrible character; then the monsters of the
woods and the waters. He marked the form of the tiger, the bear, and the alligator and described
them as aggressive and ferocious. Taking a handful of sand he scattered it on the boat's floor
or bottom, and pointing to the separate particles, attempted to explain by this means the countless
numbers of these Indians, and monsters of the country below. Here was his first information
of the existence of the Natchez, but his information augmented as he descended the river. At
the bluffs, where now is Memphis, he encountered the Chickasaws and learned of the visit of
De Soto to that point, and of his death. These Indians warned him of the dangers he had to
encounter. They had had trouble with De Soto and were chary of their intercourse with the whites,
but manifested no hostility.

The next tribe of Indians seen was at the Walnut Hills, now Vicksburg. Their flat heads told
him he had reached the country of that formidable nation, but he held no communication with
them. Landing at the great bluff or Natchez, he found there quite a village. The natives approached
him manifesting the kindest and most hospitable intentions. For some days he delayed, to learn
as much as possible from these people in the observation of their character and the topography
and peculiarities of the country they were inhabiting. Runners had been dispatched to the Great
Sun at the White Apple village, to inform him of the advent of these pale-faced strangers,
with beard on their chins. Like information was communicated to the towns on Cole's Creek and
further in the interior. La Salle was furnished with pilots and requested to drop down to the
White Cliffs, now known as Ellis' Cliffs, eighteen miles below Natchez, where a delegation
would meet and conduct him to the White Apple village. These pilots caused the landing of the
party at the mouth of St. Catharine's Creek, a point much nearer the village than the cliffs,
and from whence it was much more easily approached. Thence they conducted them to the village
and temple of the Great Sun. They came by surprise, and there was manifested some suspicions
of the motive. But being informed it was the work of the pilots, all were satisfied and a messenger
dispatched for the great escort awaiting the party at White Cliffs.

There were great preparations made for a solemn feast. Game in abundance had been collected:
the meat of the deer and the bear and every variety of the wild-fowl peculiar to the country
and season. These were spread out upon tables made of the wild-cane, placed upon poles sustained
by posts driven into the ground, and covered with neatly dressed skins of the bear, elk, and
buffalo. There were fish in abundance, the paupaw and the berries which grew abundantly in
the forest. The Great Sun led La Salle to the centre of the square formed by the tables, where
one had been prepared for him and the great ruler of the Natchez. Rude seats were arranged
only for these two. The Little Suns, or smaller chiefs of surrounding villages, assembled with
the great warriors and whites accompanying the expedition at the tables forming the square.
These Indians had knives formed from the wild cane of the country and hardened in the fire,
which were used for carving their meats and other like purposes, one of these was placed in
the hand of every white man. The Great Sun standing up, looked reverently upon the sun for
a few moments. Then lifting his hands, placed them on the head of La Salle. This was imitated
by the Little Suns placing their hands upon the heads of all the whites, and when the chief
or Great Sun removed his hands, and said, "Eat," the Little Suns did likewise, and the feast
commenced. These cane knives, however, were comparatively useless in the hands of the French,
and laying them down, they took from the belts at their sides the large hunting-knives they
carried. This movement was so simultaneous, that alarm was apparent in every Indian face and
a movement was made by the Indians as if to leave the table; but they were soon reassured when
they saw the use to which they were applied. They watched the ease with which these cut through
the flesh and cleaved the smaller bones of their repast, and expressed their astonishment in
asking where the canes grew from which they were made--indicating conclusively that they had
never before seen a metallic knife, and probably never before had seen iron or steel. When
the feast had concluded, La Salle was led to a lodge prepared for him, and all his party were
shown to places prepared for them, to repose after the meal. Upon the males retiring, the women
came forth cleanly clad and removed everything from the tables.

This was the first view the whites had of the Natchez women. When their work was completed,
they commenced to chant a song in slow and measured tones; soon, however, it quickened into
merry cadences and the young females commenced a wild, fantastic dance. The older sang on,
keeping time by slapping their hands and a swinging movement of the head and body right and
left. Apparently, at the termination of a stanza, they would stoop suddenly forward and slap
the hands upon each thigh, uttering at the same moment a shrill cry, when the dancers would
leap with astonishing agility high in the air and, alighting, stand perfectly still. This exhibition
called the French from their repose, who seemed delighted, and very soon joined in the dance;
mirth excited mirth, and in a little while the village was in a complete uproar. The young
warriors, however, were seen to scowl whenever the French approached too nigh the women, and
especially when they took their hands and turned them around. The French were not slow to perceive
this, nor were they mistaken in the delight it afforded the girls. The timidity of the latter
soon disappeared and each lass singled out a beau, and was quite familiar with him. The French
remained for some days enjoying the hospitality of the Natchez, returning to their boats and
to the opposite shore of the river at night for greater security.

Among the French there was one, a stalwart young fellow, who had made the conquest of a heart
among the maidens, and was surprised late at night to find she had swum the Mississippi to
place herself by his side at the camp-fire. She implored him to remain with the Natchez and
become a Great Sun, that her family was one of great influence at the White Clay village of
which she was the belle, and she would marry him. She was rich, and the favorite of the Little
Sun of her town, who had given her great presents. But Crapaud was aware of the price of these
gifts, and though he did not refuse, was not inclined to the union, or to remain with her people.
He promised, however, to see her to-morrow, and told her if he could prevail on some of his
companions to remain, he would; but insisted if they would not, she must consent to follow
him and provide a girl for each of his companions, who would accompany them to their homes,
which he made very lovely in his description. They were standing now on the bank of the river
and day was approaching. She pointed to the planet just above the horizon, and then to the
place in the heavens where it would be in an hour, and said she must then be in her lodge,
and plunging into the river swam rapidly to the opposite shore. The next day was the one appointed
for the departure of La Salle and party. True to her promise--the Natchez girl had found a
maiden for each of the party, who was willing to abandon her people and go with the strangers
on their perilous and unknown journey, and to be the wives of the pale-faces.

The French, with much ceremony, were dismissed by the Great Sun, and a strong escort of both
sexes followed them to their boats. The ceremony of shaking hands was gone through with; all
the men first, and then the women; the last, as previously arranged, were the girls who were
to follow their sweethearts. At a signal each was grasped and hurried forward toward the boats.
The alarm was given, and in a moment the bows of the warriors were strung, and they rushed
yelling to the rescue; overpowered, the French released the women and springing into their
boats were soon out of danger of the arrows which were sent in showers after them--nor did
they escape unscathed. Several of the men were wounded, and some of them severely. When once
away from the shore, the French seized their guns and fired a volley, but were prevented from
further demonstrations by La Salle; not wishing to leave behind him an enemy, who might be
troublesome to him on his return up the river.

This adventure was the only hostile one of the entire trip. This was provoked by the folly
and crime of his men without the knowledge of La Salle. How true it is that man in every condition
and of every race will fight for his woman as surely as the game cock for his hen! Long years
after, and when the last Natchez had been gone from the land of his love many years, and when
threatening war was disturbing the people of the colonies, there came here a band of men, as
had come to this land of beauty and plenty, the oppressors of the Natchez, seeking to make
a peaceful home upon these hills, where grew in luxuriant profusion the magnolia and great
tulip-trees, and where the atmosphere was redolent with the perfume of the wild flowers which
clothed and ornamented the trees and grounds so fruitful and rich with nature's gifts.

The country was claimed as part of West Florida and dominated by the Spanish Government. They
were anxious to have the country populated, and donated certain quantities or tracts of land
to any one who came to settle and remain in the country. These settlements at first were made
on the bluffs projecting through the alluvial swamp to the river's brink, and at or near the
mouths of the small streams debouching into the river from the eastern shore. The west bank
was deemed uninhabitable in consequence of the spring floods sweeping over the alluvial formation,
extending from forty to seventy miles west of the river; and there being no highlands or bluffs
approaching the river from the west, below what is now known as Helena, in Arkansas, this vast
territory was one interminable swamp, clothed with immense forest-trees, gigantic vines, and
jungle-bushes. It was interspersed with lakes, and bayous as reservoirs and drains for the
wonderful floods which annually visit this country. Around these were lands remarkable for
their fertility--indeed, unsurpassed by any on the face of the earth; but worthless, however,
for cultivation, as long as unprotected against these annual floods. The system of leveeing
was too onerous and expensive to be undertaken by the people sparsedly populating the eastern
bank throughout the hill-country. The levee system which had reclaimed so much of the low country
in Louisiana, had not extended above Pointe Coupée, in 1826. Yet there were some settlements
on several of the lakes above, especially on Lakes Concordia and St. Joseph.

The immense country in Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi in possession of the Indians,
interposed a barrier to emigration. To think of leaving home and friends to go away beyond
these savages, seemed an undertaking too gigantic for any but men of desperate fortunes, or
of the most indomitable energy.

Adventurers had wandered into the country and returned with terrible stories of the unhealthiness
of the climate as well as the difficulties to be overcome in reaching it; thus deterring the
emigrant who desired a new home. When General Jackson was elected to the Presidency a new policy
was inaugurated. The Indians were removed beyond the Mississippi; the lands they had occupied
were brought into market, and a flood of emigration poured into these new acquisitions. Cotton
had suddenly grown into great demand. The increase of population, and the great cheapness of
the, fabrics from cotton, had increased the demand. In Europe it had rapidly increased, and
in truth all over the world. Emigration from Europe had set in to a heavy extent upon the United
States, and the West was growing in population so rapidly as to create there a heavy demand
for these fabrics. The world was at peace; commerce was unrestricted, and prosperity was everywhere.
Europe had recovered from her long war, and the arts of peace had taken hold of every people,
and were bearing their fruit. All the lands intermediate between the frontiers west of Georgia
and Tennessee and those of the east of Mississippi and Louisiana were soon appropriated; and
the more fertile lands of the two latter States were coming rapidly into request for the purpose
of cotton cultivation.

The great flood of 1828 had swept over every cultivated field west of the Mississippi, and
seemed to demonstrate the folly of ever attempting to reduce these lands to profitable cultivation.
But with the increase of population came wealth and enterprise. The levees were continued up
the river. A long period of comparatively low water encouraged settlements upon the alluvial
bottoms. The levees were continued up the west bank, and in a few years the forests had melted
away from the margin of the river. Large fields were in their stead, and were continually increasing
in extent. Improvements of a superior character were commencing, and an occasional break in
the levee, and partial inundation, did not deter, but rather stimulated the planters to increased
exertion, to discipline and control the great floods poured down from the rain-sheds extending
from the headwaters of the Ohio to those of the Mississippi, Missouri, Arkansas, and Red Rivers,
embracing in extent an area greater than the continent of Europe. It really seemed an attempt
to defy the decrees of fate. In 1828, the waters from Cairo to Baton Rouge, a distance of nine
hundred miles, averaged fifty miles in width. For months the great river was covered with forests
of timber, torn up with the roots by the flood, floating and tumbling wildly along the terrible
torrent, making the navigation extremely dangerous for the few steamers then upon the river.
How often have I heard old men, who were long resident in the country, when standing on the
bluff at Natchez, viewing the extent of that memorable flood, say: "Every man who attempts
to cultivate these bottom lands will be ruined. The river demands them as a reservoir for her
surplus waters when in flood." But enterprise was undeterred; the levees went up and the settlements
went on to increase; and when the spoiler came all the valley was dotted over with pretty villages
and magnificent cotton plantations, containing and sustaining a prosperous, rich, intelligent,
and happy population. They are swept away, and ruin reigns over this desolated land.

This was but the beginning of the subduing to man's will and cultivation this entire and unparalleled
valley. What had been done demonstrated the possibility of redeeming every inch of the alluvial
land along the entire valley to the production of the richest staples, with all the necessaries
to man's support, comfort, and wealth. It is pleasing to contemplate this immense plain as
one extended scene of cultivation--the beautiful lakes of every form, surrounded with palatial
homes and fertile fields; lovely towns upon their borders, with the church-spires pointing
to heaven, surrounded with shrubs and flowers of every variety and hue; streams meandering
among the extended plantations; railroads intersecting it in every direction; and all this
mighty field, a thousand miles long by fifty broad, teeming with production, and pouring into
the lap of commerce a wealth absolutely incalculable. The work was begun and was rapidly progressing;
but now, when and by whom will this great, glorious garden be made?

To do this was the black man's mission; but ere his work was done he was converted into a machine
to undo all his work. Inconceivable calamity has followed, and to him is fixed a decade which
will soon run to extinction.

It was in the spring of the year away back in time when there landed at the town of St. Francisville,
or Bayou Sara, a small periagua, or canoe, containing two young men clad in skins, with a camp-kettle,
guns, some curiously painted skins, Indian bows, quivers, and Indian curiosities. Their hair
was long, their unshaven beards were full and flowing, and in all their appearance they were
wild and savage. There were but few houses in the hamlet below the hill. Among these was one
of more pretensions than the rest. It was a store, and the merchant was an Irishman. There
was near it a neat family carriage. One of the young savages went into this store to find materials
for writing to his home-friends, from whom he had been separated for many long months. He found
in the store three ladies. Two were young, the other was an aged matron. They seemed not only
surprised at the novel apparition before them, but alarmed. This surprise seemed to increase
when they saw the young savage rapidly filling, upon the counter, a sheet of paper. They desisted
from their shopping, and watched intently the wild savage. When his letter was completed, he
politely desired the accommodating merchant to send it for him to the post-office. Then lifting
his gray wolf-skin cap from his head, he bowed politely to the ladies and turned to leave the
store and their presence. The salutation was gracefully acknowledged, and especially by the
matron. Very soon they joined the curious crowd who were examining the contents of the canoe,
now placed on the land to await the coming of a steamer that was freighting with cotton above.
One of the young ladies seemed much interested and made many inquiries. A bow and quiver was
given into her hand. The latter was fashioned from the skin of a Mexican tiger, and was filled
with arrows. One of these was bloody, and its history was asked of the youth she had met in
the store. It was the blood of a Pawnee chief who, by this arrow, had been slain in battle,
and was the gift to the youth from the daughter of the fallen chief, together with the bow
and quiver of the Indian who had slain her father, and who was in turn killed by a chief of
her tribe.

How beautiful she was to this wanderer of the wilderness! Months upon months had passed away,
and he had only looked upon the blank and unmeaning features of the desert savage woman. With
these his heart had no sympathy. Like the panther of their plains they were swift of foot,
symmetrical in form, wild, untamed and untamable, fierce and unfeeling; and were not formed
by nature for sympathy or social union with the higher organizations of civilized man. His
dream of romance was being realized. The vacuum in his heart was filling. How in contrast were
his feelings and appearance! Clad as a savage, his skin was covered with the fabric of an Indian
woman, closely fitting, with moccasins on his feet, and a gray wolf-skin cap upon his head--his
long, black hair with the luxuriant growth of two years curling over his shoulders, and his
beard, like the wing of night fluttering in the breeze, waving down from his chin to his breast
in ringlets, glossy and beautiful. He was lithe as a savage, and seemed to be one. In his heart
were kindling soft emotions, and memories of maidens he had known--now far, far away--came
crowding upon that heart. Before him stood the embodiment of beauty and grace, attired with
costly and beautiful fabrics which flowed about her person like the white vapor upon the breezes
of spring. Elegance was in her every attitude, and grace in every movement. Her features and
her eyes beamed with a curious wish to learn the story of the strange wild being before her.
Their two hearts were in sympathy; but to each other it was a secret. How strangely they had
met! How strangely they were feeling! How soon they were to part! "Where is he from? Where
is he going?" asked her eyes; and he looked: "Who are you; and where is your home, beautiful
being, so strangely and so unexpectedly met?"

An arrow was shot from the bow to gratify a request. She followed the quivering thing with
her eye, as it sped like a shaft of light to its destined mark. To retrieve it she walked with
the youth to where, fixed in a bale of cotton, it trembled, some hundred yards away. Slowly
she returned by the youth's side, and drooped her head, listening to the wild mountain adventures
he was telling--the chase of the elk, the antelope, and the wild buffalo; the hazardous ride
through the wild prairies, expanding away in the distance to kiss the horizon; the stealthy
wiles of the revengeful savage; the fierce fight of savage men; the race for very life, when
the foe followed; and the bivouac upon the prairie's breast, with the weary horse sleeping
and resting by his side. Will he ever forget the speaking of the beaming features of that beautiful
creature, when she lifted her head and looked into his face? A frown darkened the matron's
features as her élève returned to the curious group which was listening to the narrative of
the older of the two strangers. It said: "What did you leave me for? Why this indiscretion?"
Ah! how often old women forget they were once young!

The steamer is coming. She is here; and the trappings of the wanderers are on board. The young
wild man stands alone upon the upper deck. His eyes pierce to where stands the sylph he leaves
with reluctance. She is looking at him. He lifts his cap and bows farewell. She waves her kerchief
in return. The steamer speeds away. They are parted. Has that brief interview left an impression
upon those two young hearts to endure beyond a day? Will she dream of the dark beard, curled
and flowing--of the darker eye which looked and spoke? and will the wild story of the western
wilderness come in the silent darkness of her chamber, and make her nestle closer to her pillow?
Will her heart ask: "Shall I ever meet him again?"

He has gone away; a waif about the land--a feather on the world, driven about, as destiny impels,
without fixed intentions; yet buoyant with the ardor of youth, and happy in the excess of youthful
hopes, dreamy and wild adventures. He has tasted the savage love of woods and wilds, and the
nature--which was born thousands of years ere the teachings of civilization had tamed the wild
man into an educated, home-loving being--revives, and the two struggle for mastery in his heart.
The bleak mountain-peaks, the wide-extended plain and its wild denizens, and the excitement
these give, stirs his bosom, and the wish struggles up to return to them. But the gentler chords
of his heart are in tune. The once-loved home, and she, the once-loved and yet-remembered maiden,
is there, and it may be she pines for his return. He gazed on the beautiful apparition but
a moment gone, and thought of another; and thought begat thought until the loved one he had
left rose up to memory's call. He was alone, looking upon the great river through whose turbid
waters he was borne away, and he felt he was lengthening a chain linked to his heart which
pulled him back--to what, and to whom? It was a vision--a dream with his eyes open: indistinct,
unembodied, a very shadow; still it floated about in his imagination, and he was sad. He was
in the city--the great Sodom of the West. He was an object of wonder to every curious eye.
His wild appearance and gentle manner comported illy, and the thoughtless crowd followed him.
Attired now as a civilized being, and feeling that the vagrant life of a savage must lead to
grief, he called to mind the tear which stole from the rheumy eyes of the old trapper as he
narrated his adventures in the wilderness, and cursed the hour he ever wandered from his home.
His life had been a continual danger, his hope had been always to return to his early attachments;
but the chain of habit fettered him, and he had learned to love the wild, solitary life, because
of its excitements and its dangers. Should he, like this man, come to love the solitude and
silence of the wilderness, and find companionship only with his traps and guns?

His resolution was taken, he would renew the strife with the world and go back to busy life.
His companion of many dangers and long marches was going to Mexico in search of new adventures.
They are alone upon the broad levee--busy men are hurrying to and fro, little heeding the two--a
small schooner is dropping and sheeting home her sails; she is up for Tampico, and Gilmanot
goes in her; she is throwing off her fastenings. "All aboard," cries the swarthy, whiskered
captain--a grasp of the hand--no word was spoken--it was warm and sincere, there was no need
of words--each understood that last warm farewell pressure. She is sweeping around Slaughter-house
Point--only the topmasts are visible now--and now she is gone. The young adventurer stands
alone and the crowd goes hurrying on. How many in desolation of heart have stood alone and
unheeded by the busy, passing multitude upon that broad levee! How many tears of misery have
moistened its shell-covered summit, when thinking of friends far, far away they should never
see again, and when hope had been rooted from the heart!

He wandered to the great square, now so beautifully ornamented with shrubs and flowers which
love the sun and the South's fat soil, growing and blooming about the bronze representation
of the loved hero who had been her shield and savior in the hour of her peril, Andrew Jackson.
Then there were a few trees only, and beneath these, here and there, a rude rural seat or bench.
The old, gray cathedral was frowning on the world's sins, so rife around her; and the great,
naked square and the mighty muddy river which was hurrying away to the sea. To the most thoughtless
will come reflection, and the sweetest face is mellowed by sorrow. Here under these trees,
in the midst of a great city, came to the young adventurer reflection and sighing sorrow. His
mother and father came up in memory; the home of childhood, his brother, his sister, his friends,
all were remembered; his heart flooded over and he wept like a little child. Blessed are they
who can cry. It is nature's outlet for grief, and the heart would break if we could not cry.
The heart is not desolate when alone in the forest or the boundless grass-clothed plains of
the West. Nature is all around you, and her smile is beneficent. There is companionship in
the breeze, in the waving grass, the rustling leaves, and the meanings of the wind-swayed limbs
of the yielding forest. In the city's multitude to move, and be unknown of all; to hear no
recognized voice; to meet no sympathizing smile or eye; to be silent when all are speaking,
and to know that not one of all these multitudes share a thought or wish with you--this is
desolation, the bitterness of solitude.

A year has gone by, and the youth has found a new home and has made new friends. He is one
of the busy world and struggling with it. He is in commerce's mart and is one of the multitude
who come and congregate there for gain; in the hall of Justice, where litigants court the smiles
and favors of the blind goddess, where right contends against wrong, and is as often trampled
as triumphant; and where wisdom lends herself for hire, and bad men rarely meet their dues.

Pestilence had come, and the frightened multitude were fleeing from the scourge. There was
one who came and proffered the hospitality of his home--where Hygeia smiled and fever never
came. Thither he went, but the poison was in his blood, and as he slept it seized upon his
vitals. His suffering was terrible, and for days life's uncertain tenure seemed ready to release
her hold on time. In his fever-dream there was flitting about him a fairy form; it would come
and go, as the moonlight on the restless wave--a moment seen and in a moment gone. He saw and
knew nothing for many days distinctly; he would call for his mother and weep, when only winds
would answer. Delirium was in his brain, and wild fancies chased each other; he heard the crowing
of cocks and saw his sister; his father would come to him, and he would stretch out his hand
and grasp the shadowy nothing. There was a halo of beauty all about him; prismatic hues trembled
in the light, and the tones of sweet music floated upon the breeze. He saw angels swimming
in the golden light; the blue ether opened, and they came through to greet him and to welcome
him to heaven. Then all was darkness, the crisis had come. He slept in oblivious ease--it was
long; and awaking, the fever was gone. There was a gentle, sweet, sorrowful face before him--their
eyes met; for a moment only he looked--it was she whom he had met and parted from without a
hope of ever meeting again when robed as the Indian he stood upon the steamer's deck and waved
farewell forever. He reached forth his hand. She took it and approached, saying, "You are better,
and will soon be well." He could only press her hand as the tears flooded over his eyes. With
a kerchief white as innocence it was wiped away and the hand that held it laid gently on his
brow--that touch thrilled his every nerve.

Days went by, and the convalescent was amid the shrubs and flowers of the beautifully ornamented
grounds. When he came to the maiden reading in the shade of a great pecan-tree, she bid him
to a seat.

"Do you remember our first meeting?" he asked.

"Here, on your sick-bed, yes; you were, oh! so sick, and I little thought you would ever leave
it alive. You called in your delirium your mother and your father, and in the frenzy of your
mind you saw them by you; how my heart was pained, and how I prayed for you, in my chamber,
here, and everywhere--and now you are well, only weak."

"It was not when sick I met you first," he replied; "as a wild man you saw me first, clothed
in the skins of the wild beasts of the forest."

She gazed intently; could it be? and clasping her hands she bowed her head and was silent.

"We have met again," he continued; "I had not forgotten you, but I dared not hope we should
ever meet any more. It was a painful thought; but I must not tell that--" and there was silence.

Days went by, and the invalid was growing in strength and health. They only met at the table
at the family meals, but they were near each other. It was at dinner when a ride on horseback
was proposed for the evening's recreation. They rode in company, and through the forest where
the winding road circled the hills, and the great magnolias threw their dark shade and deliciously
cooled the vesper breeze.

"Is it romance, or are you the young gentleman with flowing hair and black, curling beard I
met, and who shot the arrow into the cotton bale for my amusement? O! how often have I seen
you in my dreams; but I shall never see you as I saw you then. What a study you were to me!
How could your words be so soft and gentle in the wild costume of the murderous savage? Had
you uttered the war-whoop and strode away with the stride and pride of the savage warrior,
there would have been euphony in it, and I should have felt and known you were a savage--and
you would have passed from my mind. But, ah! look how beautifully bounds away the startled
doe we have aroused from her lair in the cave here."

"She seems scarcely more startled than did you when I came so unexpectedly upon you in the
store at Bayou Sara. Were you not surprised to see that I could write?"

"You must not question me now. Why have you cut your hair and beard? why doffed the prairie
chieftain's robes of state and come forth a plain man? You have dispelled my romance. I have
tried to paint you as I saw and remembered you, and made charcoal sketches for the gratification
of friends to whom I would describe you. I would so like to see you as you were! O! you were
a wonder to me, a very Orson--now, you are simply a--"

"Miserable creature in plain clothes, and by no means a lady's fancy. Why did you not let me
die, since all that was to be fancied about me--my hair, my beard, and my buckskin coat, pants,
and moccasins are gone and destroyed?"

The maiden laughed wildly; it was not the laugh of mirth or mischief, there was a madness in
it that thrilled and awed.

"Do you know you are on the graves of a great nation?" she asked. "This mound and yonder three,
were, the burial-places of the Natchez Indians. The Suns and Sachems sleep here, and he, the
Great Sun, who came from the orbit's self, and was their lawgiver, and in whom and whose divinity
they believed as the Jews in that of Moses, or the Christians in the Redeemer. Is it not all
a mystery--strange, strange, incomprehensible, and unnatural? What is your faith?"

"To worship where I love; the divinity of my soul's worship is the devotion of my wild heart.'

"Why, you are mysterious! Have you, as had the Natchez, a holy fire which is never extinguished
in your heart? Is the flame first kindled burning still? Did your sun come to you with fire
in her hand and kindle it in your heart? Your words mean so much. Was she, or is she a red
maiden of the wild prairies; or dwells she in a mansion surrounded with the appliances of wealth,
reclining on cushions of velvet and sleeping on a bed of down, canopied with a pavilion of
damask satin fretted with stars of silver; with handmaids to subserve and minister to every
want?" And again the wild laugh rang to the echo among the hills and dense forests all around.
"O! I see I have tuned the wrong chord and have made discord, not music in your mind. Shall
we return? You are not yet strong, and your weakness I have made weaker, because I have disturbed
the fountain of your heart and brought up painful memories?"

"You are strange," said her companion, "and guess wide of the mark. The untutored savage is
only a romance at a distance--the reality of their presence a disgusting fact. They are wild,
untamable, and wicked, without sentiment or sympathy, cruel and murderous; disgusting in their
habits and brutal in their passions."

"And yet, sir, the stories which come down to us of these so quietly sleeping here are full
of romance and poetry. Their intercourse with the French impressed that mercurial people with
exalted notions of their humanity, chivalry, and nobleness of nature. Can it be that these
historians only wrote romances? You must not disturb this romance. If it is an illusion let
me enjoy it; do not strip from it the beard, the hair, the hunting-shirt, the bow and quiver--reality
or fiction, it is sweet to the memory. How often have I wandered from our home and stood here
alone and conjured from the spirit-land the ghosts of the Great Suns, the Stung Serpent, and
the chief of the Beard, and hers who warned the French of the conspiracy for their destruction.
In my day-dreaming I have talked with these; and learned with delight of their bliss in their
eternal hunting-grounds. And as I have knelt here, they in hosts have come to me with all their
legends and long accounts against the white man, and I have wept above these dry bones, and
felt too it was the fate of the white man, when his mission shall have been completed on earth,
and his nation's age bear him into the ground, and only his legends shall live a tradition,
like that of the Natchez.

"The hieroglyphics of Thotmes, of Rameses, of Menephthah, and of the host of kings gone before
these in Egypt's old life, cannot be read; their language, letters, and traditions, too, sleep
beyond the revelations of time, and yet their tombs, like these, give up their bones to the
curious, who group through the catacombs, or dig at the base of their monumental pyramids.
All besides has passed away and is lost. Not even the color of the great people who filled
these monuments, and carved from the solid stone these miles of galleries, now filled to repletion
with their mummied dead, and whose capacity is sufficient to entomb the dead of a nation for
thousands of years, is known now to those who people the fields reclaimed from the forest beyond
the memory of time.

"Nations are born, have their periods of youthful vigor, their manhood of sturdy strength,
the tottering of decrepit age, the imbecility of superstitious dotage--and their death is final
extinction. Such is man, and such is the world. What we are, we know; what we shall be, we
know not, save that we only leave a pile of bones. Come, we are approaching home, and the moon
dares to shine, ere yet the sun has gone. Yonder is brother, and I expect a scolding; but let
him fret--it is not often I have a toy. Fate threw you in my way and you must not complain
if I use you."

"I shall not complain," replied the astonished young man; "but will you ride again to-morrow?"

She checked up her steed (a noble one he was) and seemed to take in his entire man, as slowly
her eye went up from his stirrup to his face, when she said: "To-morrow, ah, to-morrow! Who
can tell what to-morrow may bring forth? To you and to me, there may come no to-morrow. We
may in a twinkling be hurled from our sphere into oblivion. The earth may open to-night, or
even now, and we may drop into her bosom of liquid fire, and be only ashes to-morrow.

"'Take no heed for to-morrow,' is the admonition of wisdom. Look, yonder I was born. Here sleep
the Natchez. See yonder tall mound, shaded from base to summit with the great forest trees
peculiar to our land. On the top of that mound stood the temple dedicated to the worship of
the sun. He smiles on it as the earth rolls up to hide his light away, as he did when the holy
fire was watched by the priests in that temple. But the Indian worshipper is gone; to him there
comes no morrow. There, on that mound, sleep the parents of my mother; to them comes no morrow.
Allons! We shall be late for tea. Brother has gone to sister's, and we shall be alone." In
a few minutes they were galloping down the avenue to the old Spanish-looking mansion, hid away
almost from view in the forest and floral surroundings, which made it so lovely to view.

There had come in their absence another; it was she who was the youthful companion of his fairy
at the Bayou Sara--a silent, reserved woman: very timid and very polished. Upon the gallery
she was awaiting the return of her cousin. The meeting was (as all meetings between high-bred
women should be) quiet, but cordial; without show, but full of heart. They loved one another,
and were highbred women. The stranger was presented, and at tea the cousin was informed that
he was the man from the mountains, and there was a curious, silent surprise in her face, when
she almost whispered, "I am pleased, sir, to meet you again. I hope you will realize the romance
of my cousin's dream with your legends of the West, the woods, and the wild men of the prairies."

Days went by, and still the fever raged in the city. The cerulean was bright and unflecked
with a speck of vapor, like a concave mirror of burnished steel. It hung above, and the red
sun seemed to burn his way through the azure mass. The leaves drooped as if weighted with lead,
and in the shade kindly thrown upon the wilting grass by the tulips, oaks, and pecans about
the yard, the poultry lifted their wings and panted with exhaustion in the sickly heat of the
fervid atmosphere. The sun had long passed the zenith, dinner was over, and the inmates were
enjoying the siesta, so refreshing in this climate of the sun. Here and there the leaves would
start and dally with a vagrant puff from vesper's lips, then droop again as if in grief at
the vagaries of the little truant which now was fanning and stirring into lazy motion another
leafy limb.

There was music in the drawing room. It was suppressed and soft--so sweet that it melted into
the heart in very stealth. Ah! it is gone. "Home, sweet home!" Poor Paine! like you, wandering
in the friendless streets of England's metropolis and listening to your own sweet song, breathed
from titled lips in palatial Homes, the listener to-day was homeless. He thought of you and
the convivial hours he had passed with you, listening to the narrative of your vagrant life,
and how happy you were in the poetry of your own thoughts when you were a stranger to every
one, and your purse was empty, and you knew not where you were to find your dinner.

Genius, thou art a fatal gift! Ever creating, never realizing; living in a world of beauty
etherialized in imagination's lens, and hating the material world as it is; buffeted by fortune
and ridiculed by fools whose conceptions never rise above the dirt.

A little note, sweetly scented, is placed in his hand:

"Cousin and I propose a ride. Shall we have your company? You are aware it is the Sabbath.
You must not, for us, do violence to your prejudices."

"Is this," thought he, "a delicate invitation to save my feelings, and is the latter clause
meant as a hint that they do not want me? Well, the French always, when a compliment has as
much bitter as sweet in it, take the sweet and leave the bitter unappropriated. It is a good
example. I will follow it. Say to the ladies I will accompany them."

"The horses are all ready, sir; and the ladies bonneted wait in the drawing-room."

The sun was in the tree-tops and the shadows were long. There was a flirtation going on between
the leaves and the breeze. The birds were flitting from branch to branch. A chill was on the
air: it was bathing the cheek with its delicious touch, and animated life was rejoicing that
evening had come.

Arriving at the great mound of the temple of the sun, with some difficulty they climb to its
summit. So dense is the shade that it is almost dark. Here are two graves, in which sleep the
remains of the grand-parents of these two beautiful and lovely women. All around are cultivated
fields clothed with rich crops, luxuriant with the promise of abundance. At its base flows
the little creek, gliding and gabbling along over pure white sand. Sweet Alice! How sad she
seems! She stood at the grave's side, and, looking down, seemed lost in pious reverie. Every
feature spoke reverence for the dead. Her cousin, too, was silent; and if not reverent, was
not gay. He, their gallant, was respectfully silent, when Alice said, without lifting her eyes:

"I wonder if La Salle ever stood here? This is holy ground. No spot on earth has a charm for
me like this. I am in the temple. I see the attentive, watchful priest feeding there (as she
pointed) the holy fire, and yonder, with upturned eyes, the great lawgiver worshipping his
god, as he comes up from his sleep, bringing day, warmth, light, and life. Was not this worship
pure? Was it not natural? The sun came in the spring and awoke everything to life. The grass
sprang from the ground and the leaves clothed the trees; the birds chose their mates and the
flowers gladdened the fields; everything was redolent of life, and everything rejoiced. He
went away in the winter, and death filled the land. There were no leaves, no grass, no flowers.
All nature was gloomy in death. Could any but a god effect so much? The sun was their god;
his temple was the sky, and his holy fire burned on through all time. Beautiful conception!
Who can say it is not the true faith?"

"To the unlettered mind, it was," answered the young gentleman; "because the imagination could
only be aided by the material presented to the natural eye. Science opens the eye of faith.
It teaches that the sun is only the instrument, and faith looks beyond for the Creator. To
such the Indian's faith cannot be the true one. The ignorance of one sees God in the instrument,
and his thoughts clothe him with the power of the Creator, and his heart worships God in sincerity,
and to him it is the true faith. But to the educated, scientific man, who knows the offices
of the sun, it appears as it is, only the creature of the unseen, unknown God, and to this
God he lifts his adoration and prayers, and to him this is the true faith."

"So, my philosopher, you believe, whatever lifts the mind to worship God is the true faith?"

"You put it strongly, Miss, and I will answer by a question. If in sincerity we invoke God's
mercy, can the means that prompt the heart's devotion, reliance, and love, be wrong? His magnitude
and perfection are a mystery to the untutored savage: he knows only what he sees. The earth
to him, (as it was to the founders and patriarchs of our own faith,) is all the world. He has
no idea that it is only one, and a small one of a numerous family, and can conceive only that
the sun rules his world; gives life and death to everything upon the earth--but this inspires
love and reverence for God. The scientific man sees in the sun only an attractive centre, and
sees space filled with self-illuminating orbs, and reasoning from the known to the unknown,
he believes these centres of attraction to planetary families, and the imagination stretches
away through space filled with centres and revolving worlds, and each centre with its dependents
revolving around one great centre, and this great centre he believes is God. His idea is only
one step beyond the Indian's, and has only the same effect: it leads the heart to depend on
and worship God."

"You are a heretic, and must like a naughty boy be made to read your Bible and go to Sunday-school,
and be lectured and taught the true faith. Fy! fy! shall the heathen go to heaven? Where is
the provision for him in the Bible? What are we to do with missions? If this be true, there
is no need that we should be sending good men and dear, pious women to convert the Chinese,
the Feejees, and the poor Africans so benighted that their very color is black, and the Australians,
and New Georgians, to be roasted and eaten by the cannibals there. If they worship God in sincerity,
you say that is all?"

"No, miss, faith without works is a futile reliance for heaven. It is the first necessity,
and perhaps the next and greatest, is, to 'Do unto all what you would have all do unto you.'
These are the words of the great Chinese philosopher, Confucius, and were taught four and a
half centuries before Christ, yet we see Him teaching the same. This, as Confucius said, was
the great cardinal duty of man, and all else was but a commentary upon this. This I fancy is
all, at least it is very comprehensive. You tell me the traditions of the people who worshipped
here say that this was a cardinal law unto them?"

"You, sir, have lived too long among the heathen, if you are not one already. You are like
an August peach in July: you are turning, and in a little while will be ripe. You talk, as
Uncle Toney says, like a book, and to me, like a new book, for yours are new thoughts to me.
Cousin, does he not astonish you?"

"By no means; true, they are new thoughts; but they are natural thoughts, and I do not fear
to listen to them--on the contrary, I could listen to them all day, and, Alice, I have often,
very often, heard from you something like this."

"Nonsense, cousin, nonsense; I am orthodox, you know, and a good girl and love to go to church,
especially when I have a becoming new dress."

"Here are the bones of our ancestors, if they were once animated with souls; and I guess they
were, particularly the old man, for I have heard many stories from old Toney, that convince
me that he was a pretty hard one. How do we know that their spirits are not here by us now?
Why is it deemed that there shall be no communication between the living and the dead? O! how
I want to ask all about the spirit-land. Wake up and reclothe thy bones and become again animated
dust, and tell me thou, my great progenitor, the mysteries of the grave, of heaven and hell.
How quiet is the grave? No response, and it is impious to ask what I have. O! what is life
which animates and harmonizes the elements of this mysterious creation, man! Life how imperious,
and yet how kind; it unites and controls these antagonistic elements, and they do not quarrel
on his watch. Mingling and communing they go on through time, regardless of the invitation
of those from which they came to return. But when life is weary of his trust and guardianship,
and throws up his commission, they declare war at once--dissolve, and each returns to his original.
Death and corruption do their work, and life returns no more, and death is eternal, and the
soul--answer ye dumb graves--did the soul come here? or went it with life to the great first
cause? or is here the end of all; here, this little tenement? I shudder--is it the flesh, the
instinct of life; or is it the soul which shrinks with horror from this little portal through
which it must pass to eternal bliss, or eternal--horrible! Assist me to my horse, if you please.
Come cousin, let us go and see old Uncle Toney--and, sir, he will teach you more philosophy
than you ever dreamed of."

"Who is Uncle Toney? miss," asked the stranger of the visiting cousin when he returned to aid
her descent of the mound.

"He is a very aged African, brought to this country from Carolina by our grandfather, in 1775,
or earlier; he says there were remnants of the Natchez in the country at that time, and the
old man has many stories of these, and many more very strange ones of the doings of the whites
who first came and settled the country. He retains pretty well his faculties, and, like most
old people, is garrulous and loves a listener. He will be delighted with our visit."

"Miss Alice, do you frequently visit Uncle Toney?"

"Very nearly every day. I have in my basket, here, something for the old man. Turn there, if
you please--yonder by that lightning-scared old oak and those top-heavy pecans is his cabin
and has been for more than sixty years. Here was the local of my grand-father's house; here
was born my mother; but all the buildings have long been gone save Uncle Toney's cabin. Think
of the hopes, the aspirations, the blisses, the sorrows, the little world that once was here--all
gone except Uncle Toney. In my childhood I used to come here and go with him to the graves
where we have been to-day, and have sat by them for hours listening to the stories he delights
to tell of my grandfather and mother, until their very appearance seems familiar to my vision.
I know that my grandfather was a small man, and a passionate man, and Toney sometimes tells
me I am like him. His eye was gray--so is mine; his face sharper than round--so is mine, and
sometimes my temper is terrible--so was his;" and she laughed again that same wild thrilling
laugh as she gallopped up to the cabin and leaped down to greet the old man, who was seated
at the door of his hut beneath the shade of a catalpa, the trunk of which was worn smooth from
his long leaning against it. He was very black and very fat. His wool was white as snow, and
but for the seams in both cheeks, cut by the knife in observance of some ridiculous rite in
his native land, would have been really fine-looking for one of his age. He arose and shook
hands with the cousin, but did not approach the gentleman. He was evidently not pleased with
his presence and was chary of his talk.

"Ah! young missus," he said, when he received the basket, "you bring old Toney sometin good.
You is my young missus, too; but dis one is de las one. Dey is all married and gone but dis
one." (This conversation was addressed to the cousin.) "All gone away but dis one, and when
she marry dare will be nobody to fetch dis ole nigger good tings and talk to de ole man."

"Uncle Toney, I don't intend to marry."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the old man, "berry well, berry well! I hear dat from ebery one ob my
young misses, and where is dey now? All done married and gone. You gwine to do jus as all on
em hab done, byne by when de right one come. Ah! may be he come now."

"You old sinner, I have a great mind to pull your ears for you."

"O no, missus, I don't know! I see fine young man dare; but maybe he come wid Miss Ann, and
maybe he belong to her."

"Uncle Toney, don't you remember I told you of a wild man away from the mountains, all clothed
in skins, with a long, curly beard and hair over his shoulders as black as a stormy night?
This is he."

"Gosh!" said the venerable negro. "I mus shake his hand; but what hab you done wid your beard,
your hair, and your huntin-shirt?"

"I have thrown them all into the fire, uncle. People among white people must not dress like
Indians."

"Dat's a fac, young massa; but I tell you Miss Alice was mity taken wid dem tings. She come
here soon as she comed home, and told me all about 'em and all about you--how you could shoot
de bow and how you could talk, and she said: 'O! what would I not give to see him again?'"

"Toney, if you don't shut up, I won't come to see you, or bring you any more good things. This
young gentleman has come with us to see you, and wishes to hear you tell all about the Natchez,
and to get you to show him the many things you have dug up on and around these mounds, and
have you tell him all about the old people who came here first and made all these big plantations
and built all these great houses."

"Well, Miss Alice, dis is Sunday, you know, and dem tings mus not be telled on Sunday, and
den you and Miss Ann don't want ole nigger to talk. You go ride and talk wid de young gemman,
and maybe to-morrow, or some week-day, young massa can come down from de great house wid de
gun to shoot de squirrels along de way, and when he tired, den he can come and rest, and I
can tell him all. Yes, young massa, I been live long time here. Me is mity old. All dem what
was here when I comed wid ole massa is dead long time. Yes, dare aint one on em livin now,
and dare chillin is old."

"I shall be sure to come," said the young man, "and suppose I bring with me these ladies?"

"Neber you do dat, massa. I knows young folks ways too well for dat. Toney may talk, but dey
neber will listen. Dey will talk wid one anoder, and Miss Alice been hear all de ole nigger's
talk many a time, and she don't want to hear it ober and ober all de time; and beside dat,
young massa, sometimes when I tells bout de ole folks, she trimbles and cries. She's got a
mity soft heart bout some tings, and she tells me I mus tell you eberyting."

"There now, Toney, you have said enough about me to make the gentleman think I am a very silly
little girl."

"God bress my young missus!" he said as he tenderly patted her head. "I wouldn't hurt your
feelins for noffin. You is too good, Miss Alice. Toney lubed your mamma--Toney lubs you, and
de day you is married and goes away, I want to go away too. I want to go yonder, Miss Alice,
on de top ob dat mound, and lie down wid ole massa and missus. He told your pa to put me dar;
but your pa's gone. O Miss Alice! dey's all gone but you and me and your brodder, and he don't
care for Toney, and maybe he will trow him out in de woods like a dog when he die." Tears stole
down the black face of the venerable man, and the eyes of Alice filled--and then she laughed
the shrill, fearful laugh, and rode rapidly away.

She was singing and walking hurriedly the gallery, when the stranger and her cousin came leisurely
into the yard.

"Your cousin, Miss Ann, has a strange laugh."

"Indeed she has, sir; but we who know her understand it. She never laughs that unearthly laugh
when her heart is at ease. I doubt if you have ever met such a person. I think the world has
but one Alice. She is very young, very impressible, and some think very eccentric, very passionate
and romantic to frenzy. There is something which impels me to tell you--but no, I have no right
to do so. But this I must tell you; for you cannot have been in the house here so long without
observing it. There is no congeniality between herself and brother; indeed, very little between
her and any of her family. She is alone. She is one by herself; yes, one by herself in the
midst of many; for the family is a large one. But remember, there is none like Alice. Be gentle
to her and pity her; and pity her most when you hear that strange laugh."

There was music in the drawing-room, soft and gentle, and the accompanying voice was tremulous
with suppressed emotion. Gradually it swells in volume until it fills the spacious apartment,
and the clear notes from the tender trill rose grandly in full, clear tones, full of pathetic
melody, and now they almost shriek. They cease--and the laugh, hysterical and shrill, echoes
through the entire house. The judge was silent; but a close observer might have seen a slight
contraction of the lips, and a slighter closing of the eyes. A moment after Alice entered the
room, and there was a glance exchanged between her brother and herself. There was in it a meaning
only for themselves.

"You have been riding, sir," he said to his guest, "and my sister tells me to the mound at
the White Apple village. To those curious in such legends as are connected with its history,
it is an interesting spot. All I know in relation to these, I acquired from a dreamy and solitary
man employed by my father to fit myself and brother for college. He read French, and was fond
of tracing all he could find in the writings of the historians of the first settlement of Louisiana
and Mississippi, and of the history, habits, and customs of the aborigines of the country.
He knew something of the adventures of De Soto and La Salle, and something of the traditions
of the Natchez. He was a melancholy man, and perished by his own hand in the chamber that you
occupy. My sister is curious in such matters, and from her researches in some old musty volumes
she has found in the possession of an old European family, she has made quite a history of
the Natchez, and from the old servants much of that of the first white or English occupants
of this section. For myself, I have little curiosity in that way. My business forbids much
reading of that kind, and indeed much of anything else, and I am glad that my tastes and my
business accord. I would not exchange one crop of cotton grown on the village-field, for a
perfect knowledge of the history of every Indian tribe upon the continent."

"I am no antiquarian, sir. A life on a plantation I suppose must be most irksome and monotonous
to a young lady, unless she should have some resource besides her rural employments."

"Our only amusements, sir," said Alice, "are reading, riding, and music, with an occasional
visit to a neighbor. I ride through the old forest and consult the great patriarchal trees,
and they tell me many strange stories. When the ruthless axe has prostrated one of these forest
monarchs, my good palfrey waits for me, and I count the concentric circles and learn his age.
Some I have seen which have yielded to man's use or cupidity who have looked over the younger
scions of the woods, and upon the waters of the mighty river a thousand years."

"Indeed, miss," replied the guest, "I had not supposed the natural life of any of our forest
trees extended beyond three, or at most four centuries."

"The tulip or poplar-tree and the red-oak in the rich loam of these hills live long and attain
to giant proportions. The vines which cling in such profusion to many of these are commensurate
with them in time. They spring up at their bases and grow with them: the tree performing the
kindly office of nurse, lifting them in her arms and carrying them until their summits, with
united leaves, seem to kiss the clouds. They live and cling together through tempests and time
until worn out with length of days, when they tumble and fall to the earth together, and together
die. We all, Flora and Fauna, go down to the bosom of our common mother to rest in death. I
love the companionship of the forest. There is an elevation of soul in this communion with
incorruptible nature: there is sincerity and truth in the hills and valleys--in the trees and
vines, and music--grand orchestral music--in the moaning of the limbs and leaves, played upon
by the hurrying winds. I have prayed to be a savage, and to live in the woods."

"You are as usual, sister, very romantic to-night."

"By and by, brother, I shall forget it I presume. I am human, and shall soon die, or live on
till time hardens my nature, or sordid pursuits plough from my heart all its sympathies, and
old age finds me gloating over the gains of laborious care and penurious meanness.

  "'To such vile uses we must come at last.'"

"You draw a sad picture, miss, for old age. Do not the gentler virtues of our nature ever ripen
with time? Is it the alchemist who always turns the sweets of youth to the sours of age? There
are many examples in every community to refute your position. I would instance the venerable
negro we visited to-day. He wept as he placed his trembling hand upon your head. There was
surely nothing ascetic or sordid in his feelings."

"Uncle Toney is an exception, sir. The affectionate memories he has of our family, and especially
of my mother and father, redeems him from the obloquy of his race. His heart is as tender as
his conduct is void of offense. He was a slave. God had ordained him for his situation. He
had not the capacity to aspire beyond his lot, or to contrast it with his master's. Contented
to render his service, and satisfied with the supply of his wants from the hands of him he
served--he had a home, and all the comforts his nature required. He has it still; but I know
he is not as contented as when he was my father's slave. God bless the old man! He shall never
want while I have anything, and should I see him die, he shall sleep where he wished to-day."

"By our grandfather, I suppose, Alice?"

"Yes, my brother, by our grand-parents. They told him it should be so. Ah! there are no distinctions
in the grave; white skin and black skin alike return to dust, and the marl of the earth is
composed alike of the bones of all races, and their properties seem to be the same. I, too,
wish to sleep there. It is a romantically beautiful spot, and its grand old traditions make
it holy ground. How its associations hallow it! Imagination peoples it with those bold old
red men who assembled in the temple to worship the holy fire--emblematic of their faith--humbling
their fierce natures and supplicating for mercy. I go there and I feel in the touch of the
air that it is peopled with the spirits of the mighty dead, surrounding and blessing me for
my memory of, and love for, their extinct race."

"Bravo, sister! What an enthusiast! You, sir, have some knowledge of the Indians. Do they stir
the romance of your nature as that of my baby sister?"

The glance from her eye was full of scorn: it flashed with almost malignant hate as she rose
from her seat, and taking the arm of her cousin she swept from the room, audibly whispering
"baby sister" in sneering accents.

"Woman's nature is a strange study, my young friend. I have several sisters and they are all
strange, each in her peculiar way. They are remarkable for the love they bear their husbands,
and yet they all have a pleasure in tormenting them, and are never so unhappy, as when they
see these happy. This younger sister has a nature all her own. I do not think she shares a
trait with another living being. Wild, yet gentle; the eagle to some, to some the dove. Quick
as the lightning in her temper--as fervid, too; a heart to hate intensely, and yet to melt
in love and worship its object; but would slay it, if she felt it had deceived her. Always
searching into the history of the past, and always careless of the future."

"You have drawn something of the character of a Spanish woman. Their love and their hate is
equally fierce; and both easily excited, they are devoted in all their passions. I have thought
that this grew from the secluded life they live. Ardency is natural to the race, and this restrained
makes their lives one long romance. Their world is all of imagination. The contacts of real
life they never meet outside of their prison-homes, and the influence of experience is never
known. They are seen through bars, are sought through bars, they love through bars--and the
struggle is, to escape from these restraints; and the moral of the act or means for its accomplishment,
or the object to be attained, never enters the mind. Such natures properly reared to know the
world, to see it, hear it, and suffer it, tunes all the attributes of the mind and heart to
make sweet music. Nothing mellows the heart like sorrow; nothing so softens the obduracy of
our natures as experience. None, sir, man or woman, are fitted for the world without the experiences
its contact brings. These experiences are teachings, and the bitter ones the best. To be happy,
we must have been miserable; it is the idiosyncracy of the mind, to judge by comparison; and
the eternal absence of grief leaves the mind unappreciative of the incidents and excitements
which bring to him or her who have suffered, such exquisite enjoyment. The rue of life is scarcely
misery to those who have never tasted its ambrosia."

"You are young, sir, thus to philosophize, and must have seen and experienced more than your
years would indicate."

"Some, sir, in an incident see all of its characters that the world in a lifetime may present.
They suffer, and they enjoy with an acuteness unknown to most natures; and in youth gain the
experiences and knowledge they impart, while most of the world forget the pain and the pleasure
of an incident with its evanescence. With such, experience teaches nothing. These progress
in the world blindly and are always stumbling and falling."

"The ladies have retired--shall we imitate their example, sir? This will light you to your
chamber; good night."

Alone, and kindly shielded with the darkness, the adventurer lay thoughtful and sleepless.
Here are two strange beings. There is in the one angelic beauty animated with a soul of giant
proportions, large in love, large in hate, and grandly large in its aspirations; and yet it
is chained to a rock with fetters that chafe at every motion. The other cold, emotionless,
with a reserved severity of manner, which is the offspring of a heart as malignant and sinister
as Satan himself may boast of. They hate each other, but how different that hatred! The one
is an emotion fierce and fiery but without malice; the other malicious and revengeful. One
is the hatred of the recipient of an injury who can forgive; the other the hatred of one who
has inflicted an injury with calculation. Such never forgive. And this I am sure is the relation
of this brother and sister. Deprived when yet young of the fostering care of a mother, scarcely
remembering her father, she has been the ward of this cold, hard being, whose pleasure it has
been to thwart every wish of this lovely being: to hate her because she is lovely, and to aggravate
into fury her resentments, and to sour every generous impulse of her extraordinary nature.
What a curse to have so sensitive a being subjected to the training of so cold and malignant a one!

There is no natural affection. The heart is born a waste: its loves, its hates are of education
and association; and the responsibility for the future of a child rests altogether with those
intrusted with its rearing and training. The susceptibilities only are born with the heart,
and these may be cultivated to good or evil, as imperceptibly as the light permeates the atmosphere.
These capacities or susceptibilities are acute or obtuse as the cranium's form will indicate,
and require a system suited to each. Attention soon teaches this: the one grows and expands
beautifully with the slightest attention; the other is a fat soil, and will run to weeds, without
constant, close, and deep cultivation, and its production of good fruit is in exact proportion
with its fertility and care. It gives the most trouble but it yields the greatest product.
And here in that warm, impulsive heart is the fat soil. O! for the hand to weed away all that
is noxious now rooting there. That look, that whispered bitterness was the fruit of wicked
wrong--I know it; the very nature prompting there would give the sweetest return to justice,
kindness, and love.

When the morrow came, the clouds were weeping and the damp was dripping from every leaf, and
gloomy rifts of spongy vapor floated lazily upon the breeze, promising a wet and very unpleasant
day. These misty periods rarely endure many hours in the autumn, but sometimes they continue
for days. The atmosphere seems half water, and its warm damp compels close-housing, to avoid
the clammy, sickly feeling met beyond the portals. At such times, time hangs heavily, and every
resource sometimes fails to dispel the gloom and ennui consequent upon the weather; conversation
will pall; music cease to delight, and reading weary. To stand and watch the rain through the
window-panes, to lounge from the drawing-room to your chamber, to drum with your fingers upon
the table--to beat your brain for a thought which you vainly seek to weave into rhyme in praise
of your inamorata--all is unavailing. The rain is slow but ceaseless, and the hours are days
to the unemployed mind. We hum a tune and whistle to hurry time, but the indicating fingers
of the tediously ticking clock seems stationary, and time waits for fair weather. The ladies
love their chambers, and sleeping away the laggard hours, do not feel the oppression of a slow,
continuous, lazy rain.

The morning has well-nigh passed, and the drawing-room is still untenanted. The judge was busy
in his office, looking over papers and accounts, seemingly unconscious of the murky day; perhaps
he had purposely left this work for such a day--wise judge--a solitary man, unloving, and unloved;
hospitable by freaks, sordid by habit, and mean by nature. Yet he was wise in his way; devoid
of sentiment or sympathy as a grind-stone, his wit was as sharp as his heart was cold. Absorbed
in himself, the outside world was nothing to him. He had work, gainful work for all weathers,
and therefore no feeling for those who suffered from the weather or the world, if it cost him
nothing in pence. He was the guardian of his baby sister; but all of her he had in his heart
was a care that she should not marry, before he was ready to settle her estate. The interest
he felt in her, was his commissions for administering her property with a legitimate gain earned
in the use of her money.

The guest of this strange man was restless, he knew not why; there were books in abundance,
and their authors' names were read over and over again as he rummaged the book-cases he knew
not for what. First one and then another was pulled out from its companions, the title-page
read and replaced again, only to take another. Idly he was turning the pages of one, when a
voice surprised him and sweetly inquired at his elbow if he found amusement or edification
in his employment. "I must apologize for my rudely leaving you last night. I hope I am incapable
of deceit or unnecessary concealments. I was hurt and angry, and I went away in a passion.
Yours is a gentle nature, you do not suffer your feelings to torture and master you. I should
not, but I am incapable of the effort necessary to their control. It is best with me that they
burn out, but their very ashes lie heavily upon my heart. Our clime is a furnace, and her children
are flame, at least, strange sir, some of them are a self-consuming flame. I feel that is my
nature. Is not this an honest confession? I could explain further in extenuation of my strange
nature. It was not my nature until it was burned into my very soul. I am very young, but the
bitterness of my experiences makes me old, at least in feeling. But you are not my father confessor--then
why do I talk to you as to one long known? Because--perhaps--but never mind the reason. I know
my cousin has whispered something to you of me; my situation, my nature--is it not so?"

"Ah! you would be my father confessor. You must not interrogate, but if you would know, ask
your cousin."

"O! no, I could not. Is it not strange that woman will confide to the strange man, what she
will not to the kindred woman? Woman will not sympathize with woman; she goes not to her for
comfort, for sympathy, for relief. Is this natural? Men lean on one another, women only on
man. Is this natural? Is it instinctive? or an acquired faculty? Do not laugh at me, I am very
foolish and very sad; such a day should sadden every one. But my cousin is very cheerful, twitters
and flits about like an uncaged canary, and is as cheerful when it rains all day, as when the
sun in her glory gladdens all the earth and everything thereon. I am almost a Natchez, for
I worship the sun. How I am running on! You are gentle and kind, are you not? You are quick,
perceptive--you have seen that I am not happy--sympathize, but do not pity me. That is a terrible
struggle between prudence and inclination. There, now I am done--don't you think me very foolish?"

"Miss Alice--(will you allow me this familiarity?)"

"Yes, when we are alone; not before cousin or my man brother." (She almost choked with the
word.) "Not before strangers--we are not strangers when alone. You read my nature, as I do
yours, and we are not strangers when alone. It is not long acquaintance which makes familiar
friends. The mesmeric spark will do more than years of intercommunication, where there is no
congeniality--and do it in a little precious moment. The bloody arrow we held in common was
an electric chain. I learned you at the plucking of that arrow from the cotton bale--in your
strange, wild garb; but never mind--what were you going to say?"

"I was going to say that our acquaintance was very brief, but what I have seen or heard, I
will not tell to you or to any one. Your imagination is magnifying your sufferings. You want
a heart to confide in. You have brothers-in-law, wise and strong men.

"That, for the whole of them," she said, as she snapped her fingers. "Their wives are my sisters,
some of them old enough to be my mother, but they and their husbands are alike--sordid. The
hope of money is even more debasing than the hoarding. Do you understand me? I must speak or
my heart will burst. Are you a wizzard that you have so drawn me on? Dare I speak? Is it maidenly
that I should? There is a spell upon me. Go to your chamber--there is a spy upon me; I am seen,
and I fear I have been overheard; go to your chamber--here, take this book and read it if you
never have--dinner is at hand, and after dinner--, but let each hour provide for itself,--at
dinner,--well, well, adieu."

She was in the drawing-room, and again the soft melody of half-suppressed music, scarcely audible,
yet every note distinct, floated to his chamber, and the guest scarcely breathed that he might
hear. There was something so plaintive, so melting in the tones that they saddened as well
as delighted. How the heart can melt out at the finger-points when touching the keys of a sweetly-toned
instrument! It is thrown to the air, and in its plaint makes sweet music of its melancholy.
Like harmonious spirits chanting in their invisibility, making vocal the very atmosphere, it
died away as though going to a great distance, and stillness was in the whole house. He stole
gently to the door. There seated was Alice; her elbow on her instrument, and her brow upon
her hand. The bell rang for dinner. The repast is over, and a glass of generous wine sent the
rose to the cheeks of Alice, but enlivened not her eye. Her heart was sad: the eye spoke it
but too plainly, and she looked beautiful beyond comparison. The eye of the stranger was rivetted
upon that drooping lid and more than melancholy brow.

His situation was a painful one. More than once had he caught the quick, suspicious glance
of the judge flash upon him. He was becoming an object of interest to more than one in the
house; but how different that interest! How at antipodes the motives of that interest! He knew
too much, and yet he wanted to know more. He was left alone in the drawing-room with the timid,
modest little cousin. It rained on, and the weather seemed melancholy, and their feelings were
in unison with the weather.

"I shall leave, I believe, miss, as soon as the rain will permit. I presume I may go down to
the city without fear."

"You will find it but a sorry place, sir. All the hotels are closed and everybody is out of
town save the physicians, and the poor who are unable to get away. The gloom of the desolated
place is enough to craze any one. I hope you do not find your stay disagreeable in this house?"

"I will not attempt to deceive you, miss. I cannot say why; but I feel uncomfortable--not at
my ease. It were needless for me to repeat it; I am sure you know the cause."

"Perhaps I do, sir; and still I cannot see in that sufficient cause for your going away. Perhaps,
sir, we are not thinking of the same cause," she said with a mischievous twinkle in her eye.

"I particularly allude to what you yourself communicated to me. I perceive Miss Alice is very
unhappy, and I also am apprehensive that I may in some way be the cause of this."

"I will tell you, sir, any special attention on your part to Alice will enrage her brother.
From motives known to himself, he is very much opposed to her marrying any one. His reasons
as given are that she is so peculiar in her disposition that she would only increase her own
misery in making her husband miserable, which her eccentric nature would certainly insure.
I have heard that he has sometimes had a thought of carrying her to an asylum for the insane.
The world, however, is not charitable enough to believe this the true reason. The judge is
very grasping, and he has in his hands Alice's fortune. Some of his own family suppose he desires
the use of it as long as possible. There are many hard things said of him in relation to his
influencing his mother to leave him the lion's share of her estate. This very home was intended
for Alice, and though he had not spoken to his mother for years, in her last hours he came
with a prepared will and insisted on her signing it. She feared him (most people do) and affixed
her name to the fatal document, which report says was never read to her. After that she could
not bear the presence of Alice, saying in her delirium: 'My poor baby will hate me; I have
turned her from her home.' Alice has learned all this, and she has upbraided him with his conduct;
for once provoked she does not even fear him."

"Why do not her brothers-in-law inquire into this? They are equally interested in the matter
it seems to me."

"Ah, sir! they are hoping that he may do them justice in his will. I am sure this is the understanding
with at least one of them, and neither of them will hazard a loss to protect the rights of
Alice. Large expectations are strong inducements to selfishness. I am disclosing family matters,
sir; but I have done so from a good motive. It is but half disclosed to you; but the rest I
must not tell. You are not so dull as not from what I have said to be able to shape your conduct.
Alice is coming."

The rain had ceased, and for two days the genial sun had drank up the moisture from the land,
which underfoot was dry again. The autumn had come, and the earth groaned with the rich products
of this favored land. The cotton-fields were whitening, and the yellow corn's pendant ears
hung heavily from their supporting stocks. Fat cattle in the shade of the great trees switched
away the teasing flies as they lazily ruminated. The crows were cawing and stealing from their
bursting shells the rich pecan nuts, and the black-birds flew in great flocks over the fields.
In the hickory-woods the gray squirrel leaped from tree to tree, hunting for, and storing away
for winter's use, his store of nuts and acorns, or running along the rail-fence to find a hiding-place
when frightened from his thieving in the cornfields. The quail whistled for his truant mate
in the yellow stubble, and the carrion-bird--black and disgusting--wheeled in circles, lazily,
high up in the blue above. There was in everything the appearance of satisfaction; abundance
was everywhere, and the yellowing of the leaves and the smoky horizon told that the year was
waning into winter.

Under the influences of the scene and the season the visitor of the judge was sober and reflective
as he strolled through the woods, gun in hand, little intent upon shooting. The quail whirred
away from his feet; the funny little squirrel leaped up the tree-side and peeped around at
him passing; but he heeded not these, and went forward to find the cabin of old Toney. He found
the old negro in his usual seat at the foot of his favorite tree, upon his well-smoothed and
sleek wooden stool.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Toney. "You come dis time widout Miss Alice. Why she not come wid you?
You not want somebody to turn de squirrel for you? May be you bring de ole man more dan one dar?"

"It was too great a walk for her, Uncle Toney, and then she does not like my company well enough
to pay so much fatigue for it."

