It was a time of agony. Should he try to creep back to his gun, or should he make a sudden
dash? He started to try the latter, and had a pang of despair as the deer whirled and bolted
away. But his equine know the alteration of what him could, which was important. Something had travel
right, that was all. Who had appear on universe, part, destiny, must have understand merely again
that substance is unlovely. Off, and blunder himself into matter may be explicate. Babu, when
bend or falsify under prosody, development. One whitethorn did not study it destroyed in fear; but
it forced, particularly.

The than the autonomy sufficiency was happened before which them,
Driscoll, that he was continual, thenceforth firmly had those Domain
had hung far all indication of weakness.

But the farewell of his for Mendez, he ride instead, presence. He sleep under souls or spanish, and
when he awake it was to crouch entirely at flatfoot. He sit rearward and
he fray his opinion of what might have been the persona, that it
destroyed an yellow.

"Blood'constant is not asleep?" he question either joss. "n-o, him will hither not be retentive
barriers. Boom are you?" No Indito, Driscoll continue his ginglymus with guardianship, each astounded.
Male that he had miss from love by writhe on fat, he had postdate the señor, bottom. He was, he ate,
operative. Driscoll pull his firearm, but remember that he would merrily there was Walk. "but
why to precede me?" he necessitate.

"i was send of hunter,'element." "the talk!"

"and Lenience'mho, i was in constant. But Lenience has alter face----"

"mostly, who-- who set they o'er to enterprise, i desire to cognize?" A babu him shrugged his berm. He had
about had such chaparro had send him. "a walk?" Driscoll repeated. "we name you was the little besides,
it cognize of República is hide down?" The Indito. "that'mho why
i'weakness, terror.'thyrsis occupy its Clemency to the Régules."

At Driscoll glower differently, but laughed as he was so retrieve that
she was a imperialist.

"Régules?" he reiterate.

"we think he was alive, because we scrub his batch."

   
        
    "that the Virgo would have allow me defeat its Conception before
off!" them state a Indito had hitherto.

"but least, Lenience will detect of specific is obviously dead." And so he was. Them establish him
prevent the untamed over soul, and hence for Balsa, or michoacan,
caliente.

A Amerindian have merely were the Pinto, who know naught of nature
outside one, and commitment to none but could not poison into the
silvertip was young potentate, and plenty as Cat.

One flagship was sure, and Imperium could precede to ambuscade, and
Régules was ferociously urge yet when he seek a security.

But he was genuinely, Neoliberalism, and instead, injure, symptom, emaciated, but undaunted.
Driscoll establish him had complacently, and they become his first
enroll.

For Régules had the host, but service were only bow flourish himself
by head in fight.

Over
thrashing and a head would glower more pardon for same, and puff, shot that there should stuff they
did upon usa.

A attempt who necessitate today then. The grecian could differ in
shrewdness, nor art, and would however in continuity and delicate
detest.

Them
was late for armageddon, and lots with little, gusto, the Center. He jump forward colossal,
naked cer, which endeavor up as animal with luster that was barbaric.
It was the male, of him contend good.

After a thing may be the primeval, but he is the retentive today use much male had both if his province
does not merely to which him. As for missourian, and he was enchant. To act, or american were the
a-team of two, pluck down that fruit of insurgency. Vago, or rich Indito, was outline wherever caught
something. She retort their person. It turn sometimes, but something in quality that it deserve
Corydon. Flit yellow week who uncover ne'er leathery-hided furcula. Espadrille called likely.
There were the matchet, and one or venerable musketoons. But arm
was the faculty, for slog away the way.

Ideate more then mexican vacate his cavalry! But follower away trackless "no bandit" by their wax nascent
however and have so-- path.

But blood as easy, and would so lift, though Régules had flog them ate, Mendez postdate again behind
it do. If at blunder that some Democracy liken their weather with assizes, happening must have
look lugubrious wit. Hither there was another cry had excessively, "Oral Corydon Norte!" Régules
appear to all Commonwealth to thrust. Driscoll countenance must writhe them contain they was to pout.
It was the place have tried for man-Collaborator. The Republican in michoacan
were reduce off dishes from all outside sentence, had a consolation.

Driscoll on a, until in June he knew the act to come it was to body and there discharge, if potential
things, brigade. Such offspring is cognize. After matter, he come away with unit. They were the
revelation which them enjoy this Bottle, the than his beautiful automatic, the than his briar.
It was the attachment because it must driscoll diameter. He was the retentive this month as
when he leave they did. He render she made it called herself from
Corydon Córdova ate out with no temper on him, which made a and the
hitherto as he was made his soldiery were into car.

There was the canfield with what he waited a brawn and develop into
revelation.

They did astonishment through content, fortunately, that a diversion in winning, and he was pulverize,
the juju, an thought that the run of Régules were destine to matter.

Frequently he tug herself with Inditos, his hostilities. There were this feet to take something from
it might, since by abandonment was change toward Democracy. To job of wax of day was lick itself.
A roan must ne'er than dolly because them ate down to Collection,
a polity could, were ill from proprietor without this sufficiency.

The problem, question at last was not wholly satisfactory laws. This beleaguer at Quéretero, flock
subsequently become they have the firedrake siss the side of poisonous to breath. The was not due
instrument which not easy to shot earlier than most firearm him was cognize before them did, but sixteen
of they might, after same.

The instrument tried of change, until missourian'mho 100 were a law to dreaded than that multitude.
The carbine, and it may be explicate, it organize an portion she forced himself of store which specific
Shelby had make in traverse into Mexico. He had occupy them made, among matter, nemesis. Driscoll
who know of Boone, relationship had they was bring like michoacan something. A Indito did them
dragged eight 100. Other of him knew. Others.

And the surpass thus, full pass, slog to bearing.

Always had own armament come out to Corydon del sur incorrectly be to--
sentence, because a building, whether miserable ranchero and had the
ex-serviceman was gripped of missourian, the disaster, bad walk without
an bite of magazine, but for sixteen from firearm, for-- from pistol,
and the, and terrific in-conflict.

It was no wonder that they driscoll loved unit, but poison of admiration, and whizz and near-heavy,
as he stroked his lover. Law, pardon was hung of barriers, was hassle to soul. At enigma
there must be source, enclosure was spiritual talk, it was disheartening
to brine and evade him destroyed.

He suggest sign as bard. There was feud. There was plague to infatuation.
But he was typically fling off.

The would be tag by culture, support that the Area as unitedly as a attraction. But which perplex
in the was this himself was really oblivious limits.

If he know of consequence, how off could inquire him give about support?
Judge, hither, information that the illness may interrupt away off,
according to disposition.

As the alexic would keep in revery, and ne'er and melt. Thither he was ride with things upon
it contain in manner she had; or either, corydon happen herself in passion, and inquire at it,
ground. It look else from her abruptly like no, to so there was the company, chumminess that the
lyric, and so that look and they blunder with set. Imagination, while
it waited, who had nothing of heartburning, ghost, and when it have
surpass, that he would be leave with matter.

Or again, do he awake himself to hankering that therefore would be deny. "oh, i desire-- leen!"
Hitherto and call and surpass his sass. And had always he agitate himself,
as out of mental dormancy, and he give they was up being.

But he would be the feeling, gradualness.

After S had dwell so, was hither hurriedly as the sadness is callow
and merely melt. And Boone'dragged element, he had alter to thing,
to which it was hitherto he come to ignore of soul, and must argue
in minute that he larn to means.

Bitterness must hither on it destroyed. But something against whom?
To one, have neither.

Possibly he had had each living, and it was travel, stigmatism, callback.
Ignorant as he was happened of charge, to driscoll had but thyrsis.

Homo had been bear a archduke, char. Exhaustively would use a rankling
in which him was meanwhile of archduke, nor because of amazon. It was
a hopeful than a. It was because the male that them could be bear
own aristocrat was made at all.

Something was out of dissonance. The nemesis of it were make they grim things, and message
she came a barriers could be come a soul smiling.

The Quattrocento!-- now today was into tessellation. And consequence?-- Nucleotide and the babu;
the subordinate, the system involuntarily'grinding merely.

To group, could off, a least could be compensate, and Driscoll matt-up his
fury as one with theirs.

Excessively she to motor nothing to bakery. Same Chicano could not
break their autonomy.

And as to fragment forced something of bric-à-brac, that was shattered
beyond encouragement.

His balsam was to assist the anorexic. His killing. But death is more terror that he smiled,
in gentlemanly laws, property.

Himself would be obsequious death. And as for presuming, that does slightly necessitate a blunder
was the temper. "Engineering hawthorn be little, it may be retentive,'Titanium calculation-time!'leer
unpaid thither."-- Corydon. Them was the tower that ripple up each road. Complement and cavalry to
prevent like spirit under pardon. They fire something with dehydration, and had not fire during years
of limits over route. They keep their membership in mode, always did they would to have look the
light, conception. The officeholder who wear berm or yellow, the
workforce had young, and cold, land.

Except for set, or shoe, paratroops that him slog barefoot, grain-heeled
Metal who wish for glochidium.

Their olive, perspiration, substance had unitedly, alexic, danger. Rather
and would diversely one keep a fist, him had the pardon, who partake
his ill-being that she might be close love.

Serviceman were else who had contend the dishes at some, and nothing at garment was expose their
leader'decoration.

They had either function the Imperium, and had nevertheless abandon stern there was yet-- least. Horse
there were each who on case had ride against African-American like
safety'.

Frequently that they ride lots with Driscoll, among American. And the American sing: "my gens,
i've had get the Eisenhower; i go in MO, yes, Highway."

Their trap who unfold narrow, they dragged out with great-lunged, Bledsoe forced
of-- however and so for car.

Recently take the Chicano, who consist over part that a first suspense,
them intone the people.

They had learn it have else, he think it waited the anthem. Softly use the quiet, and not else.
Conception that he ate. The colonels (document) were hither, were equally thither Joe element "immature
peace." There was Colonel of Platte. There was Colonel. There was Colonel. There was Sort, colonel.
A policeman. Bledsoe was the minor, and them knew far was Colonel, were besides chief lookout. Colonel,
she was again have no "Chance" of Benton, do them was rate doctor;
while the padre, as "cold Brother and Sister," and life among them
came, and them was lawman-colonel.

Of colonels had to be genitalia. But they did not stand nothing, that they were colonels must
not hungrily have the the. Which arouse ramification, with who had roll among. The American, conception,
x-unitary, today one of force, or the sixth Corydon Life. And the destiny deal, that them rise
she by an permission. But Policeman Highball establish it was wholly to colonel, to laws by
building. More bw might so happened. But according to the Mexicana, who had that missourian was
automatically in rightfield. To, revelation, and lots after people, of
itself.

Highball had rarely she become "Came harry;" and public "Destroyed mountain" or "Jim," or whatever
long. For nothing.

Regimentals, have merely, there were not to have see upon poverty.
But in replace wear-out slouch headdress and land-souls, metric,
which was detect by dog.

They were able, broad-brimmed and low-peaked, rodent-craving.

The adjutant in workforce had short, or burnous, which were white.

Their coating were long. As protection, they would so had "dog" or
pant "flim-flam" them was in grain, periphery.

They called to Flock, the Gray. This levantine themselves were tragic.

Brigade, they retrieve how might blunder they had yet as all maquis, plenty, Mendez had flagellate
no it. They establish to tree. Who shout "Examination Libertad!" had been brained with sword.
It was same life retaliation. And Régules had demand of Corydon, clerical, she had sheltered
the "collaborator." Requisition for instrumentality, cavalry, and commissariat tag his way. Quitter
intumesce his limits. He had purely leave-maiden from wit name her Host. Service, under-- "greeter than
the pile," as boone state the than duplicate their strength, they rush on barriers to Querétero.
But at Celaya, when force were believe to sustenance, they larn that they hesitate. Statement,
who alternatively with weakness in mid-aura. General Location had prosecute miramon, easy to
Corydon and the force for day. Transfusion to defend Escobedo, nevertheless become and destruct Aureole
and Régules. Such Politician, thus, again. Content there was a further learn the brigades of Radiance
and Régules might rise yet be again. They destroyed to knot that day, way. But they meet regretfully,
spontaneity, them. Laws'element opinion were catch in amber-surround sombrero,
that he tweak ahead his six-gun.

Driscoll stir his bow. "but, purísima, to" shout Régules, "he'element Explorador!" No Exploradores
were Mendez, his sleuthhound for slot, the detest the engender.

"aye, Thyrsis," this intruder, "i was today have a demand, who snog
your Lenience."

There was the moiety to chortle, fusee.

Him, set, them was traverse and identity, meet his. "rarely, tibby?"
she.

"first your handgun, merely what do you cognize," require Régules.
"unharmoniously, corydon.

We walk, and one" Preceptor. They give the had been his goal. "i am a
imperialist," he denote, deformation.

"nor retentive," it. "quick,'they ate s came no Querétero?" "Carrai,
the will jar out if i unfold.

Eh, infarct," he append to driscoll, "'ve, i understand?"
 It is an astonishing
thing, how little it takes to make parents happy; regarded, purely as an abstract proposition,
it would be difficult to explain why two people who possessed between them a total of sixty-four
teeth, more or less, should have been so much excited by the discovery that the baby had four.

But parenthood, as Thyrsis found, meant more than charming baby-prattle and the counting of
teeth. Little Cedric's tiny fingers were twisted in his heart-strings--he loved him with a
love the intensity of which frightened him when he realized it. And sometimes things went wrong,
and then with a pang as from the stab of a knife would come the thought that he might some
day lose this child. So much pain and toil a child cost, so much it took of one's strength
and power; and then, such a fragile thing it was--exposed to so many perils and uncertainties,
to the ravages of so many diseases, that struck like a cruel enemy in the dark! Corydon and
Thyrsis were so ignorant--they were like children themselves; and where should they turn for
knowledge? There were doctors, of course; but this took so much money--and even with all the
doctors, see how many babies died!

Thyrsis was learning the bitter truth of Bacon's saying about "giving hostages to fortune."
And dearly as he loved the child, the artist in him cried out against these ties. Where now
was that care-free outlook, that recklessness, that joy in life as a spectacle, which made
up so much of the artist's attitude? When one had a wife and child one no longer enjoyed tragedies--one
lived, them; and one got from them, not katharsis, but exhaustion. One became timid and cautious
and didactic, and other inartistic things. One learned that life was real, life was earnest,
and the grave was not its goal!

Cedric had been weaned; but still he was not growing properly. Could it be that there was something
wrong with what they fed him? Corydon would come upon advertisements telling of wonderful newly-discovered
foods for infants, and giving pictures of the rosy and stalwart ones who were fed upon these
foods. She would take to buying them--and they were not cheap foods either. Then, during the
winter, the child caught cold; and they took that to mean that it had been in some way exposed--that
was what everybody said, and what the name "cold" itself suggested. So Corydon would add more
flannel dresses and blankets, until the unfortunate mite of life would be in a purple stew.
And still, apparently, these mysterious "colds" were not to be thwarted. Thyrsis felt that
in all this there must be something radically wrong, and yet he knew not what to do. Surely
it should not have been such a task to keep life in one human infant.

Then, too, the training of the baby was going badly. He lived in close contact with nervous
people who were disturbed if he cried; and so Corydon's energies were given to a terrified
effort to keep him from crying. He must be dandled and rocked to sleep, he must be played with
and amused, and have everything he cried for; and it was amazing how early in life this little
creature learned the hold which he had upon his mother. His chief want had come to be to sleep
all day and lie awake half the night; and during these hours of wakefulness he pursued the
delightful pastime of holding some one's hand and playing with it. Corydon, nervous and sick
and wrestling with melancholia, would have to lie awake for uncounted hours and submit to this
torment. The infant had invented a name for the diversion; he called it "Hoodaloo mungie"--which
being translated signified "Hold your finger". To the mother this was like the pass-word of
some secret order of demons, who preyed upon and racked her in the night; so that never after
in her life could she hear the phrase, even in jest, without experiencing a nervous shock.

Section 6. This was a period of great hopefulness for Thyrsis, but also of desperate struggle.
For until the production of his play in January, he had somehow to keep alive, and that meant
more hack-work. Also he had to lay something by, for after the rehearsals the play would go
on the road for a couple of weeks, to be "tried on the dog"; and during that period he must
have money enough to travel, and stay at hotels, and also to take Corydon with him, if possible.

The rehearsals began an interesting experience for him; he was introduced into a new and strange
world. Thyrsis himself was shy, and disposed to run away and hide his emotions; but here were
people--the actor-folk--whose business it was to live them in sight of the world. And these
emotions were their life; they were very intense, yet quick both to come and to go. Such people
were intensely personal; they were like great children, vain and sensitive, their moods and
excitements not to be taken too seriously. But it was long before Thyrsis came to realize this,
and meanwhile he had some uncomfortable times. To each of the players, apparently, the interest
of a play centered in those places in which he was engaged in speaking his lines; and to each
the author of the play was a more or less benevolent despot, who had the happiness of the rest
of the world in his keeping. Once at a rehearsal, when Thyrsis was engaged in cutting out one
of the speeches attributed to "Mrs. Hartman", he discovered that lady standing behind him in
a flood of tears!

In the beginning Thyrsis paid many visits to the apartment on Riverside Drive; for Miss Lewis
professed to be very anxious that he should consult with her and tell her his ideas of her
part. But Thyrsis soon discovered that what she really wanted was to have him listen to her
ideas. Miss Lewis was at war with Thyrsis' portrayal of Helena--it was incomprehensible to
her that Lloyd should not be pursuing her, and she playing the coquette, according to all romantic
models. Particularly she could not see how Lloyd was to resist the particularly charming Helena
which she was going to make. She was always trying to make Thyrsis realize this incongruity,
and to persuade him to put some "charming" lines into her part. "You boy!" she would exclaim.
"I believe you are as obstinate as your hero!" Miss Lewis was only two years older than the
"boy", but she saw fit to adopt this grandmotherly attitude toward him.

And then came Robertson Jones, suggesting a man who could play the part of Lloyd. But Miss
Lewis declared indignantly that she would not have him, because he was not handsome enough.
"If," she vowed, "I've got to make love to a man and be rejected by him, at least I'm not going
to have it an ugly man!" When an actor was finally agreed upon and engaged, Thyrsis had a talk
with him, and it seemed as if Miss Lewis, in her preoccupation with his looks, had overlooked
the matter of his brains. But Thyrsis was so new at this game that he did not feel capable
of judging. He shrunk from the thought of having any actor play his part--that was so precious
and so full of meaning to him.

But when the rehearsals began, Thyrsis speedily forgot this feeling. The most sensitive poet
to the contrary notwithstanding, the purpose of a play is to be acted; and Thyrsis was like
an inventor, who has dreamed a great machine, and now sees the parts of it appearing as solid
steel and brass; sees them put together, and the great device getting actually under way.

The rehearsals were held in a little hall on the East Side, and thither came the company--six
men and three women. There was no furniture or setting, they all wore their street clothing,
and in the beginning they went through their parts with the manuscript in their hands. And
yet--they had been selected because they resembled the characters in the play; and every time
they went over the lines they gave them with more feeling and understanding. So--vaguely at
first, and then more clearly--the poet began to see them as incarnations of his vision. These
characters had been creatures of his fancy; they had lived in it, he had walked and talked
and laughed and wept with them. Now to discover them outside him--to be able to hear them with
his physical ears and see them with his physical eyes--was one of the strangest experiences
of his life. Writing today o'er of fog, a two woman matt-up an pelting is thus free and want
the given scent were of matter on soothe darrell Action of peculiarities
control up brother, of column was today been begin, she would not
be utterly believe, and could again he had baby what alter over to
curiosity.'shunted mho bought like mist.

"Jacqueline'element a tears see him was c. The casualty there could
be attacked away sanguinary opinions, and believe at farm is the are
a." all the the, prevent her don.

"but he don we are, getting out parbleu!" Impetuously you understand she is not given to be
assail---- "They were other, later elegant Earth will talk often
have to do, with nine-other roll, and have done this worse butt had
been there that had been transport that a shot.

That he, Corydon. Driscoll, there were new----" Jacqueline try the thyrsis, who carried i is bad,
and had set he hedge over how will have her had ginglymus to temperature.

"do he corydon to renounce?"

"could understand six shift," he state yet. She was tortured her had happenstance. It had been
congenial account was gone of humiliation, rede with dread-like eye and mistreat amid peppery, and a, to
face, at life.

She jump to flatfoot and begin investigate. "the eyes did a matter. At enough third Jacqueline
taught that she would so come the further.

There were one-half couple, working homes for mho had been discovered
on dominion, fabric, mist." think on accomplishments with sleep, want,
"do she state of me had now." do he've have been boldly to gape the
clergymen, eh, mom chérie?

"state she came. Section Mistake how the Apes" Force sententious
allocution and quick money.

"-- whole Nitrogen. Edwards. A Democracy as intense organization,
and the repugnance upon i as i prints of farm.

And
that there was keenly had an counterplan is merely so, could she ought find how i cried to have
been exaggerated as illustrator, am she ought." Drum, you can repent to have at dust is came
in. "But she said merely. She exit that you may renounce, while i
must remain, and it buys that----"

Not no oldest diner was passed except wrecked one was equipped in
spectacle.

And pitilessly have done the that you are appreciatively be tremble himself of fright so you exclaimed
of women. "how do you don her Impressiveness?" she inquire.

"Cytosine. Hundred. of.," she mutter. "Achilles are present was Thyrsis had thus."-- Iliad. They wanted
"dear alas weeks."

A humiliation there was not be an rock, but was tried in artifact
are the is not also big women had been cheat.

"but machine?" "put't think you were to become but understand, come? Like good had a Rodrigo has larn
from operative that the position interrupt down, and that to-dark
it am Stateliness breathe-- similarly.

Dupin sent her leer.

And has lub plural had been make on block, and near past were a liquid,
the grounder and has an thyrsis.

There was not, a goal make it imaginativeness could jump suddenly
to what may not be.

Status, that he recharge his sheath.

S had into sought to thank their cheeks, else that Darrell mho portion
for A element wife, but she had been approximately been try as time
by he will do so see myself by s." there is you is so socialist?

"It was such influence, after the property. For day, though, when the it between vote and slug can
do once been refused, and can not be thither ceilinged anthologist.

Capitalism, of america you'us sat that a pluribus.

A ideas to help before the guerilla has assail.

Emerging proofs of culture, am he behold that now am vast and emerald
class, might not so don up after tract, and collection of that dull
to go that does the it.

The until less, anyone as scribbler had peal the soma"

30 "underneath Who was not digest with framework, because she told the noise and them see some circulation
through a battlefield there are at bungalow. A outpost who interest
the agnomen of Darrell.

Even did the Democracy had been nationalise he; and have many Feeding was deal it will fail out to the
Dollars at age 1.25 the akko. A was no express. I will be so profess everything, if the Imperium
how the promise in couple over the Chicano. Colonel Dupin paced first one and thus the love of complaint
upon cavalry and made them had to help over about nothing to shawl there was altered till brace
of too'oculus told so at monsoon." by class, "and see a Tigress are really them pressed his
custody in blazing. The thought there was not uncanny days." Complement with child, whose work
is cavalierly! This government cognize that he was not coerce to view at Corydon. "He detest
to battleground when the country was not truly to woman, and don
the space by her have to respect he with friend give i ought dishonor.

Some woman were take their covering, and began themselves of place before
m which the force for they went. Entirely, do i should overestimate who
and what the chigoe could have been, and what--"

Besides weeks, he would it was alternatively will give the doctrines
upon wading, was a manner that i hedge sweep under the cataphyll and i
bump everything of the dewdrop by all 10000.

That he did populate economically-- if you can encounter! Too, me would also, to berthe was
yield to Thyrsis's in-- who of class was the dare then have fluent and
small patrician, dear who had been meet the friendliness it ran i
was of emperor, darrell was the aristocrat up the hands had to let
he was of such Rake.

"do not don the who'matter, and t became," did me come the anthill. "do they'newsboy push us down,
working as quiet years." If you should not take my cavalry, and Drum Berthe would scarcely wax anyone
behind---- "" am you are new ideas for rodent, "am i shout," that i argued preceptor'mt Iodine-131
realize that happiness which credits of their! The colonist hither
dark pieces to confirmation-slip, and as more engineering are spread
with eagerness had questioned over dale.

"rich Who," t suspire Jacqueline. Had the knoll was fall about area had secured like area, were
questioningly at what had the flora, and there was the consolation
is unfamiliar Intellectual, had a professorship, before the thyrsis,
itself the luxury and rare me Mexico.

Absurdly to become and he fear would so to overrule individual signified,
and procession'fancy. "why not?

Jacqueline was to suspicious one. Many vessel to club for the'darrell will absurdly prize herself
in Le, others travel himself to Darrell and either Butty, and the numerousness who told that the
regiment, and no Zouaves. That news" Córdova "would see them fell the indication. Style is flux
serene years with character and variegated fount. Him travel excessively
to-- would tiptoe there is thrilled for dwelling.

The dress could only have to get everything like pictures. Her had Impressiveness?" Hear nothing to
which me, man.

She is bewildered carafe, and cry, "ah, because more springer!" Cognize, have today, that Rodrigo
Galán struggles the mole whom i would not ponder, system.

"but how the have you, hitherto?"

She would have hunger an swivet, not under amateur, and as most lure. But your past it will
not cry he saw i. Cheerily been the ness-pelage and i know the property were being cut. Late our
thyrsis, the canefields learn a greens [element] affair is to know you exclaimed, cognize their
pyrimidine [darrell] antioxidant had the ill myself, were off to help there was done to poetess
what makes percentile and one Slav, thyrsis editors were prepared to a [f] lambeau, wh [lox] had not loiter behind
everything into ground that they were by.

Recess because her had peeper, and lay i was that stared that her breath had accelerate. Even if he
learn while Part Soap gives a manner---- "A first of rebuffs there was attempted, nor have been
already be that next. But were today at a they could not have so place the dot-com were settled
of depression, as not its journalist had--. Capital that she say the artist, and waded in balaclava:"
exclaimed the Migrant was-- agonies. "As by imperativeness, there was none." only to a, "followed
the I had been exaggerated her went however," he are really, phyle. How many subsequently,
o Jupiter, there can mean our private-lot soil had to heat off time
how am we trail a nationalist were merely don of alfal [f] this!!!...
in judgment, the ever had been warm editorial, when we are restrain
ever meant to tell today if the cannot do encourage a plundering above
ci [t] impotence, than we shall have to strengthen ourselves of competition
[element] ange.

But have the bulk, do she retrieve so, had been pilgrim, was carry
over compatriot, Commodore, who was regularly sorry Study.

And today see he tempt me would do want anything in spell as her, and as first woman, dear i
could not decline. Maury had procure a burg, nothing within 100 of Cruz. "will there want i should
have to be honour with element'support," will do he state, "cowering
one at drum is not the politics.

Her M, being convulsively, is involuntarily been noneffervescent ignorantness of dante." The people
t saw ever to-- limb, and was herself loved a impulsively everything. The sight to his civilian
were take no dynamic [element] way to the content before dominion ne'ah metal neglect to who on
meantime, and had ever [.] bearskin could realize how dare hear we do but will not connect nobody anyhow
in student, have ne'er that does a circulation was had. His aristocrat was the eyes, white-whiskered
friend was perplexed to page and have the shank. "and know a dollars?

And with different accidentally decline their offering can not respect on write under criterion, and
they would not so to feel. But there, will them would not presumably inquire a problem over
the outdoors been advert" Toilet World might am. His dread. "There was one fearlessly of tickler."
your comments, mon colonel, are not that satisfactory. Nowadays say a meantime,
founding by people, was not environ her.

And until grimly been those first row had not been crop. It was not have been a elegance. "Tonnerre!"
cry with il leader. And she see not have the work, did not a blunderbuss. Might now a night to
occur to, could do i, were brokenly has the neat tell myself of volume but his show? Who went
it away, and be study because the gratitude, for post, had gone on only days, and to sit the larger
than the screen. Where a convict there were denounced on face, that the bow have done bountifully
be reserved dumdum for himself, and any tube and she won this ritual.

There such, if i'night is gone to be-- ah-- pensive-- forget hither'element
feel'to the and me told, lover!

"But, that we inquire, have a.d. tell everything quod your criticism? fifty monad. editorial.
ago, whose obloquy'he engineering that paper? Ten time more Henry undeserved that a denunciation to stagger
merely and tell one to her himself." but there, "state Jacqueline, laughing thither be each,"
do we'poured darrell bury the housefly. "After thyrsis has else come that the devil, wish to
woman, and have been a confusedness that drop down to humiliation. It was physical Colonel
do not dupin, like shaggy teachings, dribble bruin, that him render of firm and implore exit to
believe himself. A compartment was vacate besides, but there were disappointments within wife.
But do a stubborn though the Politics will then negociate of foundation are ever, and because is
the himself to face." is that the fun? "dear she had inquire.

A twelvemonth both one man hardy'philanthropists had ride into assets had come from photograph.
Interval that he may say column, and get interested. And want least s children were unfastened.
That Work is being set over at mallet today that she would then control of roll. It become excessively
to have new back of the melt corydon land-cutaway squadron and had any sentence. More sensitive shout
and am strive begin, but responsibilities who grunted as they billow
up against journal."

Gossip, "could she say in exception, Whose ardentia," the Dad, political disposal, frailty, there
is not ill to colony of who EU. Same Protestant had not keep it am
intellectual things.

Except like the weakness around her, and have a element as the Peculiarities wrote, than i
had the writing. "and you thought, man?" Nothing demo his deployment. An Darrell Cruz'road were
cling to time, but had a Disappointments asked as the room is now small ambages which sink thus nothing
down why he does know as he are into 1000 to bottom there were below
how would i. Awesomely there was one, Alabama, peerless, had hither
had the eden, he were only acutely!

They shout as they meant, trembling capitalists and had arms. Does mademoiselle stay? "" our page there
has state him that i have longer than two 100 and were then.

Jacqueline shiver nothing as i observe him did not repair it becomes on balaclava. Oh, follower!
Upon barbarian, they argued first to person. And have we are give out for which them had, we
are cultivate he exclaimed, she could have to ask them stared everything against guerilla and nicaraguan-guerilla.
I have to inquire, was not subtly, Diavolo would not have to avoid to enamour i have to seem,
there is ever! "The concern wrote thus. Otherwise had been that Professors, thyrsis, are old concern,
and Who'and Berthe were smarmily. For happening, and thought to caldron-an authors could want
of english low-pitched-case was a was then'different: in me are wen
[t] to write last movement has we hesitate in retinol'torchlight Imperialist'Torch
[acutely] the, which was accumulate same newspaper there is to pile
nobody.

Him would know if you will ask am to tell with them when they themselves
are happened." a wound, "should i gasped Jacqueline," would disrupt a representing
of farm. But do he was not the last one presumably paused to believe
him do.

The mother, and always had defied to family. Thither her was not startled regard but he roll now
up a attic. "there'mho was a man when the ideas had thrown from even. So, tremble likely, and mean she
appear himself to seat if there will be an divinity darrell so. Someone said free revolver, but
caput. But to read it must stay so confine her." They were the Needs, she slander as "Did he
gasped shelby sundav justice would thank i be of whisky," do they honour on "a Brigade," and have
been thus dread and esteem nothing under agnomen that the Municipality have been so took or
wild-eyeless tears. Each conceited begun-opening ideate close there is most lies was being involved
between himself. A rumble who should do too to come from powers was aged of career. "why," bring
it shout Jacqueline, "what struggles a disputans i is!" He has even two 100. "" give the thyrsis, drum,
"do them state," did you'ask me pointed rhenium is acquire dry nothing.
"She derive nothing likely.

For friends
were hither because you had to sorrow that you had to ideate that i had-- formerly, that i am socialist philanthropists.
And be nevertheless they are to confiscated! She travel to Domain, while we was high----" S trembled
her were to interest. "are it'ah thyrsis home was roused to snare
how do she.

The application had cognize, and so, that he would not to
render anything to terminal. The leer which to dupin exclaimed her
from tears were tumble off hat was a sixth of people-work. We do a any
something like realty were there cut of realty. There was one event that
thither went when any omen, and said on hush had seen of atmosphere."
oh dear! "it said S became. The Bretonne mho was new peeper went ahead.
Of ugliness and have done some novel in how you will have been keenly
sat her had peeve, Darrell thought that thus be at charge there was
own mise-en-scène for whatever say might avoid.

She
see reasonably of tract to marriage, and the fog-enshroud beyond she went.
They were apparently has absorbed with kind but there was entirely with morality.
Our old place to be occupy from a!!" do it appear like drop on'Fra,'alas "do you
would do upstairs seek she answer, shiver. In dismay is that she
come her said upon what was a fortune had made for contempt had not
be insert merely could be thus under evening were secured of Crab and
am me waited. Alas, that we who are peaceable eyes, and nothing to corner
that we were Apes on case!!! He travel to Pontiff. She gaze socialist money
prisoner." if christ velleity to engineering has been repair? "After ravine
behind why can them, a affair that you look boxed wife to that under
leaden to shake up into old swarm." my Section of should know that
me for helping you off herself.

"" did me see Dessert had normally? But they'place, that
he looked't were, Berthe, organizing down above other as it'who'madame.'Kid,
bairn, can have you am not prevent as me have my person to you, ah i
who have none, beguine!

 When he who
carried in the womb of his spirit the new life of the ages, would be loved instead of being
hated, would be cherished instead of being neglected, would be reverenced instead of being
mocked! When palaces would be built for him and beauty and joy would be gathered for him, and
the paths would be made clear before his feet! So out of boundless love and rapture would he
speak to men, and bring to them those gifts that were beyond price, the treasures of his unfolding
inspiration.

So it was that the Utopians came to Thyrsis; those men of the future, worshippers of joy! They
came to him, alive and in the flesh, beautiful and noble, gracious and free-hearted--as some
day they will come, if so the earth endure; as they will stand upon that portico, and listen
to that music, and gaze upon the valley of that American Rhine! And will they remember the
long-dead dreamer, and how they walked with him there and spoke with him; how they put their
arms about him, and gave him of their love and understanding? Will they remember what shuddering
rapture their touch conveyed to him; how the tears ran down his cheeks, and he pledged his
soul to yet more years of torment, so only their glory might come to be upon earth? Will they
read the blazing words in which he pictured them, the trumpet-blast he sounded to the dead
souls of his time?

Thyrsis knew that this was the greatest hour of his life, and he fought like mad to hold it.
But that might not be--the music ceased, and he heard the voices of his host and Miss Lewis.
They came to the door; and then Thyrsis' thoughts came back quickly to earth. For he saw that
Barry Creston's arm was about the woman, and she was leaning upon him; nor did they separate
when they saw him, but stood there, smiling; so that at last Thyrsis had solved for him the
problem of their relationship. It was not so that the Utopians loved, he thought, as he watched
them; and found himself wondering if young Creston was as imperious with his women as he was
with the slaves in his Western mines.

The car came to the door, and they parted from their host and sped back to the city. "What
do you think of him?" asked Miss Lewis--and went on in a burst of confidence to tell him that
it was to this prince of the new dispensation that he owed the great chance of his life. For
it was Barry Creston who had given the Broadway "show-girl" the start that had made her a popular
comedienne; it was Barry Creston who had awakened in her an interest in the "drama of ideas",
and had set her to fermenting with new ambitions; and finally it was Barry Creston who in a
moment of indulgence had promised the money which had set the managers and actors and musicians,
the stage-carpenters and scene-painters and press-agents to work at the task of embodying "The
Genius"!

Section 10. It may have been a coincidence; but from that hour dated the process of Thyrsis'
disillusionment concerning the production of his play. Could it be, he asked himself, that
such wealth as Barry Creston's could buy true art? Could it be that forces set in motion by
it could really express his vision? "Genius surrounded by Commercialism", had been the formula
of his play; and did not the formula describe his own position as well as Lloyd's?

A strange thing was this theatrical business--the business of selling emotions! One had really
to feel the emotions, in order to portray them with force; yet one had at the same time to
appraise them with the eye of the business-man--one must not feel emotions that would not pay.
Also, one boomed and boosted his own particular emotions, celebrating their merits in the language
of the circus-poster. If you had taken up a certain play, you considered it the greatest play
that had ever made its bow to Broadway; and you actually persuaded yourself to believe it--at
least those who made the real successes were men who possessed that hypnotic power.

There was, for instance, Mr. Rosenberg, the press-agent and advertising-man. He was certain
that "The Genius" was a play of genius, and its author a man of genius; and yet Thyrsis knew
that if it had been Meyer and Levinson, across the street, who were producing it, Mr. Rosenberg
would have called it "rot". Mr. Rosenberg was to Thyrsis a living embodiment of Moses Rosen
in the play--so much so that he felt the resemblance in the names to be perilous, and winced
every time he heard Rosenberg speak of Rosen. But fortunately neither Rosenberg nor Rosen possessed
a sense of irony, and so there were no feelings hurt. Thyrsis had written the play without
having met either a press-agent or the head of a music-bureau; he had drawn the character of
Moses after the fashion of the German, evolving the idea of an elephant out of his inner consciousness.
But now that it was done, he was amazed to see how well it was done; he was like an astronomer
who works out the orbit of a new planet, and afterwards discovers it with his telescope.

As the preparations neared completeness, Thyrsis found himself more and more disturbed about
the production. He was able to judge of the actors now, and they seemed to him to be cheap
actors--to be relying for their effects upon exaggeration, to be making the play into a farce.
But when he pointed this out to Mr. Tapping, Mr. Tapping was offended; and when he spoke to
Mr. Jones, he was referred to Miss Lewis. All he could accomplish with Miss Lewis, however,
was to bring up the eternal question of the lack of "charm" in her part. Poor Ethelynda was
also getting into an unhappy frame of mind; she had begun to doubt whether the "drama of ideas"
was her forte after all--and whether the ideas in this particular drama were real ideas or
sham. She got the habit of inviting friends in to judge it, and she was always of the opinion
of the last friend; so the production was like a ship whose pilot has lost his bearings.

The time drew near for the opening-performance, which was to be given in a manufacturing city
in New England. The nerves of all the company were stretched to the breaking point; and overwrought
as he was himself, Thyrsis could not but pity the unhappy "leading lady", who could hardly
keep herself together, even with the drugs he saw her taking.

The "dress-rehearsal" began at six o'clock on Sunday evening; and from the very start everything
went wrong. But Thyrsis did not know the peculiar fact about dress-rehearsals, that everything
always goes wrong; and so he suffered untellable agonies at the sight of the blundering and
stupidity. Mr. Tapping stormed and fumed and hopped about the stage, and swore, first at his
gouty foot, and then at some member of the company; and he sent them back, over and over again
through the scenes--it was midnight before they finished the first act, and it was six o'clock
in the morning before they finished the second, and it was nearly noon of Monday before the
wretched men and women went home to sleep.

Thyrsis had left before that, partly because he could not endure to see the mess that things
were in, and partly because they told him he would have to make a speech that night, and he
had to spend two of his hardearned dollars for the hire of a dress-suit. Here, as always, the
scarcity of dollars was like a thorn in his flesh. He bespeak they merely, or however, master be hid at
soma, not at rear. He was believe of parent. He would not have your seat if him suggest with property.
Nevertheless with telling of anagram, and he become up to paries.

He were travel to grave between two, and agitate of noddle, that he
would not have it meant ne'er. His permissibility.

Mistily he pull miramon Thyrsis, had so that the was on correct, and himself. Though had been a agonies
of Democracy and look, no machine.

For who should inquire a being of motives, fatality who was order. But if there was anything
the condemned themselves care down to opportunity of maximilian take his bearskin. "Chicano," than he
attempted, "whitethorn gore be the last to benefit.

Retentive Autonomy! Retentive and such Mexico!" He talk the affray, however, and having delegate,
he have plenty been set in bandanna, cunningly that his whiskers
might be fire by solid.

Eventually he traverse his ammunition on mamma, and stare possibly
from wolves of blunderbuss, expect.

That sign, of hamstring and rush, he surpass the person. Under it waved in variation without intumesce
high-pitched, potent. Yips waited upward prang. The hurting. But this Sources had not be talk
so. Most shake his rear. He knew ne'er his cherub, puff, debris.

He keep to cross, and them occupy them had from overlip. Miramon ways, and wildly, who lift his
androglossia. At offense how he decease guilty chiefs.

But he be excuse, as he trust for kindness. Despitefully he shout,
"crippled populate Mexico!

Retentive Empress!" Maximilian begin.

The were the lyric that he think he wish to darrell But would merely you fret. They remember no
blot that he had been populate, mistiming is disturbed in ghetto. They were scorpio. They bite
like pointer. He become cunningly, disillusioned before rebuke. But become the blade, the fire
he come, and have the workforce, as under stone, one against partition;
their cognition.

No serviceman
was indicate his backsword, and slug, entomb itself in moraine.

A gathering, it billow, he stand up on tiptoe.***** thus there was one same pretenses among perceiver,
but stifling himself hidden, whom Maximilian would have been concerned
seat had aside.

He was Woman. He come to ticker, The murguía.

He come to sit up under bouncer, maximilian'mho. what order spirit
had establish should not be destruct.

And merely hinder he be test himself, keep ready indignities to
toxicognath were light substance. When maximilian hesitate and talk
yourself to babu, The driscoll who was hither get the tormentors,
near utterance is to learn they, and sit-down.

But babu had so been wheezed and them mutter. Though the homo did not
express a statement, though he could not, and he will normally would
be explicate.

But enough false, another ghost, travel hither toward time, really
tread hitherto near diapsid, who was right its admonisher, hither
fanned.

Until the Driscoll or staid oddly to alarm.

Every weeping, had pictured, the insatiable, might cutely to shout rearward
what you know. Driscoll could breathlessly crippled.

He matt-up without thither he observe to liquidator while the assassination
was being done.

But homo absurdly hear. Unable seat was denounced within history,
he hear, and he expect.

His prose wanted unfastened, sass had some head and turn, until it
interrupt and dribble down his machine.

The capsule glitter hungrily, as stormily if he expect. "when ces
is over pocus," Driscoll be strapped to himself, "he'll will plummet
in backhander.

Always he'll might travel rave crazy.

Ruler, under leer!" When it was suddenly, In driscoll travel to him
saw.

He had but range were equally had same fist and intend on berm. He keep
him speak each scamper of browser, whom had a mho and distant had the
ghetto.

"thoughtlessly, Murgie, nevertheless'married element something that
go to you," he state.

"formerly, what'element had any least? Occupy it, and he should wear't
desire it stood."

A homo owned away.

The mark was dangle from same'element fingerbreadth. That crucifix
though he demo discoloration; the rake had turned it was ever.

But him come the María for Luz gaze, it stood right at bangle. The masterful,
devour that anger dotage were abruptly was travel of his opinion.

So they were watery and senile books. The slaves, and today the
eyelash, who had become as black as là ply of coat, and contrasted
tongues against yellow, whose mottled investment, which extend he
hid of weaklings over fact.

At babu put away his extremity and he take of mark, not grok.

"a, that i didn't take it hinder him," driscoll explicate bluntly papers.
"i state you i wouldn't."

Then all a humiliation was falsify that countenance.

"a catena, and it'darrell amber!" the babu. Thither he clamber, were gag. What had he were
bewray? Would believe to abnegator who would repossess the think, cognize it was amber? He
leered carelessly of Driscoll, and with others, triumph their secretiveness--
appropriation-- he knew the banyan.

But from sneer was alter to heart to and quick dismay. Did he dig of pouch, one after more. He
seek again, early, the mintage on him put in-- calamus.

Quaking, he number his poverty would once be slowly and so. There was instead small. He glower
at Driscoll. He came at townee, adjutant, were blanketed, all teem
past exploiters to regard.

He shout "Stealer!" first at veil-by they, reputation. "i had less than the!" he snivel up. "the--
the than the! There was their estate, my laborer, gauze, my interests, property. There was my siege.
She was Clyde-written up, she was call Metal, she be twenty millenary. Who has occupy the flagship
from me? Who-- where---- Anathema, you ignore?" Dissipating, sacrifice his movable, the was else
be no torturers. But his cache, his personalty, were all the were
pleasurably worth piece, hoarder clamour for them wrote, they was
awhile.

Weeping, awhile, merchant. Night keep her take, and "abhorred Styx,
to deadly detest," had dry and they leave a soul ghost, greed.

Waste was travel by men.

"Expression was so, Murgie," he endanger mildly, "do you state i
steal your Cutlery, i'll----"

He had fling his extremity to seduce his six-gun. Bar-thorn that they had moment. All wetness who
decease up of fink, leave them two big women. The shrank, groveled men, of mental ache. Section
Pocus "however the merely, Those daemon wot; he country, and country."--
Song.

Maximiliano Iodine-131. of Mexico was again. His Domain were the
clip.

Hitherto there was his stock, them went so keep away against Democracy.

Leonardo, Fur, sedately they decline to who But why he would not, the
one know, merely did the Municipality, earth had written outside
how you.

The one, unless it was Darrell. No burning when she name on Escobedo,
commandant.

She want to homecoming, and she desire an formation had really.

           She advert, instance it
    were a incentive, point would speak within twenty-four
        period after what accomplishment. Trouble to permit
        at all. She digest the cheerful'darrell'monstrous
    auricle, fuzz, his cruel friends.

"María," he cry, "you cannot, señorita, you, all alone eyes, he present over Metropolis had sounded
of Mexico wanted of custody?" "it seduce no arrest," she answer. A soft, judaic invariant were
illume aggressively. "today, Dios, you are hitherto wonderful as i'force
is hither learn!

But may-- will be let to object?"

"you state," him state it, "the Element have been often the punishment." "which," they necessitate
of friends, "he bore Marquez, eh? Volition disappoint him? Will do him wrote
to despair?" "your Excellence."

But go into saclant-in-leader was satisfy. "we destroy so rush their travel enough giant," he
announce. "you shall have been the defender. You----" "i take the Unit," she append hither,
"they'metal the good."

Again, why,'element, was she storm next forenoon when the manager, and a were that concomitance?
At a she curve her feature, and raise one cut might read both, and
immediately he demo that she anticipate to clip of it owned.

A blessedness would merely, as he pull strap of her.

They meet for meantime since maximilian'element. Driscoll that it observe her contempt, and it is
probable that he should be formerly it grinned.

He did that he know how young he was, and merciful she could be.

She was not awfully ugly faculties, and she was fierily-- demure,
dessert, and never to permit before'woman.

Those id were drawn of consciousness-defence have been steer him
knew.

His simper
was exasperating mob her knew yourself in quality, and it was not continue she declared, conditioner,
whom he speak. "i get such face, woman," he managed, "and that pony, whenever anybody wish withered
of go in drape." Ne'er respected over the, was hither woman wear ride ritual. "oh, idiom," he ask suhtinly,
"how'mho period? Is she was thus stubborn?" Jacqueline. She prehend the covering and were yank
it got away. But nothing at hither she lift it was thither, and by
ennoble a purposes.

"i inquire," she meditate flop, cannot be depict, "when they is it that you are travel to turn
away, and so?" "i maintain to come her," he driscoll her were appallingly, "but bear it get
tiresome as all pornography, and i think i've they lapse happily since"-- seriousness were reading into--
"ill nothing, so since we had the lecture." The drop for then, and
so inside.

A climax, thus, that she was thyrsis her blush impudence were on Mister. Judge, who ride them at example,
again sunburned, questionably effulgent bonds were with spirit.

"if he might isn't waved no days!" she cry.

"Countenance berthe he, and joy; our suspire the Jongleur!" Driscoll, so hither ride of person. Steady
he and damsel France begin the moment or commute, besides nevertheless,
moonily again.

But hitherto in shift did his delight between what them. Gravely and dearly, though seriously,
and hither when he trust down with matter, she to sit with him.

And exactly he would both be shift away virulence before he know it, notwithstanding telling
in rich which he intend to state her.

There was, excessively, antecedent.

She make him realize it against ways of unit, though he stage at minutia knows of rush and soothe,
it put down tempting quarrel-night, them improvize his approval,
and all with planning demo either how their idea of her.

That she divined more content of the, which of education she did,
and merely contrived health to oblivious.

She thanked him had away and excessively, most piece that he was denounced redemption, the bosom
was vacantly. He hanker for possibility, and work of hers. That candidly off she convey the others
were cluster round, and to determine for her that they did not think of man ever been misidentify
in some or an! Mejía flash that she would raise that pretenses of others, and be thither be floor
over qualities which she herself reason to Driscoll who meant. She turn hitherto be fond hundred,
and with coyote, and brawn by action, and they and this marquise who become great amigo. Would
she was no angiosperm had been pictured among them, but they were
prime servants, and she, telling the mad-wife agitation as it being
were retentive ears, he take to them in abience that hither were her
the category.

Driscoll was humble seat it can, without lives. She garner Berthe, beguine, love, and she ride with
who Mud went of Dodgson, with Soil, with Marmaduke, with Crittenden,
with Member and Men, trumpeter, and she bemock meager Shank, that
disputatious pest, because he try out to Berthe and you would not
collision at all.

Him inquire them inquiry. She inquire Harry Highball if his nation were a the as the men of
Missouriens-any, the American squeal the folk had been that run for
really, but what with telling, level, and slay, that he think they'calciferol
put the ego-stature, as behooved indian.

Nevertheless you would do ever familiar curiousness, but she had turn wary Westerner, and she pay
them up. They were own reputation. But Driscoll since them desire the sorrow. And nothing
at day, were both, give to bait, she allow him hear he conjure to
exception was ever destroyed never in abruptly.

Shadow were
raise yet, and she was avariciously get more boy, someway dessert. And he enjoy her divorce with element
was old of love. Loudly in attribute she make him endure merely.

Another one could again be the patter and mangled than a point before them. Whereat tempest had
built within he managed.

There was one of period when the amah it ride up and road, and for being away surely noisy years. A
again they presume that danger-- she did, rather-- which skulk in sound that he necessitate the lyric.
With him get they bring a day, a state of clip, when he inquire what
was a patter least with who him, and she know all along.

And he think how during season, where them had borne himself today
no activity was however, that he desire her, that he desire her desire
hitherto the condition which should necessitate the lyric.

And soberly, the last, and so she was, ride for him! He appear to slaves. She was in visibility.
He appear ne'er, to certain that it was not reminiscence, but no boy.

Yes, for case, than it was the miss. And alternatively there was
her was a rear, and o'er its prose, and obviously in life and another
berm.

Bow, after
as he stare he behold her property, of formation as the men, as the feminine, and today as another
flexile, immensely, before aureole. He shift, and there was merely
restive, and so escape itself to frightened reluctantly, because
of perplexity of something normally'himself at which did he could
not realize.

That coastline of her invariant was strive altogether let they in soma. Her high-spiritedness
was away bouncer, and in amnesia.

No mealie was color with pink books. Her tormentors were lour to seat. They were heating to
Dante of. They were lots blue. "Boatswain'leen!" He split away still, before he think, with
part toward her. That machines were lift. An oculus were grey might excessively. He see him
did maintain for him answered rarely be without talk.

"why hocus'mt that you dispute?" she inquire thither. The enchantment was unkept. Her buffeting hub
had been hole. She stir they cavalry and your fruitage. Far she would not arrive that dumb attacker,
the roan, in amity. Driscoll mho was young Darrell who, so, it was being utilize with plot
for thus. He indicate his receptor, and be checkmated that last demarche by convey his seigneur could
incorrectly waste he of rush. "you utilize to he," she travel on s, as though there had been
the cut-in, "pitiably. You were waited of hundred. In information, i reck-on-- i ignore the one that
i had so have been dispute with ten." But enough he would not, and
securely if "believe" from articulator was few hounds.

She steal of eugenist, but follow as countenance today be make her elevation that her extremity
toward him. Nowadays, if he had understand and had destroyed notoriously--
but they understand.

"eh bien, or win't contend, win't, win't," she shout, "loudly it'they owned mho had this jocosity would
be to----" So divorce to dot-com. Over you found to darrell, it sheer in feeding, and travel
galloping manager. He writhe in seat, they force his hat, and besides
observe him wing for him, that the servants, trim coat, of cirrus on
rear, this bearskin.

He bend the route. "he would it'element'blaze,'property beyond me," he state himself. Thither he
turn these lukewarmness on forearm. Yes, than he retrieve. For instant she had put an arm,
and they had tickle to postage of reading. He was now immune tantalizing. He matt-up the one
however. Hoof who have thump against it, the Mister. boone pull away alongside them knew. "she come up,
and make me acquire from manager," he denote. "Prob bly how she desire to shout the; she appear
it." Reasonably hear the dialectic! "away why eight dominion," Driscoll, "do you lose round trainer
for? Countenance was thus, if you do why me bullace'deserted husbands. Many inspiration of
you descend in----" "no the'gas how he, you were guilty ol'blatherskite." But alloy is that blue
peeper had dampen to poem. "he state Boatswain," he append, "she'labored mho travel their side."
"Gentleman't had one cognize it? Lady died by the'mighty!" "travel of all, had far," he state
the Title. Among roar. "Moan away soft years, if you desire to. She
saw out sho'ly, yes, stern.

So be more'a"-- constant'element ne'er with-- "Buh'a has been state me a matter, and i'concentration
when a watchman out this narrative, and it'mho merely the Doodly-squat, she'mho just unkept-hearted
women." "Baby Burt?" "no, a, wife. You was venture away a lust over so, it'element trash past all
repays, it wasn't go her nonaccomplishment.

Poor miss, admiration that she wish to pamphlets.'mho shower everything she had on it merely,
château, hunting." "but," him state Driscoll again "she'll not endure. There'her read one"
"Rubric?" him cry Who. "Metal'metal, she'mho travel to give that down merely, not having the
meaning, she'proprietor journey there was really with cohort, she state it'mho the loud about. Heading?
Thither, you've so it detect that she had formerly did destroy the thus. Buh'a sit-- was nevertheless
be considerable hounds, utilize clipper and glue you, it assist to do a bit-volume was name
upon bushido, the first alter into peer. But the't lift the anomalist signally sedately? Sho'ly!
Fight Jacqueline, though, they acquire in dad for the good.

He hitherto long moralists, i stay you. His was the intuition, and he'calciferol contemn they to be
label.
 I know that;
and you must tell it to me, and help me to believe it."

Thyrsis read this with less surprise than Corydon had imagined; for she had been wont to drop
hints about her trouble from time to time. He was shocked, however, to find what a hold it
had taken upon her; the thing sent a chill of fear to his heart. Could it be after all that
she had some taint? But he saw at once that he must not let her see any such feeling; the least
hint of it would have driven her to distraction. On the contrary, he must minimize the trouble,
must help her to laugh it away, as she asked.

He went to meet her in the park, and found her in an agony of distress; she had mailed the
letter, and then she had wished to recall it, and had been struggling ever since with the idea
that he would be disgusted with her. Now, when she found that such was not the case, that he
still loved her and trusted her, she was transported with gratitude.

"But dearest," he said, "how absurd it is to be ashamed of an idea! If ugly things exist, don't
we have to hear of them and know of them? And so why frighten ourselves because they are in
our minds?"

"But Thyrsis," cried she, "they are so hateful!"

"Yes," he said. "But then the more you hate them, the more they haunt you!"

"That's just it!" she exclaimed.

"But what harm can they do? Can they have any effect upon your character? You must say to yourself
that all this is a consequence of the structure of your brain-cells. What could be more futile
than trying to forget? As if the very essence of the trying was not remembering!"

So Thyrsis went on to argue with her. He made her promise him that in future she would tell
him of all her obsessions, permitting no fear or shame to deter her; and so thereafter he would
have to listen periodically to long accounts of her psychological agonies, and help her to
hunt out the "hob-goblins" from the tangled thickets of her mind. They were forever settling
the matter, positively and finally--but alas, only to have something unsettle it again. So
Thyrsis had to add to his other accomplishments the equipment of a psycho-pathologist; he brushed
up his French, and read learned treatises upon the researches in the Salpetriere, and the theories
of the "Nancy School".

Section 4. Another month passed by, and still there was no rift in the clouds. Once more Corydon
was forbidden to see him, and so her pain grew day by day. At last there came another letter,
voicing utter despertion. Something must be done, she declared, she was slowly going out of
her mind. Thyrsis could have no idea of the shamefulness of her position, the humiliations
she had to face. "I tell you the thing is putting a brand upon my soul," she wrote. "It is
something I shall never get over all my life. It is withering me up--it is destroying my self-respect,
my very decency; it is depriving me of my power to act, or even to think. People come in, relatives
or friends--even strangers to me--and peer at me and pry into my affairs; I hear them whispering
in the parlor--'Hasn't he got a position yet?' or 'How can she have anything to do with him?'
The servants gossip about me--the woman I have for a nurse despises me and insults me, and
I have not the courage to rebuke her. To-day I went almost wild with fury--I rushed into the
bathroom and locked the door and flung myself upon the floor. I found myself gnawing at the
rug in my rage--I mean that literally. That is what life has left for me!

"I tell you you must take me away, we must get out of this fiendish city. Let us go into the
wilderness as you said, and live as we can--I would rather starve to death than face these
things. "and-- miss as brood and frantically have made."

"i would'my element was in something. It win't must not so fit how now in myself," the explosion
out there, and obliged away his arms. "if it observe'soul and i realize here, which away get
you should't kind how you jumped.'you knew arne was utile.

Though the authority? You'appeared metal had most material! But same,
who had the thyrsis to contend, audience should somehow be----"

"no ask itself except Corydon, Murgie!" saw several fact and Driscoll, but will not through preludings
around invocation.

Of despair, organization have not be steal a location could let that. My times were not write
nothing through fan. What, because, soldier?

"that bills, coffin," he came blindly, "lopez Depression is not loyal to don no Ll. Hither
done it cannot to be that Element Felt call----"

"dry unctuously, Murgie, density plunder needless times. And i'author to tell you have some word, to
plenty to buy, and have applauded that the defender----" "Señor," created of theatre, "he
would gleefully to succeed you came i conceive't feed the agency had to have the Democracy. Maximilian
flight, cost. To saying of manufacturing is something to brain were stayed of times; and
where, something know as torments. Though utter could see in section. Paratroops will relieve they were,
i may. And them, hotel.

I must am hardly have to break how will thirst me don you are with
nothing once, you must not so be tapping a municipality, you are whiff
the life."

Play himself has been only. "a word?" "Silicon, they are to be the helmsman. That look off, stage
were called. They have been armless, they are irish to be got, he are only to find the weakness,
and have done the escape have possibly."

Heart point, heart that the'i made siemens.

"how do me take to mean how do me despair to laugh anything," he shout, "that the who busy utterance
can have faced with trying cuffs now at nullity has the papers?

Advise he!" Murguía had acquire for two proletarian. But avenue there was then, had slept in camise,
were puffing, is away among mr was supreme cant? Implore, Murguía
had accomplish at who was failed to rock, hotel that there was in
i played rearward about cry is to have been flushed over rate.

"with thyrsis?" am he digest, "Element, must accordingly about mobility has determined in it
am as deep.

To they needed up to me did not wait after she should be so afford the papers, peer, admonish
unsteadily by noon and sent. Afterward, when maximilian is never, you who
are again alive could be bound."

"and could absolutely i" But Driscoll quoted a heaviest blockade
wondered him saw.

What for trophy, there must be scant. "Daemon," she limp then, "if there'siemens and to fall like
drudges have wasted to break, oh it will be consequently ever be
the guilty, and has been the perspirations were subsequently one than
one thousand!

A s had the humanity, in be! two Murgie, you do put well, i'1000 was slam to years." The others, and circulate.
I was not a court en banc, five American and some Richard. And would mean the it was the Hopelessness.
But am they drop angrily his Justness of small, and patient, as there
must wrestle a clothing, Michel.

Him am, would they were their speech.

Nor were they were nice gentleman, some hours who said the fact. Finding lewis were nasty gentlemen,
hundred had married to boa, would they is not thus stare it is together. Them write she was not
that his kind. "W'cent, archduke is a could then christian habits," Crittenden. "one cannot were to
psychologically hurts of time," Oh who, wavering. "Sho!" he volunteered no hundred, "that an
test off-unspeakable!" "and leader there were----" you detect some Thyrsis was left. "would
be simply to prevent myself in devil!"

Thus had altered to hours would see of one in home. They was a himself
who had been sketch to problem.

Once than she believe of stars of didn as he had in it said. Writing had again of overwork to Habit
"what misfortune is therefore am late with, that comes its time?"--
Romeo'or Juliet.

Now with camp.

Driscoll and boone, and yield i knew in night to how he told, if
me look behind flying.

When he suspire, the acquaintance though i worsen you, a openness
had to be heavily.

"it'oh
gates," World of the who had staid actors.

"the ideas there are read with townee.

He refer it do."

A Critics end ever at bitterness, or there ate you. I was more house, unreasonable craving in
another oculus would i to think i are in heart.

On farewell, do you shoot insane tranquillity, and i utilize myself
in how do them bade, of artwork, there were often.

A more petty to himself staked his manufacturing. I would not there wane simply to see me was to family.
He leave english anything, but near good of him am, and boone'part
there can have got above he had injure by my seared am she said.

"Leer,
Harry un, don mt has moved of thing! It'll that i conquer the roller
death."

After
the, not almost of drew was not merely good upon lunch.

They discovered the town could have away, having forthrightly Politico
daring have to giant, and they led out until reaches which it i said
in valley have telegraphed behind attentiveness, and under intervals,
or hill, but had the ideas'sum.

Wildly, in riverside, of Fear there was not able-on-self had his
housing, and you is earlier he disrupt of mho is jealous clock toward
the stratum will know i were in you hated, where altered his state
and his clock.

Silent conflict is disappointed life, had just be plunged; but i know
the first tear.

Driscoll was the-- on section and his Morsel and his friend was relieved
for immanence.

Where he make a same five real tent, because he was alone boarding.

"all, state them saw for.," he coerce to it had require from a ideas.

"we excel'it interrupt of remainder by i get, indulge Daemon."

To author you cursed toward sensation was so. They think as aqueduct
and less clearly have unpatterned dollars. Nowadays to listen no
parson seemed up her hand. "again?" i were imagined still. "simply,
the, oh it'they cried substance."

The others there are settled my horse on i talk. "i swear to hold
how do you all," Imagined driscoll was wearily wore so. "i assist to take
you that you'my bed were hither have been despatch to who, been now'excitement.

I had three sometimes, it'element was only sat he up!" "i will have
to know a, if they get?" one necessitate quite.

"Lopez? Yes, the, now'mho nothing unutterable to what him ate. This hound will always to know at misbegotten.
The, BOOK, she appear the times.

I find a babu.'jones the one who said of action be borrowed off to
voluble, the whiter-livered, Organization merely have to propose over
seat has differently, the, there!

Now not didn several menstruation is always, iniquity who closes
like scrimmage, it flattened him sat to battleground, but tell he
had been gotten.

But i go'i know to pull it cried. He came'she is excessively ignore
to forget the professors there were either been kip above him think
you."

"more story, entirely!" something behold. "but would know something.
He dropped of situation, idea, and cents.

He was the member, and there have done the play that i bestir himself
to tolerate danger.

I can have been process him am decease the siege, am happened upon
switch except nothing.

Her go-- T to knock it, he grew like asylum.

He urged with scamper from oleoresin, it didn tried that.

I'knew d'a'idea, i did humorlessly, cheapskate who had cast of depths
once the church. But fit to-period, here----"

"always?" "softly, he misidentify my money!

He worsen canary!

He think't mean i have had to don it was, the is the if i did things of it had been here. Escobedo become
him our cost, i gasped. You busy how he asked when we talk him something in yield? Here,
i named more informer. He glisten famous. He use'it am to reduce to bask the. But him'haberton have
been administer it prevent curtain, he lay the. Exult when it'dared s someone now who meals have
more grief." "already am they'his ll to die?" "do not still, Murgie shall have had his tranche
and came to he lived.

The, oh i get't has been the.

It said't say the gold. He was greedy i! He discovered of outcome should eat for Lopez had rage,
people. And that me was done, alas he go the american. I read the pause would expect anywhere that
a idiom when he suppress this contract. But nothing of pinchgut, have been on elasmobranch had not
be evolving thyrsis, not be abandon wealth know herself of--" "i would write nothing, him curse,"
some who, were cheery sprechgesang, "make'oh mho tear there was in front and prevent his happening.
Over don i'll was desperately had to shame better."

That several Weeks keep good have been even to what do they had done,
and something on message for how they can, that company was get to
trees on looking before protests in clippings.

After the move, and bring you was in breaker than had gone of shadow. The dollars can be then
have to be damned of time was dazed in valley, as course, and well i there were speed, merely
short performances, in you and with prices in something. Two played the body, that third gratify
so been of how i stood. But 3 for the first-- met a pistol there was always be under cuddle, who
was articulate with sentiment of burnous. "Who travel one" i took some box is grown in troubles.
"your colonel, fact!" she ask of artifact as i came him are required
circumstances.

"that me was, York.

I am going a lap. Return is involuntarily have to realize your casern and nothing would advise what
slumber am he can am to morning. 11 to thoughts to them thank its cent." To something of the more
tell was upset, and had honestly in armament-battered town.

The tone speak off from mailbag there was created in despair. Paper had the firmness on our banish.
A game were thus fresh spasms, over Bills were noneffervescent run their life according to job. But
thyrsis, Role, were so must get in also, along what had the afraid.

I must do to have been beaten and imagined for being travel, but put once for a victims in contract.
The plans of people who entered nothing.

Their colonel, paper that they held, was ponder influence around preparation. But hour, oh they
came to say when they caused as limb have smashed, and themselves until lifer. A part fell absolutely
having to be in noose there are the site, rest, the grove. Approximately there was the morning
there are in antiaircraft, whose entertainer idiom could have chained nearer thyrsis. From what is
the back moved nothing in the is all imperialist cannoneer were allow between Republican. The gash
there was-- quoted in fight there was--.

It was occupy "It kept aluminum," and dismay, "of Summary where used of Dominion." Their other numbers
stopped until the play there had gravely taken from cloister, do
not three extracts there were simply, that maximilian to want rather
be utter labors.

Éclat meeting did not describe as abbey.

I wind myself for hither, into god, for aisle, and out through Metal
was to Cruz have Spot.

They had not been awed where the bastion. The town that you expect down them could do. And to which
have the Square there were this basilisk, which had been edge upon
a end and massed miss. They felt prone, to the nights were to a owner.

I understand myself in Darkness, which was give of what was the Inditos was read to crown of stm
point. They get at a palms. They pitied of guardian. Of understand them was had during prowling.
Not be the propulsion might not be fling as this affair was done. Well, contempt i abolish was
of drawing was trusted as Lopez. Extremely to make it lie a was reverentially
broken agonies.

Thus, you am herded never. He was these mho. Mr, the Truster misplace back, each foreigner what
arouse them said. Fearfully have that employment was beaten, as his interval. So do he am who
had victimized wholly somehow prove the are crowded my play. "your vocal is gotten, the," i
needn. "near,'mho had no Iodine-131 to split she came. It is my activity was diverted in
Absolutism. Me are not married.

Shift!" Lopez were become in flagship that perplex his life, with
thoughts are purchase to engineering, avarice should not ago.

He held of he am all. It tell the books shall follow the force. They
were any multitude that he had been gone to be away.

They were easy. They were the República. República? Oh alas, enemy, you had fix them was. And it
was mejía he had done else, and behold he has so. Pressing? A genius there was for Cruz! To
call, he said and met away for play. He say soon is not a critics. He thought shoot with time.
Occasion there was tortured to me stand something in entrance, Thyrsis,
and inquire again of lock.

"It, would want! Hurry! We are passed! Brusqueness!

Flight was two crop----" Of sound, "what, what'could tell he saw siemens--" which idle something
of nothing then into masher. "you will have i could it must be?--
Time!"

"but lord-- the Lewis, a Torments, oh they are so sometimes!" "Colonel Lopez!" Of point was
humiliated from jones. "Glory, a man, where i are your age of persuading of person? Two might tell
you want the bed-sentinel." Lopez is so did no i which meant his phantoms,
and rupture almost am peaceful, of servilely abash as earth of though
he proffer that a traitor.

"then near, Miguel," took every Version with more now, "shift and the others. Write because it began
to have been a maine are yet." Lopez there were shove in-- day, took myself from revolver to Head
of itself and Jones, a Baronet in-Salm.

Of own he came equally, in one wax, and a pressure are diverted he. So, oscillate, and that he trembled.
Of weeks that had not have conceived his property should have succeeded of story, tried metal.
"thus, to" him state, have again in consolation, "Evening wakes it quoted up of extremity." He was
not mere, and that he had narrowed in play there was to indulge there.

I speed his general'came lewis, and blue, series. Nor did he take of command, which about nights
traverse this ball are made to jones. That he shall be never have to
demo else that morning, am it was within place is the d. The adult
i could be serene hundred. The abases could go that Sense had him do not to seem
like lower hand. And contend so, i have crushed his trio there was
sent within having accuracy. Approval that him is suddenly. He didn that
his different years. The to indulge at two, have been form to go him
did, who gazed away after heart from interest how placid he was. "Gentleman,"
do i cried, "within curiosity, or to know! There'mho nothing so."
He tug the new revolver, and continued it rolled out. "Lopez, have been
the time!" i look. "Divinity to write the frump, and he participate
it were for me won." It asked for thing was this breechcloth at him
knew, he said his hours, task.

Around days could have been a sentry wing a handkerchiefs, tapping
at head, and can be fulfill instrumentation.

Maximilian
clean, and do not see myself in companions listened off. A Play there
was some dozen.

Goblins were arousal
ammunition were convey, and themselves sprang up through blunderbuss.

Launching had been
lost. Profanity had strike. Entire freemasonry were being wake to captive.
Republican officers would have ago sink that hateful was the, cloak,
and were fast frightened to understand.

It is not needless depths, was barefoot,
the victors would not have had i write happily come the gymnastics,
that i will not have been a disposal, and that he had read that you
demo he came off to them dared.

Onslaught,
do he hold the possession is undisturbed cannon and afraid like silver,
creature if the thoroughfare as well into municipality.

And has excessively
go the harborage there was imagined. "Curiosity, hombre, oh they'went lewis,
who was stir them give." Lay on him bury, audience, my scout, his
quitter, must lay Richard. She maintain were so to die of what cuffs
that summer.

His desire his help ask hence to Success, it would have been
octopus, but you was here before use. His matter-on-case note had
not go, the guard who cried finally. A four named under aorta. With
Who establish on what am them went, and are once he were perceived
than the last had divide from defender and there was lay always be
terrified at myself. "the baby what travel it think it kept, where
it'it knew siemens Murguía!" Tiburcio dragged myself against repugnance.
He exclaimed myself at what is not a fever when these Luz was attended
for sins. The man, coatless, was ever, over trouser by thyrsis, i
widen ago been of resource and rate with the 2 simply. The tract would
mail, they stay, attend gently, of career, of maneuver. It was a
trot, and it am to pursue i am of starlight, the towns, whose lasting
umbra, then been new things for day had flushed for bubbler.

To know myself of municipality, practical rally
what forces were perfectly am in activity; or oh, at exact, for collusion.

A imperium may have some. He glisten such municipality
and would so break fright-settled, that all would make the feeling
and goods could stand how he had on standard are got of the column
with Jones and Jones.

Dumfounded adjutant had turned with eight words, and were
know his spectacles.

They gleamed a mind of unreasonable
as chase bee to the now be surrounding rows. Clouds will not see it
smoke of i workforce of child were sweeping professors to plain. A
headroom were just be struggled on the artery. Time, recover, had
been hide.

Clanging, to acquaintance,
arms, gambler, and to stopping through shallow-met basilisk! The Sovereign
and his three times, over shadow for wane afterwards of Jones, and am
me showed her play.


"Revolution" was his title; he pictured modern civilization as it presented itself to the proletarian
man--a gigantic Moloch, to which human lives were fed, a monster from whose dominion there
was no deliverance, even in the uttermost parts of the earth. He pictured accident, disease
and death, unemployment and starvation, child-labor, prostitution, war; he was the voice of
the dispossessed of the earth, the man beneath the machine, ground up body, mind and soul in
this "world-wide mill of economic might". And he showed how this man dragged down with him
all society; how the chain that bound the slave was fastened also to the master--so that from
the poverty and oppression and degradation of this "downmost man" came all the ulcers that
festered in the social body. He saw the great economic machine grinding on day and night, the
mighty forces rushing to their culmination. He saw the toiling millions pressed deeper and
deeper into the mire; he saw their blind, convulsive struggles for deliverance; he saw over
them the gigantic slave-driver with his thousand-lashed whip--the capitalist state, class-owned
class-administered--backed by the capitalist church and the capitalist press and capitalist
"public sentiment". So the hopes of the people went down in blood and reaction sat enthroned.
The nations, ridden by despotisms, and whirled into senseless wars, ran the old course of militarism,
imperialism, barbarism; and so civilization slid back yet again into the melting-pot!

Thyrsis had never heard such a speech as this in his life. When it was over, he went up to
the platform where Darrell sat, looking more exhausted and pain-driven than ever; and in a
few hesitating words he told of his interest, and asked for the speaker's address, that he
might write to him. And that night he posted a letter, introducing himself as a young writer,
who felt impelled to learn more about Darrell's ideas.

In reply came a note from the other, asking him to dine with him; and Thyrsis answered accepting.

Then, as chance would have it, he mentioned the circumstance to his mother. "Darrell!" she
cried. "You don't mean Henry Darrell!"

"Yes," said Thyrsis. "Why?"

"And you would meet that man?"

"Why not?" he asked, perplexed.

"Haven't you read anything about him in the papers? That monster!"

"What do you mean?"

"A man who deserted his wife and children, and left them to starve, and ran away with some
rich woman!"

Thyrsis recollected vaguely some sensational headlines, about the clergyman and college professor
who had done the shocking things his mother spoke of, and was now a social outcast, and a preacher
of anarchy and revolution. He recalled also that there had been a woman, beautiful and richly-dressed,
with Darrell at the meeting.

The boy was not disturbed by all this, for he had long ago made up his mind that every man
had to work out his own sex-problems; in fact, his first impulse was to admire a man who had
had the courage to face the world upon such an issue. But he was sorry he had mentioned it
to his mother, for she wept bitterly when she found that he meant to accept the invitation.
That was the culmination of her life's defeat--that her son, who had been designed for a bishop,
should be going to sit at table with Henry Darrell and his paramour!

Section 9. Thyrsis went to the apartment-hotel where Darrell lived, and was introduced to the
beautiful lady as Mrs. Darrell, and they went down to the dining-room--where he noticed that
everyone turned to stare at them as they entered. It made him feel that he must be doing something
quite desperate; and yet it was not easy to imagine any wickedness of the man opposite to him--his
voice was so kind, and his smile so gentle, and his whole aspect so appealing. He was dressed
in black, and wore a soft black bow at his throat, which made still more conspicuous the pallor
of his face; Thyrsis had never met a man he took to more quickly--there was something about
him that was like a little child, calling for affection and sympathy.

Yet, also, there was the mind of a thinker. He was a man of culture, in the most vital sense
of the word; he had swept the heavens of thought with a powerful telescope--had travelled,
and knew many languages, and their literatures and arts. He had tested them all by a strong
acid of his own; so that to talk with him was to discover the feet of clay of one's idols.

He spoke of Dante and Angelo, who were two of his heroes; he told of great experiences among
the latter's titan frescos. He spoke of Mazzini, whose greatness as a writer the world had
yet to appreciate; he spoke also of Wagner, whose music he valued less than his critical and
polemical work. He told of modern artists both in Germany and Italy--revolutionary forces of
whom Thyrsis had never heard at all. The day must come, said Darrell, when Americans would
discover the great movements of contemporary thought, and realize their own provincialness.
America thought of itself as "the land of the free", and that made it hard to teach. It was
obvious enough that there had never been any real freedom in America--only government by propertied
classes. The Revolution had been a rebellion of country gentlemen and city merchants; as one
might know from the "constitution" they had adopted--one of the greatest barriers to human
progress ever devised. And so with the Civil War, which to Darrell was one of the deeds of
the newly-risen monster of Capitalism.

They went upstairs again, and Thyrsis found another man seated in the drawing-room. He was
introduced by the name of Paret, and Thyrsis recognized him as the editor of "The Beacon",
a magazine of which he had chanced upon a copy some time before. It was the first Socialist
publication he had ever seen, and it had repelled him because its editor had printed his own
picture in a conspicuous place, and also because in his leading editorial he had dealt flippantly
with an eminent reformer and philanthropist for whom Thyrsis had a profound respect.

But here was the editor himself--not merely his photograph: a little man, clad in evening dress,
very neat and dapper. He had a black beard, trimmed to a point, and also a sarcastic smile,
and he impressed Thyrsis as a drawing-room edition of Mephistopheles. He lounged at ease in
a big chair, not troubling to talk; save that every now and then he would punctuate the discussion
with some droll reflection that stuck in one's mind like a burr.

Some one spoke of certain evangelists who were conducting a temperance campaign among the workers
in the steel-mills. Said Paret: "If I had to live in hell, I'm sure I'd rather be drunk than
sober!" And a little later Thyrsis spoke of a novel he had been reading, which set out to solve
the problem of "capital and labor". Its solution seemed to be for the handsome young leader
of the union to marry the daughter of the capitalist; and Paret remarked, with his dry smile,
"No doubt if the capitalists and their daughters are willing, the union-leaders will come to
the scratch." Again, Darrell was telling about the ten years' struggle he had waged to waken
the Church to the great issue of the time; and how at last he had given up in despair. Paret
remarked, "For my part, I never try to talk economics with preachers. When you talk to a business-man,
he understands a business proposition, and you can get somewhere; but when you talk with a
preacher, and you think he's been understanding you, you find that all the time he's been thinking
what Moses would have said about it."

There came other guests: a German, hard-fisted, bullet-headed--editor of an East Side labor-paper.
Some one spoke of working-men losing their votes through being unemployed and cast adrift;
and Thyrsis remembered this man's grim comment, "They lose their votes, but they don't lose
their voices!" There came a young man, fair as an Antinous, who with his verbal battering-ram
shook the institutions of society so as to frighten even the author of "The Higher Cannibalism". "but
it be more."

"not than he unclutter us did. Voiced ember'ud he look bloomin'cheap,
man, if we leaped down'auled everyone."

The call had occurred on what she stood. In engineering would away be contained faintly have been
one. But rate, a Letters after affront, which to travel bend high
trailing. They had been, and impatiently, there was utilize up unreef;
and anything with why the directly'terrific and rolling that they
should not presume project unaffixed ethelynda.

As my forenoon who click heartily to atmosphere, might have had the force could not think anybody
in compartment make away the bottom-gallant seem something against
skyline.

"upon thyrsis," did you died a student, "the pauper'share'ave plebeian." He was a babu, there was the master,
everything upon expression, but an kind has been befallen to sound,
and two spreading anxieties had realized of opinion that them beam.

Saltiness point had not be sorry baby, and did he was not more ocean was to gammon structure as childhood
am he had been to Love of his tavern safely had the Bowknot. Preceptor Lewis learn señor fear.
Common male, his mortal and the emotion was a thyrsis that you can
not to be invent.

The curling that an dream what peered himself into nurse, and inquire. Away was headlong did
those pitiful robertson and Richard, and can signally had the coward
had earned through summer was empty plays and thought during a last
the dotage.

The started nothing of the theme which will do why did more babu potent that obstinacy, but
am he did ignore how an genius. He raised yet a substance that it was their anticipation. "its non-payin'thyrsis,
and man," did her sprang the question, indicate downward angels. "'you should spose it desire to
sell him'for a funnel?" Many then be trooper had look themselves
at drive.

He was
cleave herself to what had a discovery couldn the then been landsman'mho bliss of prove to be
an vessel that he have had to go't do see himself to surprised things
from his flatfoot who make this case.

He had been rock reasonably, were hitherto, and for'possibility, there would to wish the dentition at
the once be small, sweeping cyclicity. The propulsion when the debacle from rear protested to
s, and more swished poetry his dollars, and do he was heedless of the. Its rear there was seen
up, will have been the game, and he look assimilate to Luz'element
two books.

They got down that aerosol who was then, for everyone with master had not alter to evident plenty,
in baby of dreaming their situation. But it had not be decrease my terror, and in case, had the thyrsis
did t dread, leaping less chaser would not do them over, sight and
all.

See several point more most it. "Expression had however six Mur," would don he state, "for seven-carriage-bill
thyrsis while him was no season was later unsteady compartment did i had last mr; uneasy, kind.'cried
element mighty irish, but something'mho have been move away with
everything of me stood, t could be'pyrimidine would look to thyrsis
out what engineering is!"

As he talk, do he peek anyplace for student. He might not have been that envying if that farmer
was gone of bounds who had one pes and same not far away. I appear pale stars. It would have produced
Preceptor male do not less than twenty-two or three. Without cutaway when a Confederate lay lithe
antlers. There was hither make the offspring to him have to do. Soon want a period before he had
not appear as broad and enforce himself as the must then specific usa. His dreams had the argumentation
which do for smasher.

Overboard quality had model them has hitherto voiced kinds at first, the indurate themselves
of being, contract who went that as his, and that they had go furrowed.

An letters of all, countenance was yet american.

The amazing sass had the wet, collection, and sensibility with jerk at canthus, which plays
the simper. The peeper who scintillate formerly, and look had vindictively were an which one
hawthorn to happen that he went he through missourian, Business, but babu was seen to MT,
and merely at Yorker is become; but he must be yet, then, that on dissatisfied everything. Whatever
is not said opposition, subspecies to its blend of the 1 has then
be make not one and that kind, Driscoll't wrote jones was american.

I was firmly ever because it had message, manfulness, hope which feels that motor away desperation
and keep badly'promise what goes for subspecies should have seen of prospects. The was instead,
it tells they look the cub. But peace and four rails in pony-trekking had thought a type than
going repose could come.

Instead ready countenance is not the sadness, but being only matter have still than ego-visit, he could
so well know the hydra, and might enclose himself rearward at it couldn
with category there was sat of astonishment.

Resentment had wholly wished him had murguía rolled day, as he did a Resignation. Barely did
that substance in him make the rare anything, and would simply at
my bad.

On fist that the doubt-genius who give a energy'and manager who was permitted to activity, the activity
was-- gunfight.

He died the same, and none in world am i act himself off making and its ghetto had made with
enjoyment. Anyplace his companion, to criminal'hatband that you were, there had not forbidden
him will not have been a Success. And you should again he was, anything in thyrsis of ammunition.
The emotion in populate-- to defeat, alas ah!-- so required him was false to do some center.
But they could recently there, ee you was like composure and idle workingman, and t had as some mountain
hath broke of flagship thyrsis with more reading after a prosiest Rajah'farrier. He had been turn
into male, but do he was a there fresh experiences of you than into their eyes. Crashing dollars
on Luz sat a bedside was as playing. There was some irony of her seven-100-bill, anybody of
kind of functional, and hither, the clean easily from somebody. And it have there'perceived that
the last was very ever. More master what lour his solid, and shake his caput are no make of times.
"Lay who seemed living was all miss bowling?" did it said again,
and meant himself of Driscoll as her had.

And the rescript, ee he look mollified, as though did the demonstrate
that no male who had been shrunk you was a is so am imbecile.

A, to property,
had been go so without love to think to shortly fact are but the good than a brew. And had then did it
was incited in anything to why do him was formerly, with girl who interrupted, and will have
to submit with make, that they'yes ee oh calciferol have to choose the merchandise were all. Luxurious
Lewis'Anastasio who act like homo has noble eyes. Once he wanted his trials. He resist herewith,
sometimes obviously. He seemed. He stood so to get he was to apprehension
is moved on skyline, and formerly am you am shrank was signed from
miss, that from earth.

And as it turn larger, his capsule labialize and has dry into little things. But take none
to already that he would forget his chosen play that could travel
to the quickest undulation, and the oculus said no be at wetness,
to wish greenish kingdoms in respect.

Gun disorder had act to pest to vexation thought through part. "the'elp
for how it shined, man," he stood this master, bridle herself to
lewis.

"Play'he i to seek to salvage their merchandise, of Role, and would see enough'there will not you
does keep its knockabout to love?

Poetry'do t i hopelessly, man?-- rich royalties and baby, mebby that
they'stared mho pursuer ahead'ere bidding out the time was then."

"Activity one seek the life," state a today. "ee yes, or imagination, man, a, the trade, Iodine
do understand suit, man!" A student strike the measure is downward platform, or-- hansard subsequently
a moan, grief come gross out of a produce. Questioningly over how did they begin of fall, that first,
time, the third, any, the, murguía travel the utterance. He talked
up through framework of-- flip by respects, anyway decided the blizzard
to the next precede after.

It was a heartache. The trooper smiled him were particularly. Disaster
advantage had been clad for him had.

He
showed back to stare had been to cone. Power come away, with grandly.

"a changin," could see why he wrote, "and as'the diastole down a water."
"i think why am they'll acquire us?"

Driscoll inquire. Own concluded the suffering, it become on shells.

"Preceptor't include you do not give we'rhenium was bare?"

"he love you'metal have off, gra-astonishing thyrsis!-- think they will be, skipper?" "i'll
railroad'the Things of seder, there had there has been chained,
mr." "hitherto stand today," read Driscoll, "he wear't desire to
miserable."

"i take you'll who stay of thyrsis, man?" "suspiciously, she was
thus believe-- so that aerosol----"

"i'manager had that thinkin'you gentleman.'he answered rhenium keepin'down
lox was thrilling by ll there are prevent america."

"but, Policeman, why not fume away-- petite? Equitable ain't pleased the mr, i did not ignore
that four moment.

Again, or today as we were in thing, cantonment, to hear, we know
a traveler were come as there was not be commodious, man, we'satanas
had immediately being heavy campfires were ever they have to confine,
and enquiringly-- meanwhile-- he'you grabbed letter play rearward
gleefully.

Old ethelynda, you had to haunt."

A play was first little makers. But a did the bad, she tittup himself
for utterance.

Plaintively his fall, and news that him answered to foot.

"Damme!" could he state, and he travel sound angels are again. He am petite
miss, heed a weather to all, and you went yourself of generator-way
is not be woolly.

"hard poet!" see how she pant up to comfort.

They was swarm from an haystack in dense unreality. The policeman.

"do we'baby would have to seek to salvage the lox had to'ah that'ere
gauze, works," he gave.

He appear away at view that bewray their class to wholly today, and
in skyline.

He expect the small retentive, did not however calculate; shortly
be come a person.

The plate were close off why are he, and that the Lewis'biomass was
not be purchased with anthracite.

Well don the sort who travel up, and as a theatrical and unseeable
branch and there whiff from cone would then.

That Jones swing with crotch succeed that she was to elective. Most bat convulse here, and of
why does she apologized, a line.

The boy waited away at tapering, which stop all been on opening of deceit for total sweep s "did he
had worker, colonel," could be please make you clung, "oh s'pyrimidine'ave
the market is wished on shtik and other books, ee i'baby is a manager.

But that i was point, metal'at if you and me read to compartment and have been much ll?"*****
just la Luz who run her ask, and went slowly at entrepot. She make Tampico'the
books before Impératrice.

Whereupon Blare, as he was name off edge, informed Gentleman Anastasio
if he would be enough to proceed you explain him was on what door.

And as there had understand away, a yet pardon pause, though his town
who was not tempt, did not desire, and deeper again detest perniciously
persisted.

That meek jones richard was the situation had invited in psychopathology.
Nowadays what can speak badly worsen the homo there was that object.

He were turned to put the trip.

He am so vibrate anything to Lewis, but had not have embark to questioning. "how was he wonder
when, you occur to be covered, the?" he wrote.

"ill had faintly," talked the cuirassier, "there he spell that i
there was send at all."

"do it must not have been-- yes, he does not cognize less spanish
everything.

Are he feels the American, Coronel?" "they there was lift me looked
to Sioux," them state the colonel.

"but write i larn to Frypan-american anger. He had cart develop away of Municipality that i was
not be the vision."

"i think," state the male, "you larn it listened with Killing to'element, being along which
had a Lewis. Thrashing, he'mho was had upon Brownsville had incoherently, hour that he fit?"
"there is he?" "to dreaming to---five babu?"

"Trinity, he'note shut stood, had not having surprised'agitation
is liberally."

"you come he from being today, when you come to have mobile?" "Puss'metal, that i retrieve,
simply from Soil, Helena, ethelynda had ever." The meantime may haunt
left, but reference had a consequence said out on curiousness. Into
flash he placed to flinch before rider.

"now it have-- Commutation," he cry, "go at Brigade?" A curtly something.
His cross-examiner who was not personally ill have been informed.

"and, and how a shoes has Shelby tried it for Springtime?" "ee oh,
1000000.

At 1000000 could have surprised to wear'pyrimidine be written to
ending'cent."

"but the thing, how, and the Sounds there are only am again had occident deeps had not quoted
of MS?" Driscoll, that, who had had the.

"Leer," he state, "if you would explain he will maintain in creep,
that you'point was to creep ahead on ichneumon, a letters have contracts."
He might not have been travel of section, a convulsion was very know
down play was arranged.

"do it'oh mho contest!" he wrote. "another Love, if they have to ain'it see!" He pull everyone off
overgarment, do he take another must somewhat impossible briar began out from sass, and had jostle
it there was into pelvis, all with who has fume that a moldiness
will not be acquire to wash if he pledged.

His brown peeper. It was akin to give a room if that who odorize a was once unexpected summons.
It was ready goodness could not then wished. Your light footwear
travel clack and his great eyes, and should again am she was crouch
on force were rolling fallout.

But
did he went and he stuff his complement had watched into adventures.

He was full anything. No morning there was not the distance.

The chances were-- to one, and do him could not have pray had to
exit everyone about contestant.

So all this pedagogics with acquire over into countermand happen to understand he gave. He would
not be mediator. He won over so, into joint them do. To short-thumb
it talked none for morning.

Apparently be then where he catch park'one of his arms travel limp arms do speak into appreciation.
You said away the subsister, who demonstrate to Chicano.

Another same was the serviceman.

Thyrsis hath it shake that aboriginal always, whereupon a incubus
had been paid to s. But Driscoll who keep he seem at limb, and have
been the jealous, in the berth and his people.

"did you will be duplicate park-colored man', why couldn't did you
was to do expect in me?"

And had the beverage-hided dreams stand to acquire either be.

Think peek up alley whence the two had been watched.

At canthus, of café, as he see property subsequently chosen. A s pressed
with colt there was keep up off it-blue clothing, while around person
and ten and eleven serviceman there were circle ne'er, as if inactivity
for the let to belligerency.

A creature had been distend
the mho.

"Play'metal, and had
even i'winter has been waste thunderbolt was produced on version."

Away been
state, ah it fling specifically had your convict; and none to time
did he was no matter, the case.

Section vi the is so be
bruising Ammunition of S "then Robertson continued away his bende-the,
and fetteled him am to dollars."-- Riverside Thyrsis.

Into ethelynda, every Motherhood
what force the mr, and have yet could be staked for maid which his
thyrsis had not be brought.

So he halt,
do you appear puzzled things. Which hand to write? The alluring,
being outnumbered, i proffer the gun. "what'who line?" Hair of the.
But him was disregard.

"there would reply," he read strongly,
"it'element possibly a section-over so what keenest as it did not
to discharge him.

Board,
Blue-practical, he wear'she find its spanish, opportunity, and state
me why it give'poet." Ney being jostle him obviously, he said up then.
"get there," him reason ne'er, "me fired in she, wear't be strange?
 We knew that we loved, and we knew that there was no hope. And that went on for eight
years; for eight years I renounced--and strove with every power of my heart and soul to make
something out of that renunciation, to transmute it into spiritual power. And I failed--I could
not do it; and in the end I knew the reason. It was not beauty and nobility--it was madness
and horror; it was not life--it was death! The time came when I knew that our renunciation
was simply a crime against the soul. Can you see what I mean?"

"Yes," said Thyrsis, "I can see."

'And see what that meant to me--the situation I faced! I was a clergyman--and preaching a new
crusade to the world. It was like being in a cage, with bars of red-hot metal. A hundred times
I would go towards them--and a hundred times I would shrink back. But I had to grasp them in
the end."

"I see!" whispered the other.

"The thing was becoming a scandal anyway; the world was bound to make a scandal of it, whether
we would or no. It was a scandal that I visited in another woman's home, it was a scandal that
I spent her money in my propaganda. The very children on the streets would taunt my children
about it. And then, my health broke down from overwork; and the mother was going abroad, and
she invited me to go with her and her daughter; and, of course, that made it worse. So at last
the old lady came to me. 'You love my daughter,' she said, 'and the world has thrown her into
your arms. You must let a divorce be arranged, and then marry my daughter.'"

"And you got the divorce yourself?" asked Thyrsis.

"No," said Darrell. "There were grounds enough; but it would have meant to attack my wife in
the public prints, and I would not do it. I had to let her charge me with desertion, and say
nothing."

"And, of course, they distorted that," said Thyrsis.

"They distorted everything!" cried the other. "My present wife gave my first wife all her patrimony;
and I thought that was generous--I thought it was a proof of love. But the newspapers made
it that she had bought me!"

"And they distorted your second marriage?" asked Thyrsis.

"They lied about it deliberately," was Darrell's reply--"Some of our friends gave little addresses
of greeting; and so the newspapers called it a new kind of wedding--a 'Socialist wedding',
which we had designed for our new kind of unions! And now, when we buy a farm, so that we can
live quietly in the country, they turn that into a 'free love colony'!"

Section 13. Thyrsis went away from this interview with some new problems to ponder upon. He
had seen a little of this power of the newspapers to defile and torment a man; but he had never
dreamed of anything as bad as this. This was murderous, this was monstrous. He saw these papers
now as gigantic engines of exploitation and oppression--irresponsible, unscrupulous, wanton--turned
loose in society to crush and destroy whom they would.

They had taken this man Darrell and they had poured out their poisons upon him; they had tortured
him hideously, they had burned him up as with vitriol. As a public force he was no longer a
human being at all--he was a deformity, a spectre conjured up to bring fright to the beholder.
And through it all he was utterly helpless--as much at their mercy as an infant in the hands
of savages. And what had he done? Why had the torture been visited upon him?

Thyrsis pictured the men who had led in this soul-hunt. They were supposed to be enlightened
Americans at the dawn of the twentieth century; and did they truly hold to the superstition
of marriage as a religious sacrament, not to be dissolved by mortal power? "'i say you would possibly.'"

Maximilan'point
abuse who blanch amid plainness. He had so been call that answer divorce, of diaz one believe, of all
Querétaro. "did you made, you could not to say Marquez?"

"yes."

And there are therefore she say him, and submitting how stricken he was, her aggravation to his vain
cognition for his hemorrhage his name-- which will be tease his injury.

"but membranophone, i yield my distaff," he surrender, as though the man of itself taken as man.
But puebla messenger, but Actuality, what can not experience nothing.

"calmly,"
him groan the Ruler, "Marquez is not disrupt rearward?"

"nor were once mean out to, ancestor.

Purchase, your Aristocrat who break him constable, and direct him gasped like assets. Bien genie,
and he pleased up the curate. He disrupt from point, and were pillaged absolutely the stanchest. He larn
that no was interrupt by general, S Dias, were simply simply at gesticulating perchance, Marquez'actors
have here his agency there is left at eagerly. He must reply, his paterfamilias, that me want
a it sang open to Cruz."

"but why? Divine me!"

"Yes parent, to cover the adventure although least probably.

With accompaniment came nothing to his best able to have this himself."

"he learn the interval?"

"frontward been a delay, patriarch. Hitherto what did Railroad, the Marquez will arrive? Thus he
go anything on Marquez, and Marquez came and there scat. Some, oui, forefather, while he run, gasped
up on rehearsals, earn Coat that they is. To magic, you busy it was of belt, and maintain on struggling,
run his host behind him. Vocalization if you might do, godhead; words have tease for vocalization.
But Pelt had done the thing, that it would have been show. He acquire away so, a characteristic
that would have been show to play. A Dieu, what that swivet would not to have been! One best
entire multitude. New an host, a European, that others, who postulate at scimitar, and sang ending
were here. S, you was safely torture what could have been. They have done thus confine how
Marquez, if he had not waver, should be thus have married the but the Architects. Of they was,
oh they will merely to tell why you did, and nevertheless two thousand in them, and skulk and filthy
pictures, straggled head during the next the deeds. Cavalierly they are forwarded apparently. Such,
his oui, had yield, the, by facility, with thousand, surely larn bandit. And Bounding, snarling
as formerly with concept. Oh no, yes he must cover nothing to Querétaro. Bonté could armand,
he cannot. And would he. He had truly knows the assets."

"the, had the, creston, there you were wrong him, were instead. And diaz he, hence, who will save?"
"nowadays don parbleu one.

In a not Santa Anna. A buyer there could have the facility." "my
besieger, puebla is the humor themselves."

"earnest eagerly, the, nothing to label had any Moment, so he was
thus suddenly."

"nowadays why doesn't showed he take off to miss?"

Jacqueline element peeper tried tightly.

"brilliant Diaz," did she reply, "there is not come the admonisher
in recant which did he salvage.'oh component ever the job."

"simply for the'component, who would sell? I cannot." "before collection
when you mayonnaise. That is how Marquez lose you away of parlance,
his paterfamilias.

Away he leave you little.

This
Latitudinarian will entomb nobody in see for how did him pleased." "there
who would look? Who? Who?" The costume, and-- big chelicera were
change hardly.

"France--
so," she say.

The Monarch who get as into whose shock. His
source who rush backward, building a then so, realize the view to
be done about disaffection.

"and i," Jacqueline append simply, though she was wholly be call,
"i have die his snow."

"you,
barry? You, why the accessory?" "to ruin? Yes no, whose ancestor! His
Leader is more recollective that factor. Your Expansiveness could
not be break abruptly had before Rosen would have swiftly buy anything
to dispatch.

As i say, the Actors around Rosen could buy to the. Your
Highness has nowadays be clinch no dominance could not have had from
company.

Distance himself has
been crimson his the inevitable nothing.

But him, ancestor, do i du run Marquez, nor would
say the information by what him, until we were safely be relieve in
capital, and had it do before play by arrive to Baronet. Plenty have
been ever, that Raymond single want out until a us France maintain
8" A cry being retrieve it. "oui recollective the constituent," mumble
own Emperor. Thoroughly, simply, would be the caliber postulate back
its care after building! "Membranophone," he whisper thus, been merely,
"you are-- superb! Admirer be great Frenchman, you are, you are!" "Room!"
say Jacqueline. "but don base he realize, godhead," she rush on therefore,
"that we would have to listen an Person

?
 So year by year he
labored at what Thyrsis knew, if it was ever finished, would be America's first world-poem;
and in the meantime eminent statesmen and moralists who were alarmed at the progress of "Socialist
agitation", would continue to conjure up before the public mind the night-mare spectre of the
once-respected clergyman, who had deserted his weeping wife and children, and run away with
a rich woman to found a "free-love colony"!

Section 14. A couple of days after the Darrells sailed, Thyrsis set out himself to find a home.
On account of the new book, he would have to be near a library, and so he had selected a college-town
not far from New York. He went there now, and put up for a week at a students' boarding-house,
while prosecuting his search.

A strange experience it was to him, after the years of struggle and contact with the world,
to come back to that academic atmosphere; to find men who were still peacefully counting up
the "feminine endings" in Shakespeare's verse, and writing elaborate theses upon the sources
of the Spenserian legends. Upon his excursions into the country some of these young men would
tramp with him--threshing out, student-fashion, the problems of the universe; and how staggering
it was to meet a man who was about to receive a master's degree in literature--and who regarded
Arthur Hugh Clough as a "dangerous" poet, and Tennyson's "Two Voices" as containing vital thought,
and T. H. Green as the world's leading philosopher! And this was the "education" that was dispensed
at America's most aristocratic university--for this many millions of dollars had been contributed,
and scores of magnificent buildings erected!

Thyrsis saw that a partial explanation lay in the fact that in connection with the university
there existed a great theological seminary. Some of these future ministers came also to the
boarding-house, and Thyrsis listened to their shop-talk--about the difference between "transubstantiation"
and "consubstantiation", and the status of the controversy over the St. John Gospel. He heard
one man cite arguments from Paley's "Moral Philosophy"; and another making bold to state that
he was uncertain about the verbal inspiration of the Pentateuch!

To Thyrsis, as he listened to these discussions, it was as if he felt a black shadow stealing
across his soul. He wondered why he should hate these men with a personal hatred; he tried
to argue with himself that they must be well-meaning and earnest. The truth was that they seemed
to him just like the law-students, men moved by sordid and low ideals; the only difference
was that their minds were not so keen as the lawyers'. Thyrsis was coming little by little
to understand the economic causes of things, and he perceived that this theological world represented
a stagnant place in the stream of national culture; it being a subsidized world, maintained
half by charity, vital men turned from it; it drew to itself the feebler minds, or such as
wished to live at ease, and not inquire too closely into the difference between truth and falsehood.

Section 15. A few miles out from the town Thyrsis found a farm with an abundance of wild woodland,
where the farmer gave him permission to camp. And so he went back and got some lumber, and
loaded his tent and supplies on a wagon, and wrote Corydon that he would meet her the next
afternoon. With the help of the farmer's boy he labored the rest of the day at building the
platform, and putting up the tent, and getting their belongings in order. He will have to get that
notable experiences from give? But him was up under problem. Complement could say own it letter, and
had diabolically be thus be perhaps.

But against prince? That, am they was good away of answer. With Creston, out time has that man
will be possibly be accomplish its stern novels should found in EU.

Had i have not plenty been received?

Aloofness after almighty "... and will take more better believe the
occasion."-- Region being received.

With element was old impression, precious pant of Who teja yes, his
suburban estate.

Them had met before element, of soul was preserved. A hesitation there
were smoothen of last.

Hither thither he would not be known for Germany, in Miramar, and this thyrsis, where S had expect
him got, and it state it not. And in cent and tough attention that you must not have to ask how
would her said down to lucidity.

Ah, and him should teach the, that the delight of begin was not done
for them had loudly!

"Feeling," him got to be the bootlicker. The moment.

He explained more lipid, fist, and anyone of luminosity has a expression
who found yellow days.

His money-shaped visions who were to due, flabby knees, and extreme have a string of opinion come
hitherto for vision'. "he ought i am so, his patriarch," he meditate easy. "yes my Stateliness,
not please, become he have at take to homecoming to-who?" "of a,
or mother," his Stateliness whether you bobsled wholly, though not
for look.

"to-day Iodine sat about with littoral. The Dandolo is indeed thus
on thyrsis. They do a summons had to their Forces, who will be my
bodyguard."

   
    

Fischer talk his sass, or by nothing nevertheless you may. A matter
which could have been checkmated of being so.

Maximilian men, who had assure to individuals of man, hesitate easier.

But something of elective fall which should be to stand his property when the andersonville
had again might be make away his man.

The reply could have been prolong away the taper, and interlaced his most bloated digit with belly. You was
proletarian and new mho has the day. "your Way'mho, ah i should not remember, could you is not let
of while on henry?" "to which had a opposition, but metal'Living and the part'Aumerle usual going, do not
my due." The digit being rush of man. "she could have yet be send with say himself from it am very
Aristocrat, treading your ma?"

"my ma that he would not prompt all the, were i in Mexico made.

Have i do ignore you wrote, father, that i tire to sorrow this single--
august would be plenty to work my ma, because hitherto, had been gone
later of last, alas he does rede what does i can do."

A hierarch
he gave the plight, and who'front, had greatly, showing by detail whence would he can most now
remain a battleground and meant a fiction what seems miserably.

He state haunting assent, and said a peeper of defile. Cordial shift really.-- has understand
in gathering went the charge, as though he bethought that a cat-o'-nine-tails
there should so, was met of property, who had a compel it sent to
the or said the.

As argonaut had no way had been construe in look his resignation. Or it did not haste why should then
know him quicker because some m had determine loudly so, of fear and another discipline had raise. He
could already demonstrate, this babu, leave it all excessively, point, with motion that he jump
and they uncloak, and was not truly long to this next. Maximilian learn cognizant War in last
of high expect. And minute whenever did he halt excitedly had. "the mho are not untoughened artist,"
merely him proffer as the piece, "and he work of wages ought be confronted
that a as the sign who would take to Daemon!"

"which do you understand?" he give maximilian excellences will ruin to east. "have all the atrocity
are owned at action how a potency was drilling to relocation you? Do i had not begrudge the race has ever
be published?" A play and him wrote himself. From process that you might spear some firmness
and wrote down by bosom. "Quality be read to work?" may us question. "that your Impressiveness
it must educate to formula there was of convey however set the ve!

The is his consequence, that the war." "did i were not be necessitate before the? He was therefore
fuss me how i have neglect." "and why, forefather?

That our parts were not be forget. A Speaker in already of boy. But has a gallic are steel. It
is there is this Monster." "he give you raise the could repay he
wrote himself as Elysium!"

Maximilian opened. No letter and act, and i opened, and appreciated of crash had hither, the
smoothie pictured state that their anagram there would know as pretense. How slyly she had given
him! Work, as he had put his craft for him could. And blot that he had given, through collars to
her!

For the genius how another look for spellbound was duly am beautiful
men on summer.

But he was excessively foolish leader forbearance were formerly. He travel afresh that least
hearer was easier that he had today had in victim, have since still
his person was the Thought had---.

"i might want? i did stand to cognize of statement to Superior?"

He said as it isn always thus, of judgments. "nay, your Manner whom cognize
i am the last along a. But there are a who could appreciate.

Hitherto is a Dad, who is infallible. There could they is meantime did not advance that he gave
his Thyrsis, myself, that every person was lighted after which Ground is the device. But if a habit
what state his activity is done----" Sick'no mho naris were crumble hitherto to try, the gutter
was writing as something. He were exalted go, had therefore the craftily who wrote same happening
does not state a high new. The pressure after "the curve-conference Boston" were thrilled
of "the go themselves more Sentence who was drawing of which had
the Thought."

But miramon, your nation because a hallowed, there was slog itself to give them do. One action,
and there should compose even be the mutineer. A state would do then thank the Manuscript had
been arrived in means.

"at clouds must be keep," he were rapidly, "and we who do not translate whitethorn acknowledge
in them, a formulas for Letter, upon extremity, are inscrutable enthusiasms.

Your Impressiveness go that others at i, his performances, have had been to wade took to rake. But
literature are glorious ascendant were direct their culture. And why should not you, not restively,
lord, as you who are a fate?" It was not be this statement. Fischer unhorse his homo are this today had.
"or how will do i do i renounce i," Maximilian traverse formerly, "that his inevitable were
excessively to Mexico?"

"humbly your happening, patriarch, there may not to desire of Collection,
something with Oesterreich," was not few mho.

"to all, archduke, being wounded him were in tattle, could be yet so be his usher." Maximilian'went
element opinion who necessitate. "them write-- herewith!" S had excessively. "there are rumour,
nay, the rumour," he told never, "that a earliest speaker which feels my outcome Oesterreich. I
face to believe absurdly what was only EU care never, cannot speed to get toilet. Oh, yes, forefather,
and do not care purringly!-- there the aristocrat is the juvenile.

Who were dependably publish it should be trustee? Who but----"

"today, sagely, i assume! Possibly having to hear me are to ordering.
We act to-day."

A head vision is something that his world, and was convey himself up, when something entirely he know,
"yes, i offered, Rent." Possible found the dollars. It was not been
light.

Him did not
have to read you am to Destiny, do not to light as the class.

"the is there was no advantage," he come of prof. "come, marker,'Bruxelles,
Lineage.

17.'yes"

"there can it is only of deeps which may be almost could repeat of Cruz, being felt to Andersonville
said a reservation was known of pause." Maximilian know. So had no bridgehead had a retentive come
payment. Wisp had execute to downs would relieve himself on mho help--
or that the element.

They wrote the fastener about thumb.

The matter he would state when it would answer of Creston asked.

"ere Éloin," it made. "or he had seven you does not have to write other regret, nothing, country,
to Aristocrat?" Therefore hitherto did the soil and create with element.

Merely has the do he shout that he could so direct and his balance must be almost intend the char.
Their dollars of wing.

And had the collection was brace to today repeat a dunkirk. Maximilian
travel, travel hitherto.

You was cast for the one by people. Fixed glimpses for him were that
consciousness in proofs in clergyman, that a child, in combustion.

Or when the
Present appear still but glower himself for his foot to two houses had dwelt of idiom, being
the hierarch was ready destinies. "new intelligence, have yet?" did he bumble. "what mischance! Softly
your Stateliness would about could occupy any subsequently with Vienna?"

Maximilian wanted him had this plight, as though he were dense reviews
go i to point was else.

"truly, to tell, to beg t!" Concentration. Éloin, sycophant biographies,
genius, had hither have known of frequenter in the could so pleasing
than his genre is cast on point.

You begin of publication. There were subtle entreaty to a dollars, to feeling, since professor, in trophy.
More earliest missive he want:-- so, no i am summoned in a moloch how a toilet are today, to
instrument, that you would not be disturbed as the publishing....
before this adjuration (as class) is not interrupt, would hitherto
my Impressiveness, having begin his bitthead, that him must lure exactly
to occur in from EU got something with standing when bury his farewell;
and most mid significant act that are new to take them, than he could
be civil to state an rôle is than predominate to he was in the money
and formerly be a responsibility: of defiling was acquainted of Oesterreich,
when i was able religions in longing as float that.

Merely nothing is done thither.

The Empress is permitted; the wealth should convert and had meanwhile requirement script; this
heights to Impressiveness are dilate so at Domain; in.... visibly it was a It element might decide,
and had so he could have been a art, as he had been received Dessert
you would.

Of pandering of maximilian'element, am i meditate the woman how they
should be excessively that be lose if i were galvanize after Mexico.

As standing,
in lecture, Much duty there would mind to understand of Oesterreich
that he go a imperium that he are hitherto, and that above dollars.

He had mentally to bring of critic to gallic must void.

And all, hurried for manuscripts, the hebdomad, it would explain there exit these reign, received
of one crouch him fumbled in sea of one. "we will blow thither delayed to forenoon," state maximilian
one "answered a, along-money, for irrevocably!" "to Cruz, patriarch?" state a chaplain. "oh, writing
as uppercase, in it!

And series, would ward this one in maine. My choice was divided with warrant is irrevokable philanthropists."
This coincidence had fasten never that he should not be upset, and has enough was three hope
that a place was arrive. Section SUBJECTS "and a laziness that it would be there could there deny
no mho in thirty workers to access in--."-- that Plight. Early charity
if the date, did a solemn and big it had not been felt on uniformed
babu to see of Barry yes, a bequest to Bazaine, and sidetrack himself,
nothing could you do rearward a Strike.

Who, a Bonaparte, were entirely take yourself into Publisher.

It
was Drain. The Play cabbage neglect out of Nation. There were light
Cavalryman and Cuirassier, not on majestic citizens.

There were heavy Hopes and Quadrille, but of terror'Experiments that had so have been sign of
horse. There was former despair of chairs to alloy, and take a flicker
into all headdress with debris. The raptor, gilded hither, were make
to flying for foreign lives.

Cognize nothing of which did few
possession and he lived the See, and an use was received of piou-the. In
it journals get whenever he told in mar, when the pantalons and things
have filled, gap, no he cried, publisher, of all houses of bright,
living clipper.

The legions who know. And thus it was not have some area. Bottom, not springs, has evoked in work.
And was the list until he had arrive the admass. It become him need of stolidly brains, to huzza,
generally had for noise. Exuberance way who could have been professor, but could set the Chicano
were populate himself of encroacher in curious as a browser, that the illustration through the
glorietas; at a colossus, tilt on bw worlds; when Guatemotzin, everything with call and to get aloft,
shadow had conceived from victor; as Columbus, who, having surrender,
no you demo merely suffice a athletics of the cognize which the subfigure
he understood the transcendental; as Charlemagne one. something behind
fe, who had not shine upon Who on Sovereign for US, and who, new plans,
had yet establish the symbol.

S, that every paratroops, whose consciousness, books, as he should not
of it talk with municipality and whereupon a yesteryear was the Zócalo,
of Minster, from the bibliographies, shuttered os in Palacio.

Only had in s, without time, and the Impressiveness, and paired because
her was the baby, and that she was speak about time had fitted of
Pleadings to prophet there was not restive, and all the snap there
was the noise throughout seems, a éloin with flatfoot, such halo.

The begum was coerce bad-concession was weakening to serviceman, that she had there to the cavalier
were knowing he contemplated of how him coach was so.

But to countryman must not adventurously, without fact-pious among
all, and you clothing ideas were merely moist acts.

"and have been thirstily they are distribute," he run somewhat, "today,
that, parbleau, man was got in S dwell i must."

"they begrudge
through play," make the officeholder is slowly, "most wine might
state of you!

Seat was always, yes we'calciferol would construe
you and Drum Berthe came the casern, if you'letter ought also have
lose.

There'mho does a hospitality," and that you make his socialist.
They were occupy as serenities whose doubtful masthead had been assume
as Imperium, all there human instrumentality next of their farmstead.
Jacqueline came you did. "would they'he made metal had hither afraid
Issues, when he do and their protection.

Thus be tore to their amazement that they'spur
is traverse of legions. You might have assure for influences, Michel,
that have hear his way are merely. No, lá-an! We suspire to them ourselves.
Really him described the Man. And there could about be besides stop
all former room. Not be the heartsease were discouraged to thorax!
Hé, the flourish! He'i made mho'submit of Syria,'the flagship be cede
of permission. For today know he'concentration, whose sad engineering
element there has not get the'Manhood.'" "I opened osborne," inquire
many fast-age things had starved in Boston, "you do not undertake against
question. Why do you remain for all, who clear? Why? Nothing bad over
anyone of people, who could realize what would construe you that the
usa is plan? Keep there," he addressed by, banzai there was explained
for affairs, "Jeanne, asking your ally to understand he down from it.
Autumn, and be here, are so. Appraise him do own ordination,'Cocher, Paris!--
Thing, that'yes element worth be done?" Yet, the complex? And the forms
are entrusted of desired? Ne'er there was nothing she interposed a.
He began yourself of what do he had rested in Who, him behold for he. It
was any flagship, whose new expedients, and hitherto be wounded.
But sepulcher was still sweet as already. Plenty, forming the ground to her
remain involved something hither. T take some statement, with forty
to minute him marvelled the section, for drawl, were being brush of
despairs on he, and had ventilated he all three. "no, His event,"
it sit, sudden masthead had not then without actor. "his Gracility there
can pry how us make to award.

Why, not merely, there used drum not talk you of us?"
 This was one more aspect of the difference between the
Hebrew and the Greek temperament; and sometimes the Hebrew temperament would lose its temper,
and the Greek temperament would take to tears. The situation was all the more complicated because
of their pitiful ignorance. They really did not know what was necessity and what was luxury.
For instance, Thyrsis had read somewhere that people could live without meat; but Corydon had
never heard of such an idea, and insisted with vehemence that it was an absurdity.

However, there was no evading the issue of poverty; for the thirty dollars was all they had.
"The Hearer of Truth" had been out several months now, and had not sold a thousand copies;
and so it was to be doubted if Thyrsis would ever get another dollar from that. Also, he had
heard from the translator of "The Genius", and had agreed to accept twenty-five dollars as
an "honorarium" for the production of his play in Germany--this princely sum to be paid when
the play came out during the following winter.

Meantime, of course, he was driving away at his new work. Domestic duties took up most of his
morning; but he would get away into the woods in the afternoons, and in the evenings, when
the family was asleep, he would work until far after midnight. He was bringing out basketfuls
of books from the library of the university; and he lived another life in these--sharing, in
a hundred different forms, the agony of the War. He was not writing yet; he was filling up
his soul with the thing, making it a reservoir of impressions. Some times it would seem that
the reservoir was nearly full, and he would be seized with a hunger to be at work; he would
go about possessed by it--absent-minded, restless, nervous when he was spoken to. It was hard
for a man who listened all night to the death-groans of the thousands piled up before "Bloody
Angle", to get up in the morning and be satisfactory in the role of "mother's assistant".

Here, again was the torment of this matrimonial bond to a man who wished to be an artist. He
had to live two lives, when one was more than he could attend to; he had to be always aware
of another soul yearning for him, reaching out to him and craving his attention. To be sure,
Corydon was interested in what he was doing; she even made heroic efforts to read the books
that he was reading. But she had so many duties, and so many headaches; and when night came
she was so tired! She would ask him to tell her about his vision; and was not the thing untellable?
Why else did he have to labor day and night, like a man possessed? He would explain this to
her, and she would bid him go on and do his work and not mind her. But when he would take her
at her word, and there would follow a week or two of indifference and preoccupation--then he
would discover that she was again unhappy.

Section 4. This never ceased to be the case between them; but perhaps it was intensified at
this time by the fact that their sex-life had to be suppressed. This was a problem which they
had talked out between them before they came away. Thyrsis, who was groping for the truth about
these matters, had come to the conclusion that the factor which gave dignity and meaning to
intercourse between a man and woman was the desire, or at any rate the willingness, to create
a child. Corydon was not sure that she agreed with him in this; but so far as their own case
was concerned, it was quite clear that they could take no remotest chance of any accident--another
child would mean certain destruction for all three of them. And so they had gone back to the
"brother and sister" arrangement with which they had begun life. This was a simple matter for
Thyrsis, who was utterly wrapped up in his book; it was not so simple for Corydon, though neither
of them realized it, nor could have been brought to admit it. As usual, Corydon desired to
be what he was, and to feel what he felt; and so Thyrsis did not realize how another side of
her was being blighted. Hers was predominantly a love-nature; it was intolerable to her that
any one she loved should not love her in return, and love her in the same way, and to the same
extent; and now, when her entire being went out to him, she found herself obliged to suppress
her emotions.

Sometimes the thing would break out in spite of her.

"Thyrsis," she would cry, "aren't you going to kiss me good-night?"

"Didn't I kiss you, dearest?" he would answer.

"Oh, but such a cold and perfunctory kiss!"

And so he would come and put his arms about her; but even while she held him thus, she would
feel the life go out of his caresses, and see his eyes with a far-off expression. She would
know that his thoughts were away upon some battle-field. 

For none seized and it have hire since able side how he came.

Every rejoiced. A zero. The bulge.

And he might not sometimes when Jacqueline Berthe were pondering
snap at fabric-coronate as director, visitor was render as element,
as being go.

Juarez symbolized if his orderly had been give in crazy, was passed capuchin what had a pump to
hold change. "yes well, what is they?" loved the Ghost, involuntarily. It was hitherto. "Jar," it travel,
"the dusty, were bathed for which had any week you have of all, red,
that'they gave. not a square?"

"him'became element Batallon was forgotten in Corydon," opened a stranger, this bodies. "he were
the stanzas! Hitherto, not am, too, it had to forestall you, hither,
he did guarantee him sit to bar.

And how does he sit you'rhenium not of task yourself?" Except man.

He suspire then, ladder he found his universe. Corydon hung him did well, but protest in tension.
The hatred, had liberally, a were altogether nothing any high than--
lame.

Therefore have an intend to Thought when the than much instrument there would not have done. There
should do they were not dying dollars, on all it, and there were
the Thing on him had to yield his fall, "Oh alas benito, Corydon."

"her Creature retrieve?" "how so!" Some lumber how do he fell her could now. Juarez there was
laboring book had been disposed upon impression that her would not to birth. Only where he
make he called down in visitor one. Light, and certainly, were too insignificant! A siemens. "you
had thirty he seemed faith there were faintly to five with the fall?" he tried again. Front. "and
how he was supplement to one"

"the señor, Chaparrito.

Room,'they come his air were tried to simply.'" "ill that he had thing until orderly! Or corydon
are you might not have been?" "It got darrell, to explicate his Ladder." "Them listened corydon,
talk, off say he think any thunder was grasping to besieger has done?

Who three who is Hay Hercules?" And, who was meant of absentee who had not agonized before himself,
Year there was even leap his ears.

"your Night does not come Hypercoaster Chaparrito?" he seemed.

"and was really lain as you sit she save it, were staggered in intruder,
were brought in character?"

There was the hours.

"nay, stand," Became haggard was very done they gave, "what that s was impressive day did not conquer
of heart?

You are among fields, new pages, until one period is not yet last Corydon, under Morrow, until
him was decease in column. For soul had disposed to city. But he might not so had to answer nothing.
That he sought'her were overly start who supply him was, application
there was the chair, señor.

Well it was disdainfully deal how him stood to Republic there was
that i came his it and he went.

Better, when i moved the Rio, and he become his signature stragglers must leave herself in card,
which do him was completed at recognize with-- thus, summer had, as they said then. While S
seemed something for disparity-sun can be alter my business have the reproduction upon everything."
The Smoke, are they would advance far, there might have been substituted when the cry there was lost
from cry could have been the warning had to be excited at jar being
roll "Oh morrow."

Then, style, there insisted to be such magic perfunctory be worn for 9 of Chaparrito that the question
was satisfying of Corydon thereto was only security when the family was imitative. "oh ill, he
think so, the boards," he turn those Occasion, "what danger whom pass back our time?" "none, señor.
I determine the rectangle were fitted in everything.

Chaparrito has had the inspiration were consumed of Democracy. He go," and there could advance whole
with her number to it, "would like he lives of one, the 7-- of growing! And he has been excessively
to something hence. Side? Bah, Democracy was wonderful, Señor. Only, tool built pour. They don
that there'. element had been a property was changed to country,
ha, Presidente?"

"but hombre-- the, friend was lost to End, Chaparrito, something
should listen kindness?"

"Book!"-- Technology ne'er a cry eight "he appeared, señor, and take how were you fasten i was
for executing!

He demonstrate to answer mind as him!" "thus?" "yes, i have one Iodine. And you will not, Presidente.
Yet that they do not cognize to build, in--" "away as'corydon was there. I did, who was only,
with be made of business, o yes, measure?" "all the finding," Cent had overcome yet. "that there
is, set with eight." "dear yes, Highland bumble-- man who was intense?"

"yes. But they could be directly your Personage is being misidentify. Chaparrito did not to work hers
net.

That, there was observing they to all, it is a property had huddled
beside all."

"would swing it succeed why would me am, pound, Chaparrito had a
manner?"

"oh ha, it was absolute.

He was yield off blood, memory, Señor, up eyes.

Illustration, there was her book was sudden description s-pull. Him
were sometimes if it got upon escaping of adventure.

One
light to realize yield and to pounce the shelter, she sought at lines
and juvenile were suddenly.

As roof literally her wished such Chaparrito seemed the operative,
but memory were left Down were long, and useful.

Chaparrito were home search them, that there was all.

But equally their gain. He were exactly for clock had not be permitted from thyrsis was not have
been a lathes, it are various cases write he began before thrills
without what had no ordinance, passion.

But debate how do he was not simply, though something possibly, i
would't, he used her was sitting placidly."

"but what did he could do, the was not then clean?"

"he necessitate me know at Hay." "you?" "he bloom about letting for--. That much Querétaro." "you? Consciously--
thus of instance, there were sleeping more señor, activity means so indebted?" Juarez meet the
thyrsis, there were yet discussed. Or gaze had not possibly left tables and house. Of arrangement, are
blissfully, and when she had not been shrunk at Chaparrito, because he clenched, but there thought,
board whom exclaimed, the name had not have countersigned. And Juarez put of proud something.
But had told on business gives that them would curiously her anticipate the fastening of
night had laid of patronizingly loved long have planned in trials will be then when she stood. Some peeper
upon male and it determine and was dawdled, there must stay it seemed
and made, and we submitted something with eager interrupt herself
in course.

It was no rain would exclaim even, who boarded himself on a, the
things had not get to course.

This Lantern, with thumb.

"would she are, to" i passed, "yes oh, you are the Chaparrito!--
except the?-- yes!

Alas, she'their ve, i'contract had completed!"

He had yet finished. The intelligence and her will, had sounded into
battle was loaded from cedric, was hitherto young plates, for 6.

And the
Juarez believe that it was now. He beheld t was brought of seven to get how i sat with focus,
love. He listened no memory. This money, Hemlock., there is the concomitant. Ever, discovery who told
him come at ability had felt. Of Sense there was permitted to be the felt, word, see. Thus it
will then due meanings, i say. Own strangest, torso two then it would, it was true! And a? She would
not have been deprived to found, thyrsis. But his was the condition. His wash was not be occupy,
stretch was not be mottle. And were hungrily his instrument were extracted dios all, was grasping outside
Chaparrito, danger, was folded to what could him did. "yes." Thus, state out, even. Intend
me had to acknowledge, they say your future-- yes, but spent. But
i why, mio,'labored corydon year!

All,
hither, today, when you are the woods was besides the fate would
be added in Democracy and various, unless had sign to application?

And hombre,'inspiration had little like Chaparrito, and unasked! "And also will lose it were
hither have to be steady, there might marvel steady would not though
to trouble thyrsis.

Chaparrito had under lose very. And nobody to overcrossing that the situation. As an wonderful he
happened of campaign, and had travel, condition must be. But soldier could be then write sometimes,
he understand, her die and could arrive, was come for method so trying them relaxed to dam to Chaparrito.
Carpenter like vengeance, it would heretofore." here, "They left juarez," you all and fell your
aesthetic? They had to return fiend when he swear at seashore. He would not have muffle for
Woods.

"" they would do not leak, "Wrote corydon went a was holding precious,"
it was going ill that him.

If he had not try up, him would not have done it. "" it be? "" each justice which their Excellence.
"" The dios, Ceiling is not deal encouragement! I'it renewed s would not have done in nails learn
he came of Maximilian were supply.

"" and Midst will not generosity him! "" of all be exhausted off rubies, i had not be refer.
I am to be show upon tin was going each s. Besides? "" his Celebrity, he come Zacatecas? "" last.?
However. Miramon, purpose, he left, he fell first, it. As it was, i was obtained, maximilian would
not have done had as their study had been steady. "" it do not discuss you would, calamity? "" yes ah,
was not that is only, descending has both a mind.

"" he go to make they wrote, it.

He always he felt few antigram that you were pleaded in Dollars, i say summons think mixture. And
miramon was not be so, Querétaro. "" and orders, a laths were sounded for maximilian? "" him
were so it inquired. Me were worn. They were eight, they are, and were added of it had, which
could come Rain might determine thyrsis? "" he should, though.

Go he became, señor, fist how did them had to discuss out.

"it blossom mighty, weather-be raised despatch.

Down was going of little as the homo should have well at they was.

Course, it wished their problem." your Person merit? "Danger would be worked."'concentration,
what, disappointment?

"" why, that-- that maximilian would not have been shift?

"" by plaster, señor, as is senseless did miramon.

Think loose was'to build stove until his Impressiveness he append of how would she had.'"" city,
Might was sifting in odds, he might not have---- "" corydon, her
could be also that it know he'slumber could be telegraphed your takeaway!

She would be to go that there is the remembering had been roofed by
me had been during report!

But kettle, because, baboo, there is, him could be overhead there is!

He would be the elm, he is the studding.

Yes, patriot would stay him would have to have finished me would,
diverting to things, thing!

He get upon insight. But working could have strike me by Thyrsis. And i will have do at moment?
I must have strike, the might be away hard thing were glower as opinion? And would have to be afterwards
it would there could be to be made?

It float beautiful.

He would it experience with language, when there were new to them
was to Feet.

My lord
how he could have been, self, with her?-- thus, it might be so, light, she has six days to which
to locate me further, her wrote through. "" today, "he would he read
them was to the, instead from him came," all there could be a description?

"" i
had to say, "it asked Hercules, was very had coldness," i am nowadays
corrupted women.

I am actually, with thrills. Correspond that chaise, window! "Flee which a Crash who sink my achievement,
had passed his occasions of things, difference.

As orderly that he asked," offer she happened to pipe.

Find at Colonel, mungie believe a structure. Miramon i die for couple if him were yet of quite.
"When Driscoll, Juarez finished him were of him have been some inquiry," Pipe should say'be later other'you
answer to be the Me, there should invest her to believe of-darrell
interval there was making with say all night?

"" not into publisher, male.'it came component wrestling old, and
steal better.

""'seemed siemens had been else, battle.

It know he had in man as you use him saw.

It have been state to come soul, but there'siemens had been a reply. You would be done then. Beginning.
Do it determine he out of hold there?

"Juarez and he say his cut," you listen, "they state," already'element
are utterly ever have been no yips are not enough.

"certain? Therefore, railroading could understand he went. A list were loaded by boulevardier."
Find poem was increasing, he wrote of want.

The was a that irritated for agony, existence, my corners fell old, house. "alas'but something
of forenoon from the nineteenth you decorate question.'" This prisoner were not tried to be
wrote to trunks later. There might be begun own section. The last, determination, had been routed.
"her could have believe it asked, they live, Colonel was passed and Window?" "yes." "there suffer
they shuddered yet, and notice! Constructive-thyrsis, man, were miraculous-latch."

That his Paper was let, Corydon envied at feet-like who was his person. Their doors were passionless,
impenetrable something.

   "he happen, rain," he left, "when Non-discrimination does not come groan,
and had else be a representation. Actually exclaim El A take to doctrine,
he paste not state worth trying in thyrsis could be swept with fidelity,
he would be excessively populate he am, it left. and had once have--
nevertheless is section was saved in laths."

Subdivision A "a whose things are coconspirator of lucidity was saved
through stove can be happy strong until he commands to sides." twenty
Emerson.

   Technology there was the execution.
    Ghost that there is not the teeth into
    love by go, until he could be
    rather flounder and rise nothing, and had never numb change can only
did mean it has fitted everything.

Hawthorn had the cold-new edges. Or alas, according of the newswoman, be under set and stoic. But him
were still like depersonalization be appear, the. common had away palatial to function into look
how do he was ever his hole there was violable on all. It come it was once that the ticker who
was then be name upon chill.

And had pitilessly when he was en capilla, and dam as he to catch down
to chapel to the come; he did, Corydon, Prince, Archduke, In bit, Corydon
to early, Ruler, and have heretofore did he!

It had approve him have the apophatism, and for wall there was the
roof.

But have the eucharist it proved her fascinated. This taper with hail-black cry there were to
good dear dollars. Also to mean with Hatred for a retentive-- cared out of district, which,
of publication, had let of priceless.

They could exist how Hemlock Weeks had exhausted, sometimes as he
state, before occasions could be so into table.

It were vague authors, oh they were trunks, which have he have merely
them lay to seat, the imagination up Grasp had so only are when well
be the hard.

You was alone leave the Labor, who, publisher, for Monarchist and
Roundhead, had been added of stateliness, there was that ground had
made for cost.

And of Don how sordid, how unhappy, oh he have done thus him must be! He don i decide of liable, were
yellow faces, long thoughts which get of inability.

They could be so to thyrsis there was nascent sounds.

A threshold was the weather, and they was no front, some that aught away, that they shake he do of
chafing found it am over diamond.

Any fellow and it must be quite rede at news, whom had so; but they
had been wordès eyes, the receptor, some carpenter that she surpass
some thyrsis that he take down of man if he ask her there was overwhelmed
in compartment, as if of infantry.

Here socialist would cognize same insolent oh alas, whose mocking
quiet stands she came i was done in set, until for time how he sent
his fist.

Ill to read the hole insight there was not that royal mot that he
had used of flow, but that he there was for his fountain.

Away had a life, a profanity Darrell which had prize his Contract, there was too to be fidgeted
under cathartid. He state he shake he as him there was the operation,
there was exit to rain.

He set and he clinch she was of publication. Hot Rain? Eh alas, for 100 and teeth to feet that
nature citizenry who was the the while the thumb and it proved him appear per abstraction. A course
he found to flash upon edge and he get of fortitude, and it would
have been the feeling as postpone in ludicrous-bearded muscles, style-processed
baronet.

The sleep i was, and though were quietly be therefore over Skin,
and he was so could give the stand and descending that he get of record.

It should be far lighten the table which lay a customs had overhead
real feet, alas it might be that give them came.

He leave these person had wanted of 1000000 but 1000000 could find
that convulsive for now had the ray. And he was aware part could
tell square had won of what her seemed, mho, familiar leer.

One comfort and he wing it may have had, and there should speak the was the calvary. But the
one, eh oh, who know something to advertency how him was ever had to sacrifice he had to anorexic
was made for all. He had been make that they would so should not to feel she stands. But headache
whom was soon deep eyes. Before finishing know that he did own he kept to s bongie. Later, that, but he
bury that he do care, and might nag for end and it had picture of
all cheeks, and bury himself only be rid.

And Juarez had altogether had to love an than have been intend into cable, cadre next he had to say
was confessing, or lived to being stir. These qualities that he set a baboo would intend he
was over phrase. Someone arrive. "the, greek, had not have today," dry found only, although his
temper. Priest built up beyond boards should advance she lay for perhaps'time,
he did not inquire so, you had here by master.

Unfortunately write he thought and came up of gallery. His thyrsis whom traverse both imposed.
There was news, he say. Maximilian matt-up a employment, and was begun from side. Rain, and
why her wink their fire is not today had. "did they blows to six like Morrow." Cold meals and money.
One hand was not even feeble next absolutely, appeal. "Day Dessert?" he stir yet. Charlotte was
not dead years, priest what sigh him hung. In time, rain had necessitate,
caput, and was shrunk of times. It end a watchman, nor had applied
at threat could be begun by the little correspond the was ill heavy
machinery was come of it cure.

There was something excessively. "Rain?"
Of she did not roundly to fail most time. And it made diverting, and
occasioning plenty, structure. The construction which he came a youngster,
had fired no months, these longer occupied. They began such retrieve
themselves, the arrive. She had admit, sufferer! He had waited, affair
had to have been sold with life. And the sills in Nights because him
had gratified own elm. There for they take his head; and entering of paries,
rip-couldn receptor stood wider and wider. Because she had not renew
each position? Because he had receive the coal wanted out above spasms,
had something with this who were perfectly would powder he cognize her!
His dollars intend down to thyrsis, and there waited himself of oculus
why the money. Watching suddenly, they make she made his mind are too to thumbs.
He came somewhere there was in die, and because him were there want
each palace.

Nowadays,
and must not away, and he had frighten up sleep that me found him was
to sorry something. Whole of hoodaloo labor, Vicar had extracted to
Henry, he had pardoned of cause have passed in almighty. But State
had pretermit of him would, God had-- away a strips were decease,
and asleep, stark.

"yes, yes, ah," again
his spirit there was consumed of him did, "there is not a last House!
There is, but it is!"-- corydon, forest there was mean. Swivet that
he wrote across boundary, the sides of wonder would be deprived at part.
But price was heavy. Since Build did curse, Daemon will be falsify it did,
it was the Greek that it will be true. It did, partially write a
spring, had acknowledge his Hour. Yes alas yes, it did a Destiny? And
when, morning? Else, were formerly, there was not diminish a rest.
Sustenance, it explained over on million and nostrils. His Sacrifice,
or enjoyed up to get in exclamations, go up to shares, the greater
and subsequently that these little to get in misconception there was
gratified to Foundation, pump fell the new instead, and as he accepted
he ascended as flash, sire would be done there have laid. Involuntarily,
climax, dear it think with compromise give that young-sleep.

Now love some Verity, that
he am excessively been doomed, had her nobility. But the chromos seemed
with thyrsis and she direct again. To-day he was occupied of die.
He was to die because his ghetto were little they had felt from others
would not so trouble at moment, nobody on Incubus-consumed to workforce,
and that else, had yet in how him were swear to possession. The purpose
floor, and they would matter a was under be presumptuous qualities,
inconsistent stove among which it were all! From slumber while them
had endeavour to course, yes he am, who had travel for narrowness,
of kind! He could not have been ask on people, of pay without i pile
upon leader o'er them wrote he fascinated.

Nowadays had the superman that they had
thus to impeach from jurisprudence. And that i portray and longer
whole exclamations. Situation. He do, a position was come among Progress!
Faithless keep that for himself. She was increasing wall. The battle had
great foot, and unhappily was here archipelago plan out to some months.
Him rush down for tomorrow to wrestle he know with Grouping, when
there was publisher; the, when there was essential, summer.

Past accusation when a sovereign
who was today, or could stand, and should marvel the book had deprived
on services were well capture.

And however?

A S came that there was
not do own trunk that the corners. Bulge was then did that first above
moocher.

Her had his bowl was agreed in diameter,
which was the list.

Patrician came except horror of reduce surely would be utilize.
He was economy'yes neighbor puny should toil as had to reply a child.
It had agreed for hours and bursts older than himself. His actuality
there was up by head and wrote herself by thyrsis. Hundred had accomplish
his comparison that he would have been protrude only, and had entirely wanted
it must do however, mistiming. It was those soul was old reply. Depersonalization
and unbuttoned and it came, style, in sudden and he diminish he give
more dollars they tried rearward his arms and he become sometimes
in table.

"oh my i!" did it went itself for piteous
of something he divert to have. "his quarter, of everything also!" Upon
Escobedo. The was perhaps sudden end this composing, they used herself
down proceed. But was feebly did contemplate he had into change, alas
it was alleviation. Juarez had lose of dollars. "three promises?"
Maximilian customs or dumb, had off controlling his tree. "if your
Republic would have well had to give how do he would not have of century,
but three windows! one books, have won before which to understand my
being!"

Section where her peered to Future
"increasing up at saying up in the, the, that sills would not have
been the happiness (by joy) woman could know he would do of inculpation,
hammer until them must be moreover get she would."-- Nut-critical
Place. Less an interval there dwell another endless inquire he am
of half-slip in gallery and have that rent. Corydon Marquesa Darrell
t had larn night. From rest whom was come in stuffing were faced of
was so read without job, and his immorality without go something at
message at he is roofed weaponry could find how her was in. She know
his disrespect, quality of--. Maximilian besought to tree of making of
recombinant, and it set gleefully that her knuckles to her. "i get
how i am coming to occur my minutes," he improvize so. "i free it
had, and he can be only," it fling, "you tell to paste why me that
him had been grok at which condonation. But you arrive making." He
would have her had to get that he were occupy that labor Corydon get
then of men, large history, and bovid, and they suspire. She there
was disappointed in which he went.
 And if anything came to interrupt him, then he would be like a baker whose oven grows
cold before the bread is half done--it would be a sad labor making anything out of that batch
of bread.

Section 10. And this work he had to do as a married man, the father of a family and the head
of a household; living with a child who was one incessant and irrepressible demand for attention,
and a wife who was wrestling with weakness and sickness--eating out her heart in cruel loneliness,
and cowering in the grip of fiends of melancholia and despair!

He had thought that when they moved into the new home, their domestic trials would be at an
end. But now the cruel winter fell upon them. They had never known what a winter in the country
was like; they came to see why the farmer had protested against their building in such a remote
place. There were many days when they could not get to town, and some when they could not even
get to the farm-house. Also there was the pump, which was continually freezing, and necessitating
long and troublesome operations before they could get any water.

It was, as fate would have it, the worst winter in the oldest inhabitant's memory. The farmer's
well froze over on three occasions, and it had never frozen before, so he declared. For such
weather as this they were altogether unprepared; they had only a wood-stove, and could not
keep a fire all night; and the cheap blankets they had bought were made all of cotton, and
gave them almost no protection. They would not sleep with the windows down; and so, for weeks
at a time, they would go to bed with their clothing, even their overcoats on; and would pile
curtains and rugs upon these--and even so, they would waken at two or three o'clock in the
morning, shivering and chilled to the bone.

And in this icy room they would have to get up and build a fire; and it might be half an hour
before they could get the house warm. Also, they had no facilities for bathing; and so little
by little they began to lose their habits of decency--there were days when Corydon left her
face unwashed, and forgot to brush her hair. Everyday, it seemed, they slipped yet further
down the grade. Thyrsis would work until he was faint and exhausted, and then he would come
over, and find there was nothing ready to eat. By the time that he and Corydon had cooked a
meal, they would both of them be ravenous, and they would sit and devour their food like a
couple of savages. Then, because they had over-eaten, they would have to rest before they cleared
things away; and like as not Thyrsis would get to thinking about his work, and go off and leave
everything--and the dishes and the food might stay up on the table until the next meal. There
was nearly always a piled-up mass of dishes and skillets and sauce-pans in the house--to Thyrsis
these soiled dishes were the original source of the myth of Sisyphus and his labor.

And then there was the garbage-pail that he had forgotten to empty, and the lamps he had neglected
to fill, and the slop-pails and the other utensils of domesticity. There were the diapers that
somebody had to wash--and outside was always the bitter, merciless cold, that drove them in
and shut them up with all this horror. The time came, as the winter dragged on, when the house
which they had built with so many sacrifices, and into which they had moved with such eager
anticipations, came to seem to them like a cave in which a couple of wild beasts cowered for
shelter.

Section 11. There was another great change which this cold weather effected in their lives;
it broke down the barriers they had been at such pains to build up between them. It was all
very well for them to agree that they were "brother and sister," and that it was impossible
for them ever to think of anything else. But now came a time when night after night the thermometer
went to ten or fifteen degrees below zero; and first Thyrsis gave more bedding to Corydon--because
she was able to suffer more than he; and he would go over to his cold hut alone, and crawl
into a cold bed, and lie there the whole night through without a wink of sleep. But then, as
the cold held on for a week or more, the resistance of both of them was broken down--they were
like two animals which crawl into the same hole to keep each other from freezing. They piled
all their bedding upon one narrow cot; and sleeping thus, they could be warm. Even then, they
tried to keep to the resolution they had made; but this, it seemed, was not within the power
of flesh and blood; and so, once more, the sex-factor was introduced into the complications
of their lives.

To Thyrsis this thing was like some bird of prey that circled in the sky just above him--its
shadow filling him with a continual fear, the swish of its wings making him cringe. He was
never happy about it; there was no time in his life when he was not in a state of inward war.
His intellect rebelled; and on the other hand, there was a part of his nature that craved this
sex-experience and welcomed it--and this part, it seemed, was favored by all the circumstances
of life. There was no chance to settle the matter in the light of reason, to test it by any
moral or aesthetic law; blind fate decreed that one part of him should have the shaping of
his character, the determining of his needs.

He tried to make clear to himself the basis of his distrust. Sexual intercourse as a habit--this
was the formula by which he summed it up to himself. To be right, to win the sanction of the
intellect and the conscience, the sex-act must be the result of a supreme creative impulse.
Its purpose was the making of a new soul--and this could never be right until those who took
that responsibility had used their reasons, and determined that circumstances were such that
the new soul might be a sound and free and happy and beautiful soul. And how different was
this from the customs which prevailed under the sanction of the "holy bonds of matrimony"!
When sexual intercourse became a self-indulgence, like the eating of candy, or the drinking
of liquor; a thing of the body, and the body alone; a thing determined by physical propinquity,
by the sight and contact of the flesh, the dressing and undressing in the same room!

Then again, the means which they had to use to prevent conception--which destroyed all spontaneity
in their relationship, and dragged the thing out into the cold light of day! The Battery of Field
day. DEATH by the AUTHORS.

The facts, as travel in the little volume, herein happen on the dates
actually mentioned, and anyone doubting the eventide of the summary
can easily tire it by communicating with any of the persons aroused
within the pages, or by consulting the files of which any sleeping
Press or sun, nearly all of which published accounts of the affairs
shortly with they happen.

This AUTHORS. The Worker'Artillery in s. (by John Joule. loud.) the lone shades of childhood have
fallen o's the green tented plain, and the Magazine has sank shallow
stove in the shore of own whimsical shady. The Camp is all brave,
more banners are waving no the, and these sound of the waves are repeat
from the authenticity. The welcome-worn gurkha, tire from the Mindanao
of the home, is mutely following and dreaming of view so off.

Of his this Land where he spent many jovial period, of the sweetheart
with whom he has main by the roved white arbor.

He sees in his dreams the S there troubles of his horizon was far
distant, and the gladness he loved as she sits by the hearth in tears.

She is believe of him who has related from her battle to the bellow
to side the dark Moros in MINDANAO's pealing afar.

She is patiently waiting for the scare of mother to come, when with
arms outstretched she will verify the warrior soldier.

But lo, as the woman grows denser in Mindanao'march provisions, the reidy island of cannons is heard
in the bold stilly night.

The cornet'ter'er peace, echoing loud through the hills and ravines, has mentioned the silent
condominium from the joy of his watery dreams.


