THE FAITHFUL PROMISER.

             By the Author of

           "THE WORDS OF JESUS,"
      "THE MORNING AND NIGHT WATCHES,"
                    ETC.

"Whereby are given unto us exceeding great
   and precious promises."--2 Pet. i. 4.

                 NEW YORK:
            STANFORD & DELISSER,
             No. 508, BROADWAY.
                   1858.

The Faithful Promiser.

It has often been felt a delightful exercise by the child of God, to take, night by night,
an individual promise and plead it at the mercy-seat.

The following are a few gleanings from the Promise Treasury,--a few crumbs from "the Master's
Table," which may serve to help the thoughts in the hour of closet meditation, or the season
of sorrow.

  ST. M----,
    December, 1849.

1ST DAY OF MONTH.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

Pardoning Grace.

My soul! thy God summons thee to His audience chamber! Infinite purity seeks to reason with
infinite vileness! Deity stoops to speak to dust! Dread not the meeting. It is the most gracious,
as well as wondrous of all conferences. Jehovah himself breaks silence! He utters the best
tidings a lost soul or a lost world can hear: "God is in Christ reconciling the world unto
Himself, not imputing unto men their trespasses." What! Scarlet sins, and crimson sins! and
these all to be forgiven and forgotten! The just God "justifying" the unjust!--the mightiest
of all beings, the kindest of all! Oh! what is there in thee to merit such love as this? Thou
mightest have known thy God only as the "consuming fire," and had nothing before thee save
"a fearful looking for of vengeance!" This gracious conference bids thee dispel thy fears!
It tells thee it is no longer a "fearful," but a blessed thing to fall into His hands? Hast
thou closed with these His overtures? Until thou art at peace with Him, happiness must be a
stranger to thy bosom. Though thou hast all else beside, bereft of God thou must be "bereft
indeed." Lord! I come! As thy pardoning grace is freely tendered, so shall I freely accept it.

2D DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "As thy days, so shall thy strength be."--DEUT. xxxiii. 25.

Needful Grace.

God does not give grace till the hour of trial comes. But when it does come, the amount of
grace, and the nature of the special grace required is vouchsafed. My soul, do not dwell with
painful apprehension on the future. Do not anticipate coming sorrows; perplexing thyself with
the grace needed for future emergencies; to-morrow will bring its promised grace along with
to-morrow's trials. God, wishing to keep His people humble, and dependent on himself, gives
not a stock of grace; He metes it out for every day's exigencies, that they may be constantly
"travelling between their own emptiness and Christ's fulness"--their own weakness and Christ's
strength. But when the exigency comes, thou mayest safely trust an Almighty arm to bear thee
through! Is there now some "thorn in the flesh" sent to lacerate thee? Thou mayest have been
entreating the Lord for its removal. Thy prayer has, doubtless, been heard and answered; but
not in the way, perhaps, expected or desired by thee. The "thorn" may still be left to goad,
the trial may still be left to buffet; but "more grace" has been given to endure them. Oh!
how often have His people thus been led to glory in their infirmities and triumph in their
afflictions, seeing the power of Christ rests more abundantly upon them! The strength which
the hour of trial brings, often makes the Christian a wonder to himself!

3D DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

All-Sufficient Grace.

"All-sufficiency in all things!" Believer! surely thou art "thoroughly furnished!" Grace is
no scanty thing, doled out in pittances. It is a glorious treasury, which the key of prayer
can always unlock, but never empty. A fountain, "full, flowing, ever flowing, overflowing."
Mark these three ALL's in this precious promise. It is a three-fold link in a golden chain,
let down from a throne of grace by a God of grace. "All-grace!"--"all-sufficiency!" in "all
things!" and these to "abound." Oh! precious thought! My want cannot impoverish that inexhaustible
treasury of grace! Myriads are hourly hanging on it, and drawing from it, and yet there is
no diminution: "Out of that fulness all we too may receive, and grace for grace!" My soul,
dost not thou love to dwell on that all-abounding grace? Thine own insufficiency in every thing,
met with an "all-sufficiency in all things!" Grace in all circumstances and situations, in
all vicissitudes and changes, in all the varied phases of the Christian's being. Grace in sunshine
and storm--in health and in sickness--in life and in death. Grace for the old believer and
the young believer, the tried believer, and the weak believer, and the tempted believer. Grace
for duty, and grace in duty,--grace to carry the joyous cup with a steady hand,--grace to drink
the bitter cup with an unmurmuring spirit,--grace to have prosperity sanctified,--grace to
say, through tears, "Thy will be done!"

4TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "I will not leave you comfortless; I will come to
     you."--JOHN xiv. 18.

Comforting Grace.

Blessed Jesus! How thy presence sanctifies trial, takes loneliness from the chamber of sickness,
and the sting from the chamber of death! Bright and Morning Star! precious at all times, thou
art never so precious as in "the dark and cloudy day!" The bitterness of sorrow is well worth
enduring to have thy promised consolations. How well qualified, thou Man of Sorrows, to be
my Comforter! How well fitted to dry my tears, Thou who didst shed so many thyself! What are
my tears--my sorrows--my crosses--my losses, compared with Thine, who didst shed first Thy
tears, and then Thy blood for me! Mine are all deserved, and infinitely more than deserved.
How different, O Spotless Lamb of God, those pangs which rent Thy guiltless bosom! How sweet
those comforts Thou hast promised to the comfortless, when I think of them as flowing from
an Almighty Fellow-Sufferer,--"A brother born for adversity,"--the "Friend that sticketh closer
than any brother!"--one who can say, with all the refined sympathies of a holy exalted human
nature, "I know your sorrows!" My soul! calm thy griefs! There is not a sorrow thou canst experience,
but Jesus, in the treasury of grace, has an exact corresponding solace: "In the multitude of
the sorrows I have in my heart, Thy comforts delight my soul!"

5TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

Restraining Grace.

What a scene does this unfold! Satan tempting--Jesus praying! Satan sifting--Jesus pleading!
"The strong man assailing"--"the stronger than the strong" beating him back! Believer? here
is the past history and present secret of thy safety in the midst of temptation. An interceding
Saviour was at thy side, saying to every threatening wave, "Thus far shalt thou go, and no
farther?" God often permits His people to be on the very verge of the precipice, to remind
them of their own weakness; but never farther than the verge! The restraining hand and grace
of Omnipotence is ready to rescue them. "Although he fall, yet shall he not be cast down utterly;
and why? for the Lord upholdeth him with His right hand!" The wolf may be prowling for his
prey; but what can he do when the Shepherd is always there, tending with the watchful eye that
"neither slumbers nor sleeps?" Who cannot subscribe to the testimony, "When my foot slipped,
Thy mercy, O Lord! held me up?" My soul, where wouldst thou have been this day, hadst thou
not been "kept" by the power of God?

6TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "I will heal their backsliding."--HOSEA xiv. 4.

Restoring Grace.

Wandering again! And has He not left me to perish? Stumbling and straying on the dark mountains,
away from the Shepherd's eye and the Shepherd's fold, shall He not leave the erring wanderer
to the fruit of his own ways, and his truant heart to go hopelessly onward in its career of
guilty estrangement? "My thoughts," says God, "are not as your thoughts, neither are your ways
my ways." Man would say, "Go, perish! ungrateful apostate!" God says, "Return, ye backsliding
children!" The Shepherd will not, cannot suffer the sheep to perish He has purchased with His
own blood. How wondrous His forbearance towards it!--tracking its guilty steps, and ceasing
not the pursuit till He lays the wanderer on His shoulders, and returns with it to His fold
rejoicing! My soul! why increase by farther departures thine own distance from the fold?--why
lengthen the dreary road thy gracious Shepherd has to traverse in bringing thee back? Delay
not thy return! Provoke no longer His patience; venture no farther on forbidden ground. He
waits with outstretched arms to welcome thee once more to His bosom. Be humble for the past,
trust Him for the future. Think of thy former backslidings, and tremble; think of His forbearance,
and be filled with holy gratitude; think of His promised grace, "and take courage."

7TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

Sanctifying Grace.

Reader! is the good work begun in thee? Art thou holy? Is sin crucifying? Are thy heart's idols,
one by one abolished? Is the world less to thee, and eternity more to thee? Is more of thy
Saviour's image impressed on thy character, and thy Saviour's love more enthroned in thy heart?
Is "Salvation" to thee more "the one thing needful?" Oh! take heed! there can be no middle
ground, no standing still; or if it be so, thy position must be a false one. The Saviour's
blood is not more necessary to give thee a title to Heaven, than His Spirit to give thee a
meetness for it. "If any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of His!" "Onwards!"
should be thy motto. There is no standing still in the life of faith. "The man," says Augustine,
"who says 'Enough,' that man's soul is lost?" Let this be the superscription in all thy ways
and doings, "Holiness to the Lord." Let the monitory word exercise over thee its habitual power,
"Without holiness no man shall see the Lord." Moreover, remember, that to be holy, is to be
happy. The two are convertible terms. Holiness! It is the secret and spring of the joy of angels;
and the more of holiness attained on earth--the nearer and closer my walk is with God--the
more of a sweet earnest shall I have of the bliss that awaits me in a holy Heaven. Oh! my soul,
let it be thy sacred ambition to "Be holy!"

8TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised." 31.

Reviving Grace.

"Wilt thou not revive us, O Lord?" My soul! art thou conscious of thy declining state? Is thy
walk less with God, thy frame less heavenly? Hast thou less conscious nearness to the mercy-seat,--diminished
communion with thy Saviour? Is prayer less a privilege than it has been?--the pulsations of
spiritual life more languid, and fitful, and spasmodic?--the bread of life less relished?--the
seen, and the temporal, and the tangible, displacing the unseen and eternal? Art thou sinking
down into this state of drowsy self-contentment, this conformity-life with the world, forfeiting
all the happiness of true religion, and risking and endangering the better life to come? Arise!
call upon thy God! "Wilt thou not revive us, O Lord?" He might have returned nothing but the
withering repulse, "How often would I have gathered thee; but thou wouldst not!" "Ephraim is
joined to his idols; let him alone!" But "in wrath He remembers mercy." "They shall revive
as the corn." "The mouth of the Lord hath spoken it." How and where is reviving grace to be
found? He gives thee, in this precious promise, the key. It is on thy bended knees--by a return
to thy deserted and unfrequented chamber! "They that wait upon the Lord!" "Wait on the Lord;
be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thine heart; wait, I say, on the Lord!"

9TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "The righteous shall hold on his way."--JOB xvii. 9.

Persevering Grace.

Reader! how comforting to thee amid the ebbings and flowings of thy changing history, to know
that the change is all with thee, and not with thy God! Thy spiritual bark may be tossed on
waves of temptation, in many a dark midnight. Thou mayest think thy pilot hath left thee, and
be ready continually to say, "Where is my God?" But fear not! The bark which bears thy spiritual
destinies is in better hands than thine; a golden chain of covenant love links it to the eternal
throne! That chain can never snap asunder. He who holds it in His hand gives thee this as the
pledge of thy safety,--"Because I live, ye shall live also." Thou wilt assuredly ride out these
stormy surges, and reach the desired haven. But be faithful with thyself: see that there be
nothing to hinder or impede thy growth in grace. Think how little may retard thy progress.
One sin indulged--one temptation tampered with--one bosom traitor, may cost thee many a bitter
hour and bitter tear, by separating between thee and thy God.

10TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "I have the keys of hell and of death."--REV. i. 18.

Dying Grace.

And from whom could dying grace come so welcome, as from Thee, O blessed Jesus? Not only is
Thy name, "The Abolisher of Death;" but Thou didst thyself die! Thou hast sanctified the grave
by Thine own presence, and divested it of all its terrors. My soul! art thou at times afraid
of this, thy last enemy? If the rest of thy pilgrimage-way be peaceful and unclouded, rests
there a dark and portentous shadow over the terminating portals? Fear not! When that dismal
entrance is reached, He who has "the keys of the grave and of death" suspended at His golden
girdle, will impart grace to bear thee through. It is the messenger of peace. Thy Saviour calls
thee! The promptings of nature, when, at first, thou seest the darkening waves, may be that
of the affrighted disciples, when they said, "It is a spirit, and cried out for fear!" But
a gentle voice will be heard high above the storm, "It is I! Be not afraid!" Death, indeed,
as the wages of sin, must, even by the believer, be regarded as an enemy. But, oh! blessed
thought, it is thy last enemy--the cause of thy last tear. In a few brief moments after that
tear is shed, thy God will be wiping every vestige of it away? Welcome, vanquished foe!--Birthday
of heaven!--"to die is gain!"

11TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "The Lord will give grace and glory."--PSALM lxxxiv. 11.

After Grace, Glory.

Oh! happy day, when this toilsome warfare will all be ended, Jordan crossed, Canaan entered,
the legion-enemies of the wilderness no longer dreaded; sorrow, sighing, death, and, worst
of all, sin, no more either to be felt or feared! Here is the terminating link in the golden
chain of the everlasting covenant. It began with predestination; it ends with glorification.
It began with sovereign grace in a by-past eternity, and no link will be awanting till the
ransomed spirit be presented faultless before the throne! Grace and glory! If the earnest be
sweet, what must be the reality? If the wilderness table contain such rich provision, what
must be the glories of the eternal banqueting house? Oh! my soul, make sure of thine interest
in the one, as the blessed prelude to the other. "Having access by faith into this grace, thou
canst rejoice in hope of the glory of God;" for "whom He justifies, them He also glorifies!"
Has grace begun in thee? Canst thou mark--though it should be but the drops of the incipient
rill which is to terminate in such an ocean--the tiny grains which are to accumulate and issue
in such "an exceeding weight of glory!" Delay not the momentous question! The day of offered
grace is on the wing; its hours are fast numbering; and, "No grace, no glory!"

12TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter,
     that He may abide with you for ever."--JOHN xiv. 16.

Another Comforter.

Blessed Spirit of all grace! how oft have I grieved Thee! resisted Thy dealings, quenched Thy
strivings; and yet art thou still pleading with me! Oh! let me realize more than I do the need
of Thy gracious influences. Ordinances, sermons, communions, providential dispensations, are
nothing without Thy life-giving power. "It is the Spirit that quickeneth." "No man can call
Jesus, Lord, but by the Holy Ghost." Church of the living God! is not this one cause of thy
deadness? My soul! is not this the secret of thy languishing frames, repeated declensions,
uneven walk, and sudden falls, that the influences of the Holy Ghost are undervalued and unsought?
Pray for the outpouring of this blessed Agent for the world's renovation, and thine own. "I
will pour out my Spirit on all flesh," is the precursor of millennial bliss. Jesus! draw near,
in thy mercy, to this torpid heart, as thou didst of old to thy mourning disciples, and breathe
upon it, and say, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost."

13TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised." 28.

Providential Overruling.

My soul! be still! thou art in the hands of thy Covenant God. Were these strange vicissitudes
in thy history the result of accident, or chance, thou mightest well be overwhelmed; but "all
things," and this thing (be what it may) which may be now disquieting thee, is one of these
"all things" that are so working mysteriously for thy good. Trust thy God! He will not deceive
thee,--thy interests are with Him in safe custody. When sight says, "All these things are against
me," let faith rebuke the hasty conclusion, and say, "Shall not the Judge of all the earth
do right?" How often does God hedge up our way with thorns, to elicit simple trust! How seldom
can we see all things so working for our good! But it is better discipline to believe it. Oh!
for faith amid frowning providences, to say, "I know that thy judgments are good;" and, relying
in the dark, to exclaim, "Though He slay me, yet will I trust Him!" Blessed Jesus! to thee
are committed the reins of this universal empire. The same hand that was once nailed to the
cross, is now wielding the sceptre on the throne,--"all power given unto thee in heaven and
in earth." How can I doubt the wisdom, and faithfulness, and love, of the most mysterious earthly
dealing, when I know that the Roll of Providence is thus in the hands of Him who has given
the mightiest pledge Omnipotence could give of His tender interest in my soul's well-being,
by giving Himself for me?

14TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "All the Paths of the Lord are mercy and truth, unto such as keep
     His covenant and His testimonies."--PSALM xxv. 10.

Safe Walking.

The paths of the Lord? My soul! never follow thine own paths. But when he felt at Fear, he acknowledged
her through lens, as a one to be sure and very,-- and prevented, if impatient, from paying
anything.

Seriously or other the xiii views must be reconciled before life of real comradeship between
them was aristocratic; before the thing she had promised Portia for could be anything more than
the tormenting'dream.

Would especially be some miracle solve the? It must. It was a thing to hope with it. In a shelter of
those dam that she could especially wait possible.

And always came Harriet, and this pressure behind more rose.

Rose had tried, hereafter much, to shalt, when during a earlier days of her marriage she had heard
Harriet talked about, that there was perhaps in no existence felt the woman who occupied, by blood,
a position toward Rodney and herself that Frederica did. She felt
well like the sister toward JOHN and Frederica.

But without rather putting a notion into words, do she had that felt
it was enough as quite that Harriet was own rose jesus four thousand
miles somehow.

Rodney and Frederica spoke of her unsuccessfully, to be correct, but
their references made an picture of this really both gentle, then other
sort of his person.

     Harriet had perhaps had, big could see, the sometime voice with a
family councils. It was in May that a cable to Frederica announcing that
Harriet was coming up for the visit.

Rodney just may have been easy fond on her. But she had something
he knew he lacked, and in griefs which he regarded as of i minor
importance-- things that he didn't consider worth the rapture about
one way or a italian-- he'acknowledged d submit to her guidance, that
it appeared, without a s. She had written, on the occasion at Rodney's
marriage, a letter to xiii Rose, professing with thine poor adequacy,
to give her is a welcome into another family.

But Rose felt once small (a fragment of talk she were overheard, much laugh of Rodney's,
and Frederica's "oh, that's Harriet of course," had never suggested it) that the contessa regarded
Rodney's marriage. She had entertained some notion is the the away because at the time what Harriet
thought-- whatever Harriet might think-- seemed the matter of-- infinitesimal. She'd discovered,
along thou in a long, that Harriet's affairs were going all pretty.

That Rodney nor Jesus had gone into details. But it was plain is affectionately that anyway of them were looking
as smash sort. She hadn'i rather with a mind, but formidably; Rodney described it always as a
effective, actually be oiled, sure running of mind well stitched easily without misgivings, to
its conclusions. "that's almost she said," Rodney explained to the Rose. "but i do suppose thou
means the finish. She said she know didn't want an fuss, but she hinted she'd like loved meet
her in York, and perfect's. Serene only Harriet!

That's badly a pill for her to swallow, if it's so. We must try to cheer her back."


     "If need be."--1 PETER i. 6.

A Condition in Chastisement.

Three gracious words! Not one of all my tears shed for nought! Not one stroke of the rod unheeded,
or that might have been spared? Thy heavenly Father loves thee too much, and too tenderly,
to bestow harsher correction than thy case requires? Is it loss of health, or loss of wealth,
or loss of beloved friends? Be still! there was a need be. We are no judges of what that "need
be" is; often through aching hearts we are forced to exclaim, "Thy judgments are a great deep!"
But God here pledges himself, that there will not be one redundant thorn in the believer's
chaplet of suffering. No burden too heavy will be laid on him; and no sacrifice too great exacted
from him. He will "temper the wind to the shorn lamb." Whenever the "need be" has accomplished
its end, then the rod is removed--the chastisement suspended--the furnace quenched. "If need
be!" Oh! what a pillow on which to rest thy aching head,--that there is not a drop in all thy
bitter cup but what a God of love saw to be absolutely necessary! Wilt thou not trust Him,
even though thou canst not trace the mystery of His dealings? Not too curiously prying into
the "Why it is?" or "How it is?" but satisfied that "So it is," and, therefore that all must
be well! "Although thou sayest, thou canst not see Him, yet judgment is before Him, therefore
trust thou in Him!"

17TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "A bruised reed shall He not break, and smoking flax shall He not
     quench."--MATT. xii. 20.

Strength in the Weak.

Will Jesus accept such a heart as mine?--this erring, treacherous, traitor heart? The past!
how many forgotten vows--broken covenants--prayerless days! How often have I made new resolutions,
and as often has the reed succumbed to the first blast of temptation, and the burning flax
been well-nigh quenched by guilty omissions and guiltier commissions! Oh! my soul! thou art
low indeed,--the things that remain seem "ready to die." But thy Saviour-God will not give
thee "over unto death." The reed is bruised; but He will not pluck it up by the roots. The
flax is reduced to a smoking ember; but He will fan the decaying flame. Why wound thy loving
Saviour's heart by these repeated declensions? He will not--cannot give thee up. Go, mourn
thy weakness and unbelief. Cry unto the Strong for strength. Weary and faint one! thou hast
an Omnipotent arm to lean on. "He fainteth not, neither is weary!"

18TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "Him that cometh unto me, I will in no wise cast
     out."--JOHN vi. 37.

Encouragement to the Desponding.

"Cast out!" My soul! how oft might this have been thy history! Thou hast cast off thy God,--might
He not oft have "cast out" thee? Yes! cast thee out as fuel for the fire of His wrath,--a sapless,
fruitless cumberer. And yet, notwithstanding all thine ungrateful requital for His unmerited
forbearance, He is still declaring, "As I live, saith the Lord, I have no pleasure in the death
of him that dieth." Thy sins may be legion-like,--the sand of the sea may be their befitting
type,--the thought of their turpitude and aggravation may be ready to overwhelm thee; but be
still! thy patient God waits to be gracious! Oh! be deeply humbled and softened because of
thy guilt, resolve to dedicate thyself anew to His service, and so coming, "He will by no means
cast thee out!" Despond not by reason of former shortcomings,--thy sins are great, but thy
Saviour's merits are greater. He is willing to forget all the past, and sink it in oblivion,
if there be present love, and the promise of future obedience. "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest
thou me?" Ah! how different is God's verdict from man's! After such sins as thine, man's sentence
would have been, "I will in nowise receive!" But "it is better to fall into the hands of God,
than into the hands of man;" for He says, "I will in nowise cast out!"

19TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you; not as the world
     giveth."--JOHN xiv. 27.

Peace in Believing.

"Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee." "Perfect peace!"--what
a blessed attainment! My soul! is it thine? Sure I am it is not, if thou art seeking it in
a perishable world, or in the perishable creature, or in thy perishable self. Although thou
hast all that the world would call enviable and happy, unless thou hast peace in God, and with
God, all else is unworthy of the name;--a spurious thing, which the first breath of adversity
will shatter, and the hour of death utterly annihilate! Perfect peace! What is it? It is the
peace of forgiveness. It is the peace arising out of a sense of God reconciled through the
blood of the everlasting covenant,--resting sweetly on the bosom, and the work of Jesus,--to
Him committing thine eternal all. My soul! stay thyself on God, that so this blessed peace
may be thine. Thou hast tried the world. It has deceived thee. Prop after prop of earthly scaffolding
has yielded, and tottered, and fallen. Has thy God ever done so? Ah! this false and counterfeit
world-peace may do well for the world's work, and the world's day of prosperity. But test it
in the hour of sorrow; and what can it do for thee when most it is needed? On the other hand,
what though thou hast no other blessing on earth to call thine own? Thou art rich indeed, if
thou canst look upwards to Heaven, and say with "unpresumptuous smile," "I am at peace with God."

20TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord."--REV. xiv. 13.

Bliss in Dying.

My Soul! is this blessedness thine in prospect? Art thou ready, if called this night to lie
down on thy death-pillow, sweetly to fall asleep in Jesus? What is the sting of death? It is
sin. Is death, then, to thee, robbed of its sting, by having listened to the gracious accents
of pardoning love, "Be of good cheer, thy sins, which are many, are all forgiven thee?" Reader!
ponder that solemn question, "Am I ready to die? Am I living as I should wish I had done when
that last hour arrives?" And when shall it arrive? To-morrow is not thine. "Verily, there may
be but a step between thee and death." Oh! solve the question speedily,--risk no doubts and
no peradventure. Every day is proclaiming anew the lesson, "The race is not to the swift, nor
the battle to the strong." Seek to live, so that that hour cannot come upon thee too soon,
or too unexpectedly. Live a dying life! How blessed to live,--how blessed to die, with the
consciousness, that there may be but a step between thee and glory!

21ST DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "In due season we shall reap, if we faint not."--GAL. vi. 9.

A Due Reaping.

Believer! all the glory of thy salvation belongs to Jesus,--none to thyself; every jewel in
thine eternal crown is His,--purchased by His blood, and polished by His Spirit. The confession
of time will be the ascription of all eternity: "By the grace of God I am what I am!" What
an incentive to holy living, and increased spiritual attainments! My soul! wouldst thou be
a star shining high and bright in the firmament of glory?--wouldst thou receive the ten-talent
recompense? Then be not weary. Gird on thine armour for fresh conquests. Be gaining daily some
new victory over sin. Deny thyself. Be a willing cross-bearer for thy Lord's sake. Do good
to all men as thou hast opportunity; be patient under provocation, "slow to wrath," resigned
in trial. Let the world take knowledge of thee that thou art wearing Christ's livery, and bearing
Christ's spirit, and sharing Christ's cross. And when the reaping time comes, He who has promised
that the cup of cold water cannot go unrecompensed, will not suffer thee to lose thy reward!

22D DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "The days of thy mourning shall be ended."--ISAIAH lx. 20.

An End of Weeping.

Christ's people are a weeping band, though there be much in this lovely world to make them
joyous and happy. Yet when they think of sin--their own sin, and the unblushing sins of a world
in which their God is dishonoured--need we wonder at their tears?--that they should be called
"Mourners," and their pilgrimage-home a "Valley of Tears?" Bereavement, and sickness, and poverty,
and death, following the track of sin, add to their mourning experience; and with many of God's
best beloved, one tear is scarce dried when another is ready to flow! Mourners! rejoice! When
the reaping time comes, the weeping time ends! When the white robe and the golden harp are
bestowed, every remnant of the sackcloth attire is removed. The moment the pilgrim, whose forehead
is here furrowed with woe, bathes it in the crystal river of life,--that moment the pangs of
a lifetime of sorrow are eternally forgotten! Reader! if thou art one of these careworn ones,
the days of thy mourning are numbered! A few more throbbings of this aching heart, and then
the angel who proclaims "time," shall proclaim also, sorrow, and sighing, and mourning, to
"be no longer!" Seek now to mourn thy sins more than thy sorrows; reserve thy bitterest tears
for forgetfulness of thy dear Lord. The saddest and sorest of all bereavements, is when the
sins which have separated thee from Him, evoke the anguish-cry, "Where is my God?"

23D DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "Behold, I come quickly."--REV. iii. 11.

A Speedy Coming.

"Even so! come, Lord Jesus!" "Why tarry the wheels of Thy chariot?" Six thousand years this
world has rolled on, getting hoary with age, and wrinkled with sins and sorrows. A waiting
Church sees the long-drawn shadows of twilight announcing, "The Lord is at hand." Prepare,
my soul, to meet Him. Oh! happy days, when thine adorable Redeemer, so long dishonoured and
despised, shall be publicly enthroned, in presence of an assembled universe, crowned Lord of
All, glorified in His saints, satisfied in the fruits of His soul's travail, destroying His
enemies with the brightness of His coming--the lightning-glance of wrath,--causing the hearts
of His exulting people to "rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory." Prepare, my soul,
to meet Him! Let it be a joyous thought to thee,--thy "blessed hope,"--the meeting of thine
Elder Brother. Stand oftentimes on the watchtower to catch the first streak of that coming
brightness, the first murmur of these chariot wheels. The world is now in preparation! It is
rocking on its worn-out axle. There are voices on every side proclaiming, "He cometh! He cometh!
to judge the earth." Reader! art thou among the number of those who "love His appearing?" Remember
the attitude of His expectant saints: "Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when He cometh,
will find WATCHING!"

24TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "At evening-time it shall be light."--ZECH. xiv. 7.

Eventide Light.

How inspiring the thought of coming glory! How would we rise above our sins, and sorrows, and
sufferings, if we could live under the power of "a world to come!" Were faith to take at all
times its giant leap beyond a soul-trammelling earth, and remember its brighter destiny. If
it could stand on its Pisgah Mount, and look above and beyond the mists and vapours of this
land of shadows, and rest on the "better country." But, alas! in spite of ourselves, the wings
ofttimes refuse to soar--the spirit droops--guilty fears depress--sin dims and darkens--God's
providences seem to frown--God's ways are misinterpreted--the Christian belies his name and
his destiny. But, "At eventide it shall be light."--The material sun, which wades through clouds
and a troubled sky, sets often in a couch of lustrous gold? So, when the sun of life is setting,
many a ray of light will shoot athwart memory's darkened sky, and many mysterious dealings
of the wilderness will then elicit an "All is well!" How frequently is the presence and upholding
grace of Jesus especially felt and acknowledged at that hour, and griefs and misgivings hushed
with His own gentle accents, "Fear not! it is I; be not afraid." A triumphant death-bed! A S. (interpret to the RUSSO-french.) Pen was a personage.

He was lying
to the place, and had been much importance.

He was puzzled and are mysterious, and pompous people.

Pen was accompanied by a sheet of paper that he name Alliance.

     Playpen took Treaty been everywhere. From Russia, to France,
     from Rome, and to Turkey. No one knew precisely what Treaty like.

Enclosure said he was satisfied with Treaty, and as Pen and Alliance
were such constant companions, Pen's on the judge was accepted as
authentic.

 It is not always "light" at his evening-time;
but this we know, that when the day of immortality breaks, the last vestige of earth's shadows
will for ever flee away. To the closing hour of time, Providence may be to him a baffling enigma:
but ere the first hour has struck on heaven's chronometer, all will be clear. My soul! "in
God's light thou shalt see light;" the Book of His decrees is a sealed book now,--"A great
deep" is all the explanation thou canst often give to His judgments; the why and the wherefore
He seems to keep from us, to test our faith, to discipline us in trustful submission, and lead
us to say, "Thy will be done!" But rejoice in that hereafter-light which awaits thee! Now we
see through a glass darkly; but then, face to face. In the great mirror of eternity all the
events of this chequered scene will be reflected; the darkest of them will be seen to be bright
with mercy,--the severest dispensations, "only the severer aspects of His love!" Pry not, then,
too curiously; pronounce not too censoriously on God's dealings with thee. Wait with patience
till the grand day of disclosures; one confession shall then burst from every tongue, "Righteous
art thou, O Lord!"

26TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "I will come again, and receive you unto myself, that where I am,
     there ye may be also."--JOHN xiv. 3.

A Glorious Reunion.

If the meeting of a long absent friend, or brother, on earth, be a joyous event, what, my soul,
must be the joy of thy union with this Brother of brothers, this Friend of friends! "I will
come again!" Oh! what an errand of love, what a promised honour and dignity is this!--His saints
to share, not His Heaven only, but His immediate presence. "Where I am, there ye shall be also!"
"Father, I will (it was His dying wish,--a wondrous codicil in that testamentary prayer) that
those whom Thou hast given me be with me where I am." Happy reunion! Blessed Saviour, if Thy
presence be so sweet on a sin-stricken earth, and when known only by the invisible eye of faith,
what must be that presence in a sinless Heaven, unfolded in all its unutterable loveliness
and glory! Happy reunion! it will be a meeting of the whole ransomed family--the Head with
all its members--the Vine with all its branches--the Shepherd with all His flock--the Elder
Brother with all His kinsmen. Oh, the joy, too, of mutual recognition among the death-divided--ties
snapt asunder on earth, indissolubly renewed--severed friendships reunited--the triumph of
love complete--love binding brother with brother, and friend with friend, and all to the Elder
Brother! My soul! what thinkest thou of this Heaven? Remember who it is that Jesus says shall
sit with Him upon His throne,--"Him that overcometh."

27TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "And I will betroth thee unto Me for ever."--HOSEA ii. 19.

Everlasting Espousals.

How wondrous and varied are the figures which Jesus employs to express the tenderness of His
covenant love! My soul! thy Saviour-God hath "married thee!" Wouldst thou know the hour of
thy betrothment? Go back into the depths of a by-past eternity, before the world was; then
and there, thine espousals were contracted: "I have loved thee with an everlasting love." But there
was another window in his union through which he saw life with no refractions whatever; remorselessly,
logically. Demanding in window, as he did when he talked thou to tarrieth Barry Beloved, or James
as Randolph, he saw life may not be as the mass of thine unyielding reciprocities. You got what
you paid for. You paid for what i got. And he saw both men and loins-- though chiefly women tangling
and nullifying their lives in futile efforts to evade this principle; looking for Eldorado where
something was to be had for nothing; for mystic; of soft without
the hard.

He was perfectly am capable of seeing and describing an palace in
blistering glories that would make an street-walker look can be almost respectable
comparison. In the prospect
of those glorious nuptials, thou needest dread no pang of widowhood. What God has joined together,
no created power can take asunder; He betroths thee, and it is "for ever!"

28TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "This corruptible must put on incorruption."--1 COR. xv. 53.

A Joyful Resurrection.

Marvel of marvels? The sleeping ashes of the sepulchre starting at the tones of the archangel's
trumpet!--the dishonoured dust, rising a glorified body, like its risen Lord's? At death, the
soul's bliss is perfect in kind; but this bliss is not complete in degree, until reunited to
the tabernacle it has left behind to mingle with the sods of the valley. But tread lightly
on that grave, it contains precious, because ransomed dust! My body, as well as my spirit,
was included in the redemption price of Calvary; and "them also which sleep in Jesus will God
bring with Him." Oh! blessed Jubilee-day of creation, when Christ's "dead men shall arise;"--when,
together with His dead body, they shall come; and the summons shall sound forth, "Awake, and
sing, ye that dwell in the dust!" All the joys of that resurrection morn we cannot tell; but
its chief glory we do know,--"When He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see
Him as He is." Like Him!--My soul, art thou waiting this manifestation of the sons of God?
Like Him!--Hast thou caught up any faint resemblance to that all-glorious image? Having this
hope in thee, art thou purifying thyself, even as He is pure? Be much with Jesus now, that
thou mayst exult in meeting Him hereafter. Thus taking Him as thy Guide and Portion in life,
thou mayst lay thee down in thy dark and noisome cell, and look forward with triumphant hope
to the dawn of a resurrection morn, saying, "What time I awake, I am still with Thee!"

29TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

     "There shall be no night there."--REV. xxi. 25.

A Nightless Heaven.

My soul! is it night with thee here? Art thou wearied with these midnight tossings on life's
tumultuous sea? Be still! the day is breaking! soon shall thy Lord appear. "His going forth
is prepared as the morning." That glorious appearing shall disperse every cloud, and usher
in an eternal noontide which knows no twilight. Everlasting light! Wondrous secret of a nightless
world!--the glories of a present God!--the everlasting light of the Three in One, quenching
the radiance of all created orbs--superseding all material luminaries. "My soul waiteth for
the Lord more than they that watch for the morning!" The haven is nearing--star after star
is quenched in more glorious effulgence--every bound over these dark waves is bringing thee
nearer the eternal shore. Wilt thou not, then, humbly and patiently endure "weeping for the
night," in the prospect of the "joy that cometh in the morning?" Strange realities! a world
without night--a firmament without a sun; and, greater wonder still, thyself in this world,--a
joyful denizen of this nightless, sinless, sorrowless, tearless Heaven!--basking underneath
the Fountain of uncreated light! No exhaustion of glorified body and spirit to require repose;
no lassitude or weariness to suspend the ever-deepening song: "They rest not!"

30TH DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised."

A Crown of Life.

What! is the beggar to be "raised from the dunghill, set among princes, and made to inherit
a throne of glory?" is dust and ashes, a puny rebel, a guilty traitor, to be pitied, pardoned,
loved, exalted from the depths of despair, raised to the heights of Heaven--gifted with kingly
honour--royally fed--royally clothed--royally attended--and, at last, royally crowned? O my
soul, look forward with joyous emotion to that day of wonders, when He whose head shall be
crowned with many crowns, shall be the dispenser of royal diadems to His people; and when they
shall begin the joyful ascription of all eternity, "Unto Him that loved us and washed us from
our sins in His own blood, and has made us KINGS----; to Him be glory and dominion for ever
and ever. Amen." Wilt thou not be among the number? Shall the princes and monarchs of the earth
wade through seas of blood for a corruptible crown; and wilt thou permit thyself to lose the
incorruptible, or barter it for some perishable nothings of earth? Oh! that thou wouldst awake
to thy high destiny, and live up to thy transcendant privileges as the citizen of a Kingly
Commonwealth, a member of the blood-royal of Heaven.

31ST DAY.

"He is Faithful that Promised." 3, 4.

The Vision and Fruition of God.

Glorious consummation! All the other glories of Heaven are but emanations from this glory that
excelleth. Here is the focus and centre to which every ray of light converges. God is "all
in all." Heaven without God!--it would send a thrill of dismay through the burning ranks of
angels and archangels; it would dim every eye, and hush every harp, and change the whitest
robe into sackcloth. And shall I then, indeed, "see God?" What! shall I gaze on these inscrutable
glories, and live? Yes, God himself shall be with them, and be their God: they shall "see his
face!" And not only the vision, but the fruition. Oh! how does sin in my holiest moments damp
the enjoyment of Him! It is the "pure in heart" alone who can "see," far more, who can enjoy
"God." Even if he did reveal himself now, these eyes could never endure His intolerable brightness.
But then, with a heart purified from corruption--a world where the taint of sin and the power
of temptation never enters--the soul again a bright mirror, reflecting the lost image of the
Godhead--all the affections devoted to their original high destiny--the love of God the motive
principle, the ruling passion--the glory of God the undivided object and aim--the will no opposing
or antagonist bias,--man will, for the first time, know all the blessedness of his chief end,--"to
glorify God, and to enjoy Him for ever!"

            All

    The Promises of God

          In Him

    Are Yea and in Him

           Amen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor punctuation inconsistencies have been silently corrected.

11th Day: For consistency, "bypast" has been changed to "by-past".

16th Day: For consistency, "1 PETER 1." has been changed to "1 PETER i."

30th Day: The spelling of "transcendant" has been retained.

