About 2 P.M. Commodore Payne, R.N., came to my quarters and showed me a paraphrased cable he
had received from the War Office. The cable authorised the immediate dispatch of half my battalion
to the front, subject to the approval of the commanding officer. It seems to me they might
have plucked up courage enough to decide the matter for themselves, instead of putting the
responsibility upon the local commander. As it was left to me, however, I gave the necessary
orders at once. That very night, August 5, I marched through Vladivostok to entrain my detachment.
It consisted of 500 fully equipped infantry and a machine-gun section of forty-three men with
four heavy-type maxims. Leaving my second in command, Major F.J. Browne, in charge of the Base,
I marched with the men with full pack. The four miles, over heavy, dirty roads, were covered
in fair time, though many of the men became very exhausted, and at the end of the march I found
myself carrying four rifles, while other officers carried packs in addition to their own kit.

The train was composed of the usual hopeless-looking Russian cattle-trucks for the men, with
tiers of planks for resting and sleeping on. A dirty second-class car was provided for the
Commanding Officer and his Staff, and a well-lighted first-class bogey car of eight compartments
for the British Military Representative, who was merely travelling up to see the sights. When
I got to the front I found a first-class car retained by every little officer who commanded
a dozen Cossacks, but I proudly raised the Union Jack, to denote the British Headquarters,
on the dirtiest and most dilapidated second-class contraption that could be found on the line.
But of course we meant business; we were not out for pleasure.

I was advised before I started from Vladivostok that Nikolsk, the junction of the Manchurian
and Central Siberian Railways, was the most important strategical point on the South Siberian
end of the line, and that though the position on the Ussurie was pretty hopeless and retirement
might take place at any moment, we were not in any circumstances to retire below Nikolsk. The
place to which we were to retire and take up a new position had been already decided--a line
just below Spascoe, with Lake Hanka on the left and a line of forest-covered mountains on the
right.

We arrived at Nikolsk in the early morning, but the platform was crowded with inhabitants and
two guards of honour, Czech and Cossack, with band, which mistook "Rule Britannia" for the
National Anthem. I was introduced to all the officers, the British Vice-Consul, Mr. Ledwards,
and his energetic wife. Breakfast was served to the men by the other corps, and my officers
received the hospitality of the good Consul and Mrs. Ledwards. Then a march through the town,
to show the inhabitants that the long-sought-for Allied assistance had really arrived at last.

It appears that a very sanguine French officer had travelled over the line some months previously
and had made lavish promises of Allied support, which accounts, perhaps, for my previous orders
received at Hong-Kong towards the end of 1917. The Allies had decided to make a much earlier
effort to reconstruct the Russian line against their German enemies, but, like all Allied efforts,
their effective action had been frustrated by divided counsels and stupid national jealousy.

It was the prospect of Falkenhayn, with the huge army of half a million men, flushed with its
recent easy victory over Rumania, being freed for employment on the French front, that caused
our hurried over-late expedition to Siberia. If the effort had been made at the right time
the Russian people and soldiery would not have become so demoralised and hopeless as they had
when I arrived, and millions of lives would have been saved from untold tortures. A famous
statesman once sternly admonished his colleagues for their fatal policy of doing nothing until
it was too late; in this case he himself is open to the same censure.

At Nikolsk had recently been fought an important battle between the Czechs and the Terrorists,
and we were shown a series of photographs of horribly mutilated Czech soldiers who had fallen
into the hands of the Bolshevik army as prisoners of war. By a section of people at home the
Bolsheviks are thought to be a party of political and democratic idealists, but when one is
brought face to face with their work they are then proved to be a disgusting gang of cut-throats,
whose sole business in life appears to be to terrorise and rob the peasant and worker and make
orderly government impossible.

We received equally warm welcomes at many other stations, and at length we arrived at Svagena,
which is the last fairly large town before Kraevesk, the station without a town, and very near
the range of hostile artillery. Here quite a full-dress programme was gone through by the Czech
band and the Czech and Cossack soldiers, ending with a short march past, and speeches by the
English and Russian commanders. My speech was made along the lines of my instructions, which
were mostly to this effect: We Britishers had entered the territory of Holy Russia not as conquerors,
but as friends. The Bolshevik power had made a corrupt and dishonourable compact with their
German masters, by which the territories of their Motherland, Russia, had been torn from her
side, and a huge indemnity wrung from her people. Under German pressure the Bolshevik Soviet
power had armed the released German and Austrian prisoners of war, and by means of this alien
force was terrorising the Russian people and destroying the country. The Allies looked upon
the Bolshevik power as a mere hireling branch of the autocratic German menace, and as such
the enemies of British and Russian democracy alike. We came to help, resurrect and reconstruct
the orderly elements of Russian life, and promised that if they would join us in this crusade,
we would never cease our efforts till both our enemies were utterly defeated. And here the
soldiers of the two nations made their pact, and though it was not an official utterance it
had official sanction. My troops retired to quarters at Spascoe, which I had made my forward base.

Next morning, August 7, with my interpreter, Lieutenant Bolsaar, I visited Kraevesk, and had
a long consultation with the commander at the front, Captain Pomerensiv. I personally examined
the line right up to the outposts, and eventually it was decided that I would send forward
243 men with four maxims to take up a position towards what I considered to be the threatened
part of our right flank. As I was senior officer, Captain Pomerensiv handed the command of
this front over to me, promising all help.

Once in the saddle I asked for intelligence reports from all directions, and found it impossible
for the enemy to make a frontal attack down the narrow space of the railway, flanked as it
was on both sides by impassable marshes. The enemy centre was at Shmakovka, the place from
which the Czechs had been forced to retire: that day, however, he had been observed moving
a company of about 180 men with three machine guns along the road towards Uspenkie, a small
town situated on our extreme right front. After consultation with Captain Stephan, Czech commander,
and Ataman Kalmakoff, commanding the Cossacks, I decided to take the necessary steps to destroy
this recently formed outpost. Ataman Kalmakoff had that morning announced to me his intention
to leave my front and make a wide detour on the right behind the hills, and join his Cossack
friends at Iman. I discovered that he was dissatisfied with the lack of enterprise hitherto
shown on this front, and had decided to make a raid "on his own" on the rear of the enemy.
But the moment I stated my intention to mop up Uspenkie he fell into line, and forgot all about
his previous ill-humour. He took up an advanced position at Olhanka, reconnoitred the Uspenkie
position the next day, and unmasked the Bolshevik formation, with a loss of two horses and
a Cossack badly wounded. I formed my plans on his observations.

My scheme was to advance one company of Czech troops from Khamerovka to Olhanka, the Ataman's
most forward post on my right front, where they were to prepare a small entrenched camp. I
would also advance 200 infantry with two machine guns the first night from Kraevesk to Khamerovka.

The next day I ordered 200 men to entrain from Spascoe to Kraevesk to act as a reserve. They
were to night march to Khamerovka, and occupy the place of my forward party, who would advance
by night and join the Cossacks and Czech troops at Olhanka. I would be with the advanced group
and make a daylight examination of the post to be attacked, and be joined at night by my second
detachment from Khamerovka. By this means I should have had 400 British rifles, a machine-gun
section of forty-three men with four maxims, a company of Czech infantry of about 200 men,
and last, but by no means least, Ataman Kalmakoff with about 400 Cossack cavalry--a total of
about 1,000 men. I ordered the two roads along which any reinforcements for the enemy post
must pass to be patrolled at night and also closely observed during the day.

I had drawn up my plan of attack and the first stage of the operation had actually been executed,
when I was brought to a sudden standstill by a piece of fussy interference.

There was no linguist in my battalion capable of speaking Russian sufficiently well for my
purpose, hence I had to seek the services of an agent of the British Military Representative
at "Vlady." This agent returned to "Vlady" directly the necessary arrangements for the attack
had been completed. I ought to have compelled him to remain with me, but as he appeared to
favour the proposed forward movement I did not scent any danger to my purely defensive policy.
He did not wait until he had reported to the Military Representative, but when only half way
telegraphed from Nikolsk warning me that in his opinion this forward movement should not take
place, as he had already received important information which altered the entire situation.
I ignored this interference of an understraper, but a few hours later received definite instructions
from the Political Representative, that I was to stand purely on the defensive, and not move
an inch beyond my position. I was compelled to accept the instruction, but was disgusted with
the decision. It proved to me in a forcible way what I had never realised before, how impossible
it is for a man at a distance, however clever he may be, to decide a military problem, limited
in locality and isolated, as was this case, from questions of public policy. When the one purpose
of a force is the protection or maintenance of a limited front, only the man on the spot can
be the judge of what is necessary to accomplish that purpose.

My actual plan of operations was very simple. Having assembled my force at Olhanka, I should
at dusk have occupied the roads leading from Shmakovka to Uspenkie, and from Uspenkie to the
monastery by cavalry, thus making it impossible for enemy reinforcements to reach the post
to be attacked under the cover of night. My own troops, together with the Czech company, would
have approached the position from the south, and during the hours of darkness have taken up
a line within rifle- and machine-gun range. At daybreak fire would have been opened from such
cover as could be obtained, and while our eight machine-gunners barraged the post, the infantry
would have advanced rapidly on the south front at the same time as the Cossacks charged in
from the rear. The result would have been as certain as anything in war could be, and, as since
then I have met the Bolsheviks in open fight, I am convinced that this small effort might have
had decisive political and military influence in Eastern Siberia. But the "politicals" in uniform
are not always noted for daring, and in this case were very timid indeed, and our position
grew worse from day to day.

I made the best dispositions possible in view of my cautious instructions, and soon every man,
British, Czech and Cossack, was imbued with a determination to baulk the enemy's eastward ambitions
at all costs. The numbers I had brought to their assistance were nothing compared to the influence
of the sight of the poor, frayed and dirty Union Jack that floated from my Headquarters, and
the songs of the Tommies round the mosquito fires in the bivouac at night. These two factors
together changed the whole atmosphere surrounding the valiant, ill-fed and ill-equipped Czech
soldiers.

The day following the night I had fixed for the destruction of the enemy outpost two companies
of enemy infantry and three guns marched out of Shmakovka as a reinforcement to the debatable
position. I watched through my binoculars their slow movement along the dusty road. I judged
what the enemy's intentions were, and knew also that I was powerless to prevent them. He quickly
placed his guns in position, and the following day sent a few trial shots at Kalmakoff's position
at Olhanka; after getting the range he ceased fire. About 11 P.M. the flash of guns was observed
on our right, which continued until midnight. At 12.30 the field telephone informed me that
the Czech company I had pushed forward, together with Kalmakoff's Cossacks, had been shelled
out of their positions at Olhanka and were retreating along the Khamerovka and Runovka roads.
I disregarded the imperative instructions I had received from "Vlady" not to move, and advanced
my detachment by a midnight march to occupy a position where I could protect the bridges and
cover the retreat of our friends. Had I failed to perform this simple soldierly duty we should
have placed ourselves in a ridiculous position in the eyes of our Russian and Czech comrades.
But though I acted against orders, I think in the circumstances I was fully justified in doing so.

The Czech company retired safely behind the river at Khamerovka, and Kalmakoff's Cossacks took
up a new position at Runovka, where he could still hang on to the skirts of the enemy and keep
constant observation upon his movements. I retired to a bivouac of branches and marsh grass
behind "Lookout Hill," where for a fortnight I carried on constant warfare against infected
waters and millions of mosquitoes, without transport, tents, nets, or any of the ordinary equipment
required by such an expedition. I admit that my ignorance of the conditions which might be
expected to prevail in Siberia was colossal, but so also was that of those whose duty it was
to have made themselves acquainted with the situation.

At Hong-Kong I had suggested that we might find tents useful, but the proposal was turned down,
either because there was none or because they were considered quite unnecessary. I asked timidly
whether I should require mosquito nets, and well remember the scorn with which the Chief of
Staff greeted my question. "Who ever heard of mosquitoes in Siberia?" Well, the fact is that
while there are a few in the tropics, there are swarms of these pests all over Siberia. In
the tropics their size prevents them from doing much damage, except as malaria carriers. In
Siberia they take the shape of big, ugly winged spiders, which will suck your blood through
a thick blanket as easily as if you had nothing on. They have a knack of fixing themselves
in one's hair below the cap and raising swollen ridges round one's head until it is painful
to wear any headgear at all. In my case my wrists were puffed out level with my hands. After
sleeping, one woke unable to open one's eyes. The absence of any protection wore out the patience
and nerves of the men, and the searching Bolshevik shells were accepted as a welcome diversion.

No blame was attached to my chiefs; I was fully equipped as a B1 Garrison battalion, and as
such I was dispatched to Vladivostok. I was sent there to perform a certain duty, but on arrival
was at once called upon to perform another of quite a different character. I had to carry out
the duties of a first-line service battalion with the personnel and equipment of second grade
garrison troops. Whether those with whom the order originated in London were aware of the nature
of the duty I was expected to perform I do not know; but it is obviously dangerous to send
British troops of any category to an actual scene of operations and expect them to stand idle,
uninterested spectators of the struggles of their friends. They should either be kept away
or sent ready for all emergencies.

CHAPTER II

BOLSHEVIK SUCCESSES

The outflanking movement by the enemy which I had anticipated from the day I first took over
the command, and which I had made my plans to counteract, was now in full swing, but so far
no damage to our main position had been effected.

General Detriks visited the front and informed me that the Allied Council had chosen Major
Pichon, of the French detachment which was timed to arrive next day, to take over the command
of this front. After a personal inspection he expressed himself as satisfied with my dispositions
and suggested that I should still retain the command, and that he would see that the decision
relating to Major Pichon's appointment was reconsidered in view of the changed conditions he
now found. But I could see that a revision of the Allied Council's resolution might affect
French amour propre, and place both Council and commander in an anomalous position. I therefore
requested General Detriks to take no steps to alter the resolution of the Allied Council, and
stated that I would gladly serve under Major Pichon or any other commander elected by the Council.
British prestige, I added, was too well established for such trifles to be considered when
the only reason for our presence was to help our Czech and Russian friends. He, however, pointed
out that it was impossible to allow a British colonel to serve under a French major, and that
my command must be considered quite an independent one.

Major Pichon arrived on August 18, 1918, and I formally handed over the command. He asked me
to consider myself as jointly responsible for the operations on that front, and said that we
would from time to time consult together as to any action that might be necessary. I found
him both polite and considerate and most anxious to meet the wishes of the several parts of
his command; in fact, he was a gentleman whom it was a pleasure to meet and work with. His
battalion-commander, Major Malley, was equally urbane, and together I think we made a very
happy combination.

The great outstanding personality of this front was Captain Stephan, the commander of the 8th
Czech Battalion. Originally a brewer of Prague, he had been compelled on the outbreak of war
to join the Austrian Army. He had done his duty as a soldier of that effete Monarchy, been
captured by the Russians, and while a prisoner of war had been liberated by the Revolution;
he was one of the men who had organised their fellow exiles and offered their services to France
and the Allied cause, believing that in the success of England's arms was to be found the liberation
of their beloved Bohemia. I asked him why he had offered his services to France, and his answer
and his compatriots' answer was always the same: "It is to great England we always look to
as our saviour, but the German armies are in France, and to meet our enemies on the field of
battle was, and always will be, the first ambition of every Czech soldier, for if England says
we are a nation, we know we shall be."

I must say I felt flattered by the almost childlike confidence which Pole, Czech and Russian
had in the name and honour of England. We were undoubtedly the only nation represented on this
front and in Siberia generally against whom not one word of suspicion was directed. I naturally
expected that the prestige of France, in view of her pre-war alliance with Russia, would be
very great, but from the closest observation of all ranks of Russian society I think it would
be impossible to say which was most suspected in the Russian mind, France, America or Japan.
The presence, however, of French soldiers, and the politeness of the French officers, may do
much to generate a warmer feeling in Russia towards France. The presence of the soldiers of
the Rising Sun, and the manners and general attitude of her officers towards the Siberian population,
will, if persisted in, certainly result in changing fear to universal hate.

On the afternoon of his arrival an important movement of enemy forces on our right front caused
Major Pichon to ride through my bivouac, when he was formally introduced to the officers and
men under my command. Later he informed me that he did not consider the movement sufficiently
important to make any change in our dispositions necessary. Towards dusk Captain Stephan, accompanied
by his adjutant, rode up and reported an important movement of enemy forces towards Runovka,
our solitary remaining position on the opposite side of the river, which formed the natural
defence and limit of our right flank. Again I was asked to move forward to render such assistance
as might be necessary in case our right were forced to retire across the river. We marched
forward in the darkness with the flash of the Bolshevik guns lighting up the way, but as their
attention was entirely directed to our outpost at Runovka, we were as safe as if we had been
in Hyde Park. The Czechs have a fatal preference for woods as a site for defensive works, and
they selected a wood on the left flank of the road for my position. I rejected their plan,
and chose a position about two hundred yards in front of the wood at a point where the roads
cross, and a fold in the ground, aided by the tall marsh grass, almost entirely hid us from
the observation-post of the enemy. Millions of mosquitoes, against which we had no protection
whatever, attacked us as we began to entrench, but officers and men all worked with a will,
and by dawn we had almost completed what was probably the best system of field-works so far
constructed on this front. How we wished we might see the enemy advance over the river and
attempt to deploy within range of our rifles! He had by vigorous artillery fire driven our
remaining Czech company across the river, and so had become complete master of the other side.

It was here that a second chance came to deal effectively with this attempt to outflank our
entire position. A sudden dash across the bend of the river in the north-eastern corner at
Khamerovka on to the unprotected line of enemy communications would have resulted in a complete
frustration of the enemy plans, with a fair prospect of his decisive defeat. I even suggested
this, but had to confess that I had moved forward twice, contrary to my imperative orders,
and that unless I chose to run the risk of court-martial, if not dismissal, I could not join
in the attack, though I would come to the rescue. This was too ambiguous for the other leaders,
and the opportunity was allowed to pass.

