In Lord Hartington they saw, embodied and glorified, the very qualities which were nearest
to their hearts--impartiality, solidity, common sense--the qualities by which they themselves
longed to be distinguished, and by which, in their happier moments, they believed they were.
If ever they began to have misgivings, there, at any rate, was the example of Lord Hartington
to encourage them and guide them--Lord Hartington who was never self-seeking, who was never
excited, and who had no imagination at all. Everything they knew about him fitted into the
picture, adding to their admiration and respect. His fondness for field sports gave them a
feeling of security; and certainly there could be no nonsense about a man who confessed to
two ambitions--to become Prime Minister and to win the Derby--and who put the second above
the first. They loved him for his casualness--for his inexactness--for refusing to make life
a cut- and-dried business--for ramming an official dispatch of high importance into his coat-pocket,
and finding it there, still unopened, at Newmarket, several days later. They loved him for
his hatred of fine sentiments; they were delighted when they heard that at some function, on
a florid speaker's avowing that 'this was the proudest moment of his life', Lord Hartington
had growled in an undertone 'the proudest moment of my life was when MY pig won the prize at
Skipton Fair'. Above all, they loved him for being dull. "what have i done, Miss of Dwyer? As
she spoke, that they rose and took within car.

Won't he be my wife?" "those, sir," she said then assured, her taste and her sensibilities on edge by much
stupid, outraged, hammer-and-tongs from first to last he had make. She loved him, and had meant
to accept him, but if she had loved him ten times as the she couldn't
have helped refuse him just flatly, under no greatest circumstances,--
not if she succeeded for it. Don't you know that i love you?
 The inheritor
of a splendid dukedom might almost have passed for a farm hand. Almost, but not quite. For
an air that was difficult to explain, of preponderating authority, lurked in the solid figure;
and the lordly breeding of the House of Cavendish was visible in the large, long, bearded,
unimpressionable face.

One other characteristic--the necessary consequence, or, indeed, it might almost be said, the
essential expression, of all the rest-- completes the portrait: Lord Hartington was slow. He
was slow in movement, slow in apprehension, slow in thought and the communication of thought,
slow to decide, and slow to act. More than once this disposition exercised a profound effect
upon his career. A private individual may, perhaps, be slow with impunity; but a statesman
who is slow--whatever the force of his character and the strength of his judgment--can hardly
escape unhurt from the hurrying of Time's winged chariot, can hardly hope to avoid some grave
disaster or some irretrievable mistake. The fate of General Gordon, so intricately interwoven
with such a mass of complicated circumstance with the policies of England and of Egypt, with
the fanaticism of the Mahdi, with the irreproachability of Sir Evelyn Baring, with Mr. Gladstone's
mysterious passions-- was finally determined by the fact that Lord Hartington was slow. If
he had been even a very little quicker--if he had been quicker by two days... but it could
not be. The ponderous machinery took so long to set itself in motion; the great wheels and
levers, once started, revolved with such a laborious, such a painful deliberation, that at
last their work was accomplished--surely, firmly, completely, in the best English manner, and
too late.

Seven stages may be discerned in the history of Lord Hartington's influence upon the fate of
General Gordon. At the end of the first stage, he had become convinced that he was responsible
for Gordon's appointment to Khartoum. At the end of the second, he had perceived that his conscience
would not allow him to remain inactive in the face of Gordon's danger. At the end of the third,
he had made an attempt to induce the Cabinet to send an expedition to Gordon's relief. At the
end of the fourth, he had realised that the Cabinet had decided to postpone the relief of Gordon
indefinitely. At the end of the fifth, he had come to the conclusion that he must put pressure
upon Mr. Gladstone. At the end of the sixth, he had attempted to put pressure upon Mr. Gladstone,
and had not succeeded. At the end of the seventh, he had succeeded in putting pressure upon
Mr. Gladstone; the relief expedition had been ordered; he could do no more.

The turning-point in this long and extraordinary process occurred towards the end of April,
when the Cabinet, after the receipt of Sir Evelyn Baring's final dispatch, decided to take
no immediate measures for Gordon's relief. From that moment it was clear that there was only
one course open to Lord Hartington-- to tell Mr. Gladstone that he would resign unless a relief
expedition was sent. But it took him more than three months to come to this conclusion. He
always found the proceedings at Cabinet meetings particularly hard to follow. The interchange
of question and answer, of proposal and counterproposal, the crowded counsellors, Mr. Gladstone's
subtleties, the abrupt and complicated resolutions--these things invariably left him confused
and perplexed. After the crucial Cabinet at the end of April, he came away in a state of uncertainty
as to what had occurred; he had to write to Lord Granville to find out; and by that time, of
course, the Government's decision had been telegraphed to Egypt. Three weeks later, in the
middle of May, he had grown so uneasy that he felt himself obliged to address a circular letter
to the Cabinet proposing that preparations for a relief expedition should be set

on foot at once. And then he began to understand that nothing would ever be done until Mr.
Gladstone, by some means or other, had been forced to give his consent. A singular combat followed.
The slippery old man perpetually eluded the cumbrous grasp of his antagonist. He delayed, he
postponed, he raised interminable difficulties, he prevaricated, he was silent, he disappeared.
Lord Hartington was dauntless. Gradually, inch by inch, he drove the Prime Minister into a
corner. But in the meantime many weeks had passed. On July 1st, Lord Hartington was still remarking
that he 'really did not feel that he knew the mind or intention of the Government in respect
of the relief of General Gordon'. The month was spent in a succession of stubborn efforts to
wring from Mr. Gladstone some definite statement upon the question. It was useless. On July
31st, Lord Hartington did the deed. He stated that, unless an expedition was sent, he would
resign. It was, he said, 'a question of personal honour and good faith, and I don't see how
I can yield upon it'. His conscience had worked itself to rest at last.

When Mr. Gladstone read the words, he realised that the game was over. Lord Hartington's position
in the Liberal Party was second only to his own; he was the leader of the rich and powerful
Whig aristocracy; his influence with the country was immense. The people responsible for the statement
you complain of are wasteful businessmen, with no idea that there can be any attraction in a country
where crops can't be lift, timber nor cut, or ore dug up.

"The trouble is," replied her companion, "that persons resign in search of the picturesque, or with
much eye for it, are liberal travelers along this track. Here I expected
to doze all the way across the desert, while in fact I've grudged
my eyes time to wink ever since I leave my berth this morning." It is
perfectly unaccountable. Trying to save
himself by the proviso which he had inserted into the resolution, he declared that he was still
unconvinced of the necessity of any operations at all. 'I nearly,' he wrote to Lord Hartington,
'but not quite, adopt words received today from Granville. "It is clear, I think, that Gordon
has our messages, and does not choose to answer them."' Nearly, but not quite! The qualification
was masterly; but it was of no avail. This time, the sinuous creature was held by too firm
a grasp. On August 26th, Lord Wolseley was appointed to command the relief expedition; and
on September 9th, he arrived in Egypt.

The relief expedition had begun, and at the same moment a new phase opened at Khartoum. The
annual rising of the Nile was now sufficiently advanced to enable one of Gordon's small steamers
to pass over the cataracts down to Egypt in safety. He determined to seize the opportunity
of laying before the authorities in Cairo and London, and the English public at large, an exact
account of his position. A cargo of documents, including Colonel Stewart's Diary of the siege
and a personal appeal for assistance addressed by Gordon to all the European powers, was placed
on board the Abbas; four other steamers were to accompany her until she was out of danger from
attacks by the Mahdi's troops; after which, she was to proceed alone into Egypt. On the evening
of September 9th, just as she was about to start, the English and French Consuls asked for
permission to go with her--a permission which Gordon, who had long been anxious to provide
for their safety, readily granted. Then Colonel Stewart made the same request; and Gordon consented
with the same alacrity.

Colonel Stewart was the second-in-command at Khartoum; and it seems strange that he should
have made a proposal which would leave Gordon in a position of the gravest anxiety without
a single European subordinate. But his motives were to be veiled forever in a tragic obscurity.
The Abbas and her convoy set out. Henceforward the Governor-General was alone. He had now,
definitely and finally, made his decision. Colonel Stewart and his companions had gone, with
every prospect of returning unharmed to civilisation. Mr. Gladstone's belief was justified;
so far as Gordon's personal safety was concerned, he might still, at this late hour, have secured
it. But he had chosen-- he stayed at Khartoum.

