AROUND THE WORLD ON A BICYCLE

        Volume II.

From Teheran To Yokohama

By Thomas Stevens

CONTENTS.

           CHAPTER I.                               PAGE
THE START FROM TEHERAN,  ........                   1

           CHAPTER II.
PERSIA AND THE MESHED PILGRIM ROAD, ......          34

           CHAPTER III.
PERSIA AND THE MESHED PILGRIM ROAD,......           43

           CHAPTER IV.
THROUGH KHORASSAN,..........                        65

           CHAPTER V.
MESHED THE HOLY,..........                          84

           CHAPTER VI.
THE UNBEATEN TRACKS Of KHORASSAN,......             109

           CHAPTER VII.
BEERJAND AND THE FRONTIER OF AFGHANISTAN, .. ..     135

           CHAPTER VIII
ACROSS THE "DESERT OF DESPAIR,".......              160

           CHAPTER  IX.
AFGHANISTAN,............                            181

           CHAPTER X.
ARRESTED AT FURRAH,.........                        197

           CHAPTER XI.
UNDER ESCORT TO HERAT,.........                     209

           CHAPTER XII.
TAKEN BACK TO PERSIA,.........                      230

           CHAPTER XIII.
ROUNDABOUT TO INDIA,......                          255

           CHAPTER XIV.
THROUGH INDIA,...........                           284

           CHAPTER XV.
DELHI AND AGRA,..........                           809

           CHAPTER XVI.
FROM AGRA TO SINGAPORE,........                     833

           CHAPTER XVII.
THROUGH CHINA,...........                           365

           CHAPTER XVIII.
DOWN THE KAN-KIANG VALLEY,........                  400

           CHAPTER XIX.
THROUGH JAPAN,............                          432

           CHAPTER XX.
THE HOME STRETCH,..........                         451

CAMBRIDGE, MASS., April 10, 1887.

FROM TEHERAN TO YOKOHAMA.

CHAPTER I.

THE START FROM TEHERAN.

The season of 1885-86 has been an exceptionally mild winter in the Persian capital. Up to Christmas
the weather was clear and bracing, sufficiently cool to be comfortable in the daytime, and
with crisp, frosty weather at night. The first snow of the season commenced falling while a
portion of the English colony were enjoying a characteristic Christmas dinner of roast-beef
and plum-pudding, at the house of the superintendent of the Indo-European Telegraph Station,
and during January and February, snow-storms, cold and drizzling rains alternated with brief
periods of clearer weather. When the sun shines from a cloudless sky in Teheran, its rays are
sometimes uncomfortably warm, even in midwinter; a foot of snow may have clothed the city and
the surrounding plain in a soft, white mantle during the night, but, asserting his supremacy
on the following morning, he will unveil the gray nakedness of the stony plain again by noon.
The steadily retreating snow line will be driven back-back over the undulating foot-hills,
and some little distance up the rugged slopes of the Elburz range, hard by, ere he retires
from view in the evening, rotund and fiery. This irregular snow-line has been steadily losing
ground, and retreating higher and higher up the mountain-slopes during the latter half of February,
and when March is ushered in, with clear sunny weather, and the mud begins drying up and the
various indications of spring begin to put in their appearance, I decide to make a start. Friends
residing here who have been mentioning April 15th as the date I should be justified in thinking
the unsettled weather at an end and pulling out eastward again, agree, in response to my anxious
inquiries, that it is an open spell of weather before the regular spring rains, that may possibly
last until I reach Meshed.

During the winter I have examined, as far as circumstances have permitted, the merits and demerits
of the different routes to the Pacific Coast, and have decided upon going through Turkestan
and Southern Siberia to the Amoor Valley, and thence either follow down the valley to Vladivostok
or strike across Mongolia to Pekin--the latter route by preference, if upon reaching Irkutsk
I find it to be practicable; if not practicable, then the Amoor Valley route from necessity.
This route I approve of, as it will not only take me through some of the most interesting country
in Asia, but will probably be a more straightaway continuous land-journey than any other. The
distance from Teheran to Vladivostok is some six thousand miles, and, well aware that six thousand
miles with a bicycle over Asiatic roads is a task of no little magnitude, I at once determine
upon taking advantage of the fair March weather to accomplish at least the first six hundred
miles of the journey between Teheran and Meshed, one of the holy cities of Persia. 

'Potentia eorum subito corruit.'"They, in Johnson's mutilated sentence,
refers to the boughs; in Bacon, to the Spartans; so that, in{ 15}
the first place, the Spartans are transformed into boughs, and, in
the next place, the boughs into fruit.

Detruncation, however, had nothing to do with this latter metamorphosis; and I am afraid this is
not a solitary instance of lexicographical incongruity. W. W. may assure himself that a windfall
is" whatever falls by the wind, or with similar suddenness or unexpectedness, whether bringing
good or ill. "And if he will take the trouble to refer to"

The Case of Impeachment of Waste, "quoted by MR. ARROWSMITH, Vol. vii., p. 375., he will find, only
a few lines before that gentleman's quotation begins,
a legal question at issue as to the right of property in windfalls.

Among other distinguishing qualities, Mr. M------shines in Teheran society as the only Briton
with sufficient courage to wear a chimney-pot hat. Although the writer has seen the "stove-pipe"
of the unsuspecting tenderfoot from the Eastern States made short work of in a far Western
town, and the occurrence seemed scarcely to be out of place there, I little expected to find
popular sentiment running in the same warlike groove, and asserting itself in the same destructive
manner in the little English community at Teheran. Such, however, is the grim fact, and I have
ventured to think that after this there is no disputing the common destiny of us Anglo-Saxons,
whatever clime, country, or government may at present claim us as its own. Having seen this
unfortunate headgear of our venerable and venerated forefathers shot as full of holes as a
colander in the West, I come to the East only to find it subjected to similar indignities here.
I happen to be present at the wanton destruction of Mr. M------'s second or third importation
from England, see it taken ruthlessly from his head, thrust through and through with a sword-stick,
and then made to play the unhappy and undignified part of a football so long as there is anything
left to kick at. More than our common language, methinks--more than common customs and traditions--more
than all those characteristic traits that distinguish us in common, and at the same time also
distinguish us from all other peoples--more than anything else, does this mutual spirit of
destructiveness, called into play by the sight of a stove-pipe hat, prove the existence of
a strong, resistless undercurrent of sympathy that is carrying the most distant outposts of
Anglo-Saxony merrily down the stream of time together, to some particular end; perchance a
glorious end, perchance an ignominious end, but certainly to an end that will not wear a stove-pipe
hat.

Mr. M------'s linguistic accomplishments include a fair knowledge of Russian, and he readily
accompanies me to the Russian Legation to interpret. The Russian Legation is situated down
in the old Oriental quarter (birds of a feather, etc.) of the city, and, for us at least, necessitated
the employment of a guide to find it. (I have seen no printed translation of this treatise.) (5.) MS. translation
of the fourth treatise of "The Way to Christ," viz.

"of
the Supersensual Life." This is a less accurate rendering than either
of the others above mentioned. "All the better-class Russians are delightfully
jolly and agreeable, much more agreeable to have dealings with than the same class of people
of any other country," he says, and with these favorable comments we reach the legation and
send up my letter. After waiting what we both consider an unnecessarily long time in the vestibule,
a full-faced, sensual-looking, or, in other words, well-to-do Persian-looking individual, in
the full costume of a Persian nobleman, comes out, bearing my letter unopened in his hand.
Bestowing upon us a barely perceptible nod, he walks straight on past, jumps into a carriage
at the door, and is driven off.

Mr. M------looks nonplussed at me, and I suppose I looked equally nonplussed at him; anyhow,
he proceeds to relieve his feelings in language anything but complimentary to the Russian Minister.
He's the--well, I've met scores of Russians, but--him, queer! I never saw a Russian act half
as queer as this before, never!"

"Small prospect of getting any assistance from this quarter," I suggest.

"Seems deucedly like it," assents Mr. M------. "I said, just now, that, being a Russian, he
was sure to be courteous and agreeable, if nothing else; but it seems as if there are exceptions
to this rule as to others;" and, talking together, we try to find consolation in the thought
that he may be merely eccentric, and turn out a very good sort of fellow after all. While thus
commenting, a liveried servant presents himself and motions for us to follow him in the wake
of the departing carriage. Following his guidance a short distance through the streets, he
leads us into the court-yard of a splendid Persian mansion, delivers us into the charge of
another liveried servant, who conducts us up a broad flight of marble stairs, at the top of
which he delivers us into the hands of yet a third flunky, who now escorts us into the most
gorgeously mirrored room it has ever been my fortune to see. The apartment is perfectly dazzling
in its glittering splendor; the floor is of highly polished marble, the walls consist of mirror-work
entirely, as also does the lofty, domed ceiling; not plain, large squares of looking-glass,
but mirrored surfaces of all shapes and sizes, pitched at every conceivable angle, form niches,
panels, and geometrical designs--yet each separate piece plays well its part in working out
the harmonious and decidedly pretty effect of the whole. All the furniture the large apartment
boasts is a crimson-and-gold divan or two, a few strips of rich carpet, and an ebony stand-table,
inlaid with mother-of-pearl; but suspended from the ceiling are several magnificent cut-glass
chandeliers. At night, when these Persian mirrored rooms are lit up, they present a scene of
barbaric splendor well calculated to delight the eye of the sumptuous Oriental; every tiny
square of glass reflects a point of light, and every larger one reproduces a chandelier; for
every lamp he lights, the Persian voluptuary finds himself surrounded by a thousand.

Seated on a divan toward one end of this splendid room, with an open box of cigarettes before
him, is the man who a few minutes ago passed us by on the other side and drove off in his carriage.
Offering us cigarettes, he bids us be seated, and then, in very fair English (for he has once
been Persian Minister to England), introduces himself as "Nasr-i-Mulk," the Shah's Minister
for Foreign Affairs; the same gentleman, it will be remembered, to whom I was introduced on
the morning of my appearance before the Shah. (Vol. I.) I readily recognize him now, and he
recognizes me, and asks me when I am going to leave Teheran; but in the gloomy vestibule of
the other palace, my own memory of his face and figure was certainly at fault. It turns out,
after all, that the wretch whom we paid to guide us to the Russian Legation, in his ignorance
guided us into the Persian Foreign Office.

"I knew--yes, dash it all! I knew he wasn't the Russian Minister the moment I saw him," says
Mr. M------as we take our departure from the glittering room. His confidence in his knowledge
of Russian character, which a moment ago had dropped down to zero, revives wonderfully upon
discovering our ludicrous mistake, and, small as he is, it is all I can do to keep up with
him as we follow the guide Nasr-i-Mulk has kindly sent to show us to the Russian Legation.
A few minutes' walk brings us to our destination, where we find, in the person of General Melnikoff,
a gentleman possessing the bland and engaging qualities of a good diplomatist in a most eminent
degree. 

His lordship had spoken too often, and began to be heard with a civil but visible impatience.
Under these circumstances he was attacked in the manner we have mentioned. He rose from the woolsack,
and advanced slowly to the place from which the chancellor generally addresses the house; then fixing
on the duke the look of Jove when he grasps the thunder,'I am amazed,'he said, in a level tone of voice,'at
the attack the noble duke has made on me. For several minutes we discuss,
through the medium of Mr. M------, my journey from San Francisco to Teheran, and its proposed
continuation to the Pacific; and during the greater part, of the interview General Melnikoff
holds me quite affectionately by the hand. "Wonderful!" he says, "wonderful! nobody ever made
half such a remarkable journey; my whole heart will go with you until your journey is completed."

Mr. M------looks on and interprets between us, with a fixed and confident didn't-I-tell-you-so
smile, that forms a side study of no mean quality. "There will be no trouble about getting
permission to go through Turkestan?" I feel constrained to inquire; for such excessive display
of affection and bonhommie on the Russian diplomat's part could scarce fail to arouse suspicions.
"Oh dear, no!" he replies. "Oh dear, no! I will telegraph to General Komaroff, at Askabad,
to remove all obstacles, so that nothing shall interfere with your progress." Having received
this positive assurance, we take our leave, Mr. M-------reminding me gleefully of what he had
said about the Russians being the most agreeable people on earth, and the few remaining clouds
of doubt about getting the road through Turkestan happily dissipated by the Russian Minister's
assurances of assistance.

Searching through the bazaar, I succeed, after some little trouble, in finding and purchasing
a belt-full of Russian gold, sufficient to carry me clear through to Japan; and on the morning
of March 10th I bid farewell to the Persian capital, well satisfied at the outlook ahead. While
packing up my traps on the evening before starting, it begins raining for the first time in
ten days; but it clears off again before midnight, and the morning opens bright and promising
as ever. Six members of the telegraph staff have determined to accompany me out to Katoum-abad,
the first chapar-station on the Meshed pilgrim road, a distance of seven farsakhs. "Hodge-podge,"
the cook, and Meshedi Ali, the gholam, were sent ahead yesterday with plenty of substantial
refreshments and sun-dry mysterious black bottles--for it is the intention of the party to
remain at Katoum-abad overnight, and give me a proper send-off from that point to-morrow morning.

