"Oh, a LOT of people WE never heard of before--the shoemaker and horse-doctor and knife-grinder
kind, you know--clodhoppers from goodness knows where that never handled a sword or fired a
shot in their lives--but the soldiership was in them, though they never had a chance to show
it.  But here they take their right place, and Caesar and Napoleon and Alexander have to take
a back seat.  The greatest military genius our world ever produced was a brick-layer from somewhere
back of Boston--died during the Revolution--by the name of Absalom Jones.  Wherever he goes,
crowds flock to see him. You see, everybody knows that if he had had a chance he would have
shown the world some generalship that would have made all generalship before look like child's
play and 'prentice work.  But he never got a chance; he tried heaps of times to enlist as a
private, but he had lost both thumbs and a couple of front teeth, and the recruiting sergeant
wouldn't pass him.  However, as I say, everybody knows, now, what he WOULD have been,--and
so they flock by the million to get a glimpse of him whenever they hear he is going to be anywhere.
Caesar, and Hannibal, and Alexander, and Napoleon are all on his staff, and ever so many more
great generals; but the public hardly care to look at THEM when HE is around.  Boom!  There
goes another salute.  The barkeeper's off quarantine now."

Sandy and I put on our things.  Then we made a wish, and in a second we were at the reception-place.
We stood on the edge of the ocean of space, and looked out over the dimness, but couldn't make
out anything.  Close by us was the Grand Stand--tier on tier of dim thrones rising up toward
the zenith.  From each side of it spread away the tiers of seats for the general public.  They
spread away for leagues and leagues--you couldn't see the ends.  They were empty and still,
and hadn't a cheerful look, but looked dreary, like a theatre before anybody comes--gas turned
down.  Sandy says,- -

"We'll sit down here and wait.  We'll see the head of the procession come in sight away off
yonder pretty soon, now."

Says I,--

"It's pretty lonesome, Sandy; I reckon there's a hitch somewheres. Nobody but just you and
me--it ain't much of a display for the barkeeper."

"Don't you fret, it's all right.  There'll be one more gun-fire-- then you'll see.

In a little while we noticed a sort of a lightish flush, away off on the horizon.

"Head of the torchlight procession," says Sandy.

It spread, and got lighter and brighter:  soon it had a strong glare like a locomotive headlight;
it kept on getting brighter and brighter till it was like the sun peeping above the horizon-line
at sea--the big red rays shot high up into the sky.

"Keep your eyes on the Grand Stand and the miles of seats--sharp!" says Sandy, "and listen
for the gun-fire."

Just then it burst out, "Boom-boom-boom!" like a million thunderstorms in one, and made the
whole heavens rock.  Then there was a sudden and awful glare of light all about us, and in
that very instant every one of the millions of seats was occupied, and as far as you could
see, in both directions, was just a solid pack of people, and the place was all splendidly
lit up!  It was enough to take a body's breath away.  Sandy says,--

"That is the way we do it here.  No time fooled away; nobody straggling in after the curtain's
up.  Wishing is quicker work than travelling.  A quarter of a second ago these folks were millions
of miles from here.  When they heard the last signal, all they had to do was to wish, and here
they are."

The prodigious choir struck up,--

We long to hear thy voice, To see thee face to face.

It was noble music, but the uneducated chipped in and spoilt it, just as the congregations
used to do on earth.

