WITHOUT A HOME

E. P. ROE

ILLUSTRATED

PREFACE

Just ten years ago I took my first hesitating and dubious steps toward authorship. My reception
on the part of the public has been so much kinder than I expected, and the audience that has
listened to my stories with each successive autumn has been so steadfast and loyal, that I
can scarcely be blamed for entertaining a warm and growing regard for these unseen, unknown
friends. Toward indifferent strangers we maintain a natural reticence, but as acquaintance
ripens into friendship there is a mutual impulse toward an exchange of confidences. In the
many kind letters received I have gratefully recognized this impulse in my readers, and am
tempted by their interest to be a little garrulous concerning my literary life, the causes
which led to it, and the methods of my work. Those who are indifferent can easily skip these
preliminary pages, and those who are learning to care a little for the personality of him who
has come to them so often with the kindling of the autumn fires may find some satisfaction
in learning why he comes, and the motive, the spirit with which, in a sense, he ventures to
be present at their hearths.

One of the advantages of authorship is criticism; and I have never had reason to complain of
its absence. My only regret is that I have not been able to make better use of it. I admit
that both the praise and blame have been rather bewildering, but this confusion is undoubtedly
due to a lack of the critical faculty. With one acute gentleman, however, who remarked that
it "was difficult to account for the popularity of Mr. Roe's books," I am in hearty accord.
I fully share in his surprise and perplexity. It may be that we at last have an instance of
an effect without a cause.

Ten years ago I had never written a line of a story, and had scarcely entertained the thought
of constructing one. The burning of Chicago impressed me powerfully, and obedient to an impulse
I spent several days among its smoking ruins. As a result, my first novel, "Barriers Burned
Away," gradually took possession of my mind. I did not manufacture the story at all, for it
grew as naturally as do the plants--weeds, some may suggest--on my farm.  In the intervals
of a busy and practical life, and also when I ought to have been sleeping, my imagination,
unspurred, and almost undirected, spun the warp and woof of the tale, and wove them together.
At first I supposed it would be but a brief story, which might speedily find its way into my
own waste-basket, and I was on the point of burning it more than once. One wintry afternoon
I read the few chapters then written to a friend in whose literary taste I had much confidence,
and had her verdict been adverse they probably would have perished as surely as a callow germ
exposed to the bitter storm then raging without. I am not sure, however, but that the impulse
to write would have carried me forward, and that I would have found ample return for all the
labor in the free play of my fancy, even though editors and publishers scoffed at the result.

On a subsequent winter afternoon the incipient story passed through another peril. In the office
of "The New York Evangelist" I read the first eight chapters of my blotted manuscript to Dr.
Field and his associate editor, Mr. J. H. Dey. This fragment was all that then existed, and
as I stumbled through my rather blind chirography I often looked askance at the glowing grate,
fearing lest my friends in kindness would suggest that I should drop the crude production on
the coals, where it could do neither me nor any one else further harm, and then go out into
the world once more clothed in my right mind. A heavy responsibility rests on the gentlemen
named, for they asked me to leave the manuscript for serial issue. From that hour I suppose
I should date the beginning of my life of authorship. The story grew from eight into fifty-two
chapters, and ran just one year in the paper, my manuscript often being ready but a few pages
in advance of publication. I wrote no outline for my guidance; I merely let the characters
do as they pleased, and work out their own destiny. I had no preparation for my work beyond
a careful study of the topography of Chicago and the incidents of the fire. For nearly a year
my chief recreation was to dwell apart among the shadows created by my fancy, and I wrote when
and where I could--on steamboats and railroad cars, as well as in my study. In spite of my
fears the serial found readers, and at last I obtained a publisher. When the book appeared
I suppose I looked upon it much as a young father looks upon his first child. His interest
in it is intense, but he knows well that its future is very doubtful.

It appears to me, however, that the true impulse toward authorship does not arise from a desire
to please any one, but rather from a strong consciousness of something definite to say, whether
people will listen or not. I can honestly assert that I have never manufactured a novel, and
should I do so I am sure it would be so wooden and lifeless that no one would read it. My stories
have come with scarcely any volition on my part, and their characters control me. If I should
move them about like images they would be but images. In every book they often acted in a manner
just the opposite from that which I had planned. Moreover, there are unwritten stories in my
mind, the characters of which are becoming almost as real as the people I meet daily. While
composing narratives I forget everything and live in an ideal world, which nevertheless is
real for the time. The fortunes of the characters affect me deeply, and I truly believe that
only as I feel strongly will the reader be interested. A book, like a bullet, can go only as
far as the projecting force carries it.

The final tests of all literary and art work are an intelligent public and time. We may hope,
dream, and claim what we please, but these two tribunals will settle all values; therefore
the only thing for an author or artist to do is to express his own individuality clearly and
honestly, and submit patiently and deferentially to these tests. In nature the lichen has its
place as truly as the oak.

I will say but a few words in regard to the story contained in this volume. It was announced
two years ago, but I found that I could not complete it satisfactorily. In its present form
it has been almost wholly recast, and much broadened in its scope. It touches upon several
modern and very difficult problems. I have not in the remotest degree attempted to solve them,
but rather have sought to direct attention to them. In our society public opinion is exceedingly
powerful. It is the torrent that sweeps away obstructing evils. The cleansing tide is composed
originally of many rills and streamlets, and it is my hope that this volume may add a little
to that which at last is irresistible.

I can say with sincerity that I have made my studies carefully and patiently, and when dealing
with practical phases of city life I have evolved very little from my own inner consciousness.
I have visited scores of typical tenements; I have sat day after day on the bench with the
police judges, and have visited the station-houses repeatedly. There are few large retail shops
that I have not entered many times, and I have conversed with both the employers and employes.
It is a shameful fact that, in the face of a plain statute forbidding the barbarous regulation,
saleswomen are still compelled to stand continuously in many of the stores.  On the intensely
hot day when our murdered President was brought from Washington to the sea-side, I found many
girls standing wearily and uselessly because of this inhuman rule. There was no provision for
their occasional rest. Not for a thousand dollars would I have incurred the risk and torture
of standing through that sultry day. There are plenty of shops in the city which are now managed
on the principles of humanity, and such patronage should be given to these and withdrawn from
the others as would teach the proprietors that women are entitled to a little of the consideration
that is so justly associated with the work of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. Mr. Bergh deserves praise for protecting even a cat from cruelty; but all the cats
in the city unitedly could not suffer as much as the slight growing girl who must stand during
a long hot day. I trust the reader will note carefully the Appendix at the close of this book.

It will soon be discovered that the modern opium or morphia habit has a large place in this
volume. While I have tried to avoid the style of a medical treatise, which would be in poor
taste in a work of fiction, I have carefully consulted the best medical works and authorities
on the subject, and I have conversed with many opium slaves in all stages of the habit. I am
sure I am right in fearing that in the morphia hunger and consumption one of the greatest evils
of the future is looming darkly above the horizon of society. Warnings against this poison
of body and soul cannot be too solemn or too strong.

So many have aided me in the collection of my material that any mention of names may appear
almost invidious; but as the reader will naturally think that the varied phases of the opium
habit are remote from my experience, I will say that I have been guided in my words by trustworthy
physicians like Drs. E. P. Fowler, of New York; Louis Seaman, chief of staff at the Charity
Hospital; Wm. H.  Vail, and many others. I have also read such parts of my MS. as touched on
this subject to Dr. H. K. Kane, the author of two works on the morphia habit.

This novel appeared as a serial in the "Congregationalist" of Boston, and my acknowledgments
are due to the editors and publishers of this journal for their confidence in taking the story
before it was written and for their uniform courtesy.

I can truly say that I have bestowed more labor on this book than upon any which have preceded
it; for the favor accorded me by the public imposes the strongest obligation to be conscientious
in my work.

CONTENTS

I. ONE GIRL'S IDEAL OF LIFE

II. WEAKNESS

III. CONFIDENTIAL

IV. "PITILESS WAVES"

V. THE RUDIMENTS OF A MAN

VI. ROGER DISCOVERS A NEW TYPE

VII. COMPARISONS

VIII. CHANGES

IX. NEITHER BOY NOR MAN

X. A COUNCIL

XI. A SHADOW

XII. VIEWLESS FETTERS

XIII. A SCENE BENEATH THE HEMLOCKS

XIV. THE OLD MANSION

XV. "WELCOME HOME"

XVI. BELLE AND MILDRED

XVII. BELLE LAUNCHES HERSELF

XVIII. "I BELIEVE IN YOU"

XIX. BELLE JARS THE "SYSTEM"

XX. SEVERAL QUIET FORCES AT WORK

XXI. "HE'S A MAN"

XXII. SKILLED LABOR

XXIII. THE OLD ASTRONOMER

XXIV. ROGER REAPPEARS

XXV. THE DARK SHADOW OF COMING EVENTS

XXVI. WAXING AND WANING MANHOOD

XXVII. A SLAVE

XXVIII. NEW YORK'S HUMANITY

XXIX. THE BEATITUDES OF OPIUM

XXX. THE SECRET VICE REVEALED

XXXI. AN OPIUM MANIAC'S CHRISTMAS

XXXII. A BLACK CONSPIRACY

XXXIII. MILDRED IN A PRISON CELL

XXXIV. "A WISE JUDGE"

XXXV. "I AM SO PERPLEXED"

XXXVI. A WOMAN'S HEART

XXXVII. STRONG TEMPTATION

XXXVIII. NO "DARK CORNERS"

XXXIX. "HOME, SWEET HOME"

XL. NEIGHBORS

XLI. GLINTS OF SUNSHINE

XLII. HOPES GIVEN AND SLAIN

XLIII. WAS BELLE MURDERED

XLIV. THE FINAL CONSOLATIONS OF OPIUM

XLV. MOTHER AND SON

XLVI. A FATAL ERROR

XLVII. LIGHT AT EVENTIDE

XLVIII. "GOOD ANGEL OF GOD"

XLIX. HOME

APPENDIX

WITHOUT A HOME

CHAPTER I

ONE GIRL'S IDEAL OF LIFE

It was an attractive picture that Martin Jocelyn looked upon through the open doorway of his
parlor. His lively daughter Belle had invited half a score of her schoolmates to spend the
evening, and a few privileged brothers had been permitted to come also. The young people were
naturally selecting those dances which had some of the characteristics of a romp, for they
were at an age when motion means enjoyment.

Miss Belle, eager and mettlesome, stood waiting for music that could scarcely be lighter or
more devoid of moral quality than her own immature heart. Life, at that time, had for her but
one great desideratum--fun; and with her especial favorites about her, with a careful selection
of "nice brothers," canvassed with many pros and cons over neglected French exercises, she
had the promise of plenty of it for a long evening, and her dark eyes glowed and cheeks flamed
at the prospect. Impatiently tapping the floor with her foot, she looked toward her sister,
who was seated at the piano.

Mildred Jocelyn knew that all were waiting for her; she instinctively felt the impatience she
did not see, and yet could not resist listening to some honeyed nonsense that her "friend"
was saying. Ostensibly, Vinton Arnold was at her side to turn the leaves of the music, but
in reality to feast his eyes on beauty which daily bound him in stronger chains of fascination.
Her head drooped under his words, but only as the flowers bend under the dew and rain that
give them life. His passing compliment was a trifle, but it seemed like the delicate touch
to which the subtle electric current responds. From a credulous, joyous heart a crimson tide
welled up into her face and neck; she could not repress a smile, though she bowed her head
in girlish shame to hide it. Then, as if the light, gay music before her had become the natural
expression of her mood, she struck into it with a brilliancy and life that gave even Belle content.

Arnold saw the pleasure his remark had given, and surmised the reason why the effect was so
much greater than the apparent cause. For a moment an answering glow lighted up his pale face,
and then, as if remembering something, he sighed deeply; but in the merry life which now filled
the apartments a sigh stood little chance of recognition.

The sigh of the master of the house, however, was so deep and his face so clouded with care
and anxiety as he turned from it all, that his wife, who at that moment met him, was compelled
to note that something was amiss.

"Martin, what is it?" she asked.

He looked for a moment into her troubled blue eyes, and noted how fair, delicate, and girlish
she still appeared in her evening dress. He knew also that the delicacy and refinement of feature
were but the reflex of her nature, and, for the first time in his life, he wished that she
were a strong, coarse woman.

"No matter, Fanny, to-night. See that the youngsters have a good time," and he passed hastily out.

"He's worrying about those stupid business matters again," she said, and the thought seemed
to give much relief.

Business matters were masculine, and she was essentially feminine. Her world was as far removed
from finance as her laces from the iron in which her husband dealt.

A little boy of four years of age and a little girl of six, whose tiny form was draped in such
gossamer-like fabrics that she seemed more fairy-like than human, were pulling at her dress,
eager to enter the mirth-resounding parlors, but afraid to leave her sheltering wing. Mrs.
Jocelyn watched the scene from the doorway, where her husband had stood, without his sigh.
Her motherly heart sympathized with Belle's abounding life and fun, and her maternal pride
was assured by the budding promise of a beauty which would shine pre-eminent when the school-girl
should become a belle in very truth.

But her eyes rested on Mildred with wistful tenderness. Her own experience enabled her to interpret
her daughter's manner, and to understand the ebb and flow of feeling whose cause, as yet, was
scarcely recognized by the young girl.

The geniality of Mrs. Jocelyn's smile might well assure Vinton Arnold that she welcomed his
presence at her daughter's side, and yet, for some reason, the frank, cordial greeting in the
lady's eyes and manner made him sigh again. He evidently harbored a memory or a thought that
did not accord with the scene or the occasion. Whatever it was it did not prevent him from
enjoying to the utmost the pleasure he ever found in the presence of Mildred.  In contrast
with Belle she had her mother's fairness and delicacy of feature, and her blue eyes were not
designed to express the exultation and pride of one of society's flattered favorites.  Indeed
it was already evident that a glance from Arnold was worth more than the world's homage. And
yet it was comically pathetic--as it ever is--to see how the girl tried to hide the "abundance
of her heart."

"Millie is myself right over again," thought Mrs. Jocelyn; "hardly in society before in a fair
way to be out of it. Beaux in general have few attractions for her. Belle, however, will lead
the young men a chase. If I'm any judge, Mr. Arnold's symptoms are becoming serious. He's just
the one of all the world for Millie, and could give her the home which her style of beauty
requires--a home in which not a common or coarse thing would be visible, but all as dainty
as herself. How I would like to furnish her house! But Martin always thinks he's so poor."

Mrs. Jocelyn soon left the parlor to complete her arrangements for an elegant little supper,
and she complacently felt that, whatever might be the tribulations of the great iron firm down
town, her small domain was serene with present happiness and bright with promise.

While the vigorous appetites of the growing boys and girls were disposing of the supper, Arnold
and Mildred rather neglected their plates, finding ambrosia in each other's eyes, words, and
even intonations. Now that they had the deserted parlor to themselves, Mildred seemed under
less constraint.

"It was very nice of you," she said, "to come and help me entertain Belle's friends, especially
when they are all so young."

"Yes," he replied. "I am a happy monument of self-sacrifice."

"But not a brazen one," she added quickly.

"No, nor a bronze one, either," he said, and a sudden gloom gathered in his large dark eyes.

She had always admired the pallor of his face. "It set off his superb brown eyes and heavy
mustache so finely," she was accustomed to say. But this evening for some reason she wished
that there was a little more bronze on his cheek and decision in his manner. His aristocratic
pallor was a trifle too great, and he seemed a little frail to satisfy even her ideal of manhood.

She said, in gentle solicitude, "You do not look well this spring. I fear you are not very strong."

He glanced at her quickly, but in her kindly blue eyes and in every line of her lovely face
he saw only friendly regard--perhaps more, for her features were not designed for disguises.
After a moment he replied, with a quiet bitterness which both pained and mystified her:

"You are right. I am not strong."

"But summer is near," she resumed earnestly. "You will soon go to the country, and will bring
back this fall bronze in plenty, and the strength of bronze. Mother says we shall go to Saratoga.
That is one of your favorite haunts, I believe, so I shall have the pleasure, perhaps, of drinking
'your very good health' some bright morning before breakfast. Which is your favorite spring?"

"I do not know. I will decide after I have learned your choice."

"That's an amiable weakness. I think I shall like Saratoga. The great hotels contain all one
wishes for amusement. Then everything about town is so nice, pretty, and sociable. The shops,
also, are fine. Too often we have spent our summers in places that were a trifle dreary. Mountains
oppress me with a sense of littleness, and their wildness frightens me. The ocean is worse
still. The moment I am alone with it, such a lonely, desolate feeling creeps over me--oh, I
can't tell you! I fear you think I am silly and frivolous. You think I ought to be inspired
by the shaggy mountains and wild waves and all that. Well, you may think so--I won't tell fibs.
I don't think mother is frivolous, and she feels as I do. We are from the South, and like things
that are warm, bright, and sociable. The ocean always seemed to me so large and cold and pitiless--to
care so little for those in its power."

"In that respect it's like the world, or rather the people in it--"

"Oh, no, no!" she interrupted eagerly; "it is to the world of people I am glad to escape from
these solitudes of nature. As I said, the latter, with their vastness, power, and, worse than
all, their indifference, oppress me, and make me shiver with a vague dread. I once saw a ship
beaten to pieces by the waves in a storm. It was on the coast near where we were spending the
summer. Some of the people on the vessel were drowned, and their cries ring in my ears to this
day. Oh, it was piteous to see them reaching out their hands, but the great merciless waves
would not stop a moment, even when a little time would have given the lifeboats a chance to
save the poor creatures. The breakers just struck and pounded the ship until it broke into
pieces, and then tossed the lifeless body and broken wood on the shore as if one were of no
more value than the other. I can't think of it without shuddering, and I've hated the sea ever
since, and never wish to go near it again."

"You have unconsciously described this Christian city," said Arnold, with a short laugh.

"What a cynic you are to-night! You condemn all the world, and find fault even with yourself--a
rare thing in cynics, I imagine. As a rule they are right, and the universe wrong."

"I have not found any fault with you," he said, in a tone that caused her long eyelashes to
veil the pleasure she could not wholly conceal.

"I hope the self-constraint imposed by your courtesy is not too severe for comfort. I also
understand the little fiction of excepting present company. But I cannot help remembering that
I am a wee bit of the world and very worldly; that is, I am very fond of the world and all
its pretty follies. I like nice people much better than savage mountains and heartless waves."

"And yet you are not what I should call a society girl, Miss Millie."

"I'm glad you think so. I've no wish to win that character. Fashionable society seems to me
like the sea, as restless and unreasoning, always on the go, and yet never going anywhere.
I know lots of girls who go here and there and do this and that with the monotony with which
the waves roll in and out. Half the time they act contrary to their wishes and feelings, but
they imagine it the thing to do, and they do it till they are tired and bored half to death."

"What, then, is your ideal of life?"

Her head drooped a little lower, and the tell-tale color would come as she replied hesitatingly,
and with a slight deprecatory laugh:

"Well, I can't say I've thought it out very definitely. Plenty of real friends seem to me better
than the world's stare, even though there's a trace of admiration in it Then, again, you men
so monopolize the world that there is not much left for us poor women to do; but I have imagined
that to create a lovely home, and to gather in it all the beauty within one's reach, and just
the people one best liked, would be a very congenial life-work for some women. That is what
mother is doing for us, and she seems very happy and contented--much more so than those ladies
who seek their pleasures beyond their homes. You see I use my eyes, Mr.  Arnold, even if I
am not antiquated enough to be wise."

