 The mosaic floor of soft colors, as that of the courts
of Pompeii, he had the inscription "Save" in the doorway was filled with benches riots, and living
quarters in which we live, because the rooms have to be pretty, not to teach, or vanity, to visitors,
but to live in them. Improvement and relieves constant touch of beauty. Everything on earth,
in these dark times, tends to lower the soul, everything, books and pictures, business and affections,
even in our country blue! It always having before our eyes, around ORNAND the walls, encouraging
the corners where takes refuge in the shade, beautiful objects, the colors and dissipate.
  Two large and solid chests on which are written the names of different countries,
such, for instance, as Scotland, Burgundy, and Navarre, seem to have held treaties and possibly
tribute money.  We cannot visit either the Library or the Pyx Chapel to-day, nor the small
vaulted chamber which leads into the school gymnasium, but we must spare a few moments to see
the only portion of the original Norman cloister which is still standing, a dark round arch,
beneath which we pass into a modernised court called the Little Cloister.  The {134} monks'
infirmary, an Early English building, was formerly here, and a few arches of the infirmary
chapel, which was dedicated to St. Catherine, are still to be seen behind one of the Canon's
houses; a small locked door in the other corner leads into the "College Garden," where the
sick brethren used to take the air. In your hands can go, you are not jealous.

Sun and his face lit up, not knowing what to say, and Lucia is the
color off, looking in vain for the forces that move one side and open
lips into a smile. - But this should not be so, no. The director
put his arm at Sol de Lucia, accompanied by glances and jealous and
took refuge for a few moments with them on a balcony railing of granite,
which was hidden under a twisted vine of roses bloom.

Balcony was great and solemn night, very late, and the sky, loving
and talkative, as it is in our country where the air is clear, and
it seems that they talk and visits are the stars. - And above all,
Lucia y Sol, give you a kiss. - Look, Lucia - said his hands clasping
those of girls and talk as if the sun is not with them, who felt his
cheeks burning, and tightness in the chest with what the teacher said,
therefore that for a moment the sky was black, as well as his house
was calling Ms. Andrea -.

Look, Lucy, you
know how life goes on in Sun Valley, everyone knows. His father is dead.
His mother is in abject poverty. Yo, I love her like a daughter,
I tried to educate people to be saved from danger of being nice to
be so poor.

Lucia felt at that moment as the Sol's hands trembled, and made a motion
to withdraw and stand up. - Lady .... - No, no, Lucy.
  The names
we see now were cut in the eighteenth century, and are so strangely transposed that scarcely
one tomb is correctly inscribed.  A large blue stone called Long Meg was long believed to cover
the remains of twenty-eight monks stricken by the plague, but like many another Abbey legend
this is scarcely credible when we recall the busy monastic life which went on in these cloisters,
and the fact that the cemetery was outside the Lady Chapel.  Our goal at present is the famous
Jerusalem Chamber, where the Abbots used to entertain their guests.  To reach this we pass
beneath another archway after leaving the cloisters, and enter a picturesque courtyard; on
one side is the College Hall, which was formerly the Abbot's dining-room, and was used for
the same purpose by the earlier Deans; on {136} the other three sides of the court are the
Abbot's lodgings, now the Deanery.