

"I'd rather have a husband like that than a steam-yacht!" she had thought at the end of her
talk with the young man who had written, and as to whom it had at once been clear to her that
nothing his pen had produced, or might hereafter set down, would put him in a position to offer
his wife anything more costly than a row-boat.

"His wife! As if he could ever have one! For he's not the kind to marry for a yacht either."
In spite of her past, Susy had preserved enough inner independence to detect the latent signs
of it in others, and also to ascribe it impulsively to those of the opposite sex who happened
to interest her. She had a natural contempt for people who gloried in what they need only have
endured. She herself meant eventually to marry, because one couldn't forever hang on to rich
people; but she was going to wait till she found some one who combined the maximum of wealth
with at least a minimum of companionableness.

She had at once perceived young Lansing's case to be exactly the opposite: he was as poor as
he could be, and as companionable as it was possible to imagine. She therefore decided to see
as much of him as her hurried and entangled life permitted; and this, thanks to a series of
adroit adjustments, turned out to be a good deal. They met frequently all the rest of that
winter; so frequently that Mrs. Fred Gillow one day abruptly and sharply gave Susy to understand
that she was "making herself ridiculous."

"Ah--" said Susy with a long breath, looking her friend and patroness straight in the painted eyes.

"Yes," cried Ursula Gillow in a sob, "before you interfered Nick liked me awfully... and, of
course, I don't want to reproach you... but when I think...."

Susy made no answer. How could she, when she thought? The dress she had on had been given her
by Ursula; Ursula's motor had carried her to the feast from which they were both returning.
She counted on spending the following August with the Gillows at Newport... and the only alternative
was to go to California with the Bockheimers, whom she had hitherto refused even to dine with.

"Of course, what you fancy is perfect nonsense, Ursula; and as to my interfering--" Susy hesitated,
and then murmured: "But if it will make you any happier I'll arrange to see him less often...."
She sounded the lowest depths of subservience in returning Ursula's tearful kiss....

Susy Branch had a masculine respect for her word; and the next day she put on her most becoming
hat and sought out young Mr. Lansing in his lodgings. She was determined to keep her promise
to Ursula; but she meant to look her best when she did it.

She knew at what time the young man was likely to be found, for he was doing a dreary job on
a popular encyclopaedia (V to X), and had told her what hours were dedicated to the hateful
task. "Oh, if only it were a novel!" she thought as she mounted his dingy stairs; but immediately
reflected that, if it were the kind that she could bear to read, it probably wouldn't bring
him in much more than his encyclopaedia. Miss Branch had her standards in literature....

The apartment to which Mr. Lansing admitted her was a good deal cleaner, but hardly less dingy,
than his staircase. Susy, knowing him to be addicted to Oriental archaeology, had pictured
him in a bare room adorned by a single Chinese bronze of flawless shape, or by some precious
fragment of Asiatic pottery. But such redeeming features were conspicuously absent, and no
attempt had been made to disguise the decent indigence of the bed-sitting-room.

Lansing welcomed his visitor with every sign of pleasure, and with apparent indifference as
to what she thought of his furniture. He seemed to be conscious only of his luck in seeing
her on a day when they had not expected to meet. This made Susy all the sorrier to execute
her promise, and the gladder that she had put on her prettiest hat; and for a moment or two
she looked at him in silence from under its conniving brim.

Warm as their mutual liking was, Lansing had never said a word of love to her; but this was
no deterrent to his visitor, whose habit it was to speak her meaning clearly when there were
no reasons, worldly or pecuniary, for its concealment. After a moment, therefore, she told
him why she had come; it was a nuisance, of course, but he would understand. Ursula Gillow
was jealous, and they would have to give up seeing each other.

The young man's burst of laughter was music to her; for, after all, she had been rather afraid
that being devoted to Ursula might be as much in his day's work as doing the encyclopaedia.

"But I give you my word it's a raving-mad mistake! And I don't believe she ever meant me, to
begin with--" he protested; but Susy, her common-sense returning with her reassurance, promptly
cut short his denial.

"You can trust Ursula to make herself clear on such occasions. And it doesn't make any difference
what you think. All that matters is what she believes."

"Oh, come! I've got a word to say about that too, haven't I?"

Susy looked slowly and consideringly about the room. There was nothing in it, absolutely nothing,
to show that he had ever possessed a spare dollar--or accepted a present.

"Not as far as I'm concerned," she finally pronounced.

"How do you mean? If I'm as free as air--?"

"I'm not."

He grew thoughtful. "Oh, then, of course--. It only seems a little odd," he added drily, "that
in that case, the protest should have come from Mrs. Gillow."

"Instead of coming from my millionaire bridegroom, Oh, I haven't any; in that respect I'm as
free as you."

"Well, then--? Haven't we only got to stay free?"

Susy drew her brows together anxiously. It was going to be rather more difficult than she had
supposed.

"I said I was as free in that respect. I'm not going to marry--and I don't suppose you are?"

"God, no!" he ejaculated fervently.

"But that doesn't always imply complete freedom...."

He stood just above her, leaning his elbow against the hideous black marble arch that framed
his fireless grate. As she glanced up she saw his face harden, and the colour flew to hers.

"Was that what you came to tell me?" he asked.

"Oh, you don't understand--and I don't see why you don't, since we've knocked about so long
among exactly the same kind of people." She stood up impulsively and laid her hand on his arm.
"I do wish you'd help me--!" 

Any board can be used and it will not tip someone over, and being self-engage
will remain in any point, and can be rise in height to suit the draughtsman.
When not in use it can be folded to like the length and width as
an impatiently ordinary help-board.

 "You talk like the hero of a novel--the kind my governess used to
read. In the first place I should never recognize that kind of right, as you call it--never!"

"Then what kind do you?" he asked with a clearing brow.

"Why--the kind I suppose you recognize on the part of your publisher." This evoked a hollow
laugh from him. "A business claim, call it," she pursued. "Ursula does a lot for me: I live
on her for half the year. This dress I've got on now is one she gave me. Her motor is going
to take me to a dinner to-night. I'm going to spend next summer with her at Newport.... If
I don't, I've got to go to California with the Bockheimers-so good-bye."

Suddenly in tears, she was out of the door and down his steep three flights before he could
stop her--though, in thinking it over, she didn't even remember if he had tried to. She only
recalled having stood a long time on the corner of Fifth Avenue, in the harsh winter radiance,
waiting till a break in the torrent of motors laden with fashionable women should let her cross,
and saying to herself: "After all, I might have promised Ursula... and kept on seeing him...."

