 There were moments when his exotic little personality, standing out
from all the rest like an infant Artful Dodger or a caricature of Beau Brummel, seemed to make
him wholly alien to the group, yet he was docile and obedient, his only fault being a tendency
to strong and highly colored language. To make the marching more effective and develope a better
sense of time, I instituted a very simple and rudimentary form of orchestra with a triangle,
a tambourine, and finally a drum. When the latter instrument made its first appearance Jacob
sought a secluded spot by the piano and gave himself up to a fit of fairly courteous but excessive
mirth. "A drum!" he exclaimed, between his fits of laughter. "What'll yer have next? This is
a h--l of a school!"

Just behind Jacob sat two little pink-cheeked girls five and four years old, Violet and Rose
Featherstone. Violet brought the younger Rose every day and was a miracle of sisterly devotion.
I did not see the mother for some months after the little pair entered, as she had work that
kept her from home during the hours when it was possible for me to call upon her, and she lived
at a long distance from the kindergarten in a neighborhood from which none of our other children
came.

I had no anxiety about them however, as the looks, behavior, and clothing of all my children
was always an absolute test of the conditions prevailing in the home. What was my surprise
then, one day to receive a note from a certain Mrs. Hannah Googins, a name not in my register.

She said her Emma Abby had been bringing home pieces of sewing and weaving of late, marked
"Violet Featherstone." She would like to see some of Emma Abby's own work and find out whether
she had taken that of any other child by mistake. A long and puzzling investigation followed
the receipt of this letter and I found that the romantic little Emma Abby Googins, not caring
for the name given her by her maternal parent, had assumed that of Violet Featherstone. Also,
being an only child and greatly desiring a sister, she had plucked a certain little Nellie
Taylor from a family near by, named her "Rose Featherstone" and taken her to and from the kindergarten
daily, a distance of at least half a mile of crowded streets. The affair was purely one of
innocent romance. Emma Abby Googins never told a fib or committed the slightest fault or folly
save that of burying her name, assuming a more distinguished one, and introducing a sister
to me who had no claim to the Googins blood. Her mother was thoroughly mystified by the occurrence
and I no less so, but Emma Abby simply opened her blue eyes wider and protested that she "liked
to be Violet" and Rose liked to be Rose, and that was the only excuse for her conduct, which
she seemed to think needed neither apology nor explanation.

Now comes the darling of the group, the heart's ease, the nonesuch, the Rose of Erin, the lovely,
the indescribable Rosaleen Clancy.

We were all working busily and happily one morning when a young woman tapped at the door and
led in that flower and pearl of babyhood, the aforesaid Rosaleen.

The young woman said she knew that the kindergarten was full, and indeed had a long waiting
list, but the Clancy family had just arrived from Ireland; that there were two little boys;
a new baby twenty-four hours old; Mr. Clancy had not yet found work, and could we take care
of Rosaleen even for a week or two?

