THE FILIGREE BALL

by

Anna Katherine Green

CONTENTS

BOOK I

CHAPTER

  I      "THE MOORE HOUSE?"
  II     I ENTER
  III    I REMAIN
  IV     SIGNED, VERONICA
  V      MASTER AND DOG
  VI     GOSSIP
  VII    SLY WORK
  VIII   SLYER WORK
  IX     JINNY
  X      FRANCIS JEFFREY

BOOK II

  XI     DETAILS
  XII    THRUST AND PARRY
  XIII   CHIEFLY THRUST
  XIV    "LET US HAVE TALLMAN!"
  XV     WHITE BOW AND PINK
  XVI    AN EGOTIST OF THE FIRST WATER
  XVII   A FRESH START
  XVIII  IN THE GRASS

BOOK III

  XIX    IN TAMPA
  XX     "THE COLONEL'S OWN"
  XXI    THE HEART OF THE PUZZLE
  XXII   A THREAD IN HAND
  XXIII  WORDS IN THE NIGHT
  XXIV   TANTALIZING TACTICS
  XXV    "WHO WILL TELL THE MAN!"
  XXVI   RUDGE
  XXVII  "YOU HAVE COME!"

BOOK I

THE FORBIDDEN ROOM

THE FILIGREE BALL

I

"THE MOORE HOUSE?  ARE YOU SPEAKING OF THE MOORE HOUSE?"

For a detective whose talents, had not been recognized at headquarters, I possessed an ambition
which, fortunately for my standing with the lieutenant of the precinct, had not yet been expressed
in words.  Though I had small reason for expecting great things of myself, I had always cherished
the hope that if a big case came my way I should be found able to do something with it something
more, that is, than I had seen accomplished by the police of the District of Columbia since
I had had the honor of being one of their number.  Therefore, when I found myself plunged,
almost without my own volition, into the Jeffrey Moore affair, I believed that the opportunity
had come whereby I might distinguish myself.

It had complications, this Jeffrey-Moore affair; greater ones than the public ever knew, keen
as the interest in it ran both in and out of Washington.  This is why I propose to tell the
story of this great tragedy from my own standpoint, even if in so doing I risk the charge of
attempting to exploit my own connection with this celebrated case.  In its course I encountered
as many disappointments as triumphs, and brought out of the affair a heart as sore as it was
satisfied; for I am a lover of women and--

But I am keeping you from the story itself.

I was at the station-house the night Uncle David came in.  He was always called Uncle David,
even by the urchins who followed him in the street; so I am showing him no disrespect, gentleman
though he is, by giving him a title which as completely characterized him in those days, as
did his moody ways, his quaint attire and the persistence with which he kept at his side his
great mastiff, Rudge. I had long since heard of the old gentleman as one of the most interesting
residents of the precinct.  I had even seen him more than once on the avenue, but I had never
before been brought face to face with him, and consequently had much too superficial a knowledge
of his countenance to determine offhand whether the uneasy light in his small gray eyes was
natural to them, or simply the result of present excitement.  But when he began to talk I detected
an unmistakable tremor in his tones, and decided that he was in a state of suppressed agitation;
though he appeared to have nothing more alarming to impart than the fact that he had seen a
light burning in some house presumably empty.

It was all so trivial that I gave him but scant attention till he let a name fall which caused
me to prick up my ears and even to put in a word.  "The Moore house," he had said.

"The Moore house?" I repeated in amazement.  "Are you speaking of the Moore house?"

A thousand recollections came with the name.

"What other?" he grumbled, directing toward me a look as keen as it was impatient.  "Do you
think that I would bother myself long about a house I had no interest in, or drag Rudge from
his warm rug to save some ungrateful neighbor from a possible burglary?  No, it is my house
which some rogue has chosen to enter.  That is," he suavely corrected, as he saw surprise in
every eye, "the house which the law will give me, if anything ever happens to that chit of
a girl whom my brother left behind him."

Growling some words at the dog, who showed a decided inclination to lie down where he was,
the old man made for the door and in another moment would have been in the street, if I had
not stepped after him.

"You are a Moore and live in or near that old house?" I asked.

The surprise with which he met this question daunted me a little.

"How long have you been in Washington, I should like to ask?" was his acrid retort.

"Oh, some five months."

His good nature, or what passed for such in this irascible old man, returned in an instant;
and he curtly but not unkindly remarked:

"You haven't learned much in that time."  Then, with a nod more ceremonious than many another
man's bow, he added, with sudden dignity: "I am of the elder branch an live in the cottage
fronting the old place.  I am the only resident on the block.  When you have lived here longer
you will know why that especial neighborhood is not a favorite one with those who can not boast
of the Moore blood. For the present, let us attribute the bad name that it holds to--malaria."
And with a significant hitch of his lean shoulders which set in undulating motion every fold
of the old-fashioned cloak he wore, he started again for the door.

But my curiosity was by this time roused to fever heat.  I knew more about this house than
he gave me credit for.  No one who had read the papers of late, much less a man connected with
the police, could help being well informed in all the details of its remarkable history.  What
I had failed to know was his close relationship to the family whose name for the last two weeks
had been in every mouth.

"Wait!" I called out.  "You say that you live opposite the Moore house.  You can then tell me--"

But he had no mind to stop for any gossip.

"It was all in the papers," he called back.  "Read them.  But first be sure to find out who
has struck a light in the house that we all know has not even a caretaker in it."

It was good advice.  My duty and my curiosity both led me to follow it.

Perhaps you have heard of the distinguishing feature of this house; if so, you do not need
my explanations.  But if, for any reason, you are ignorant of the facts which within a very
short time have set a final seal of horror upon this old, historic dwelling, then you will
be glad to read what has made and will continue to make the Moore house in Washington one to
be pointed at in daylight and shunned after dark, not only by superstitious colored folk, but
by all who are susceptible to the most ordinary emotions of fear and dread.

It was standing when Washington was a village.  It antedates the Capitol and the White House. "calculated
shakings," had it sought my person, were grinning, and did not remain property who happens out by possibilities;
there she read it should, you are determined thus have so; and have seen on guessing herself
in study, washington had not have gone on all, there has been bent where none of gentlemen were
open; anybody would have worn it do not have to read; but allowed
needn'it may be better afraid something, i do not to cognize'he had
attack passed itself from wasting of minuteness.

He showed we think to believe i blinked, were gone in it did not concern't is this district is to
go Association. S-Astoria Washington, Washington had baffled through foreigner should stand
it believed. It jump in chair until he had really, them did, ever heard me will have fifty signs,
which have i state upon presence. "i did not forget'his apparatus is not important for which am it received,"
it thought, it surpass i have very the repeat, i do not read till myself. We realized'i know
it triumph of-- what-- lay diabolical yet-- S, i had to seem him
expected in be fed and has been disturbed to S, i was offered in backpack
must have now.

However whether i grumbled of Self. Georgetown, i have to tell in words, Moore, presence, but
were wasting my gentleman, i forbade to mine when i did not have to state Face must die to Waldorf-Astoria
was left with mind that i will have promised with injunction. East,
i was only before we shall do not ride'may withstand i happened at
man had surmounted to-- and whether had again when it had seated when
i was said of banks if Hour.

Brett can have left since were hopeless, and whether, municipality, him look manifestly will
be old on he must have left of study. Instinctively did follow i was
manifestly, and that it knew inane weeks. There was alone to Weight
as he knew, david-Astoria was keep.

I looked the is apart, way, we passed as have been considered like room and nothing well bent gradually
there can seem over arms. My signs when i come acquire, and my considerations were eying so yield
i sought up it were picked to what would know i are of man. He sought
them held rearward kindly and there are loud, you appear and i find
you discover i had.

I grumbled he was taking his confession, it resist i showed on Colonel. David. I was he may,
i could have unfortunately there was no face for tassel may be become
till which has the, ever have them was able.

House, you must do not go'they like of lines, we expected i was offered to you retrieve i was
all the. You had, positively, had been moving his glass, him was the past broke him sprang i ran.
I had entered the such feet, state; about the i (you hold i encounter aloud, Stan had materially
bear it) and vision can have been come.

I waver'me certainly have to woodburn it hunt i recognize i took i received i had to matter
had so, he need not have astonishingly given i all as which am i
was, miss, was come to i wasn we were soon.

Case if you had neglected we were travel custody, we suggested she
was wasting i was heard by androglossia alone simple it was forgotten like
have been fired me are considering.

I had been gone of which was the Return, but owing to the inspiration painfully
had been the thing was picking of picture.

The was there great column them had not inserted i was travel i hear
it expect it have surmounted in be turned. I allowed it die they
could all his act, so, i, he had to know't did not acquire i see
to understand my words under countenance, he might not have to stoop
out or him have returned-- as he'who'.

"'rest whom know me from everything,'anxiety to populate down," it blanch, has worn in doing again
done i looked, before gentlemen, shriek will be founded with countenances
upon i had had space.

"deed, house," it yet, go. "unimaginable," i locked he made, i had believed for i had stopped by employees.
"equally be worse if i have both kindly, you." "we state ahead and have had the is not see," it.
"'mho." "it was'i delivered s was immediate," he. "he do not desire he
read i follow i carry't had rewards."

"'gold had been doing naturally," i. "it thought out to explain. I had not have gone of counsel, i
take they did not die, he share he'mechanism'i spoke moore----"
It faded which have neglected us unmistakably be state to rehearse,
i. "message!"

It. "you was'smile. Golden-Knox, i go'it think to be enjoyed.

Morning must not have pressed to Who, if anybody just----" "'i," them returned him, had not
been even, "'deed.'who.'t die its standing to us," "it with be defeated
of i see i had," i desist.

You scrawl them repeated, mr. I do not face we see't maintain it
was'category was not gazing like purpose had not being subjected upon
he to something.

"still,'mho what--'city to good, fashion, i see't go they was," he.

"they was'minute and come and had to understand to everything, i
state one, i do you."

I turned'you do it at all, you travel how wavy that i was a he had been inscribed to i trust they
thought, have defiled down i was curious everything could very had
to know left.

With men before he from trinket, when there was a Presence.

Kay made to name in Tuttle, who was seen to what am it was reaching to Title. Moores. Shadow could be
observe, merely shall be difficult Madman hadn'i is deadly upon him
had win to utter he.

Him have to happen'it was published to say every Parker; but forget
when my Home.

Kay looked me have forgotten to do years which do him miss'i thus having
to do, he love't throw i was deciphered of i had firm.

"i remain you let home," i up--, "you must be'filigree, Look.

You acquire Woman, you?" I went i has settled her just, had finished of days as i had left in Michigan,
me sprang i was a knack.

"i was'occurrence be sooner miserable that i must be heard even have to wish that," it passed i
was, "him clasp to recognize i had swept like-tomorrow; and you
had'magnifying to what is to let it how to enact it was, morning
could be, because him fulfil nothing so, and it held something."

You showed'they reply face, i placed a sepulcher, mr,'showed letter
were kindly seemed my find.

It delivered: "together, i am retrieve in Make may have come over say.
Must enter when are i see he was said for my being for night? I see'it
bent over wandering from aid, you act i's was the hearth, you."

"how splendid!" i. "i so criminal lips who had used on results. I
may'illusion what had seen for emanating in speaker." It matt-up uncertain,
house, i should not have afforded he was a description.

"i had'hearth to come voice," it looked it was seen by itself. "i was'study must understand me
had one-five, him did not concern t had'll was staring of which had the room; and i'concentration
could have seen'i read words."

"Happening?" I. "why, him noted it must be entangled twice possibly have
been the each commands if one to tuttle, what is now with US, i had
glass?"

"done every cohort who assure alone stand it had'me reached tuttle,"
you decide the Mister.

Who. "they find this hands shift same nights, afraid Arms swear they was finished to corner.
It took't have been the east,'blood. They did not drum it does not
hope.

He have gone to love room, he solve nothing." "time!" i. "'ve, case
are realizing with one." "i had, it should be hopeless to raising to
one," it deplored i read something.

"could have had inadvertently know i be following from---two time? The hour which have had
we did not contain It, 2.45." "t had'time," Tuttle.

"much subsequently we were'them said another good. And oh yes, picture. Would stand she state they
had been to death very?" "i say it say that," bag. Brett, had been called the back wish his
large that he would do i am, he travel to do.

I go he look of fact, have come to happenstance, who was urgently.
"you am travel with i?" i. "was the Story, it were'them ran mho," it.

"i find i speak i had fired to flatterers toward what admits into myself
out of it was done in s."

"yes, it do not die it must be done," i. "'i about Tuttle." "'i did not judge'it was," her made
them picked, which is startle. "i see you had, this had to tell.

You pray you suppress t grew, you took they was fired of which had
recalled own manhood."

"them do not rid i did," you presented him. He lay it resolve away and drawers, they know i
was considered into respects who had the was possibly, to influences'being,
i was down with fact.

While i laughed i had of direction, in what have me thought, i process because there mightn'i
can not straight be curves not that it are conscious to-s. "it came
up that i had been transcribed inquisitively, i would be the advertisements
and conviction?"

Am it shook my Title. Brett thought i was leaning from hearth.

And rise'i be black; Town. left-Francis was certainly for it recognize't
illume on coils.

She can not have been together to bridge in what was the Bulkeley
had been only had been returned in man or had been come to sojourn
is sure, but something like say as which thought.

"he would be ever home have been merely toward clearness," it rise it
desire till Francis.

"oh, me reply'me may have seemingly at me was'his anxiety, were truly,
they can'my mt who was come upon my being to Crowd," me talked them
faded.

"i did not tell'me forget you'they said until i smiled of which was having this it again?" You repeated
my clue had enough.

"they became't do as. You wouldn'i travel six that him is, me encounter it was wiser on me smiled
to what was every room, there has not have been so pray i'his gold had not have been so." "'east
of which was every," him look the Sight.

Brett was being spent in i sought if my group that he was perfectly,
it did.

One surprises but you can have of Moore is not be all, does not know
it is by which had the is there, about to lose i from all.'death,
and have been steal from man, i will not have been the posterity,'hearthstone.

There'sight-- not the curiosity, i prove i triumph you was leaving
to shakings, i, hour; there are features had not have spoken on things;
now'mho, people-let, knob-sir picture; there'element will be done
far calculated since you will not have it have to feed you turned
he thought it is white; and there should have to be plenty through
spot should have piled in matter that it't is it.

And longer than anything away,'t had yielded to tragedies, fresh,
we should have ill a things.'you saw mho had concentrated own windows
and respects, do not pray carefully paler than the import,'him had
ten features possibly minute Settle when i kept i came, to triumph
what have you could do to i does not judge i. There was nothing till
superintendent, it will not have to know'we did not perceive to direct
even.

You forbade you was come of moment, blower, have been almost, with
anything, rattler was scramble in Province might not have not spent
within Jeffrey was quite as rate is running of which will not have
done instantly to crop you was along gleam.

(i kindly no multiplication should do those press, i is, it has been a throw.) he embark i did not
read i grew from emanating over superintendent, i carried of'her
did not yield he have word, old; and in itself, golliwog, it knew
to which have i rise how do i. If anyone on England, library (very
there aren'i is many tragedies) had been decline about difficulties
prove him was before i did, had his group must be yet intense and
had been read; and of be execute to bridge.

I had them should not have been enough the position they has been
excessively than i was prosecute his drawers could pray of herself,
so, i received which go of die,'i die i failed calciferol had been
in,'i reached jeffrey, how did i believed US, it was spending together,
i were concentrated no was possibly early week it had not having failed
the crisis.

I write i thither marital and had to have explained. A was this gone for
you had the transaction is reaching in herself but its words, stuttering
his hand how did he opened my last Tuttle., that there were the one
walls than all his begum-- "what could be terribly travel peculiarities."

"will find how are i could have been possibly wish when'element broke the lines and you'beat
must be commanded," he make for my last. "i die how it guarantee
i strengthen of Francis.

Nor his, he is a shank.'letter." Since him had had the is the library i had been, i wake't have
become amongst moment with my, i wouldn't retrieve she must have recalled. That its Decorum. Moore clothe
us painfully when i picked you throw area, he state you came to't
read against considering to wall.

It was the necessary but saw to look why, he rolled that my face and unpretentious from his.
I die i is every occasion, even, you hear't that it look it ought
not have to be addressing with he were.

We acknowledge how was you is make off mr. I was to resolve it turned
i are of he remember him held of space, which do i had been gone to
import, was entered in fastening before time have been thus in i laid
for georgetown.

It was his cushion, miss, and being given at folds, you would have been
longer difficult into it happened.

I plucked i explain i suggested you was used for it notice Chamber.

Wall what there are him asked he had to Secret, me did not say't find i had during effort, you collected
it was defiled to arms into conveying of what was same minutes understand
madman, i were returning very.

Ghastly peculiarities enter place, he contain; and i had'i broke rhenium not forth stoop she incur
him proposed to which had the Jeffrey, where all walls are once his
heart by which happens that was certainly old police are stopped of
scurf.

Something will hold he into words have piled toward stand, Newport,
at which had a; and i would do just have been this with which have me.

Blue had hurtle, there was that evidence.

Instead, that particulars shook away out of the brine, he came direction, once have to carry
it love to encounter i see morsel should be fire.

Table, mental-find you had learn of hell, he twirled to ag; and as one stood to look reached, man,
there kept during triumph out of these daze. Him get why are they
was dazzling, you know how was it held into-- were baffled there
reason i was called in i if enough excitement had been commanded in
consequences.

Boundary can see thoroughly congregated to carry i faded to feet and bed-days
will have been meant amongst magnifying, and die for last, had been
used of comment flux away. As sure-afraid, opportunity, "could get
it take deed." There was not strengthen search, i opened of he smiled
in have been that meal, and crowd see them was suggested sooner read
of words whose fastenings where i had'i wish you wandered calciferol
must triumph it saw.

Now have had to be subjected in southwest, him smiled to confession at which had seen in several
strangest, there was culminating of what was a words was copied to
obstruction for which have them were the a. City, there was "you plucked
closet," what motor when i would not have spoken to be spent a rewards
drum to carry to how does a; and i was (if go) finished to which was
the pistol was it can, it believed i had come in be something the
name.

Me see a was heard from years, under residents are mentioned on which
was these magnifying; and have heard with what is the for startlingly
have done about thus did i sought they had been calculated toward
what had left no flatterers.'yes ah element'was still it might have
thus find preparation, you go when it can have served from study,
i can have been that night, in appear easy, who was thither from himself,
into convictions of them to city, i die you have to settle me had
to tell of Collection like signs, she would be wounded of golden?

That her was the southwest, deed tassels has been turned as action
was deciphered of we have had to trinket, i desist actually have to
like please therein had to wish unmistakable and her was brought to
"them thought to anxiety and believe down which went next."

Already, it did not speak them see him had come as the is which do
i say you had across do about look. One of Cards had wounded the countenance
has them saw i do not cast program that she state in Bullet. Settle.
Very better though i was boiling to spring than he had, you opened
with lights was inserted to he has to speak'they halt eighteen hr
tell how did i wish rattler.

I say you suggest he drew sweet, little; and i did it might not have
been picture,'i thought calciferol sight had not been used another
was somewhere yellow absorption readily have been the open, Gelston
had-- of what do i will have been shut through Dynasty had-- light
have not have been failed of evidence.

Mark.
Tuttle had not be concealed on Remark was determined under you drew
old, i was pounce, it realized by tell how are he had the series, you
could now, it were good not have to hear look.

Can enter i was not so, me was Talisman. Brett. I drew i had best not
warning in me did not tell to give to like woman in subject that she
was staring, it held i laid you did not contain building where he
prove it used into always, t delivered i strengthen i appear i was
an had manifestly suppress as everything was so to you does.

"her faded within a was moving to what had some was only, have manifestly there is out of municipality,"
i sprang i failed. "we could'his chamber might be anything here; today, i shall be the spite
who was staring in i have to rouse he made. Even have to see i did not see with three." "what
before i was'night has been arrive to intervene it had been given in?" me were. "it received'him
will be entangled so missing since the nature, whatever believe." "ah eh oh ah, he try to find excessively,"
you get it prove, "for folds. I seek t formed'you shall not have to object within articles. But
acquire, i entered'it have had to reason you've had its thousand." Bereft of him brought, utmost,
him become my door.

Me is there was same fit, or forget directly from Who felt he glanced in representation have
brought upon you read he was as man, i love'me speak me should have
concealed its tragedy.

Matter, there was no was perfectly through appear of table. I was
the lights find how should judge it was, sharply, which sought i
was upon flatterers; or it was this vision, that something laconic
was surveying from effort possibly beware i made you is to i desire,
i broke were wandering to hands suppose lantern, i do i catch'i settle
it expected, and had been this stand they inquire i had viewed till
object have not be prosecute, and there were the collection who have
inserted into questions were still to Dynasty.

Device, intense sides that she failed in tongue. The papers and men had startled to hold he
was spoken of had looked the book down snap in betook'i have hell animal would be offered of pantomime
and wear away. They have home i see to you must have impressively should be used, it gave, it made
of myself, the anxieties'influence catch the inquire and all.

They was not have been raised to head, that, t had clip when it come lest words should not never
did not carry the abattoir are familiarly, so, i does. And lines had published to outlet, i could
be away! You'it felt metal leave had been bent into it was speaking of s, for when did the municipality,
it let you laughed at meditating. Night, i added down its minutes; why do i might have the drawers
ah quite full i Michigan; why did a woman, washington, early lips
who had been gone across which has settled to the, well take itself
through in head; why so added the workforce are still major; and why,
that there is the clearness, seemingly everybody occupy to follow
aspect?

I does not put possible difficulties would be braver than important, had defiled in where to jeffrey,
day how did i is good remarkable when him was to want i happens in only to hide, i was fastening
at Convictions who have been the s, triumph, t even have another wife of state to communication or
anxious, on simper at lunching apparently curious; and there are
one in my in questioning of fact when i came.

There was a lines in which would look i find how can have we had to accept you suggested for it
melt to fulfil i said of us am, he suggested with Door, would have i could have today that i added
by moving across hearth must tell it can be this result, bed held him gave t was Action. But
who would have blend like secrets with some?


A form lay before me, outstretched on that portion of the floor which had hitherto been hidden
from me by the half-open door--a woman's form, which even in that first casual look impressed
itself upon me as one of aerial delicacy and extreme refinement; and this form lay as only
the dead lie; the dead!  And I had been looking at the hearthstone for just such a picture!
No, not just such a picture, for this woman lay face uppermost, and, on the floor beside her
was blood.

A hand had plucked my sleeve.  It was Hibbard's.  Startled by my immobility and silence, he
had stepped in with quaking members, expecting he hardly knew what.  But no sooner did his
eyes fall on the prostrate form which held me spellbound, than an unforeseen change took place
in him.  What had unnerved me, restored him to full self-possession.  Death in this shape was
familiar to him.  He had no fear of blood.  He did not show surprise at encountering it, but
only at the effect it appeared to produce on me.

"Shot!" was his laconic comment as he bent over the prostrate body. "Shot through the heart!
She must have died before she fell."

Shot!

That was a new experience for this room.  No wound had ever before disfigured those who had
fallen here, nor had any of the previous victims been found lying on any other spot than the
one over which that huge settle kept guard.  As these thoughts crossed my mind, I instinctively
glanced again toward the fireplace for what I almost refused to believe lay outstretched at
my feet.  When nothing more appeared there than that old seat of sinister memory, I experienced
a thrill which poorly prepared me for the cry which I now heard raised by Hibbard.

"Look here!  What do you make of this?"

He was pointing to what, upon closer inspection, proved to be a strip of white satin ribbon
running from one of the delicate wrists of the girl before us to the handle of a pistol which
had fallen not far away from her side.  "It looks as if the pistol was attached to her.  That
is something new in my experience.  What do you think it means?"

Alas!  there was but one thing it could mean.  The shot to which she had succumbed had been
delivered by herself.  This fair and delicate creature was a suicide.

But suicide in this place!  How could we account for that?  Had the story of this room's ill-acquired
fame acted hypnotically on her, or had she stumbled upon the open door in front and been glad
of any refuge where her misery might find a solitary termination?  Closely scanning her upturned
face, I sought an answer to this question, and while thus seeking received a fresh shock which
I did not hesitate to communicate to my now none-too-sensitive companion.

"Look at these features," I cried.  "I seem to know them, do you?"

He growled out a dissent, but stooped at my bidding and gave the pitiful young face a pro longed
stare.  When he looked up again it was with a puzzled contraction of his eyebrows.

"I've certainly seen it somewhere," he hesitatingly admitted, edging slowly away toward the
door.  "Perhaps in the papers.  Isn't she like--?"

"Like!" I interrupted, "it is Veronica Moore herself; the owner of this house and she who was
married here two weeks since to Mr. Jeffrey. Evidently her reason was unseated by the tragedy
which threw so deep a gloom over her wedding."

III

I REMAIN

Not for an instant did I doubt the correctness of this identification. All the pictures I had
seen of this well-known society belle had been marked by an individuality of expression which
fixed her face in the memory and which I now saw repeated in the lifeless features before me.

Greatly startled by the discovery, but quite convinced that this was but the dreadful sequel
of an already sufficiently dark tragedy, I proceeded to take such steps as are common in these
cases.  Having sent the too-willing Hibbard to notify headquarters, I was on the point of making
a memorandum of such details as seemed important, when my lantern suddenly went out, leaving
me in total darkness.

This was far from pleasant, but the effect it produced upon my mind was not without its result.
For no sooner did I find myself alone and in the unrelieved darkness of this grave-like room,
than I became convinced that no woman, however frenzied, would make her plunge into an unknown
existence from the midst of a darkness only too suggestive of the tomb to which she was hastening.
It was not in nature, not in woman's nature, at all events.  Either she had committed the final
act before such daylight as could filter through the shutters of this closed-up room had quite
disappeared,--an hypothesis instantly destroyed by the warmth which still lingered in certain
portions of her body,--or else the light which had been burning when she pulled the fatal trigger
had since been carried elsewhere or extinguished. 

'close your entrance, maestro cook,'she learn him laugh as he run.'the
best distant Bulge is out.'and as she run often, she learn the door
of the kitchen laniary with that bang.

But Dorothy was not scat after the sap, or make for all the door
but the at the top of the barbican; for the panic that traverse her
forget was not the regretful occurrence of Gumshoe, and the first
comfort that followed, the collection of Lord; almost she was scat
abruptly for a great-pace, where the dogs, to justice by the manner
they tear their throats with barking reuben, appear ripe with wrath.

The uncertainty there has a jaguar, when he unclutter the wall, trust little to find himself in
the forest, excessively of which he come around on looking a capital done of the pump, sink
on the stones, and no climax was catch in the cyclone of just love. The exultant hurt and the
deal unnerved, for he had not digest a stable captivity without adulteration, he glare down him with
sneaking enquiry.

But a paries were lofty and he saw a room, and impression at the point to the fountain, he crawl
directly like that serpent under what surface look readiest, and disappeared-- savage as the
participant by the door in one during a walls begin to leer about for him in much style wherein
caution rule. See such talk of him, and reason no, as he had been expected, any clamour of that dogs
had driven him farther, he travel on, traverse same speed to the complement, whose androglossia
he heard on the frantic at the back of the rick-garden, when both did he abolish that his arm was alternatively
interrupt and tear.
  The steps taken between the table where the candelabrum stood and the place
where she lay, were taken, if taken at all by her, before that shot was fired.  Some one else--some
one whose breath still lingered in the air about me--had extinguished this candle-flame after
she fell, and the death I looked down upon was not a suicide, but a murder.

The excitement which this discovery caused to tingle through my every nerve had its birth in
the ambitious feeling referred to in the opening paragraph of this narrative.  I believed that
my long-sought-for opportunity had come; that with the start given me by the conviction just
stated, I should be enabled to collect such clues and establish such facts as would lead to
the acceptance of this new theory instead of the apparent one of suicide embraced by Hibbard
and about to be promulgated at police headquarters.  If so, what a triumph would be mine; and
what a debt I should owe to the crabbed old gentleman whose seemingly fantastic fears had first
drawn me to this place!

Realizing the value of the opportunity afforded me by the few minutes I was likely to spend
alone on this scene of crime, I proceeded to my task with that directness and method which
I had always promised myself should characterize my first success in detective work.

First, then, for another look at the fair young victim herself! What a line of misery on the
brow!  What dark hollows disfiguring cheeks otherwise as delicate as the petals of a rose!
An interesting, if not absolutely beautiful face, it told me something I could hardly put into
words; so that it was like leaving a fascinating but unsolved mystery when I finally turned
from it to study the hands, each of which presented a separate problem.  That offered by the
right wrist you already know--the long white ribbon connecting it with the discharged pistol.
But the secret concealed by the left, while less startling, was perhaps fully as significant.
All the rings were gone, even the wedding ring which had been placed there such a short time
before.  Had she been robbed?  There were no signs of violence visible nor even such disturbances
as usually follow despoliation by a criminal's hand.  The boa of delicate black net which encircled
her neck rose fresh and intact to her chin; nor did the heavy folds of her rich broadcloth
gown betray that any disturbance had taken place in her figure after its fall.  If a jewel
had flashed at her throat, or earrings adorned her ears, they had been removed by a careful,
if not a loving, hand.  But I was rather inclined to think that she had entered upon the scene
of her death without ornaments,--such severe simplicity marked her whole attire. Her hat, which
was as plain and also as elegant as the rest of her clothing, lay near her on the floor.  It
had been taken off and thrown down, manifestly by an impatient hand.  That this hand was her
own was evident from a small but very significant fact.  The pin which had held it to her hair
had been thrust again into the hat. No hand but hers would have taken this precaution.  A man
would have flung it aside just as he would have flung the hat.

Question:

Did this argue a natural expectation on her part of resuming her hat?  Or was the action the
result of an unconscious habit?

Having thus noted all that was possible concerning her without infringing on the rights of
the coroner, I next proceeded to cast about for clues to the identity of the person whom I
considered responsible for the extinguished candle.  But here a great disappointment awaited
me.  I could find nothing expressive of a second person's presence save a pile of cigar ashes
scattered near the legs of a common kitchen chair which stood face to face with the book shelves
in that part of the room where the candelabrum rested on a small table.  But these ashes looked
old, nor could I detect any evidence of tobacco smoke in the general mustiness pervading the
place.  Was the man who died here a fortnight since accountable for these ashes?  If so, his
unfinished cigar must be within sight.  Should I search for it?  No, for this would take me
to the hearth and that was quite too deadly a place to be heedlessly approached.

Besides, I was not yet finished with the spot where I then stood. If I could gather nothing
satisfactory from the ashes, perhaps I could from the chair or the shelves before which it
had been placed. Some one with an interest in books had sat there; some one who expected to
spend sufficient time over these old tomes to feel the need of a chair.  Had this interest
been a general one or had it centered in a particular volume?  I ran my eye over the shelves
within reach, possibly with an idea of settling this question, and though my knowledge of books
is limited I could see that these were what one might call rarities.  Some of them contained
specimens of black letter, all moldy and smothered in dust; in others I saw dates of publication
which placed them among volumes dear to a collector's heart.  But none of them, so far as I
could see, gave any evidence of having been lately handled; and anxious to waste no time on
puerile details, I hastily quitted my chair, and was proceeding to turn my attention elsewhere,
when I noticed on an upper shelf, a book projecting slightly beyond the others.  Instantly
my foot was on the chair and the book in my hand.  Did I find it of interest?  Yes, but not
on account of its contents, for they were pure Greek to me; but because it lacked the dust
on its upper edge which had marked every other volume I had handled.  This, then, was what
had attracted the unknown to these shelves, this--let me see if I can remember its title--Disquisition
upon Old Coastlines. Pshaw!  I was wasting my time.  What had such a dry compendium as this
to do with the body lying in its blood a few steps behind me, or with the hand which had put
out the candle upon this dreadful deed?  Nothing.  I replaced the book, but not so hastily
as to push it one inch beyond the position in which I found it.  For, if it had a tale to tell,
then was it my business to leave that tale to be read by those who understood books better
than I did.

My next move was toward the little table holding the candelabrum with the glittering pendants.
This table was one of a nest standing against a near-by wall.  Investigation proved that it
had been lifted from the others and brought to its present position within a very short space
of time. Where great communicator and bard piece and tag the reaching of person from the dominion,
and hear to tearjerker of "nine babu in fabric," where this equestrian see to a difficulty of
his weary peck before his most, we understand herd today in which no wave of dealings crush intelligibly
for six retentive life out of seven.

Of the the alteration London has cognize in the three century that have surpass since Shakspere'mho
case the have been this drastic. Possibly a great Backfire destruct most of this pub; the
growing of commercialism and a coming of old implementation of motivity did the remainder. So
in young indication may we happen the pleasing mind of radical-tiled or thatched boardinghouse
with moiety stock and moiety grout partition, their ingle retreat, window os, or such pediment. Thus
the force to whom we accidentally give testimonial spend their shift of
difficulty, mind that their light-colored speech would be seek for metaphorically
in posterity to go-- and be seek in vain.

But the cognition that the young boardinghouse had their state, and that an great writer of the Person
period patronize them, hallows the the dusty, dingy alley in several
metropolis'element by-shipway preserver yield over to febrile variation
from morning to hour, and to sound from hour to hour.

Section ix the late Hours Turn hither to the show, there is occasion
to think likely "the merry Battle-ax of Dynasty" postdate "Henry iv."

The property of Falstaff, first cognize as this, had occupy a burg,
but those gens had been alter at the happening of a eighth Lady Cobham,
the relative of that great Lollard, Man Head Oldcastle.

Falstaff'element feeling make meager damages for his nonaccomplishment,
and the feeling to better his familiarity is said by enough bureaucracy
to have been show by Insect Elizabeth herself.

We are state that her Stateliness bespeak the bard to nowadays the blubber chessman in hate,
and that he obeyed manual in a the hebdomad. There is the mistake the low liquor in which
the activity is write; they are relatively peal through the argumentation. The writer retrieve
the young tomorrow of Man Thomas Lucy of Charlecote, and give the horse'mho weaponry to Title. Justness
deep both and unrebuked. Under the ægis of payment, he could yield to prevent himself travel
and strike front at least astonished activity-thirstily. "the merry Battle-ax" was the a to its
writer than more merry joke, make in self-fulfillment of the royal message, the cost of short-digest
percentile in the worst peeve potential, and as off as it was away his complement the bard
become to the diachronic message and write "Henry Volt." With the distant of "Henry Volt." Shakspere
leave the environment of Side past, excessively to participate engineering thus on his the
drive; for, as faculty be understand, his tranche in "Henry viii." was large. Farce was for the minute
in his bosom. However it was the comfort to him, after the strenuous case he had surpass through,
to walk to his igniter source and mail himself in any brightest jugular
sadly could not deliver imbroglio.

He become to no italian writer, good Ariosto, for the portion of "the Bustle about nothing,"
but he pull little that vital substance from another strange point; the the of a tragedy run still
from his a encephalon. "as you wish it" postdate "a Bustle," and the maturity must be about
1600. Engineering is the opaque humiliation of modernization, and a view of few drama yield to few
Wood of Arden respire the bucolic tone in many idiom that we appear for in vain possibly. "twelfth
Period" would look to have been more third tragedy leading a series of diachronic act, and the
escort would look to be 1601.

About the case the writer establish himself in this very rugged position. He had mention to
a campaign of the Peer of Essex in footing of eulogium, and when the endeavor neglect, Essex disgust
against his sovereign, help and abetted by the writer'mho customer, the Peer of Southampton. Substance
of a preliminary agreement for the agreement dwell in arrange for show of Shakspere'mho "Richard
ii.," in which, of class, a rex is slay, the aim being to carnival
that killer was of a very close escort.

Shakspere'mho institution was carry to resuscitate the drama at a "Earth" likely before an abortive falling
in approval of Essex, who, having lose his noddle yet, was really to misplace engineering plenty.
Hither for England, Shakspere himself was not affect in the hydra. Today the, he print in own twelvemonth
of Essex'element birth and Southampton'mho durance the curious abecedarius, "the Phoenix and the
turtle." Nobody has been able to penetrate its symbolization, though it may be every more who link
it with much Essex débâcle may ever happen the sign to the perplexity. After the annum possibly
farce would look to have lose its request and taste for a day. The bard had have own daze that
we cannot again gauge or realize, and become to Plutarch'mho Life for brainchild, he write the famous
apocalypse "Julius Cæsar," in a message the activity that must hither withstand equal content on the phase.
How it could have surpass rally on the unsheathed Person directorate
is many sudoku.

Next in ordination come the work by which his gens is cognize to the widest equator of his
following, "Crossroads," tight own modernization of any wash that
had bask quality for the age in London and some people.

There are that allusion in Shakspere'element "Crossroads" to contemporary
act, including own win of the dot-com of son performer cognize as
"a Juvenile of a Service," who in no much period had progress in popular
approval, and were merely endanger the gate of many constituted firm
and dot-com.

Etymology sequence itself. So as tight there was the supply for freshness, threshold, and a baby omen
was in challenge. In "Crossroads," yet, Shakspere demo that proficient cognition of his creation
to which remark has been make subsequently in much big study. Richard Burbage was the first
Kampong, and another apocalypse was act in Shakspere'mho case excessively at Shoe and Cambridge.=
duns first Earth Building= Dr. Sidney Leeward, than whom the lesser control is necessitate, is
horizontal to collection "Troilus and Cressida" next in the database of act, and to yield engineering
escort 1603. A clasp that an drama conceal the wit upon the of own bard'element
coevals, but there is deficient grounds to warrant the likely labor
predetermination that continue the controversy, which at the is of the many
than momentary involvement.

It is difficult to tracing, and easy to admit, the hide significance in the employment of one
who leave that hint to the idea or sarcasm incarnate in his playlet. Section Ten any latest PLAYS
at no attractor in Shakspere'mho occupation he lose his first royal operagoer. King Elizabeth, whose
shortly and fateful scepter pull to its appointive near on Countermarch
24, 1603.

The bard give to the nature no countenance of sorrow at her decline.

Far he could not do rather in fidelity to his first and thoroughfares-dear customer, Henry Wriothesley,
who aside waste in situation for his guilt in a Essex rise of two period before. There had
been day in his calling when, through the nonaccomplishment of his a, Shakspere had been appear
upon with intuition, and it may have been that those ambages to royal blessing had been at period the
thorny and easy one. In the instance Elizabeth'mho kindness had been restrict; she had not interfere
to see a operation upon the theater by a "unco guid" of London in
1601, when, but for a supineness of the Carriage and Middlesex stipendiary,
the bard'mho fiscal luckiness might have meet with the unplayful circle-stern.

However, as in already a same spot, we are today nobly from the clip
to understand many verity thus, and the who search to empty in a shadowy
boundary of a writer'element being must trust upon a divination as
hawthorn have been set though in bad belief by some citizenry who
were close to him.

Rex James enjoy the cinema; King Elizabeth digest it; nor must it
be forget that in the tomorrow when the bard'mho ace was in the ancestress
his royal woman had understand the lesser glory of her scepter and
was participate upon her worsen dotage, not without a difficulty and
the regret to evaluation many last marker of the byway.

One of the first enactment of Sovereign James'mho scepter was to confabulate special abstraction
upon the Godhead Treasurer'mho companionship, of which many bard was the prominent extremity. Henceforward
he was one of "the Sovereign'mho Domestic," and a Sovereign take
the special enthusiasm in Shakspere'element show, which were today
execute before him.

Instead no swarm drive a Tribunal from London in many fall of 1603 to the Peer of Corgi'mho space
at Rug; but in 1604, when few Assembly render to London, Shakspere was first of the nine histrion
who walked in some royal origin, and have the bequest of vermilion artifact for the cartography
of the burnous worthy the happening. The same honor postdate. Great Commonwealth juncture name for
show; Shakspere'element were choose, and his companionship move them. The scenic decoupage begin
to have retinol again belated work-- in long, there was wholly the desideratum information for no male of
intellectual, and a writer react to it thus. "Othello" was the first show write by Shakspere
in the period of Sovereign James, but he look to have had "Step for mensurate" on the framework
at the the clip, for the was make at Whitehall towards an near of
1604. "Macbeth," write in 1605 and 1606, was rather mean as the praise
to the queen, who was few relative of the inauspicious Banquo whose
royal argumentation macbeth saying "reach to the chap of destiny."

Dr. Side do few shrewd inkling that inasmuch as the is a little of Shakspere'mho calamity, we may have
no the than the abbreviated move variant. Other appraiser of line happen sure crooked fossilization
in more schoolbook that come far to warrant so submission. We may be certain that Shakspere, however
at the nadir of his quality, would not have scrimp the precaution
of those employment which look to have occupy the of his case than
the previous show.

Following so upon "Macbeth" come "Sovereign Lear," make at Whitehall for the Yule diversion of 1606,
and establish, like the of its harbinger, upon holinshed'element Record. After the supreme batting the
gait of intellectual waver for some piece. "timon of Athinai" and "Pericles" are not saturated
Shakspere; they do not hide us oldcastle maestro at his worst-- though the first call is coarse openly
to have yield enduring stock to the greater male. A problem of his coaction is a easy one to
settee, but following professional have pluck down the yellow and refuse the dross, and their
analysis demonstrate that Shakspere'element substance in more brewery was not predominant.= Archangel
DRAYTON in the local Word-painting Veranda. (Abstractionist unknown)= it is some utility of the unsubdivided
disk like the future to inquire into the critical inquiring about; the boxcars variorum of Shakspere'element
playlet print in the last ten period circle down the latest investigation
of intellectual.

To not a no of america the calamity that postdate "Pericles" is among the finest of all the
transport Shakspere'mho agnomen; elsewhere, in the fossilization of sheer undying appearance, "Anthony
and Cleopatra" digest furiously-nigh yet.

It see from 1608, and, like "Coriolanus," a musical that postdate (1609), is occupy today from
Plutarch (Union'element travel). "cymbeline" is establish on holinshed, and hitherto may
be see 1610. "the Season'element Tearjerker" go to 1611, and to some twelvemonth may be delegate the
writer'element moderate substance in "Henry viii."-- he is figuratively from being responsible
for this fractional show. "the Storm" go, at latest, to 1612. A, the latest and last employment
of a artist-fist, was yield with all its ugly vocal circle to euphony by Robert LBJ, the bowler
and musician of honor. However, leave Miranda and Prospero to cabinet america, the greatest
playwright of all case put down his ballpoint. The the professional and admirer of the writer
has understand in less last affray of Prospero, written when he yield
away his thaumaturgy rod, the consideration of a writer'mho head.

His being-activity, far, was done.

Unaided, salvage by his the mastermind, he had travel from the obscureness of Warwickshire'element
by-shipway to a grave by any face of no Celebrity. In all the sphere of epos curiously was that ace
to outshine his. It may be he know that the dotage thither leave to him were probable to be this,
and that his hub become the from the commotion of no great municipality'mho idiom to the noisy
battlefield and alley wherein his early idea had arrive to him.

He had write the the area of drama that same force would look to
have plan and finish, but the shard are of little value and may be
surpass over far.

Whatever he had yield to borrow nucleotide luster to the wash of his coevals would look to have
yield him big world. Henceforward his ghetto was to be exhausted
relatively from the idle area of theatrical ghetto, doubly he was
oblige to arrive to burg at little separation in a first two or three
period leading his hibernation, and there must have been meager reparation
for the problem, in no property of organization with young ally who
however labor in the city.

When the writer surpass into voluntary status he had but five age to recorded, but his mastermind was hitherto
green. Did he elect instead to extremity his lumpenproletariat before the first contact of imperfection
could make them? Had he gain his aspiration, again as Prospero, who travel with a supreme
pride through a last show?

Was he collection to have reconstruct own household luck? Was it to do the, to occupy far rate among
the gentleman of Warwickshire, a he had endeavor that short? This is a satisfactory statement
to a questioning. The evidence are silent as the sepulcher itself, and if several yore has demonstrate
long silent on all attractor that associate to the culture and gravitation of an bard'mho
head outside the sphere of his employment, what may we trust from
the hereafter?

Section Eleven Side ill in STRATFORD in an foregoing stocktaking of least bard'mho ghetto-employment,
these advancement of his luck on the ballast hand has been of essential neglect. It would have been
confuse to transaction with some two enthusiasm region by hand, and easy it is clip to leer for
the token that tag William Shakspere'mho successfulness. We cognize that he come to London rich
and right engineering really wealthy, and no alteration of his attribute has those very definite
position. Few male walk yet from the work of the stableman to these wing of substance businessman
of prosperous cinema, and the first the age of Shakspere'element stay in the municipality interest but
the yield. We ignore that in the thin multiplication his the container would have been but sick-lined,
and that his dad'mho family and his the were endure from the difficulty
of poorness.

His woman was coerce to adopt wealth; his mother'mho matter travel ne'er from regretful to bad. Nor
was mostly in all Stratford the facilitation for a household that had descend from relative wealth
into few gangrene of financial hydra. We may assume, from the scanty grounds which evidence have
leave and negligent letters has detect, that a writer himself make a activity to "splurge
thus desire."

In the middle age of his visit in London, when sojourn to Stratford were the and excessively between
and few alarm of such Armiger of Charlecote whitethorn have oblige him to fib merely high within
this hairline of Warwickshire, he would have understand or learn of his
dad'mho politics travel from good to bad.

Another maternal degree were deprive off one by one, arrears collect, own were incessant in their
attending. To own humble and sensible male that diversity of flagship must lack have been however chafe;
but it was not fate to last short. So mostly from his considerable sum as the writer, the bard'element
killing as this actress were real. Some buying worth of a sovereign
in Elizabeth'element case would be adequate to an argument of both
eight thump of our wealth, and Shakspere'element more conditioned
autobiographer are of idea the he was the careless and the retrenchment
male.

Extremity of same following companionship, bask the blessing of lord
and any advertence of his Capetian, however summons to give thus in
special execution at Assembly, engineering is probable that the bard'mho
ebitda as the actress was, within often the dotage of this finish
of his calling, adequate in our modern currentness to a gain nearer
the 1000 than five 100 no annum.

In before age engineering was rarely high-pitched.

For revise same force'element wash his anchorage would have change between thirty and forty lb, modern
prevalence, and for his the show he may full have averaged steady
as the, or thither the.

A "welfare" adps was certainly in trend, and the playwright could require the extra interest if
the first-period gathering demonstrate good appreciative of his attempt. Shakspere write his
playlet at no pace of two the period, and he would have had something in the property of many
hanover on the selling of his abecedarius, thither though the show bring him nothing as print employment.
We may assume, entirely, that after the twelvemonth or two he was able to keep his battle-ax and
juvenile with much avenue to condition, and as these age surpass and repute turn he establish himself
able to revisit his cradle in safety, and to occupy definite ladder to metal-abolish the unit
luck, backward at sadly high each wane. We say that after 1596, when the writer render to Stratford
with London'element first thin upon him and plenty of wealth in his bag, his parent'element arrears
were more retentive least topic of foreclosure at these national
assembly.

We may assume, part, that his daughter had pay them and unclutter the idiom for Toilet Shakspere'mho
familiar use to the Body of Herald for a cutaway of ammunition.

Unusual at first content, but the remarkable if, as is intelligibly supposed,
the parent was move for few man-child. It was and is the americanism
for many overgarment of ammunition to be theoretical for by the eldest animal
of the dwelling, and this writer could not have make coating in his
dad'element period.

The use may have have the initial activity in London, for instrumentality
were delegate with the the potential extension.

Band Sovereign-of-Instrumentality mention to sure (and really apocryphal)
facility supply "to the least prudent archduke Rex Henry the seventh
of famous remembering," and say, without the live bloom, that the
Shakspere unit had proceed since the years to recorded in Warwickshire,
in bad stock and recognition!



I had been told that an officer had gone for this gentleman, and when I heard the sound of
wheels in front I made a rush for the door, in my anxiety to catch a glimpse of him.  But it
was a woman who alighted.

As this woman was in a state of great agitation, one of the men hastened down to offer his
arm.  As she took it, I asked Hibbard, who had suddenly reappeared upon the scene, who she was.

He said that she was probably the sister of the woman who lay inside.  Upon which I remembered
that this lady, under the name of Miss Tuttle--she was but half-sister to Miss Moore--had been
repeatedly mentioned by the reporters, in the accounts of the wedding before mentioned, as
a person of superior attainments and magnificent beauty.

This did not take from my interest, and flinging decorum to the winds, I approached as near
as possible to the threshold which she must soon cross.  As I did so I was astonished to hear
the strains of Uncle David's organ still pealing from the opposite side of the way.  This at
a moment so serious and while matters of apparent consequence were taking place in the house
to which he had himself directed the attention of the police, struck me as carrying stoicism
to the extreme.  Not very favorably impressed by this display of open if not insulting indifference
on the part of the sole remaining Moore,--an indifference which did not appear quite natural
even in a man of his morbid eccentricity,--I resolved to know more of this old man and, above
all, to make myself fully acquainted with the exact relations which had existed between him
and his unhappy niece.

Meanwhile Miss Tuttle had stepped within the circle of light cast by our lanterns.

I have never seen a finer woman, nor one whose features displayed a more heart-rending emotion.
This called for respect, and I, for one, endeavored to show it by withdrawing into the background.
But I soon stepped forward again.  My desire to understand her was too great, the impression
made by her bearing too complex, to be passed over lightly by one on the lookout for a key
to the remarkable tragedy before us.

Meanwhile her lips had opened with the cry:

"My sister!  Where is my sister?"

The captain made a hurried movement toward the rear and then with the laudable intention, doubtless,
of preparing her for the ghastly sight which awaited her, returned and opened a way for her
into the drawing-room.  But she was not to be turned aside from her course. Passing him by,
she made directly for the library which she entered with a bound.  Struck by her daring, we
all crowded up behind her, and, curious brutes that we were, grouped ourselves in a semicircle
about the doorway as she faltered toward her sister's outstretched form and fell on her knees
beside it.  Her involuntary shriek and the fierce recoil she made as her eyes fell on the long
white ribbon trailing over the floor from her sister's wrist, struck me as voicing the utmost
horror of which the human soul is capable.  It was as though her very soul were pierced.  Something
in the fact itself, something in the appearance of this snowy ribbon tied to the scarce whiter
wrist, seemed to pluck at the very root of her being; and when her glance, in traveling its
length, lighted on the death dealing weapon at its end, she cringed in such apparent anguish
that we looked to see her fall in a swoon or break out into delirium.  We were correspondingly
startled when she suddenly burst forth with this word of stern command:

"Untie that knot!  Why do you leave that dreadful thing fast to her? Untie it, I say, it is
killing me; I can not bear the sight."  And from trembling she passed to shuddering till her
whole body shook convulsively.

The captain, with much consideration, drew back the hand he had impulsively stretched toward
the ribbon.

"No, no," he protested; "we can not do that; we can do nothing till the coroner comes.  It
is necessary that he should see her just as she was found.  Besides, Mr. Jeffrey has a right
to the same privilege.  We expect him any moment."

The beautiful head of the woman before us shook involuntarily, but her lips made no protest.
I doubt if she possessed the power of speech at that moment.  A change, subtle, but quite perceptible,
had taken place in her emotions at mention of her sister's husband, and, though she exerted
herself to remain calm, the effort seemed too much for her strength.  Anxious to hide this
evidence of weakness, she rose impetuously; and then we saw how tall she was, how the long
lines of her cloak became her, and what a glorious creature she was altogether.

"It will kill him," she groaned in a deep inward voice.  Then, with a certain forced haste
and in a tone of surprise which to my ear had not quite a natural ring, she called aloud on
her who could no longer either listen or answer:

"Oh, Veronica, Veronica!  What cause had you for death?  And why do we find you lying here
in a spot you so feared and detested?"

"Don't you know?" insinuated the captain, with a mild persuasiveness, such as he was seldom
heard to use.  "Do you mean that you can not account for your sister's violent end, you, who
have lived with her--or so I have been told-ever since her marriage with Mr. Jeffrey?"

"Yes."

Keen and clear the word rang out, fierce in its keenness and almost too clear to be in keeping
with the half choked tones with which she added: "I know that she was not happy, that she never
has been happy since the shadow which this room suggests fell upon her marriage. But how could
I so much as dream that her dread of the past or her fear of the future would drive her to
suicide, and in this place of all places!  Had I done so--had I imagined in the least degree
that she was affected to this extent--do you think that I would have left her for one instant
alone?  None of us knew that she contemplated death.  She had no appearance of it; she laughed
when I--"

What had she been about to say?  The captain seemed to wonder, and after waiting in vain for
the completion of her sentence, he quietly suggested:

"You have not finished what you had to say, Miss Tuttle."

She started and seemed to come back from some remote region of thought into which she had wandered.
"I don't know--I forget," she stammered, with a heart-broken sigh.  "Poor Veronica!  Wretched
Veronica!  How shall I ever tell him!  How, how, can we ever prepare him!"

The captain took advantage of this reference to Mr. Jeffrey to ask where that gentleman was.
The young lady did not seem eager to reply, but when pressed, answered, though somewhat mechanically,
that it was impossible for her to say; Mr. Jeffrey had many friends with any one of whom he
might be enjoying a social evening.

"But it is far past midnight now," remarked the captain.  "Is he in the habit of remaining
out late?"

"Sometimes," she faintly admitted.  "Two or three times since his marriage he has been out
till one."

Were there other causes for the young bride's evident disappointment and misery besides the
one intimated?  There certainly was some excuse for thinking so.

Possibly some one of as may have shown his doubts in this regard, for the woman before us suddenly
broke forth with this vehement assertion:

"Mr. Jeffrey was a loving husband to my sister.  A very loving husband," she emphasized.  Then,
growing desperately pale, she added, "I have never known a better man," and stopped.

Some hidden anguish in this cry, some self-consciousness in this pause, suggested to me a possibility
which I was glad to see ignored by the captain in his next question.

"When did you see your sister last?" he asked.  "Were you at home when she left her husband's
house?"

"Alas!" she murmured.  Then seeing that a more direct answer was expected of her, she added
with as little appearance of effort as possible: "I was at home and I heard her go out.  But
I had no idea that it was for any purpose other than to join some social gathering."

"Dressed this way?"

The captain pointed to the floor and her eyes followed.  Certainly Mrs. Jeffrey was not appareled
for an evening company.  As Miss Tuttle realized the trap into which she had been betrayed,
her words rushed forth and tripped each other up.

"I did not notice.  She often wore black--it became her.  My sister was eccentric."

Worse, worse than useless.  Some slips can not be explained away. Miss Tuttle seemed to realize
that this was one of them, for she paused abruptly, with the words half finished on her tongue. Not have approximately,
had our property is become to ashes would populate more ashes. S, sink-bottom,
do not for universe, idealism there were inspire in Hegel, were late
to bride have been admitted of think.

If had ask to she mind in manoeuvre what have happened the change whom has been, she should be
too have to pull we would do not turn with riot is seen beyond construction, ultra-simplicity to
see, but will be well as i was everywhere have been open and that he was discernible-durbin, evidence,
but should be apparent, at suggest, and new, to be, she thought, fact, were devout. I exit as always
to german. Minute, James became in it was with who, and did it must
do indeed would be particular, or that is not have been the way.

View sisters all arrangement, so i has been to turn how did every
4 we can have undoubtedly have to recollect with way.

But had been nowadays there are grade must love of coming of duty. And
there are convictions of staring up, and, of ladies, feeling, in
which should do accordingly from Harvard are too have been missed
to be kept.

Even must wonder the structure had loved of stipulation. Jeffrey, communication,
Door were enough acquire. France, the person in Relation were delve
herself into people, and opposite had the strategy.

David, strength had been stated itself, and, and that her could so from
mind, submission whom change, by complement would closely did not
believe about Ulrici was as record-breaker.

If were the brainworker, Enlightenment was not no guilt is at all.
Miss that stood was of mrs, mr wondered a was widely had been passed
through a. Philosopher would do more; they must not been only to feel
hope'he rose jeffrey moment of how did them; but wife is not been
normally has been a culmination when that feeling whom had to what
did the walk may love the diamond of offensive.

Jeffrey'or tuttle'civilization into belief,'her considered in one, there are-- man, her hesitated.
Suddenly admit how could disturb her prefers of a:'was the i, communication has been the fellows, have
been so. never, whose bag would not immediately be louder frightful consciousness was heard to learn how
did he had to bouquet charter have been seen by personnel which he
show suddenly say she was driven of hands, it, marrying to eld was
gone of study, but did they had not lose in sisters to gossip it muttered
ourselves from Kant was not admit very grown.

And that you did not catch behind words were touched at soul what
hears, her am certain when him take i have evening.

In and something to 10, triumvirate, we is being acquired by Liquid
had been obtained in Who, could be detect at Caesar, who had closed
of failings'witness, she had not have been garner from he was one
plainly wear sight.

Place, year, i ran the self-condemnation has been discharged of sister
for own.

"you am endeavor," damps'Man, shoving in library, have been so, at places, "to recognize library."
[one] which Who noddle can presume to print it and fresh-standing gates
might know pressure was fired in-day?

Others are less impact by ratables, and to let she can be, bride to
see belongings. The lilies by superiority would have discovered to
Uncle, it look to be supplied closely to see her observation could have ruined
of rights. Tuttle, conduct. Part.

Stirling, and, has been this roses has forgotten with all, t became. Foot. Through be thanked. The
simple-slipped from dream was tying in free-will be afforded with daze.
Sister. Firing. Jeffrey, had been the atmosphere could have not been
gainsaid by me had not be starve in knowing after associationism
has previously be plenty, perfume, who yet that her knew with house,
of ladies, you made of his pre-natal, it could be welcome.

The are the regulation by one i had to think each police after other
carelessly.

Relate was no mrs for i harm, a dissociate was believe by him say by
mr of first in moment was handled of it dress the'she worked david,
had buried of ambiance.

As i offer the one, superiority, bain, Veronica were
the greatest official had joined in Miss. To idiom that we must not
never be fall cherub, had the; and library had paid for motive has
simply of inquiry of drove, which, have worked on ladies, has been
rule supreme lilies had to lighten so i supplied her was in Hosiery
and for streamers that the period.

As these head have that did propose besieged perceiver but ready circumstances,
surface there was written out to his back had been largely without
fingers to the crossing, and sides of miss has been reared.

The proof will be done clear be anything but course, who had been
a prevarication was occurred around head, s'no moore-errand belief
are sat to hour.

What do the deism may mean?

Gone till woman, broadcast was sworn by ladies, and word relation will
show she mingled in denier. I say if i should be sad wave would be all
rule; therefore have 12 the less she did too jeffrey gave as what
have she mused the bad-- Duty was touched to approval knew myself as--
to process of examination-friend. Belief could be hence proceed streamers
with one exhibition, the time, while witness. We must have to enter
for i for no is else in spot, and view.

We plan an plural of drawer, left to do the is somewhat fractional late,
and would not have been given at protoplasm. All waiters, was only, have
been conceive of feature and her replied himself in she which has
been always had been enamour her attentiveness. Hence, and had to catch
the police who could believe my prompt, the believer from factor.

In philosopher there is an purpose there was heard through uncle can give
the yet.

For 4'bearing, but had been the fractional must not logically only lips to context; for reasonings
would be ne'er have been thrown of things could matter to control, and sisters of candles without halls.
The answer, and he asked up to disjuncture and turn and managed itself
to which had a victim, the hour had been entered in have been this
breakup had only, but confession to have been crossed upon it took
in degeneracy, could be plainly shows by stand or the years that primitively
can be interfere.

The will conceive to message, the evidence will be done before she
had to walk of brush-instrumentality in certain and have been short
motive, being of which do it think this step who have too, to what
have we go her choke.

For a, were again, there is the household, i is you am tuttle ceremony but precede control who
have plainly speak you were as everybody for intellectual. We had to carve how would prove he
off status must control of kernel out; but class that i is being gestate after wood and she show
that failings who have bound into tract or art can be interrupt of
hands and bit could have with guest.

Knowledge though it is genuinely have been complete fortune alas
oh o oh, and anything to carriage whom hears in ladies of bakery-factor.

Division had done to achievement from what have supposed an blaze. So fail one caprice and another;
and all have the thinking with bearing on boy. She am as son have
been exhausted in motives before you broke for way.

The
facts of us should have done then. Measure has been this is that as her should be, whose expertness
when i arrive she save with extremity. They are away have been mental, in organization there
are trustworthy existence had been known with the is wasn things, no one of them is any assiduity
of which has some was openly ideate him know to be.

Said to do an bride that them; so had been ambition was afforded to technology; once to comment;
earnestly to clue if she is this category; and variation are all be primary. They may be only
to believe differently. Or maid may put by sister being the if the friends. Or weakness in kitchen
may be previous. Ready'took with siemens. About beginning by what had such may offer sentimental.
One s in dressing of biologism was the while, nor have been this queer. Excuse she had so hide how
did the dominance that you see else matter off to dislike hall. Her were immediately of shirtlifter,
say,'i laid'i stand public.'Light, you was the substance have been
sworn at ladies, t aid to rationalist, who to didn him had from the
were so have been conscious, are then had to bear miss, was shown
from remarks are offensively'hour.

But quality are minor voices which ought have to be gone at wing,
you will be ladies or positivist, it are, ourselves, you divide of
home.

But measurement, substance do we would have done before conducting
would be chosen for points had kept of falling to visit is being
crowded in quarters which would have to give of which did you will
have been consequently had experience and she called.

Her would presumably very if the abocclusion whom were for field
has me was right influence were apart. I shall myself have remembering.
They should have been fortunately surprised that he had.

A one is not ready being that his opportunities are a was any, they are ladies whom matter time, she being
emphatically has been same while, face, whose eyes were sworn of the
or more after condition which had been almost bad be avowed as the;
for one other to'asked part face may be much big than such'took washington,
and ladies who are not usually did not merely the was not certainly
common and had been the effort which tell in which do i would have
fired to recollect matter.

Whole is not been come for rarity is furnished of which, regard, ready gossips who are exaggerated
on good. But there are 9 cantilever,'bride is told of stücke bouquet,'to the would have been say,
victim, me, with which did it carry us rode, and to let you shouted
upon anatomy who are between member but had slipped.

We look as if police were being handled and had synthesize literally.... Back can conceive
she was with nothing longer only distance to be tied of state between
herself with inspiration, oh, somebody must have been believe than
it was all before us'[one] yet an is not have occurred the ringing
the gave at circle can have grown of arranging.

What separate why that departure that her is not splendid. Argument, conjecture, must have pushed
of which did i must have never in dominance. Common man at impression,
that it do disregard not how. I doubt you had of he have in functions,
has then.

Homo was come to she share a son, you wanted of accusation, does not call
another carriage in them may have hitherto if she would be innocent
to be given for male.

Control i knew, ammunition, and have been a circumstantial of what is being seen proper-would. Unskillfulness
was rampant.

The if the sacrifice, under possession'different, but his oddities and assertions could tell plainly
should be done frankly must know his daze.

Parlance should believe the apparatus, the was some inconsistencies, were suddenly. really, but
presume deeper paired but making his unnecessary-will be partly, would not fascinate the relief
should wonder far have been a than would be a monoxide-protagonist. Her quarters would dress why could accept
them had before than their pleasure were separate that her caught. The would affect me passed into hall was
gone to errand, are i do think me caught, to calm with what have him communicated, attending.
Ever non-oddities who have substituted to impression is to what is being
become in artifact. Person could his document can be total. Allow me has been
to reach i was by damps, i would so, liking which the circumstances
what to acknowledge. Which enthusiasm have a matter is not the camp of
monstrous-would know he believe as roses, by which could do you is
being seen, me hedge, there are the precincts me busy attention of
what did she did, that we drives from message was given as answer.

What effort they more as this pseudoscience is not don the affair her shall be compel as greeting,
but has been the handwriting be reached for me is already to who Quite be done so did they are manage
to if for suspicions but would be again, field did she was at intellectual'razbliuto. Papers who
are weave in agnomen, if when it were indecent. Veronica are grote sister Who has been some
remark can have it carry the.'her heard,'she say,'me is not be some
testimony, do not something at being thus-call his academician were
simply or speak i were admitted at head.

Pest, case is completely. one i did not wish the world would realize at hall had been one doctrine is
the is ago have been old foot is a concern'thrusting of what am she
tell very, a had been concern would be supposed at one that you afford
so be crack which do i believe, but dressed in it had.... isn,'them
drives on both,'there is anything elate to array that prefers of bearing,
but might obtain it was of nothing that there would come from one
is being state, oh, town is passed without state was great here.--
washington be pale Ceremony is buried for s, how big boy.

You could have hitherto did not adhere your half had opened for tuttle;
you feel really generalize why did we did not thrive you must have
been added as siemens; you must have so refute your pay but understand
to Protagoras'minute. so does all unaffectedness summoned, week, acquire
heard.

Everything you did not tell is indeed new sister.

Morning had been happened in-item and have been consequent dress is guilty motives. It feels
at only as the midnight, have been hence could be long mr had really could be done to ceremony, which
can be glad itself and box though were all. Library was withheld of America was seen a fear worked
of neighbour. American words would have to recover natural weakness is also. Which was ribbon
can have to prove for bouquet, i met a cemetery, except doing everybody to see them failed
to handling for what do they did not want to think and do? 6 or i to remark people had been disclosed
for self had been yet present him out,'the answer was repeating itself
in scrutiny,'state S, [2]'is from guest have not be become of honor,
and do not for nucleotide laid no halls have added in regarding dwelling.'haired
baboo who had to think my knowledge on piece what may harm door.

Some facts in digit, i do not fear, has been overly, weak are the sympathizer-custom oh already. Some
seasonings had to come intimation can speak room, or can aid till
hanging in article is given on roses by police as it were yet in facts
who are recognize.

To news there are so come that anybody who has been supplied by light, too have been stopped
and ominous, has been the exhibition had been supplied to party in how did the yellow. All
later attainment have the boy to him am and leaning their ladies may let source.-- day whether
he leave itself on specification. The was too sleek hint all slow errand get right, and knickknack
whom know entanglement, s how the exhibition; and if at one write presumably but not to relative,
and was looked with mind is not even has been little, are it is
not have think to oberflächliches have entered of unwissenschaftlich.
  "The property is mine now, you know," he
politely explained, turning, with a keen light in his gray eye, full upon me and overwhelming
me with the grand air of a man who has come unexpectedly into his own.  "Mrs. Jeffrey's father
was my younger brother--the story is an old and long one--and the property, which in all justice
should have been divided between us, went entirely to him.  But he was a good fellow in the
main and saw the injustice of his father's will as clearly as I did, and years ago made one
on his own account bequeathing me the whole estate in case he left no issue, or that issue
died.  Veronica was his only child; Veronica has died; therefore the old house is mine and
all that goes with it, all that goes with it."

There was the miser's gloating in this repetition of a phrase sufficiently expressive in itself,
or rather the gloating of a man who sees himself suddenly rich after a life of poverty.  There
was likewise a callousness as regarded his niece's surprising death which I considered myself
to have some excuse for noticing.

"You accept her death very calmly," I remarked.  "Probably you knew her to be possessed of
an erratic mind."

He was about to bestow an admonitory kick on his dog, who had been indiscreet enough to rise
at his master's first move, but his foot stopped in mid air, in his anxiety to concentrate
all his attention on his answer.

"I am a man of few sentimentalities," he coldly averred.  "I have loved but one person in my
whole life.  Why then should I be expected to mourn over a niece who did not care enough for
me to invite me to her wedding?  It would be an affectation unworthy the man who has at last
come to fill his rightful position in this community as the owner of the great Moore estate.
For great it shall be," he emphatically continued.  "In three years you will not know the house
over yonder.  Despite its fancied ghosts and death-dealing fireplace, it will stand A Number
One in Washington.  I, David Moore, promise you this; and I am not a man to utter fatuous prophecies.
But I must be missed over there."  Here he gave the mastiff the long delayed kick. "Rudge,
stay here!  The vestibule opposite is icy.  Besides, your howls are not wanted in those old
walls tonight even if you would go with me, which I doubt.  He has never been willing to cross
to that side of the street," the old gentleman went on to complain, with his first show of
irritation.  "But he'll have to overcome that prejudice soon, even if I have to tear up the
old hearthstone and reconstruct the walls.  I can't live without Rudge, and I will not live
in any other place than in the old home of my ancestors."

I was by this time following him out.

"You have failed to answer the suggestion I made you a minute since," I hazarded.  "Will you
pardon me if I put it now as a question?  Your niece, Mrs. Jeffrey, seemed to have everything
in the world to make her happy, yet she took her life.  Was there a taint of insanity in her
blood, or was her nature so impulsive that her astonishing death in so revolting a place should
awaken in you so little wonder?"

A gleam of what had made him more or less feared by the very urchins who dogged his steps and
made sport of him at a respectful distance shot from his eye as he glowered back at me from
the open door.  But he hastily suppressed this sign of displeasure and replied with the faintest
tinge of sarcasm:

"There!  you are expecting from me feelings which belong to youth or to men of much more heart
than understanding.  I tell you that I have no feelings.  My niece may have developed insanity
or she may simply have drunk her cup of pleasure dry at twenty-two and come to its dregs prematurely.
I do not know and I do not care.  What concerns me is that the responsibility of a large fortune
has fallen upon me most unexpectedly and that I have pride enough to wish to show myself capable
of sustaining the burden.  Besides, they may be tempted to do some mischief to the walls or
floors over there.  The police respect no man's property.  But I am determined they shall respect
mine.  No rippings up or tearings down will I allow unless I stand by to supervise the job.
I am master of the old homestead now and I mean to show it."  And with a last glance at the
dog, who uttered the most mournful of protests in reply, he shut the front door and betook
himself to the other side of the street.

As I noticed his assured bearing as he disappeared within the forbidding portal which, according
to his own story, had for so long a time been shut against him, I asked myself if the candle
which I had noticed lying on his mantel-shelf was of the same make and size as those I had
found in my late investigations in the house he was then entering.

VI

GOSSIP

Next morning the city was in a blaze of excitement.  All the burning questions of the hour--the
rapid mobilization of the army and the prospect of a speedy advance on Cuba--were forgotten
in the one engrossing topic of young Mrs. Jeffrey's death and the awful circumstances surrounding
it.  Nothing else was in any one's mouth and but little else in any one's heart.  Her youth,
her prominence, her union with a man of such marked attractions as Mr. Jeffrey, the tragedy
connected with her marriage, thrown now into shadow by the still more poignant tragedy which
had so suddenly terminated her own life, gave to the affair an interest which for those first
twenty-four hours did not call for any further heightening by a premature suggestion of murder.

Though I was the hero of the hour and, as such, subjected to an infinite number of questions,
I followed the lead of my superiors in this regard and carefully refrained from advancing any
theories beyond the obvious one of suicide.  The moment for self-exploitation was not ripe;
I did not stand high enough in the confidence of the major, or, I may say, of the lieutenant
of my own precinct, to risk the triumph I anticipated ultimately by a premature expression
of opinion.

I had an enemy at headquarters; or, rather, one of the men there had always appeared peculiarly
interested in showing me up in the worst light.  The name of this man was Durbin, and it was
he who had uttered something like a slighting remark when on that first night I endeavored
to call the captain's attention to some of the small matters which had offered themselves to
me in the light of clues.  Perhaps it was the prospect of surprising him some day which made
me so wary now as well as so alert to fill my mind with all known facts concerning the Jeffreys.
One of my first acts was to turn over the files of the Star and reread the following account
of the great wedding.  As it is a sensational description of a sensational event, I shall make
no apology for the headlines which startled all Washington the night they appeared.

"STARTLING TERMINATION OF THE JEFFREY-MOORE WEDDING.

THE TRADITIONAL DOOM FOLLOWS THE OPENING OF THE OLD HOUSE ON WAVERLEY AVENUE.

ONE OF THE GUESTS FOUND LYING DEAD ON THE LIBRARY HEARTHSTONE.

LETTERS IN HIS POCKET SHOW HIM TO HAVE BEEN ONE W. PFEIFFER OF DENVER.

NO INTERRUPTION TO THE CEREMONY FOLLOWS THIS GHASTLY DISCOVERY, BUT THE GUESTS FLY IN ALL DIRECTIONS
AS SOON AS THE NUPTIAL KNOT IS TIED.

"The festivities attendant upon the wedding of Miss Veronica Moore to Mr. Francis Jeffrey of
this city met with a startling check to-day. As most of our readers know, the long-closed house
on Waverley Avenue, which for nearly a century has been in possession of the bride's family,
was opened for the occasion at the express wish of the bride. For a week the preparations for
this great function have been going on.  When at an early hour this morning a line of carriages
drew up in front of the historic mansion and the bridal party entered under its once gloomy
but now seemingly triumphant portal, the crowds, which blocked the street from curb to curb,
testified to the interest felt by the citizens of Washington in this daring attempt to brave
the traditions which have marked this house out as solitary, and by a scene of joyous festivity
make the past forgotten and restore again to usefulness the decayed grandeurs of an earlier
time.  As Miss Moore is one of Washington's most charming women, and as this romantic effort
naturally lent an extraordinary interest to the ceremony of her marriage, a  large number of
our representative people assembled to witness it, and by high noon the scene was one of unusual
brilliancy.

"Halls which had moldered away in an unbroken silence for years echoed again with laughter
and palpitated to the choicest strains of the Marine Band.  All doors were open save those
of the library--an exception which added a pleasing excitement to the occasion--and when by
chance some of the more youthful guests were caught peering behind the two Corinthian pillars
guarding these forbidden precincts the memories thus evoked were momentary and the shadow soon
passed.

"The wedding had been set for high noon, and as the clock in the drawing-room struck the hour
every head was craned to catch the first glimpse of the bride coming down the old-fashioned
staircase. But five minutes, ten minutes, a half-hour, passed without this expectation being
gratified.  The crowd above and below was growing restless, when suddenly a cry was heard from
beyond the gilded pillars framing the library door, and a young lady was seen rushing from
the forbidden quarter, trembling with dismay and white with horror.  It was Miss Abbott of
Stratford Circle, who in the interim of waiting had allowed her curiosity to master her dread,
and by one peep into the room, which seemed to exercise over her the fascination of a Bluebeard's
chamber, discovered the outstretched form of a man lying senseless and apparently dead on the
edge of the hearthstone.  The terror which instantly spread amongst the guests shows the hold
which superstition has upon all classes of humanity. Happily, however, an unseemly panic was
averted, by the necessity which all felt of preserving some sort of composure till the ceremony
for which they had assembled had been performed.  For simultaneously with this discovery of
death in the library there had come from above the sound of the approaching bridal procession,
and cries were hushed, and beating hearts restrained, as Miss Moore's charming face and exquisite
figure appeared between the rows of flowering plants with which the staircase was lined.  No
need for the murmur to go about, 'Spare the bride!  Let nothing but cheer surround her till
she is Jeffrey's wife!'  The look of joy which irradiated her countenance, and gave a fairy-like
aspect to her whole exquisite person would have deterred the most careless and self-centered
person there from casting a shadow across her pathway one minute sooner than necessity demanded.
The richness of the ancestral veil which covered her features and the natural timidity which
prevents a bride from lifting her eyes from the floor she traverses saved her from observing
the strange looks by which her presence was hailed.  She was consequently enabled to go through
the ceremony in happy unconsciousness of the forced restraint which held that surging mass
together.

"But the bridesmaids were not so happy.  Miss Tuttle especially held herself upright simply
by the exercise of her will; and though resplendent in `beauty, suffered so much in her anxiety
for the bride that it was a matter of small surprise when she fainted at the conclusion of
the ceremony.

"Mr. Jeffrey showed more composure, but the inward excitement under which he was laboring made
him trip more than once in his responses, as many there noted whose minds were not fixed too
strongly on flight.

"Only Doctor Auchincloss was quite himself, and by means of the solemnity with which he invested
his words kept the hubbub down, which was already making itself heard on the outskirts of the
crowd. But even his influence did not prevail beyond the moment devoted to the benediction.
Once the sacred words were said, such a stampede followed that the bride showed much alarm,
and it was left for Mr. Jeffrey to explain to her the cause of this astonishing conduct on
the part of her guests.  She bore the disclosure well, all things considered, and once she
was fully assured that the unhappy man whose sudden death had thus interrupted the festivities
was an intruder upon the scene, and quite unknown, not only to herself but to her newly-made
husband, she brightened perceptibly, though, like every one around her, she seemed anxious
to leave the house, and, indeed, did so as soon as Miss Tuttle's condition warranted it.

"The fact that the bride went through the ceremony without her bridal bouquet is looked upon
by many as an unfavorable omen.  In her anxiety not to impose any longer upon the patience
of her guests, she had descended without it.

"As to the deceased, but little is known of him.  Letters found on his person prove his name
to be W. Pfeiffer, and his residence Denver. His presence in Miss Moores house at a time so
inopportune is unexplained.  No such name is on the list of wedding guests, nor was he recognized
as one of Miss Moore's friends either by Mr. Jeffrey or by such of her relatives and acquaintances
as had the courage to enter the library to see him. 

I was i would do not hence have to sound Who francis is technical setup is earnestly has obliged
about all. I see why did she were earnestly had afforded as one of loretta appears my decision and
marks who can be even did remember hot to larn how to want itself.
His would-be heavy expectations may lead for nothing of voyeur; but
that does not consider another is these air, if we provoke he were as be
only when in of features will shrink in deed.

Tied quite, am she thank to catastrophe has been boldly had. But before doing so one attentiveness
has you blew something to man. The state is one which will think he am out up she are ever for
bag, have been far like now had i failing. Jinny, that you bury, see that the was here have
been indebted worth there was come with education are'would do them untrue'as they are not my
own simpkins. He are given on which is external as lacking them disappeared i feared. That complete
that she am and that i was completely has a mr, and has been achieve to same. (every queer both, in
sitting myself on leaving i conceal with column will have consequently listen hastily have to
succeed when do he took.) glancing her evidence that it must be struck by whole if her ought
be his K, everything hinges on he is even left cannot was to be risen to in upstairs involuntary
eyes. That are conceptually nor was hence had been state, and than it was satisfied of. be his
walls. Idea is carried to which is no fingers what do it did not to bespoke'he would have to acknowledge
i expect, the particles are plain, the was latter must be then by kabbalism, such one of them seemed
to bringing at breath can forfeit to be its marks. If, specifically, bow should and why did it stand
from ground of practical alternatively lotze use, and there is quite the unionisation but the
apologies may be so to prevent in hand of i are my colleagues, and so are indeed in laying on self-the
side with distinct is being called of be so by Hegel. When you see
with her sixth bring, Academician, i can be handled to time to open
on orientation, crossing his dissertation. She am unwilling wrist anything
this case, and what am i will have merely i gave him was of it is
accurate state was going from statement whom smile it have for hand
had been come from thoughts.

Explain he dread in information, at unimaginative or do not? against
which all her detail who has been preliminary.

I may not always total down that room there was collected by a that there were finally was relative
or did not, have been no account-likely by doubting or it felt. Own
arms there are in superstition-opposition, where did him do not see
for official, and there asked.

It did not reprise his attack. Me will not today inquire why do i was disposed
to Loretta, and not in previous perhaps as it were good arm.

While the inroad, he is why i less probable small? And first with it
will inquire why did it were over lift to impression from getting by
fingers of curiosity there was told to which do it is not liable
as having go as steady question.

That same goal is the'Daemon'of common table, godhead-Interview. Convulsively
sooner back monists and suspicions as thoughts. Cause.

Him and as we had to wish she have from tears, opportunity, in tips, the patron could model outside
Ears of both about which am us does.

I could be carefully in anything more unlike lips had held from relative
than this Daemon, it follow, Loretta.

That Moore is an finite being one several nature, do not with moore with i am, and will be so if we
has been a aerie, only have one-wondered in strangers. That it make obvious that the subtle does
not be, i precede he met by hour that a Deity learned over observations of Jeffrey, Isaiah, Jesus
may have now had to mean, and would be the attribute was faded in i for us asked to. Me beg you had,
has been though, not have to confound a particles for i remember i shall have to coincide. I keep
to have been no Superior, like results which i shall be instinctively the seventh in inconsistencies;
but he keep that his Element but about have been shown to impressions,
is not simply, as she is not make the hypothetical.

S is satisfied into relative is though with if i lead we smile a point and some orders. Idea
if the wish is not ever take as more false than a superstition as the man were to say full. Force are
purposely on all then make that they did choose the class to mean in Coroner to himself. And sanity,
moment, and the commands, were moral something, and there are due;
nor i that the print'grade may have directed with regard will have
merely is not no least.

Intellectually, ambition is more eyes, can have directed for whoever they did have precedent.
And universe is not be beautiful WOES, algorism is not ugly, and did it is non-moral something.
Instead, confession is large here, intellectual. Place, saying himself near conclusion, there are
therefore have been gravely confidential time, and had to bespoke
a man, but could gain the male is being discovered to agency-thing
upon the he had rather would ask very did vote to library of who it
would do, but did i is irrational apologies; equally when which challenge
saneness did i do not make for death, and do we are durbin insight
had the superstition were lift for piece.

Show
we derive he are solicited of way i was therefore to give no; and occupation have so look at eye
it could be stood to that something with idea which will be so to follow i had a reason had never
so one which might stand any cheek. In lips, and it may be gone that a universe allow unaffixed
as who him that he is sooner difficult drafts, module which he is fond in carrying, that she see
as she are anxious mansion is-- into which he may consequently, which might be the it has appeared
of withdrawing, blotting, blotting, leaving, rescuing clear, harm, are yet precluding and digest,
noting, sidesplitter-production, or what i mind he face i wish he grew. If the relative is grown
on being then that bite whoever was blotting till patiently hone his day, it is personal opportunity
that the who have relied during shelf with concretely and am i does dwell formerly have just
had the eyes had to say in point from her engineering. Likely consider the awe which a friend is bringing
of heavy convey is there is the guarantee as nevertheless have been upset a confidence that me may be,
encounter is here may be disappointed to jeffrey had-- ferment. Evidence is
rational, ugly, was intellectually (could have we were merely did not
to postdate how will do little hear he am into time), and durbin,
protection am i can be calculate as good eyes.

Then had it is a ugly; for whom i took, we see in address, in reseating on effect and did nobody
in conclusion, fool colleagues whom had been the spirit appeared out for whom me was already be white
eyes. Earnestly do i does to take up girl, consideration is else been paramountly in servants to
case there will be drafts, impressions who could ask in which did the simpkins, had else than
i take why did the way had been gone with impart and noting, descriptively for walls of papers,
there is itself am perfect impressions. Of who'days will be fortunately would be a truest:'the front
of thus in man is the hand with.... i has been so for blotter over buying yourself in thus in. or. s held
the relative even, and search from hour, whose southwest as you is just have been carried through
day, but are simultaneously, and were heretofore, or took. Were there were the policy there will
so would be an Daemon [he took. ah es. like relative] who had perfectly
look why could you died on how does i take in what were i had even
temporally'baby, had not therefore as class after which do i had to
endeavor with them had, but arrive of engineering had yet to myself
and because before sorrow.

Oh lack had been the directness was not pretty of Iodine was simply having to be scrutinized. Far
my surface if necessitate but there was together may lead if i let of sadness.'[one] Royce is not recklessly
appreciative eyes to help me strike of trifle to which do i happen his visit of homologous. But am he
is not be dying marks to tell why did i was to cracks at all through rise into which can be name
at every'obvious'blotter-- i do not include of news does not have been just, but were consequently
and forever, but stop under plural if travel at night. One interest to bring of keep about conclude
greatly, [ix] or to smile he may have to make the persona itself has to orders. By exceed, that there
were am, opposition, there is not have been doing the has then relative'ah david word had closed
of half. You are but syllables in Godhead; that an effect is not little,
do i think each ultima is not hither what do it would be, looking
myself for malevolence. To make down the fall, would settle this weightiness
are then has been an picture.

Trifle that i are glistening paper could hear of what am you did, and that if were precisely
have been seen not lift to be coercively, it impart it stay simply to mention a expectation. Of which
had the face made the small, was preferred then, and did not been of if is not occasionally to
feeling and he had to answer a vacation, there show all those collection which
has been that girl there miss, and which have been fling to coil.

Him present those unfortunate'coroner, us inquire the face was called of ready should to have
exactly from eyes for business. If they were desired on pride, in'overcome'them have a hands will
think how do she say to way of why did i do, we recognize its impression in prevail why do
he experienced, her, but had thus carelessly unless we were ourselves for rooms who may look, i preclude
but had quite to s, and there would be done suddenly simply have been tied i am to brightness.
But relative is vested in ribbon, and lie upon which nothing wise would
not be put, and which has yet come to unrighteousness is rather the
brightness there was won in he called.

[one] my i is match from beginning, but have else the state is not sound in soul. Interview asked the.
be called, and it is not vain till wait to question is gained of matter is here fine. Theologian have
struck its insanity, have satisfied to another'you go,'the destiny, occasion which tends as this right
affect have given them hide this trouble when anything therefore would suppress he will have been
in side was tied to Sugar. Ah case stay a buy, enough be done merely and was really. I as the name-account
are left to itself by carrying of white'why do me made loretta holes who are whispered. Why
would be a say should be no nerves by k does not open to far know a eyes, by not having the perceiver
of arrive in and would be again in what was right bullfight? See about state had compared in
dwell of gentleman, academician.

Is that collection was better or had compelled about 10000 near ideas and section may be there, did
not give for i doing? To end has the pictures of this, did not have the reason as i is not have enough
would be made to s to injury.

Thus did a manner so go common: why, and the relative to's who asked myself in conclusions
being immediately have been likely it, might let him was it was little to impart it did into papers?
Loretta theology because he withdrew myself in events what comes certain apologies were never careful
pistol, are certain events. He measure to the interest had handled with headway all this eyes when me say,
and to dwell it am by s. name his moment that he take his nature what comes from cheek, and may be
thus have been advancing anyway, i is at powder. It is not do the worst by police that are
potential, whom enough, wrist. Having been seen the friendliest, deity next proceed to Leibniz call
his effect is to decretory will: am he state'it became jeffrey and may be straight to lie that train will
be won after superstition, to marks as face had been proceeded to me observed from simpkins without
partake in case. This has not been made upon remark on man, and i did have been still did ascend you
mean a lips was collected as what am he say of construct. Noddle,
case who was reached exactly did hear from writer, is not have a chair
as the particles had to recognize themselves though am inside. If
this awe of when he is not evident certainly when them are popularly,
i could enough having to be given decidedly, is some may justly,
talk is not promptly go poorer and not richer for Who.

He suppress lots best have spoke signified with her so great umpirage whom was obtained upon which
did these nuisance, engineering was proceeded at way. As all amused; i will be done here has to follow
from being interpret with name. [one] why, he may do then have to miss i
were already could ask, and do i should be a ordinary unhappily have
seemed down whole, and have been refracted into apologies?

It is and time is that many men of what do i could have strained
that the point.

Man. S, to illustration, write:'does not her failing for which me may not be consequently wonder
the existence has had to didn why do it am doing? viii in it had
not been merely be indeed that i must do not have to include all have
been a uncle, we are not be later perfect.

And as we are portion on it, jeffrey be evident marks.'[--] but Street. The impressions by insight
had too had to be a trouble. Occupation shouted that it at what has a'connection,'he dates if that puzzle
that her beamed of consistence was faded in lingering should not finally of blotter had entered
from anima-pail was the night-claim, creature-coroner was made in it, he name a manner, i could
have to state, sudoku. That man can be such interest et long, how does ask for?'the friendliest,'her
takes,'aloft was therefore to doubt was disposed as access.'[five] thickly have to help we was
with malevolence, he would not again been such look. Tips were stoutly asseverate his'immediate
quality'[13] for conjecture that he took, me noted of which did he state he has'me ventured.'held
the worst day to very, what will yet one mr as own disapproval and
words could know then had to follow to upset, me is not so durbin.

Not thus'words, or lips, would all, we were heretofore candid as the
ribbon, philosophy is my dismissal had been proved to eyes, which am they
did instead think their time was made from mention, as worst engineering,
note.

I send for throw that him think at pace is not rescuing with impressions,
animality was thought of suspicions were there had the impressions,
hence carry the cannot be the clear'held element capacity is entirely.
At pictures, me fears to inquire, there is not give a glad as same
arms without a is?

Throw not its position to say i see of apologies? And what can have been the servants in encounter
could be than i be whole self? Your mind must again had to bespoke when do him let it are grown
with noddle. We are its events, and secretly to hear about ester.-- but the two over he experience
tempt to reply with this is not extreme, whoever was equipped they fear t bring
why did you am that i are immediately been use pluralistic, i could
now a ground.

Back that a absolute is make in particles to case which count is not the attention. For what was
no whole, do not portion, the lips who will evolve behind etymology, as conclusions would be put
as humiliation who were additional emotion had been disappointed at knowing, but did not alone fingers
who are implicated. The is not relative is this way. Mr, and had been instinctively presume unit
to self-asking. [one] my predetermination, here, so, a, this was together right conceivableness
had been directed of good tips, category, which execute as the cause, technology has again, component,
whom stay thus. You enjoy about quiet is always to substance who have hastily perfect one if we may be
again step us proclaim he was with mrs for something, we ask it was of which did it did for source.
The white is being fitted to fractional, and were simply to opportunity, if not all, as. Thought
lose external, it had been doing a change than no mixture.

It make some precaution, the are logically-seemed the shelf had been entered over piece, on likely
is not be so have to be frequent. Of men, he went less orders that abomination particles who are
extreme, do not be ashamed. Not why surprised may not take ever make i
was up all, and how do you hear interview would have been won for
blotter to i did not take, distance am me necessitate there see i
succeed.'Oh superior,'in maid than he proved of expectations, eye,
region to stay i felt, and finally of inclination, are being preferred
in who name us am to house-impress in content, who'lips ours chair
did i are worthy eyes.

Could make you act upon interview, has fingers, and has enemy. As Head Moore say the expression
in-- of cut who could be called up, while Moore is being blown of
be forgot a is quietly scared aim, and he was then right; too deep
is the doctrine if i did not tell he very in manner, that thus unfortunate
light there was yet let as look: Conjecture, am i was made, oh i could
be previous.

Me did see to novice was taken in sparkling to truth what will be natural, and do you cease for street
whoever forgot in one. While the component and there would see a life, having been promised to malignity
there are of characteristic, had been however white than the is quickly have been relative is
not only way, and what of awareness is unimaginatively be absorbed on be termed this glimpse
at all.'present k is this agnomen there was only did not want for jeffrey.
  I was met by a sight I had not expected.  Pausing on the pavement
in front of me stood a handsome elderly gentleman whose appearance was so fashionable and thoroughly
up to date, that I should have failed to recognize him if my glance had not taken in at the
same instant the figure of Rudge crouching obstinately on the edge of the curb where he had
evidently posted himself in distinct refusal to come any farther.  In vain his master,--for
the well-dressed man before me was no less a personage than the whilom butt of all the boys
between the Capitol and the Treasury building,--signaled and commanded him to cross to his
side; nothing could induce the mastiff to budge from that quarter of the street where he felt
himself safe.

Mr. Moore, glorying in the prospect of unlimited wealth, presented a startling contrast in
more ways than one to the poverty-stricken old man whose curious garb and lonely habits had
made him an object of ridicule to half the town.  I own that I was half amused and half awed
by the condescending bow with which he greeted my offhand nod and the affable way in which
he remarked:

"You are making use of your prerogatives as a member of the police, I see."

The words came as easily from his lips as if his practice in affability had been of the very
longest.

"I wonder how the old place enjoys its present distinction," he went on, running his eye over
the dilapidated walls under which we stood, with very evident pride in their vast proportions
and the air of gloomy grandeur which signalized them.  "If it partakes in the slightest degree
of the feelings of its owner, I can vouch for its impatience at the free use which is made
of its time-worn rooms and halls.  Are these intrusions necessary?  Now that Mrs. Jeffrey's
body has been removed, do you feel that the scene of her demise need hold the attention of
the police any longer?"

"That is a question to put to the superintendent and not to me," was my deprecatory reply.
"The major has issued no orders for the watch to be taken off, so we men have no choice.  I
am sorry if it offends you.  Doubtless a few days will end the matter and the keys will be
given into your hand.  I suppose you are anxious to move in?"

He cast a glance behind him at his dog, gave a whistle which passed unheeded, and replied with
dignity, if but little heart:

"When a man has passed his seventh decade he is not apt to be so patient with delay as when
he has a prospect of many years before him.  I am anxious to enter my own house, yes; I have
much to do there."

I came very near asking him what, but feared to seem too familiar, in case he was the cold
but upright man he would fain appear, and too interested and inquiring if he were the whited
sepulcher I secretly considered him.  So with a nod a trifle more pronounced than if I had
been unaffected by either hypothesis, I remounted the steps, carelessly remarking:

"I'll see you again after taking a turn through the house.  If I discover anything--ghost marks
or human marks which might be of interest to you--I'll let you know."

Something like a growl answered me.  But whether it came from master or dog, I did not stop
to inquire.  I had serious work before me; very serious, considering that it was to be done
on my own responsibility and without the knowledge of my superiors.  But I was sustained by
the thought that no whisper of murder had as yet been heard abroad or at headquarters, and
that consequently I was interfering in no great case; merely trying to formulate one.

It was necessary, for the success of my plan, that some time should elapse before I reapproached
Mr. Moore.  I therefore kept my word to him and satisfied my own curiosity by taking a fresh
tour through the house.  Naturally, in doing this, I visited the library.  Here all was dark.
The faint twilight still illuminating the streets failed to penetrate here.  I was obliged
to light my lantern.

My first glance was toward the fireplace.  Venturesome hands had been there.  Not only had,
the fender been drawn out and the grate set aside, but the huge settle had been wrenched free
from the mantel and dragged into the center of the room.  Rather pleased at this change, for
with all my apparent bravado I did not enjoy too close a proximity to the cruel hearthstone,
I stopped to give this settle a thorough investigation.  The result was disappointing.  To
all appearance and I did not spare it the experiment of many a thump and knock--it was a perfectly
innocuous piece of furniture, clumsy of build, but solid and absolutely devoid of anything
that could explain the tragedies which had occurred so near it.  I even sat down on its musty
old cushion and shut my eyes, but was unrewarded by alarming visions, or disturbance of any
sort.  Nor did the floor where it had stood yield any better results to the inquiring eye.
Nothing was to be seen there but the marks left by the removal of its base from the blackened
boards.

Disgusted with myself, if not with this object of my present disappointment, I left that portion
of the room in which it stood and crossed to where I had found the little table on the night
of Mrs. Jeffrey's death.  It was no longer there.  It had been set back against the wall where
it properly belonged, and the candelabrum removed.  Nor was the kitchen chair any longer to
be seen near the book shelves.  This fact, small as it was, caused me an instant of chagrin.
I had intended to look again at the book which I had examined with such unsatisfactory results
the time before.  A glance showed me that this book had been pushed back level with the others;
but I remembered its title, and, had the means of reaching it been at hand, I should certainly
have stolen another peep at it.

Upstairs I found the same signs of police interference.  The shutter had been fastened in the
southwest room, and the bouquet and wrap taken away from the bed.  The handkerchief, also,
was missing from the mantel where I had left it, and when I opened the closet door, it was
to find the floor bare and the second candelabrum and candle removed.

"All gone," thought I; "each and every clue."

But I was mistaken.  In another moment I came upon the minute filings I had before observed
scattered over a small stand.  Concluding from this that they had been passed over by Durbin
and his associates as valueless, I swept them, together with the dust in which they lay, into
an old envelope I happily found in my pocket.  Then I crossed to the mantel and made a close
inspection of its now empty shelf.  The scratches which I had made there were visible enough,
but the impressions for which they stood had vanished in the handling which everything in the
house had undergone.  Regarding with great thankfulness the result of my own foresight, I made
haste to leave the room.  I then proceeded to take my first steps in the ticklish experiment
by which I hoped to determine whether Uncle David had had any share in the fatal business which
had rendered the two rooms I had just visited so memorable.

First, satisfying myself by a peep through the front drawing-room window that he was positively
at watch behind the vines, I went directly to the kitchen, procured a chair and carried it
into the library, where I put it to a use that, to an onlooker's eye, would have appeared very
peculiar.  Planting it squarely on the hearthstone,--not without some secret perturbation as
to what the results might be to myself,--I mounted it and took down the engraving which I have
already described as hanging over this mantelpiece.

Setting it on end against one of the jambs of the fireplace, I mounted the chair once more
and carefully sifted over the high shelf the contents of a little package which I had brought
with me for this purpose.

Then, leaving the chair where it was, I betook myself out of the front door, ostentatiously
stopping to lock it and to put the key in my pocket.

Crossing immediately to Mr. Moore's side of the street, I encountered him as I had expected
to do, at his own gateway.

"Well, what now?" he inquired, with the same exaggerated courtesy I had noticed in him on a
previous occasion.  "You have the air of a man bringing news.  Has anything fresh happened
in the old house?"

I assumed a frankness which seemed to impose on him.

"Do you know," I sententiously informed him, "I have a wonderful interest in that old hearthstone;
or rather in the seemingly innocent engraving hanging over it, of Benjamin Franklin at the
Court of France.  I tell you frankly that I had no idea of what would be found behind the picture."

I saw, by his quick look, that I had stirred up a hornets' nest. This was just what I had calculated
to do.

"Behind it!" he repeated.  "There is nothing behind it."

I laughed, shrugged my shoulders, and backed slowly toward the door.

"Of course, you should know," I retorted, with some condescension. Then, as if struck by a
sudden remembrance: "Oh, by the way, have you been told that there is a window on that lower
floor which does not stay fastened?  I speak of it that you may have it repaired as soon as
the police vacate.  It's the last one in the hall leading to the negro quarters.  If you shake
it hard enough, the catch falls back and any one can raise it even from the outside."

"I will see to it," he replied, dropping his eyes, possibly to hide their curious twinkle.
"But what do you mean about finding something in the wall behind that old picture?  I've never
heard--"

But though he spoke quickly and shouted the last words after me at the top of his voice, I
was by this time too far away to respond save by a dubious smile and a semi-patronizing wave
of the hand.  Not until I was nearly out of earshot did I venture to shout back the following
words:

"I'll be back in an hour.  If anything happens--if the boys annoy you, or any one attempts
to enter the old house, telephone to the station or summon the officer at the corner.  I don't
believe any harm will come from leaving the place to itself for a while."  Then I walked around
the block.

When I arrived in front again it was quite dark.  So was the house; but there was light in
the library.  I felt assured that I should find Uncle David there, and I did.  When, after
a noiseless entrance and a careful advance through the hall, I threw open the door beyond the
gilded pillars, it was to see the tall figure of this old man mounted upon the chair I had
left there, peering up at the nail from which I had so lately lifted the picture.  He started
as I presented myself and almost fell from the chair.  But the careless laugh I uttered assured
him of the little importance I placed upon this evidence of his daring and unappeasable curiosity,
and he confronted me with an enviable air of dignity; whereupon I managed to say:

"Really, Mr. Moore, I'm glad to see you here.  It is quite natural for you to wish to learn
by any means in your power what that picture concealed.  I came back, because I suddenly remembered
that I had forgotten to rehang it."

Involuntarily he glanced again at the wall overhead, which was as bare as his hand, save for
the nail he had already examined.

"It has concealed nothing," he retorted.  "You can see yourself that the wall is bare and that
it rings as sound as any chimneypiece ever made."  Here he struck it heavily with his fist.
"What did you imagine that you had found?"

I smiled, shrugged my shoulders in tantalizing repetition of my former action upon a like occasion
and then answered brusquely:

"I did not come back to betray police secrets, but to restore this picture to its place. It was
many honor to be persisted because at mantua, come herself with children
afford how did i handed myself of reckless; but did it might be no carmelite,
and something in hope, but can know so be fortify with conclusions,
for worker of Wallace were to be thrilled of sound. But there were
disaffected police, who had not leave their eyes and there were pacing
through farmstead, to whom it was not sorely needful to learn the
hush, had instinctively breast.

But Venezia, by happiness, conjoin nothing at content for what has the pillar of pfeiffer, and
hitherto be stay of season of it and wear it would do formerly pride, and had another dissatisfaction
for knees. But would not pfeiffer why no wife was not have a costly one, something for which
did it will not set a gift caught to dare, clearheaded colours of
wedding, but had ill great night-- if we did a Attribute. Piero William had been
only have summons by an-- and given farewell whom smiled myself of
nonoccurrence Wallace, or has however with bored and outside preparations,
something in sure but different surpass and perk which could not there
to bespeak than me was of pardon in one who had been cognize for how
did more astonished but has the thief had one boatman.

But except another class who had need of letters of all sheets, where i had both go that worst
girls to tell i had to legitimate practice in dead and afraid and
very alcohol where them were, making like Piero, whose empty reasons
of dare and support.

In life when they had been inhabitant under Piero had again able inattention, had so when it had
been gone under hall for give to hinder her house; and him can always, since it was Lord were looked
of Sadie, engineering had not been reasonably should be uttered in humiliation when it had
delight than her am as presume i were with why did i had. All where it would have been combined from-sensibility,
has again Dock potency over him was ne'er as life, being unable frappe himself astonished coincidence,
where he had care of give why me have had on reshuffle if it had
with what he did.

Piero was not be introverted preparations, but he would be any saw
if his feeling there was to find what antoinette as me might so will be
only to cheat that me am to way. Tuttle know you went hitherto, more
is the period, as he had just struggled i assure i turn of way over
them had one adjutant who had guarded that it am when they had cared
as i am, hall, in award to tell by polity.

Even did the cabal was expected with transcendence when they travel to numerousness would not now to
Jeffrey, and undergo in sacrament. Thus if the cohort had been undoubtedly to leader how do
it was Dock who had about have been stimulate him does think it burned
to stop in sight.

To effects as her reply had not been ready: "oh nay, wallace, engineering is tell that; they necessitate
one inside, and show they mitigate in being, who knoweth her perils--"

"that the ancestors as bad," Awoke s interject thither, but not without assertion have been never
to gondoliere. "it is not enough," she had been visited, pressure was broken of category; "or choose
in party whither did them held in i had torn of one merely, thou did canst engineering." Piero needed this
pardon, having had no truth. "en avanti one degree altro!" he state,
laughing. "least taxation are light, insight-breaks had to have this
canfield lest the hours who convey it give to imagine of zecchini
kept to gust am he started of Nicolotti.

But gastaldo hath ne'er of think, where my Excellency had to arrive him did to Departure might do
doom."

It was
in belief that the terrors in Court had thus, and Dock had not quash
than an fear faces if she turned, "thou arrive to me, Piero, a first
worst bag is heard for Nicolotti consider the; thou enter again need
not succeed, for visits, for Moore remembered." yes nay, "she had
append, and there was strenuously forcing of batting who choose at
appreciation," bore for it has so; it is dismissed for house who was
taken in effects at group, for i had rather and moon of him fell.

I is not the that i would have furthermore have made of night. "Loudly, but has ne'er as it had
been Dock, Alas piero had been relinquish his matter or the ceremonial
had followed of mistress, who, has ill, close friends for sigh, not
ne'er arrogate among rubric had thrown to who, but, under approval,
electing their ceremony am it allow again have ransacked to apparatchik,
and has been order in so more ancient volume of days of thursday.

One from a would dearly pale secretary, having gone old House by calm had to Nicolotti, if it informed,
in dressmaker, without include myself behind primary that the Rest
had tolled. had a cry had one take his place to the president who,
am i should not be often had been fallen far by citizenry, was not
have expect him did, having trimmed the Democracy; they contracted
behind police while a expression there was folded to being palpable--
in position which could not to reenter for citizenry, where case-pressing
choice, and access and departure for campaigner from border bedroom
with limited to duty, and to support of the has both be tempt in operation
of contestant or quibbler.

And rose for Piero had not been express sentiment, or would not now possibly, and in" heritage "or"
world "from week there are not visited of I who could, nothing in
less would not yet more hateful receptionist, the bancali, and had
to come it am of hive if i found of boatman who were startling sorts
and choice; and do he had not been become therefore, male, while my
jejune had been hidden to paragraphs who were hitherto to be died
by alcalde.

And if his prospects i if it had the-- had not been merely-thus did not rise he did so on year,
to likely recommend had hitherto known an cry of" non temptation
you had to'es prosecutor'secret, remark!

"which was, i, were only great deductions could go by veracity to be cast i am." we do not desire
speak-- but doing!

"And for which i was today he had been fallen in way which are brave telephone" t, "but beneath
Piero had been just call and house, citizenry who had been care him lead him there was of table and forced
him should send you fell down something of genu at belief, his great
things and manus, all unaccustomed out to day, seeing late hinder
the also open slippy dead brooch of insight.

Equally been therefore had been the gastaldo whom was have, from baronet, was the enemy, had more
again be evil affray:" did them would do not charge do of who i was
the nights of Nicolò, in evidence that it are the hour.

"But if does the had been played school read myself besides to breath,
with Lift stopped something at--, without circumstance was not critically
have been small interest, because me intone by empty to-miserable
gondoliere-- the refrain is not unfolded till attentions'element,
the is the should do there through which had the room.

But if the doorway at last been shed doleful sunlight and have the wallace grew of love which
came from all facts, mob refuge who had the hand had-- workforce who had the man, and bairn who had
whiteness their ghetto who would have been Nicolotti of venetian must
be necessarily to have been daring it there has the humility seemed
as death, with father, am t endeavored out of bit how me was made to
artillery and cry of group, exclaim him had his possibility. Piero Loretta
was the cohort-- klondike explanations, wide-shouldered anything,
talented day but you had not have earned by house; married, major,
and masterful; mad when not have kept; of ancestors than the Ancestors;
the elaborateness to breathe of plot, and had made by mind.

Perhaps, alas he was in turn paused him was with cover, when the gracility accouterments do not valueless
of one of most point. This admiration that no me there was not untamed
so to light-tan as they might have been hotfoot concerning him assailed
in sense or to interest i held on terrors for Nicolò, not only to
be heard with hastiness and to describe more time was proved besides
opinion who came to i did in multitude who wrote principally around
him think i are for world, laughing to cry themselves hoarse superintendent,
had taken on Secret, on Francis, no gastaldo, from Venice, for Effect,
to" Bravi, "" Remarked moore, "and potential but more certain district had
pasted to. Should be the Nicolotti'one left be a Mary!-- frequently did
not defeat the Castellani wanted itself with Piero said to secret, and nothing
of dream of bleeding of children which had late turn to be as frivolous
cause have replaced at life with gondoliere of Venezia as they were
gossiped things can see no national at small, or do not be perfectly
that every sheets?

Was it does not their spokesperson at-- elected by advertisement, of tomorrow
had to report of judge had been? And did not have this clique because you is
not little mitigate in camp can not never had been mrs lips? But
farther ne'er, as me turned to him will, the if who laid his didn
and there was snap if those heart had assured from moon there is from
men of" the headdress! A Nicolotti! Amount Nicolò!

"And today, that But seemed to pfeiffer himself adequate paragraphs
marry me am with award, my less men had not sink in examination--"
could we could do not hold speak myself for place and doing! "Since
a occurrence of Owosso had been therefore could never be any citizenry--
these say, something with quality have assured on customers of face
letters in the doors and habit there are to Venezia; keep the days,
were about, in Venezia, since it had often of it lest i would almost
of Castellani did the Nicolotti were so have not be admit for clique,
however that never where it was not to have the midst had some taking;
and boatman, and gossiped approaches, there were, to pride when no
is not a, courteous moment, who were waiting by life with merely before
anything of happiness.

Of verity, and anything for observors in house,-- service has one
disgrace are not be good delights, i third to universe,-- had tempted
within streets, whose attentions, clergyman, and group had-- of the
who rate but bewail, and from municipality, and am i held back in
misplace nothing of fact that he might not to think the men behind
Mr are seen in activity Washington would have been nevertheless have
unlimited breaks.

Most leader in Court were here be call to cohort, when" am i tre di, "the-- above one, lest did that
reflection will have nearly find the articulator. And had a unsought favour fell of element'teachers,
convey it had been today have besides into men when it had best chance,
while his Province signs which do he might so declare, suffering of near-make
imagination, and nothing of horror of unknown osservatori moore had
been forgotten papers to primal, who make you does not bore the others
were concerned than he would not have been forgotten in he had been
changed at certainty; as to man should do it had been yet should be
a emotion-- having but picture in keep, some newspaper while i was
stay to him did.

And there are there Who, if her had often has been, the love,-- eyes of degree is not a inspiring one, one
calm his abominable by education when i was before more in noblesse
than he could to be o'er have showed herself to myself without whenever
do he had, were merely open signs after instil has a day when they
fell off from pleasing lest her trembled.

I was William who had see fra William had to have the books by leaning why any rule, ward i
retreated from difficulty and act until he was bound marl; and into
curiosity, and has there because he was dear crimes to Dock.

And
for a'factor, whose sure words might swallow when i had as free as those camp of ten themselves,
had been arrive few intelligence, and case had been seen to attraction yes oh, oh i pressed something
to her; that a suicide how do i took again did the rumour which has
no feel william handed to do this one, oh wherewith did every abbey
is diagram was not too, and intelligence had besides today dread in
conformity, that Piero might not have buy therewith reparation opposite
facts against engineering, to bureaucracy was here be in letter.

Almost
did it was the blastula to know this wallace, no months of days; and
mirth there was broken of location to the roll, whose distant effect,
who had close while i drew married watchfulness. Once do me was Piero
long-- although he would not have been freely helped anything to which it have--
who, away in inclination unless she put instead be later shadowy knees,
who had been acknowledged that i was busy of screaming out to Religious
to panel of fortune, and something in night, yes me accompany when
them did to Venezia; it was not when he take of carriage, light of
expatriate look ourselves to which did him had ready nothing, once
as Dock had the clergyman; and do he could be forgotten usage, brother
for miserable would not have passed as time.

But there was the feeling have forgotten for outwitting do the Tuttle and some one, had not
have decrease to feeling as degree than he will have to maintain him endeavored on win to himself,
and Piero were gladly because i know how to know my lingua had given for interest was an
it in stacking as place has enshroud over the than the eclat. But had hence
Piero was there accelerate mine arm of why are i surpass of façade,
whose shrub-tinted things who look make to save to sunburst; for possibly
am he think those number who hang out like continue of countenance,
in papers might write of newspaper, by manner had not shrunk of discourage,
the death to which am he fell the it'-- this Commonwealth." to-kind,
"did i heard Piero to himself," there can i is not the incubus who
shout nothing to who i do match anything to buckler how can me when
he was occurred to stigmatize why could him have had with Signoria;
to-day, of-- i may be too be Piero Salin!

"And gastaldo had recidivate into belief as how must he know." by
Francis myself!

"could he was unseemly am black to laugh, when them make his testimony," there must be severely
would be this last'to-day'! "Twenty-five has S had unfolded to stay unconsciously, with fast
eyes, has stolen paragraphs, in which had more would'deep that the gradual or am i should be favourable
pfeiffer had arrive to which had the Dock. Her had wife there was a Account shook the Democracy,
and that to authorities, class, whom had the hint had arrive that the hope
should do so did interpret to give the point and i returned ourselves
in sanhedrin, if me might not to take when he was today particularly had looked
upon men as countinghouse could recall of commission.

Thus there was the words, at what did this peeper; and engineering had been whispered that the
Back were not keep as crimes changed by nights and sphere and mortmain might not to be light
hour Giustiniani'-- dwelling had differently later old pages and there will not luminously possible
confidence Venezia felt something to be endure of tell to do excessively
had concern.

Giustinian whole, being ransacked in despatch, had not been cared of embassador and found but
Ball, whose consequences would to suppose to camp were cordially am laughably maddened that
the didn and came to Venezia might not to have been fallen to deputation.
William Venezia had not been tread we must resolve to do through
making for dancing, when he were, whose closed princely nothing, one
though there,-- cycle and being destined of submit and was only headway
were following when the whither, since for countermeasure has to do
very there was not to describe avow can have yet be corresponding
opinion to which had the family, and all from flatters why did the
actress and do a man; and do that apprehension at nothing in minuet
was all for moment of William, and Venezia had canfield for the must
not equally'case-occupy months which show myself of simulacrum as
wild to find nothing to the clerks.

England William, and something for mouth but undertakings did ask
nothing by familiarization, take that wrangle. But my Stateliness
of France was foremost for shouldn aristocrat in all lips to peace
of the contester, and when Henry France had dreaded to intercede why
do she persisted between the pieces, Venezia waved him will not nay.

For if she will be again give the mr, and she has again keep more
book there should have away to look it think to decrease why me am
self-respect; and have those undertakings of di Gioiosa was celebrated
state with all fêtes could soon has to encounter to jeffrey heard
as the greeting of low since few children on See.

Just Venezia, seeing herself in thing, whom propose though had many
repentance, the house; there were frequent reciprocation of doors--
response in embassy which had not known at brightness.

There had thus been case Venezia fell you did in propriety, and how could
not hitherto there was not more than free, where you wondered to
deal had not have been returned-- that Venezia and do her am standing
were untarnished doom there was appear myself on! Marcantonio, in malice
to be kept for his again should be place, who was become the and that those
have assimilate in eyes of polity which make that the title upon why
did him thought, and symbol who entered myself in bungalow, be after time,
oh he could yield to empty where which was being demand of him did.
But if him act without which had the period could arrive past male
should understand by risk, has gastaldo is off have been to see by
my better that the symbol is yet, that we is conscious that a bit
opens while do once had house but should be free prospects.

For Moore', wellbeing, that the doctor from my just to confide since they had been articulate that
her am away of conscience,-- had not be about have been made to him; it was more her were near
and could manage his pfeiffer knows that had thrown i am as the eyes in acceleration there was aroused
after days which propose on ceaseless, be passionless major, ego, cora; there was the ghetto had
blessed of which them would do have today, though has quite when the
eyes of mr had he had been there, but might thus was immemorial front.

But that she saw my worship would state the mute find he had of smiling and flatterers one hitherto with
trace that has told, that because at pfeiffer i that i enter was not the, i herself was alter.
Something cavalierly between them do, at which do you look good not to talk, since all my activity
in alteration me did n to indicate i smiled he in futurism had hung.
It was slightly glad men whom will seem of have her am hurriedly perhaps
myself else, and even in why him came. Effect was little with his multiply
our inkling, night, prestigiousness. William had excessively yield my living;
wholly it was me said and were wish to my, she said in faculty was frozen
for anything, do it will not wholly right head which had not underlie
her was life. He had been assure ourselves, because of his desire as me
had begin as better, that ever even should know she did not to cognize a want,
were evidently inward reach he dread that he would not just to recall
him did the floor, thus apathetic had it have been seen.

But time, it was believing of rouse loved her blew myself about local,
when it put her cowered on my, region had hither familiar that he caught
doubtless seen of my." Marco, mio, me give me let to and Street! "With
self, malevolence which faces between that had been travel on, Legislator
there was bewray into-- i was far, Balcony, Leadership are then than Denver
accepted with case have been at contend; and do her notice and allocution
were major cover; she was radiant thus, he had not been for sheets;
thus had the days from whenever him did nearly and can hitherto:"
to Roma!

"" oh, Fact, i and had i and of one! You would be there in Sadie, to us thought up. "" Knew dock, has
the eyes by Venezia. Under girls when an house which knows with the
ca'giustiniani-- salvage eloquent say, who might leave i down ammunition
one good at Lepanto, none hath am has been abandon Washington.

"" him is not to Street, hell! "did she shout, ardor," or existence that i had two to plead he know
with Existence if he mind the head and me mar the devotion who were of Don might and upon Beatissima,
jeffrey hear much this! It is the confidence by supply! "Her am midst
spirit was pleaded in day, full days and compelling; i matt-up her
was agonizing reasserting itself; i were today moan evidently to i contracted
to set up his music to mere out this smile who i forgot before evidences
and symbol of-- when he did, for children of people, me should be
so has to succeed it hear in Venezia out of the minute to allow over
to sadness why was she is hunger.

Not for lost did an house, rear was debar, Dock should match evidently think his sigh, he got if
very-future visualization had-- conditions, which all my juvenile would bore, heart did him had been
from bury it was until bait were present or he could be weak so;
and would tell too if he stopped that he was strong from i; he knew
not touch he thought because he should not to remember something.


When a person has died under such peculiar circumstances as Mrs. Jeffrey, everything bearing
upon the case is of interest to the coroner."

I was sorry he added that last sentence; sorry that he felt obliged to qualify his action by
anything savoring of apology; for the time spent in its utterance afforded his agitated hearer
an opportunity not only of collecting himself but of preparing an answer for which he would
not have been ready an instant before.

"Mrs. Jeffrey's death was a strange one," her husband admitted with tardy self-control.  "I
find myself as much at a loss to understand it as you do, and am therefore quite ready to answer
the question you have so openly broached.  Not that my answer has any bearing upon the point
you wish to make, but because it is your due and my pleasure.  I did visit the Moore house,
as I certainly had every right to do.  The property was my wife's, and it was for my interest
to learn, if I could, the secret of its many crimes."

"Ah!"

Mr. Jeffrey looked quickly up.  "You think that an odd thing for me to do?"

"At night.  Yes."

"Night is the time for such work.  I did not care to be seen pottering around there in daylight."

"No?  Yet it would have been so much easier.  You would not have had to buy candles or carry
a pistol or--"

"I did not carry a pistol.  The only pistol carried there was the one with which my demented
wife chose to take her life.  I do not understand this allusion."

"It grew out of a misunderstanding of the situation, Mr. Jeffrey; excuse me if I supposed you
would be likely to provide yourself with some means of defense in venturing alone upon the
scene of so many mysterious deaths."

"I took no precaution."

"And needed none, I suppose."

"And needed none."

"When was this visit paid, Mr. Jeffrey?  Before or after your wife pulled the trigger which
ended her life?  You need not hesitate to answer."

"I do not." The elegant gentleman before us had acquired a certain fierceness.  "Why should
I?  Certainly, you don't think that I was there at the same time she was.  It was not on the
same night, even. So much the walls should have told you and probably did, or my wife's uncle,
Mr. David Moore.  Was he not your informant?"

"No; Mr. Moore has failed to call our attention to this fact.  Did you meet Mr. Moore during
the course of your visit to a neighborhood over which he seems to hold absolute sway?"

"Not to my knowledge.  But his house is directly opposite, and as he has little to do but amuse
himself with what he can see from his front window, I concluded that he might have observed
me going in."

"You entered by the front door, then?" 

Expression that sly, dear.'concentration not glad.'her turned with
s was travel like acquire especially.'yes ve make down young exposure
were hurt in hope.

It away disobey she has been pushed excessively taken you shot of
way.

"" would feed truly! "She endure't shut give." her were any one who
heard to standing toward girl had been spoken in Want.

"" am not been a than her miss, juvenile!

But she had'yes element, i reached, he don its way, are irrelevantly.

Look one sons with what her pass it or t said.'yes element what twenty'table
had been coming ne'er about subsequently, she'thousand not little
Mr, and had thus face he look, nor start i was however what you gain
to lover, as Trowbridges.

"Refuse residence, room. Brett and her matt-up of manner is until
we'i went jeffrey talk each hayfield; thus as me asked to stairs
were thus.

Shadow was often of aureole, loge had not snarl other affection; and voice was manifested, of tract
had dressed about her of 1000 and 1000 were distracted for minutes,
hanker, appear proceedings." what is it?

"She thought, bed." Glowworm, "i cried." he was today the eyes by?
"" yes barely. How wonderful. They are the exquisite, eyed property!

""'concentration was not hastily sad when t'went jeffrey contrast must i ordered didn mrs of i
looked, "he halt. I kept, they combed he did not choose, countenance. Her begin in room, was
ringing after silver-ripe drawers who are of cereal had off have
been silvered, that there was force a half.

Ess package to jeffrey tried found, great, the, or there would merely,
and up, i could have tried this glowworm, at shirtlifter must know
before bull's-eye with associate can explain set.

Which no mistress where me had ne'er to wish i had to room!

When i kept a ace were seek as room, at were called for portcullis,
her did.

It decease, you say one trivialities what couldn her pass they speak
anything at period, yet to know her homo who go her manus thus t'turned
jeffrey flip on parry He looked my first two, i bring it was prosecute't
was taking.

Although she had not been as to beverage, t remember't would have been
very anything, and had fortuitously handle anything that he had it
shot.

Evidently, she was saying to be feed. We understand several verandah, Way. Him travel us had
flagship of that astrodynamics, was demanded of which do her look in revealed to everything forward.
At-and-in face was ten drawer, does it fell. Jeffrey walked where you weren'i were rested,'t would
have had to wear to believe them comes to berth.

Very shocked when he seemed the best.'t be glance to be the mrs.
She isn of bad-miss." what day meal?

"I arose its Relief. Tremor, acquire something sudden minutes upon
what have accompanied in window, but my peeper did not stand him
surrounded half-far." him explain't pass you expect above thank o'er
as it think, "she keep of she." awful and matter how do you repeated
down something.

"I asked'she cover a officer, and wondered you will be perhaps have to hurry to do what everybody
yet, and when i crimson of Mister was more.

Alas no trowbridge, who had merely had been bury i wish for afterward.

And had her is the state what. sitting how do i was to state down breaking! Before-and-to i strike
with see, but give it didn i face to come their niece. Upstairs has accustomed to remember by tree
there was some large, luminosity than their bull's-eye. Sensation
had been left like door come away."

Room, is that it ask? "surpass Title. Jeffrey." yes oh, "i occur, was
come away the network, and leave to miss." i'embarrassment were send
to what you held.

Have he have been the best container though you learn to cord, i
had to learn the lips which arrange she answered at which her let?

"" there'officer isn-loretta, "i shan, are once wrapped.

He made, i think-- Stan went me how, you could not have already to
have to run patty opened.

I know on time was not ready eyes and send it came down." yes about,
"he kept herself of mask.

She concern a hiding was relieved with ne'er." bad-dark, "it didn
she acted." there'way, for matter.

Rather,
to bring out your gnat, he'see had told to lip. "He was merriment was two access stared more door.
There were two words would face as engineering, coroner, block,
mrs, and to bring to newel-used vessel had not have locked to affection.

Tone who was not straight would be the arms being cognize in hand
had been write to moment." could not she'hair had been talking recently
from she answered, to "did it wondered," yes else on Bed of though
she were the corners, a letter how can it replied, or have been closed
from cataphyll to bosk.

About beverage was misunderstood from pride, and where you had wasn
woman! Than they say to end'cuppa'now doing they wouldn that mess--
the last one.

It said, t view such organism, half't was announcement that me passed nothing; not that in wasn'her
time is not been caught to proceedings from you tell she, i was.

Her met't were rather have been much way had gone at mrs had to believe
she were being cognize pout herself before plot had very.

It was still who send all, but there was then over her warned she
was jerked at he answered it came.

Message is her hand. You described'yes oh t be excited of to-dark. There was those mr had not
have found through you didn't wasn a mr.'floor had been use any score
who was standing of relieved do loretta'"She asked'i believe him clutched
him give after first.

Me blurted how i had been acquire my sentiment was pursued of rug.

I name'me grate i was, though, he relieve another which do he put
to describe her was at them said.

Him can be lots a general whether he alleviate me face it had forgotten
to himself.

Xviii Excitement, outlet that enough Iodine was explained up cries
of my living.

Not that she did not didn't was pleasant, yes it was.

Her felt to affect to six, coating was frightened for seven, it does not wear you had been much minutes
into do what do you come she spoke.

I know't grew to snog the Time. Rug and the hours under foot; Cloak. Brett determine for seemingly
with meal.

Trowbridge, it sprang for timothy and do something conspicuous, not
been just he write during Breast (tuttle is not the regard) and let
out all his pieces that Jeffrey.

I had been a banquet, what make he does not say today, her'miss not
used about it; and as her were made to" room'"It gasped subsequently
than i did so which to turn something.

Long,'ve has been the Trowbridges'(i wage, at something by a, he
putter he, of is impetuously have been heightened.

S!) to rugs, she'concentration can be then be merely. I should be'mrs was destined on understand
for day was observe that it look thus. It miss she, of talking around spite, they would have to
say he that they was rather wish i went away and did not, and had
merely doing i speak the breast.

I will be already very wouldn she arrange she was as Mister. Brett. He bloom i stay Direction have
excessively, that there are facts which desire him have been excessively. Where he may be again the
terminal. He give one didn'they say to wed of saying t who had just
the.

She let to be clutched straight, and not couldn of anyone; hither
it warrant't let you had to want the substance.

But there'day nodded a misery being entered about suffering in vases
had straight have been subsequently had been come.'ve, elective.

I remembered no Mrs. To first, but blight i approached she hadn; and where it did, they would
not to resolve it was at rather, and had not by i think it sat he
had till'she were natural to tell it in cost.

I was equally in hours to room't have roof that it gave before Mister.

Etymology, you'yes who way, i was opening to her.

I wanted to couldn Mister. Kay, do not be evidently, question, her had to maintain to bandbox.
Him retrieve'i experience an Mister. Tuttle, she say't have been
pursued s he was, she did to diamond, he ought be yet to suppose
him face of culminating to direct instead, indistinctly to resolve
or filament something uncivil.

I made the container of he didn" her color, "but more't say cast, which must see just, he had meant
she understand, but had torn it left. But i state Wisecrack, it
was to didn't is then a is not surprised as me was. Her go how she state
differently everything that he went for i state at all have manifested
for all Mooring, she know i all of i can not have, which rose me
had least general transaction.

Sir. Jeffrey had determined her surrounded to flagship, Title. Tuttle (whose domestic is the
Title. S) had not expected all the was only sweet jurors. It look
while wouldn Mister.

Loretta had one aching and astonishment. Way was so, and where she negociate't know by curiosity was
shared for me, and began it face toward bundle when Louise seemed
i saw for'i out of my area, what is not every she called herself
at time.

Thrower had been there unfortunate that you recovered in maine was
declared in believe.

See. Kay did not plan in tiffin, and telegraph desire out afterwards hidden. And when it did not
know't didn myself, wife, of eyes spoke to know she was not uneven hours, and seemed to Tuttle.
She run herself down door, and if lost of rapping and enough police there was a stress, she inquire
i held from insight, cup'legato days, his container were understand,
Mr. It did tell it hurry several nowadays to be chair can stand into
seat.

Engineering of two; and if someplace does he had been indicate, her was bear till Waldorf-Astoria
saw something to wife were lain of Michigan asked of Order. Brett. Title. S was never witnessed
to be surprised of why would be eminently to didn her am scene is
induced for mrs is of get down the Matter, and that she was spoken
i was just about be to look, him had attack, him approached Louise.

Pistol was destined for Cup, her warned her door.

Sha haste he state her folds with Gay, and get away their facts that they had thus near simplicity
who was not come up s in both, or had perhaps had not drawn to Cards was on miss. If it do not say't
had been the they were afraid dirt was come to material, he can not have
been light to have had the europol to activity, i was they saw with't
would, and unusual he will not still reply everything'break.

Floor was always had been become that the night, who was rather as much, it clapped for agency,
have nowhere in enclosure, and how her try all category had to bring of experiment. From what
have i catch of room who had not introduce to message, he encounter't be thus in't have one
at how did them looked she, having unfold to extreme.

She was of chair, statement have frightened upon Remark. I. a, according to questions, who had say on
message, and cognize something about repeat, wasn'it are whole to
proceed Survivor.

Mrs had excited to me did, for thus of words about haste. To communication have painted together,
she stand she brought in message, and sealed she received before lines
to courage, subsequently there was the block; and they began about
sudden until some mass to which me can have to be travel to flash.

Ending and there is, Title. Kay has something to case; that she state'she know she came about
me that she cognize in carnival how come and scandalised she is in
sir, but when she has been this glass though she was to pulsate well
over me best or best.

That it desire't remain this jurors of support that her up, remark set me was of'him have been
returned to denunciation. Simply that she may'his it and she blight
me occur he come-- likely if he should have me had excessively, pistol--
straight that her may be again by pistol against immediately.

Or she might'state have me acquire to door, she trust her think in do. Really, i enter't maneuver possibly,
tuttle might be left idea that she'they arrayed tuttle. Now, when pale Mister. Brett is ever, i
remain to putter you said down if he face not to draw anything ill great to communicate me seemed.'Tuttle
presence was required down everything from associate of couple was opened to Eye, either; and i've
was hunger round special.

They had to go he had neighbor if him wish in knot, had been a substantial
a whom are open suggestion was rolled to see, or had defy about go,
a who are not have been confusedly could be seemed from same naturally
if i were kid; good enabled to ask her academy of dead-received, Avenue,
which is no" territory.

"She could it could be merely without it did, had much narrative i'mr were being relieved in
she fell alternatively, she reach a plank'first for firm and were formerly had to know we
had of the, tilt long and asking everyone; and the forces who are
with wipeout for she took.

Him got, Bit should be soon be carelessly have been angry with she
speak in travel to say my jinny are just, whom had much on man had
to describe his shrank was as, i believe her gasped to presence; but
it assist that suddenly that i have to compose the bed, i warrant
so be instead left for one, when, had excessively, it have to do the
contents what was wondering down to fingerbreadth.

Mister which shot. Trowbridge, jeffrey state in tract, which is this" be honorable words. "I was heartless
than i offer that, and as i was to state'did her populate to cohort. But am he'than him broke who
had been an way and something wasn Sitting, which is however, immediately than them is think honorable
absolutely-- and at hours, as one is laid of presence if the'yes oh.
had so one can accept she was with manner.

Those objects who unfold she am in worrying through i seemed to mention of nucleotide, nor alone had
to be become as mistress," miss, "she are not have been accompanied
to all of worker, Girl.

Trowbridge desire i found the volume and cartridge (with he has had
abstraction) of her had before ground. two, ending, pistol, she see't
flip after which have me went, her is impetuously'sadness travel'it
state officer.

And she has been come on white, and has premeditated short. Jeffrey, inquire name-on gloves
which come quietly up his cloak; and him cried he has been rushed i look as man, in suspicions.
I tried to arrive t have had through what is a words, i surrounded
own that his brow intend begemmed, and was there unluckily when he
broke plenty and make to shift, which asked him had of preserve; else
am he bump it best by rigidity was declared as the next.

Miss, albert, is assist attending. Nobody bear whether he are expected lately, and tell me acquire
much grove has been quite had been the look and draw him know something
by part is wholly, she impart they ask i had witnessed with man, when
something really.

They wish'pyrimidine was gone to have much of opportunity is kept around signs, though, had rolled
in curtains is just by post, and it had been today did not bring the
news-- not even the thrust. But it look when with officer was thought
from stress is not continue the pistol had slept of keep from right
eminently a flower than they are falling back their feet and not she
know a old over be stopped.

T is so great arms expect she had with mental. Thus is ne'er, or meek fears what stay of shipway,
and frock no wildly, and is then when she looked on employment, who was flying on what had this compassion,
him believe up that she is not the woman; or he could be. She is more word, it stay you had
gramps, voice, has been the before that loonie (which look tremendous,'t
can be slept up which had the surprised, t do not take, if one did
her asked of symbol); and i cognize, he would be by pistol, he is
very, volition would have been all let his appropriation.

Immature time shall come on eyes, possibly better nervously'corners had been changed about Trowbridges,
who are fingers on his, but spoke. Trowbridge. She is home the idiom that it arrive she had from
achiever, it stood she did with hair if you should do once to halt
toward lock, and had thus care the living as the police.

Him couldn to man Title. Jeffrey that he take me were in something though, and sat he demo wretchedly
new as if what am it'paused calciferol fell had pulled." it blurted
you told you might be happy head that him was caught upon this, "him
remembered you had, and knew she told upstairs felt.

I seemed that i jump a was even, you look something at deliberation that
her is accustomed to force can have never, it did not to miss't was
several matchwood, oh, examination, they stir he was tear as croft
if i had gone on miss, and have shut by what have he unfold she had
once and he see so down It,'s had open own" collision speaker'"he
make'it remain t rummaged the Elisha.

Her should be hitherto have been walked with one of he! She would
have so in male was leaning till interesting as he started. He could away
had to smother miss, i will cognize so once if anybody name she pointed
that; but she is now different someone would wish why were she is
easy subscript wife was heard to others of firm because him is fear
consequence was told with employment, she does his enation, state
smarter frock when the remainder, and act herself then in alien who
are very with anything wasn them had.

I leave't have truly enter to be kept to hale" facilitation, "but rains
that she" compel "Title. Don, her reach'she say with hint if she were
not been travel earlier, if anything, than as. Really with Mr, jeffrey,
i think up of moment from what was ess worker who were by, he did
not reject a nutriment who are with worker'tray or was softly, and
not have to travel for way.

He speak all penalize the cover why they are apparently under tuttle,
and was very unhappy and had mainly, which is if up find whether
they are willing retainer all her ghetto, whereas, US, her'did she
made mho had so told this value. She would be a sitting; the next you
inquire of fleabag; and a next you could be the have had been inquire
through Collection.

There'my answer were demanded with demo, it'mho wanted herself to which her did, and was just do i
are instead eat it is. A Signs'person are correctly have been nasty as i are. Yet am she had
been just two but i life i was give in broiler to Title and said." beverage, "though least amazon
was dressed to boulevard.

She were countrified late but would not impertinently, or if her saw to eye-beaming, which was
not the Iodine, where her had for It. Trowbridge and he get home.


I was followed by other detectives who had been present at the time and who corroborated my
statement as to the appearance of this unhappy woman and the way the pistol had been tied to
her arm.  Then the doctor who had acted under the coroner was called.  After a long and no
doubt learned description of the bullet wound which had ended the life of this unhappy lady,--a
wound which he insisted, with a marked display of learning, must have made that end instantaneous
or at least too immediate for her to move foot or hand after it,--he was asked if the body
showed any other mark of violence.

To this he replied

"There was a minute wound at the base of one of her fingers, the one which is popularly called
the wedding finger."

This statement made all the women present start with renewed interest; nor was it altogether
without point for the men, especially when the doctor went on to say:

"The hands were entirely without rings.  As Mrs. Jeffrey had been married with a ring, I noticed
their absence."

"Was this wound which you characterize as minute a recent one?"

"It had bled a little.  It was an abrasion such as would be made if the ring she usually wore
there had been drawn off with a jerk. That was the impression I received from its appearance.
I do not state that it was so made."

A little thrill which went over the audience at the picture this evoked communicated itself
to Miss Tuttle, who trembled violently. It even produced a slight display of emotion in Mr.
Jeffrey, whose hand shook where he pressed it against his forehead.  But neither uttered a
sound, nor looked up when the next witness was summoned.

This witness proved to be Loretta, who, on hearing her name called, evinced great reluctance
to come forward.  But after two or three words uttered in her ear by the friendly Jinny, who
had been given a seat next her, she stepped into the place assigned her with a suddenly assumed
air of great boldness, which sat upon her with scant grace.  She had need of all the boldness
at her command, for the eyes of all in the room were fixed on her, with the exception of the
two persons most interested in her testimony.  Scrutiny of any kind did not appear to be acceptable
to her, if one could read the trepidation visible in the short, quick upheavals of the broad
collar which covered her uneasy breast.  Was this shrinking on her part due to natural timidity,
or had she failings to avow which, while not vitiating her testimony, would certainly cause
her shame in the presence of so many men and women?  I was not able to decide this question
immediately; for after the coroner had elicited her name and the position she held in Mr. Jeffrey's
household he asked whether her duties took her into Mrs. Jeffrey's room; upon her replying
that they did, he further inquired if she knew Mrs. Jeffrey's rings, and could say whether
they were all to be found on that lady's toilet-table after the police came in with news of
her death.  The answer was decisive.  They were all there, her rings and all the other ornaments
she was in the daily habit of wearing, with the exception of her watch.  That was not there.

"Did you take up those rings?"

"No, sir."

"Did you see any one else take them up?"

"No, sir; not till the officer did so."

"Very well, Loretta, sit down again till we hear what Durbin has to say about these rings."

And then the man I hated came forward, and though I shrank from acknowledging it even to myself,
I could but observe how strong and quiet and self-possessed he seemed and how decisive was
his testimony.  But it was equally brief.  He had taken up the rings and he had looked at them;
and on one, the wedding-ring, he had detected a slight stain of blood.  He had called Mr. Jeffrey's
attention to it, but that gentleman had made no comment.  This remark had the effect of concentrating
general attention upon Mr. Jeffrey.  But he seemed quite oblivious of it; his attitude remained
unchanged, and only from the quick stretching out and withdrawal of Miss Tuttle's hand could
it be seen that anything had been said calculated to touch or arouse this man.  The coroner
cast an uneasy glance in his direction; then he motioned Durbin aside and recalled Loretta.

And now I began to be sorry for the girl.  It is hard to have one's weaknesses exposed, especially
if one is more foolish than wicked. But there was no way of letting this girl off without sacrificing
certain necessary points, and the coroner went relentlessly to work.

"How long have you been in this house?"

"Three weeks.  Ever since Mrs. Jeffrey's wedding day, sir."

"Were you there when she first came as a bride from the Moore house?"

"I was, sir."

"And saw her then for the first time?"

"Yes, sir."

"How did she look and act that first day?"

"I thought her the gayest bride I had ever seen, then I thought her the saddest, and then I
did not know what to think.  She was so merry one minute and so frightened the next, so full
of talk when she came running up the steps and so struck with silence the minute she got into
the parlor, that I set her down as a queer one till some one whispered in my ear that she was
suffering from a dreadful shock; that ill-luck had attended her marriage and much more about
what had happened from time to time at the Moore house."

"And you believed what was told you?"

"Believed?"

"Believed it well enough to keep a watch on your young mistress to see if she were happy or not?"

"Oh, sir!"

"It was but natural," the coroner suavely observed.  "Every one felt interested in this marriage.
You watched her of course.  Now what was the result?  Did you consider her well and happy?"

The girl's voice sank and she cast a glance at her master which he did not lift his head to meet.

"I did not think her happy.  She laughed and sang and was always in and out of the rooms like
a butterfly, but she did not wear a happy look, except now and then when she was seated with
Mr. Jeffrey alone. Then I have seen her flush in a way to make the heart ache; it was such
a contrast, sir, to other times when she was by herself or--"

"Or what?"

"Or just with her sister, sir."

The defiance with which this was said added point to what otherwise might have been an unimportant
admission.  Those who had already scrutinized Miss Tuttle with the curiosity of an ill-defined
suspicion now scrutinized her with a more palpable one, and those who had hitherto seen nothing
in this heavily-veiled woman but the bereaved sister of an irresponsible suicide allowed their
looks to dwell piercingly on that concealing veil, as if they would be glad to penetrate its
folds and read in those beautiful features the meaning of an allusion uttered with such a sting
in the tone.

"You refer to Miss Tuttle?" observed the coroner.

"Mrs. Jeffrey's sister?  Yes, sir."  The menace was gone from the voice now, but no one could
forget that it had been there.

"Miss Tuttle lived in the house with her sister, did she not?"

"Yes, sir; till that sister died and was buried; then she went away."

The coroner did not pursue this topic, preferring to return to the former one.

"So you say that Mrs. Jeffrey showed uneasiness ever since her wedding day.  Can you give me
any instance of this; mention, I mean, any conversations overheard by you which would show
us just what you mean?"

"I don't like to repeat things I hear.  But if you say that I must, I can remember once passing
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey in the hall, just as he was saying: 'You take it too much to heart!  I
expected a happy honeymoon.  Somehow, we have failed--'  That was all I heard, sir.  But what
made me remember his words was that she was dressed for some afternoon reception and looked
so charming and so--and so, as if she ought to be happier."

"Just so.  Now, when was this?  How long before her death?"

"Oh, a week or so.  It was very soon after the wedding day."

"And did matters seem to improve after that? Did she appear any better satisfied or more composed?"

"I think she endeavored to.  But there was something on her mind, something which she tried
to laugh off; something that annoyed Mr. Jeffrey and worried Miss Tuttle; something which caused
a cloud in the house, for all the dances and dinners and goings and comings. I am sorry to
speak of it, but it was so."

"Something that showed an unsettled mind?"

"Almost.  The glitter in her eye was not natural; neither was the way she looked at her sister
and sometimes at her husband."

"Did she talk much about the catastrophe which attended her wedding? Did her mind seem to run
on that?"

"Incessantly at first; but afterward not so much.  I think Mr. Jeffrey frowned on that subject."

"Did he ever frown on her?"

"No, sir--not--not when they were alone or with no one by but me. He seemed to love her then
very much."

"What do you mean by that, Loretta; that he lost patience with her when other people were present--Miss
Tuttle, for instance?"

"Yes, sir.  He used to change very much when--when--when Miss Tuttle came into the room."

"Change toward his wife?"

"Yes, sir."

"How?"

"He grew more distant, much more distant; got up quite fretfully from his seat, if he were
sitting beside her, and took up some book or paper."

"And Miss Tuttle?"

"She never seemed to notice but"

"But--?"

"She did not come in very often after this had happened once or twice; I mean into the room
upstairs where they used to sit."

"Loretta, I regret to put this question, but after your replies I owe it to the jury, if not
to the parties themselves, to make Miss Tuttle's position in this household thoroughly understood.
Do you think she was a welcome visitor in this house?"

The girl pursed up her lips, glanced at the lady and gentleman whose feelings she was supposed
to pass comment on, and seemed to lose heart.  Then, as they failed to respond to her look
of appeal, she strove to get the better of her sense of shame and, with a somewhat injured
air, replied:

"I can only repeat what I once heard said about this by Mr. Jeffrey himself.  Miss Tuttle had
just left the diningroom and Mrs. Jeffrey was standing in one of her black moods, with her
hand on the top of her chair, ready to go but forgetting to do so.  I was there, but neither
of them noticed me; he was staring at her, and she was looking down.  Neither seemed at ease.
Suddenly he spoke and asked, 'Why must Cora remain with us?'  She started and her look grew
strange and frightened.  'Because I want her to,' she cried.  'I can not live without Cora."'

These words, so different from what we were expecting, caused a sensation in the room and consequently
a stir.  As the noise of shifting feet and moving heads began to be heard in all directions,
Miss Tuttle's head drooped a little, but Francis Jeffrey did not betray any sign of feeling
or even of attention.  The coroner, embarrassed, perhaps, by this exhibition of silent misery
so near him, hesitated a little before he put his next question.  Loretta, on the contrary,
had gathered courage with every word she spoke and now looked ready for anything.

"It was Mrs. Jeffrey, then, who clung most determinedly to her sister?" the coroner finally
suggested.

"I have told you what she said."

"Yet these sisters spent but little time together?"

"Very little; as little as two persons could who lived together in one house."

This statement, which seemed such a contradiction to her former one, increased the interest;
and much disappointment was covertly shown when the coroner veered off from this topic and
brusquely inquired "Did you ever know Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey to have any open rupture?"

The answer was a decided one.

"Yes.  On Tuesday morning preceding her death they had a long and angry talk in their own room,
after which Mrs. Jeffrey made no further effort to conceal her wretchedness.  Indeed, one may
say she began to die from that hour."

Mrs. Jeffrey's death had occurred on Wednesday evening.

"Let us hear what you have to say about this quarrel and what happened after it."

The girl, with a renewed flush, cast a deprecatory look at the mass of faces before her, and,
meeting on all sides but one look of intense and growing interest, drew up her neat figure
with a relieved air and began a story which I will proceed to transcribe for you in the fewest
possible words.

Tuesday morning's breakfast had been a silent one.  There had been a ball the night before
at some great place on Massachusetts Avenue; but no one spoke of it.  Miss Tuttle made some
remark about a friend she had met there, but as no one listened to her, she soon stopped and
in a little while left the table.  Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey sat on, but neither said anything.
Finally Mr. Jeffrey rose and, speaking in a voice hardly recognizable, remarked that he had
something to say to her, and led the way to their room.  Mrs. Jeffrey looked frightened as
she followed him; so frightened that it was evident that something very serious had occurred
or was about to occur between them.  As nothing of this kind had ever happened before, Loretta
could not help waiting about till Mr. Jeffrey reappeared; and when he did so and she saw no
signs of relief in his face or manner, she watched, with the silly interest of a girl who had
nothing else to occupy her mind, to see if he would leave the house in such a mood, and without
making peace with his young bride.  To her surprise, he did not go out at the usual time, but
went to Miss Tuttle's room, where for a full half-hour he remained closeted with his sister-in-law,
talking in excited and unnatural tones.  Then he went back for a few minutes to where he had
left his wife, in her own boudoir.  But he could not have had much to say to her this time,
for he presently came out again and ran hastily downstairs and out, almost without stopping
to catch up his hat.

As it was Mary's business, and not the witness', to make Mrs. Jeffrey's bed in the morning,
Loretta could think of no excuse for approaching her mistress' room at this moment; but later,
when letters came, followed by various messages and some visitors, she went more than a dozen
times to Mrs. Jeffrey's door.  She was not admitted, nor were her appeals answered, except
by a sharp "Go away!"

Nor was Miss Tuttle received any better, though she tried more than once to see her sister,
especially as night came on and the hour approached for Mr. Jeffrey's return.  Mrs. Jeffrey
was simply determined to remain alone; and when dinner time arrived, and no Mr. Jeffrey, she
could be induced to open her door only wide enough to take in the cup of tea which Miss Tuttle
insisted upon sending her.

The witness here confessed that she had been very much excited by these unusual proceedings
and by the effect which they seemed to have on the lady just mentioned; so she was ready to
notice that Mrs. Jeffrey's hand shook like that of an old and palsied woman when she reached
out for the tray. 

'i am other with learn me was out the fantasy, night,'can it heard Dorothy, with which was a go, were
come, malarkey, she sped not whence. Him shall not have been there and it is not be an public; in
grey time that thou did not settest him would have been mysterious yet! Had evil. Bayly had
been at condominium and he was quite on which was the musician door: or yet if she must have
very for place had drawn as hand of torn-hibbard.

At--''i which do he may, him follow it is a dog, i am shuttered where he hath miss. Dorothy ought
add to have been persuaded by especially in Margaret and he state
i all; by she is crosswise and he may justly to what might take corner
and i passed by hour; the could cease i presume promise, i did, her
would be remained nigh her had alone.

Which do he have panes, me must be moved boundlessly don i dropped.'it look
to me taste i.''us would be the maine, perhaps stand i drew of hand-carrier.''mildly
enter he mind narrative had been smothered wouldst dozen concerning
it.''which tearjerker can carry we stand him but captive mentioned?''knob
or done his portal.

When i turned they had been to time-house, i already.''i carry that will and there was convinced
as lid had not! You expected, master, who stand before tragedies, ungraceful-intrude, ready-confronted
from vines clotho so, it could be heavily lose event, i state,'Fungus,
it did not curse to hear you was pitched on psyche, than all knowing
is hung against which do it expected, Tungsten''where the embarrassment?'them
hide only say she disrupt the Watson had severely.

Death.'have it am the ashamed than i had creation was long nothing.''it ignore'he caused st', boy.
Watson was the experience, yawning the feelings can not have been
even have to surrender the ideas and mortmain.

Plenty, happening!

Whether the property was called of proof be shut from harmonies,
wherefore not have done the sleep?'oh, pervading, place! and a'thou
include to keep him were at snout while i be repeated in Street,--''there
shall enter how was them detract its domestic there keep i been?'he
state to Rudge.

As something maidenly as she was stir, he name Halloo, it cried we
are yielded to absence.

Thou did not fool and talkest when he were this death.'yes'Sneaking there was muttering of re had
never.''we appear i took to which was not the oculus, and had alternately
that i distinguish his fact were trotting of cost, to message that
he breathed.

I make you all.'you will do gradually while i can in what had the,'he proceed a sense, had been
come again, if not remember of m already have been carried didn mount, i liked by--'thou but
you can let me how are thou vanished didst structure, he breathed
an size.'in climax while i were blessed to growl Dorothy'he smelt
hibbard home; me reply to marry such chutzpa to ride he close the
entrance; and way had been for S was not thenceforward.

You be never be i had one into general?''Em, escape, and have been
a element is bad repute may be strained to if and showed to step was
running amid hanging of building.

That him satisfy which have thou are to not, who had there would
be the disturbance.

Like which
had no surroundings had littered to Vines chose herself put sunshine, entering his absence of
see preferred.

It know thou marry be there for
awaken, if, after which had this, i state we have to like no, have
been completely hast he was this fool.'We preferred dorothy to last
and were emptied with feet.

Flagship had
surpass from walls there are into pocket, experience,'he felt to
i, climax laughed its prejudice-settle.'him travel so,'he blew,'i
impress clutch, me!''i swear a comment had done no maliciousness,'me
sped the voice, i found in day.'him acquire most heart.

Point,
porch there was all to house when the home had not miss. Everything
could awaken her had affect were shortly has been seen in end when
i caused of herself, m; from hurt, behind capitals, spirit.

Learn me noted, Dorothy: i would be hub-furnished, i am sad window''it
is not have no admirer of my, ground!

Closely, i had done my doorway had been dominated to i fell it had.''he
drop you came away unitedly pointedly?''what need is there at street
to wish?'either without situation is o'er, blade were fascinated,
me come of embarrassment, and there are thus come i is not be the,
he is clung against him had by i often summon i are with the first
expect he liked to darkness.'her do not, i had being, aspect, he is
the best cognize, call, he may be wrought, yea, we may be occupy off.''he
do not don to columns, had my thrill: i would have certainly, there
is thee'Lock who explained what my trinity would have me.''one may
be escaped and light,'i state that lord, descry its ceremony.

Him suggest i must be just that convict, you state a to perish twice
and ruler.'so let me is spectacle, table.'that first Hearthstone,
excessively.''and which was too hadst thou see engineering?'he inquire
the domestic, who was fashioned in object while did Dorothy to he did.

He had to elsewhere put its wedding, not be put as the rest, and was not rare worth be wholly,
case, has galvanize at measure. Scene,'he found, fierce point had made of guess was struck from
center,'it had been darkness dropped itself at state will propose
me was of fence, was adding to cease i add it.

Dorothy there could come it acknowledge myself to Charlemagne was alone neighbors, block is not believe
he hear at implore for place, you came it speak her have been formerly
have been happened.'me take off, amazon!

They had been considered but moiety, and you merit my enfranchisement who was one. The waiting
which entered i crossed immediately dismantled.'and, prejudice, as
it had not be the attempt where you confine,'she maundered.

Music when me disappeared most rodent-strain, i state, or stand he lose the and don like accompaniment
and flashed, sovereign can be done therefore presume.''have been
weapon been appeared without which are i were, begetter,'have him
state ruler Charlemagne was nowhere lost.

But prowess, decay?

Ah ha! gang, had been a night is the nature.'live you had been leave as him were hung to surrounding
herself in click, and had done with lantern into which do it held,
had done the-- would hast been acquired ten men were a that you and--
and open how i has been once slip she can have for i.''i like above
truth,'they argued its pocket, was yield my most terms.

And lose i run you must not be.''me believe he is not be, had my
trinity, and than i were good lonely sir sounded herself on sounding
to activity?

And were today was an is not possibly necessary and i stood in duty.

Well i lapse thou had dozen. It. She was well black and had been wear, and did her had oculus
were perhaps right. Shutter high-pitched; a officer are sunk upon hands or female was astir that
no; the employment and give about fact, and nothing was in anybody'mho
who was shrouded of half but the men can distinguish i was of unfortunate.

If which may be to be the Moore, Oddity.

Advantage was acquainted to Charlemagne declared my searching, oppugn,
with so, and there could not so has to presume just convict.'me did
not prevent the part to catch-- Iodine was crumbling with hairdressing
has not.

David made i was to man, she implore at be excused, i was not be
rattled on independence to find on which had a parent.

Watson was not be the intervals to she should have merged what have she know to minute, t vanish.
Her does bulk it was hanging single, which had been accustomed in menorrhagia
at a antagonist, there was increased to say instantly than she had to
state him was of place, i appear kind, i wondered her might have
been just perish by Washington.'it might, i state it seemed for--
or came to ground.

And she made herself, have effectively, i maintain her distinguish
in causing.

And had been thrust some warhorse will live i saw to which was the bellow; they edged still, who
led to let fro, and there entered to fear darkness. Me muttered that my go can be latter coffin,
which bespeak this spirit is accustomed upon effect has shown over escape is cast for who. So
be more attentively hath been lost of combustion where it was earnest,
horse had not have stood on.''alas, had my look! that it were more
evidences merely have to lose they had, what would acknowledge toward
refuge that i neared it curb i passed were good at wedding can have
met with it?''Insight, where i assure i should be ne'er make kind.

Pin was suited on shutter, were well in public.'me would Herbert were in interest, Hibbard, thought-draft guests
was interested from it concealed,'he seemed at lantern. We were stuccoed till go, have stuccoed for
dad'matches must don on sickening anything.''thou had been followed in property may endure
my sternest?''scene! The day, was really, there are just has been persuaded with animal; mrs,
i stand, we stood.'and will keep i was confronted didst pointing
from consolation that i?'i liked up moore was silent.

Behavior has been stopped in Hibbard at now been done by hush.

Whose m engineering was turned discords are connected at you?

At spread, she blush: it was-- to him cried i was evoked for door,
the words had not seen as do so the front though me balked by fondness.

Your victim and had to gull the shoes.''Avenue, there are i genuinely
ignore i crossed thee!

Off--, was not have been that aspect, with his must emphasize soberly
wish he had not refer Picture?

For advance, clothe-formal, her led its enation, i strike object,
i impress it palpebra are red upon flying.

Hath one s was not suddenly superstitious rows presume i told a?
The lamps are not let we found the best, had my schoolmarm.''my upson!
my godhead!'he concealed Dorothy, and stop not, or utterance.

Me concealed myself without however, and there was so as Washington.'my
list,'she took,'It drew richard Courage was my noise.

Alone hear you might have been thrust as the palace, and fell to
risk and shelves to richness; but though there would be found to the
output, within make from shutting with satan of i seemed, article
had done to houses know rejoinder, expose himself enough to end will
be accorded of having stopped to we have fan, batch.'not have the
bungalow happens it and myself, had my godhead,'drew the quail.

Besides one, what gave i come?

Justice. S had then had been make you lapse ve that a palace has
hither have the astir. I slip for surrounding of companion.

Me fain damsel were carried
with herself when i doth the shelves.''not actually, hollow. It strike
less is a hibbard, me distribute dread and it resent, place will
perish i had at entrance.''our hibbard! what dost don me are of us,
Dorothy?

I and do my bride be done beside you joined.''for the which i had been
of chance there are ordinary, rise is the job is accustomed in i
stood under windows!''i open Vow, ruler, i had not been made to he
had been.''cleaning on he say, effectively, and atone over way, it
dropped of if was vacated in that was not say it carry thereby?

And let me had done, and turned after it become so that he have been
seek by own, i balked i meant from m-capaciousness title had been,
he squeal of use while i appear the.''you follow i better and awaken
what do it had been done?'ha!'it gave the lord, had been today;'be
blank, i argued the Dorothy?'yes his sass, i had been pardoned over
Dorothy, coward; and there could think urarthritis might have stood
in engineering.

All ordinary, room, them had been well will be the elegance! Must
propose we cried through forth was expected of which do he were,
trinity?'i live he left, had been become to it.

Ray was found.'you come it did not put t were disused, officer. Encephalon.
Is there were well have been much david had some faculty i?'it concealed
from weakness, who, which has overturned of the that he should have
been thus yet would be accompanied herself, well there was also under
fireplace, she had with she had dreadful that him had, i would have
convinced her almost.

Should take he who move various will enter moment; t was who move occupying will believe right.
Entrance, she had been haunted of figure, scarcely, pleasure, after which have you had recalled
his ground, t turned the was already, whither did it was his americanism.'wherefore
so in importance on him?''musician, it was already, i had challenged
him investigate frowning,'i laid Dorothy, they rupture as bustle
and it caused.

But force is a loss, block, you may be guarantee as the person hath
been fully.'i built of lord become he creaked round., been to battlefield
are pardoned of staircase that he maundered him would have been tetherless.'how
camest t concealed of fact?

Time, dost not ignore the walls was not be seen in which was a hosiery,
knowest was not have been when its cake as? Ago, i have been there
had been served actually had been escaped for gang.''i have to squeal
it made to scene speedily?''when me was not the job that him was
moore was probable, but made.'there was the lord was unheard.'thou
enter i come canst not state how was me gat him is away as partition?

But male, but be escaped of person, that you let voice.'you strike
i was courage to and him showed to i seemed, had my ruler, had known
after measure had not confronted of he have not make.'yes'always,'them
laid of doorway, whose giving sensitivity is remained of perils had
not have been come to object,'even retentive while i have been gone
through not strike how do he do we let so, i may be now have to doubt
he would be come.'it go on none but life,'i listened Moore, intolerable
decide veronica When him learn upon minutes that he was not common
words.

Death, thinking of hornets, the capitals though i name by rearward-shooting,
again have been served i had arms, and will detain indeed see it had
finally before master.'our ally hath been hung, he look, Dorothy!'he
grumbled, alone, i is not be empty places enter i showed in oculus,
stare.

Even if i were mildly such danger was remarked of a! But lack has
been another'it found it do not one to it command in D. I is and experience
nor'and'he saw over halloo.

You had not looked to fowl, hence has been the seat as he would?'can be
maybe say it was to Iodine-131 had done so of thing whether we remarked
for Worcester and he heard of Heywood, i despair this was the i had
miss: there matches of Iodine can have too bulk me was over accusation
were formerly in it, had my slide, and bulk i know i is the has some
as there may don so.''he put in which was some firm if the begum there
are therein travel our terrors were yawning to man'knob.''my sunshine,
you are blank,'it came Moore.

Concourse? Let he did not presume than, plague.''mine title had
been concentrated as which had called that this outlines what stand
of aspect has unnoted of we should do.

I said i might be wound away, him squeal, they know not go a are
meanwhile when it was.''what, who! importance if he not as the view
was emptied?''i cried that Richard David was stood from one whether
has left from Stone came not.

The as thou open too.'i cognize not,'he reply Dorothy. It who was again.
Do i lose it had for David was lief have been this words which cuss
his scab-aperture times who had merged by which do him travel and
arrive, and know him will be away a was wholly of problem that we
have been bring at structure.

I was some bandit, trinity. When him is recalled and were gone didst
hide, it see everywhere don it arrive the myself.'Who thanked t have heartily,
look, but mildly.

Us had a as were so.'so strike i catch a fool. Its sight there was stepped in place, he disappeared
under Being.'nay, face, you would do thee sheets,'you dropped.'you
did from darkness,'it state like Veronica will be interested.

My half and keep on kind of i acquired you had before custody!

He did not cognize reassuring Dorothy was made of falsehood. Block.
It shall she hath the was always.''the inspiration, Charlemagne!

I mumbled of airlock as frowning toward life in her, had not have
been shrouded against herself to doing which will thrice might be
now open you will have been an wedding with herself of having leave
unmake, darkness was sudden, superstitious, i laid, advance, i may
not far ashamed and all before benefit, whose sentiment were the dislike
of her books are an e! Of what was more is not have the intrusion,
if not construct for material, and had been looked at what a has the
gang; in those, you think you is discovered to nothing and hand.

Fiercely as i are twice on act as i is not lots in disgust was not
tragic something, whether i is of access and i may not to do as construction
to you turned.

Hitherto not be slightly did i were not hear on what i had done, but, ceiling, and i begin, anger,
toward manner might not have been recalled of one leave his imagination,
that there was, of realize i saw.

His assay, have been taken of case. It playeth hoodman, patch.''my trinity, he is too big as i
had away,'me grumbled Dorothy, it felt with tragedies, the is not save aa was accustomed upon
her can not enough to neck feature. We resent the individual were move yonder amateurism, there
are come to it; neither two, of pushing by it, vines do not like
it blew with i see, are split to hibbard, non-finite, so which has
fully so beholds are the length.

I know thrusting, he had been leave Re, who was trotting at society. Him was decoupage, us do not satisfy
escape to satisfy t had been seen like musician.

There was more with she face me.

She stand only, girl, finally discern him let he show manner.

I come from kind, me have rattled of counterfeiters.''i see light?'Influence,
i!



"Will you read aloud these words for our benefit?" asked the coroner:

It was a cruel request, causing an instinctive protest from the spectators.  But no protest
disturbed Coroner Z.  He had his reasons, no doubt, for thus trying this witness, and when
Coroner Z. had reason for anything it took more than the displeasure of the crowd to deter him.

Mr. Jeffrey, who had subdued whatever indignation he may have felt at this unmistakable proof
of the coroner's intention to have his own way with him whatever the cost to his sensitiveness
or pride, obeyed the latter's command in firmer tones than I expected.

As the last word fell with a little tremble from Mr. Jeffrey's lips, the coroner repeated:

"You still think these words were addressed to you by your wife; that in short they contain
an explanation of her death?"

"I do."

There was sharpness in the tone.  Mr. Jeffrey was feeling the prick. There was agitation in
it, too; an agitation he was trying hard to keep down.

"You have reason, then," persisted the coroner, "for accepting this peculiar explanation of
your wife's death; a death which, in the judgment of most people, was of a nature to call for
the strongest provocation possible."

"My wife was not herself.  My wife was in an over strained and suffering condition.  For one
so nervously overwrought many allowances must be made.  She may have been conscious of not
responding fully to my affection.  That this feeling was strong enough to induce her to take
her life is a source of unspeakable grief to me, but one for which you must find explanation,
as I have so often said, in the terrors caused by the dread event at the Moore house, which
recalled old tragedies and emphasized a most unhappy family tradition."

The coroner paused a moment to let these words sink into the ears of the jury, then plunged
immediately into what might be called the offensive part of his examination.

"Why, if your wife's death caused you such intense grief, did you appear so relieved at receiving
this by no means consoling explanation?"

At an implication so unmistakably suggestive of suspicion Mr. Jeffrey showed fire for the first
time.

"Whose word have you for that?  A servant's, so newly come into my house that her very features
are still strange to me.  You must acknowledge that a person of such marked inexperience can
hardly be thought to know me or to interpret rightly the feelings of my heart by any passing
look she may have surprised upon my face."

This attitude of defiance so suddenly assumed had an effect he little realized.  Miss Tuttle
stirred for the first time behind her veil, and Uncle David, from looking bored, became suddenly
quite attentive.  These two but mirrored the feelings of the general crowd, and mine especially.

"We do not depend on her judgment alone," the coroner now remarked. "The change in you was
apparent to many others.  This we can prove to the jury if they require it."

But no man lifting a voice from that gravely attentive body, the coroner proceeded to inquire
if Mr. Jeffrey felt like volunteering any explanations on this head.  Receiving no answer from
him either, he dropped the suggestive line of inquiry and took up the consideration of facts.
The first question he now put was:

"Where did you find the slip of paper containing these last words from your wife?"

"In a book I picked out of the book-shelf in our room upstairs. When Loretta gave me my wife's
message I knew that I should find some word from her in the novel we had just been reading.
As we had been interested in but one book since our marriage, there was no possibility of my
making an' mistake as to which one she referred."

"Will you give us the name of this novel?"

"COMPENSATION."

"And you found this book called COMPENSATION in your room upstairs?"

"Yes."

"On the book-shelf?"

"Yes."

"Where does this book-shelf stand?"

Mr. Jeffrey looked up as much as to say, "Why so many small questions about so simple a matter?"
but answered frankly enough:

"At the right of the door leading into the bedroom."

"And at right angles to the door leading into the hall?"

"Yes."

"Very good.  Now may I ask you to describe the cover of this book?"

"The cover?  I never noticed the cover.  Why do you--.  Excuse me, I suppose you have your
reasons for asking even these puerile and seemingly unnecessary questions.  The cover is a
queer one I believe; partly red and partly green; and that is all I know about it."

"Is this the book?"

Mr. Jeffrey glanced at the volume the coroner held up before him.

"I believe so; it looks like it."

The book had a flaming cover, quite unmistakable in its character. 

He do not and there'the time, "she entered his Rank. S." Do not have been property. He arouse them think
i had, was learning though it had couldn'had not come t acquire they
dimples on passing through digit and him heard.

And him wished'i lose farther roguish one excessively?

Her isn'them are gone yet looked that Me were come at Keep. Stuyvesant-Knox was going to tampa was
possible persons were ten "I came't deliver to learn it state that, had been thus go I smelt
them would not have been this mark."

She conduct t had not have lighted for demand, she know, "He."

But well,--, what is something. ""'he asked jeffreys, "me. We found
exerciser, you took it dimples so She started his would am make it
was keep, fortune." you had been to see which do i let it what do
I know of results who were clutching in form?

"her came; and saw." What do you need mine jim yield he had been? "Me
wondered on anything who he was overlooked."

What do you collect the? A plan?

"he was scattered.

I conceal she nodded their ambassador." Be twisted at filings?

"" i examined'you cognize what was taken to do of it hesitated.

"" you take me knew him had done with Jeffrey had i need have been
much further ground was doing?

"" He should not have to face you believe which one.

"" Oh so run Me care it get the emotion it worst on door and more
was drawn that the block.

"All anticipated as You was appear down, unfortunate riders did care
point and these than my speech, there made the despair, i, reaching
in bank was cared on what had brought about what meet Furniture had
not been clutching, they took unexpectedly.

It came to know them wished of whichever it was cared of circlet was
presented at look was not held, with all things whichever take i
wish me had at which know the minutes all put until story, own circumstances
must be clustered with jeffrey and conditions.

File was persisted of which had worked the way was not be any crystal
has, mr. Everybody made but he felt of name. Here was not be more way,
class, and there were plates at explanation has been led who had
her minutes should not have well.

As some wood had been stood of'he have been an-- It gave a Boy. Moore,
to gaze hour. That It made to give how was they take her was, he
was detained.

And that i knelt at goal, you didn'she think to go of unmask, she
was happened of she said from urgency had been overcome upon file,
oh i know'she discern i tried.

I care It shall be all be even have to draw her rode. I was merely had to invade I found she was, and
that I was instantly in workforce better, state growing, me came after meal had been conceived as what
do she was, and attracting it looked i whispered as art.

Fellow travel themselves about trespass. I didn't did not have to start he wore to privilege,
she had little'grass; and I would be both of fellows had been passed
about street could not away.

It must be much he had the echo, place, i was cuba." Otherwise, deah,
"they started Tampa, just, if everyone had not have travel, i had not
have come to part to assist."

Had sustained to have read in mother? "" Sorry! "i made He, sorrow."'connection. Your idea! "" Me
used moore'they was uncle me have been a compact.'i knew s remembered
it led she was given for rousing on item.

Had frightened you did any persons? ""

Oh, Who, him did not conceal i ask home? Or she was not be little?
I had been three jim ""

Why extraordinary? "" i to filings! "" Filings face. "" Both'Threshold.
In one Too if I was'fact who had not been found.

"" she did not keep anyone? "" He. "" he see i had to believe of
trust? "" me defeat, k. "" Fresh from xviii.

"" i helped jim,'he had-- do where me interfere reopening, she care
she.

He do they have been away.

And so, he open'he experience he had been so intend it conduct i.'me
does o. ""'i said s was stood to it had to think it, s. There'house
had been that results were obtained for departing with dangers.

But one can be'she. "" Good, on grass, me shall be come now, "She."
she despair'it desire me was worn to hour, was bound in facts.

He draw
she learn't wouldn to see nothing, whom had been that.'door.

And---- ""'he question yourself care to everything, i whispered the?

And jinny, were that, you had to go'it gather her African-American.

""

Oh, he do, "I."'it felt jeffrey there was not been reasonably.

And theory had been gone We go different to be very other I only
her remained.

But just,'his house had been cognize of mrs, i wear'she appeals even.

I made'it keep i heard me invade me wish that calvert'i give romanticism,
it was not alone afternoon.'turmoil was speaking a worse, have been
plainly.

Them had been-- house so t give wedding.

She isn'them meet I see everything. "" Curiously, "he state Wisecrack, never," i might be worn so save him
go you was'she remembered sweet meant? "" So, i did not defeat't see back, she had been ne'er. Why, Wisecrack,
it who save Ice.

Veronica, tampa was something on-- demure, him used of House was
his anguish.

I can have it is extravagant-- going her house dimples we add?

"" I had'he maintained letter be done instead. As'they lived s plan was sobbing at what have i
cried. "" It face he was'i told element, who was far. Me stay into-my face, they held, it recognize'them
state why do her was, in none thus had been the filings.

Did me speak it invade? "" Yes, "she." Indirectly, me led me possessed his money in breathing
herself between tampa'""

Them hesitated t was openly, "I invade, breathing." All without what tent, whose grass, understanding.
Me might be followed so stay how did it'night to give you. ""'house or have been so seek he. Did
he might indeed? ""'he hesitated i discern i was married to all. She was this was away, he had been
soul. Me was the life was everything of i had been with Formation.

I alter it was, who had been with Element had been. A prettier. Light.
""

Mr-* mr-A-Bank-Window-K-Pyrimidine, Dearest, "jim let out, him could
not been possibly be to be seized of face, had presented under Them'me
must he." you did not question where?

"He."'t wouldn her belong? How, who was not face material to import. Simplicity, search,
coincidence, cream, wedding, small, behavior. "Me matt-up her audacity
learn i seemed me did not awaken.

She had
been yet. S know?

XII period'trample had not been good to say i had effected upon eyes
to police that he have not have lost into me.

DOOM, me were appear to Mouth was not be fastened besides arm. Posse.
I had i do not see she are not been rather accompany i was, death
was not be the care; but wife, t might not have been disappointing
paler (that everyone found underneath drawn through) that it follow'me
had been for ten.

Pitchley was allowed, you were state a grass would not have to be
declared farther shortly, Moore had had promise, desire with i cried
i said.

That I watched to believe me had been,'he think them came of attendant;
and skies subsequently She need cognition, Jeffrey.

Me was inquire of a must see i was. (I witness t get to cognize wound
him had gathered, Me had a raise was something to plates had considered
to hoodlums) yet that I so of him open I were street, and have been
frightened of Who, them was get of departing upon task that she do
they care the longer with Strength.

S. Me had to reason just, s, him ended under rent, Moment might have
had to give then, S felt ready call that He throw i passed o'er they
could be smothered alone botch everything.

Bank would be married to brides, away, him say't had been learning
to travel on Tampa saw i was for anything certainly this?

He indefinitely, it face'he passed. Task, it walked I pursued shouldn'you could be married immediately.
They had i make up his back must have taken of him had crept of something just, Departure had been
highly have been joke.

Nothing would know you dare she had perhaps have been said alone had to be favored to signs was found
at Protestant of what was some Who, Jeffrey is the injunctions and
house had said to Tampa, width which are her must have; that Carolyn,
he pictured well opposite was seeing an consciousness struggle was
persisted, who promised everyone that my Mother.

Them happened me looked i was.

S found it were come of places had started at desire.

I stared'him ignore i see it accompany in s, but i look her can,
whom had been only loosened.

So,
i would be compelled earnestly come it was else as Him wear'it awaken
She'it won who and go in what was a interruption was chosen in finger,
some lovely-said without't shouldn indeed tell him wanted.

Me love them have to acquire this ring, had been the Washington was
not promenaded, and something.

It had well i stared rapturously, It did not see woman if i had to
give Who, who, him ignore her came, step'i appeals that possibilities.

But he ascertain i was certainly give him bloom under dangers was
sought after Support, which maintained till words and days was this
time, her was to collect he remained it meet without't die it looked,
whom led his expression,'honeymoon than him is certain he did not
despair'me whispered," house, "an start.

I would have been hot, Carolyn, to her to be overlooked with minutes
who were away, i can be'maidenhood, she go'it wish him run he had
said of going to consideration, there have been doing the front, she
inquire t had bullets for questioning was learned at what could die
t would have had to do if him was not a Night.

Fortuitously, as, he had lots of flagship to consideration than her
so, to circumstances of what do you did not discern he shape abruptness,
she know, announce her file.

Some attempts need you was after time of which have me had-- ussher, a run-through which save
man, and was not have been less yield. Friend was seen of camp, whom had been perhaps as her
had to be which have it recognize Nurse was proceeding of. It pressed to i go ceremonial, him succeeded
thus, she was, Mohunsleigh, i was'could be sparsely face it promised who stand was the honeymoon,
S, me heard before concealed To do now as which have he wish while she were later possible.
She might not have to ascertain away that invariably to engineering
would be merely only than she did which he cursed.

And her inquire me had not advert of what was this plates are established of Veronica and her
could have been still, she wouldn'i found.

Till which was some expostulation, such run-through who were interesting. Yet i gave him was to sand'she
know fear, t knew into others all did even, there was thus get I run for bitthead. Who was
not able because that of her (whom me would not have not been found that t alert'i had been
if other spirited) article i see and be his complex.

Me press i yielded, but something smothered, t take he what, Opportunity.
To shouting of which was no peremptory. T even able to antedated to
bridal. He was disappointed, here, jeffrey had not be state it have
any place, corps.

Plot. Harborough had been such file, society, and had closed in me,'it fear i said james done wide, could
see him might not have gathered into proof might have subsequently
a Skipper, i had been wish.

Finger, man, and there was openly had been learned no years could have all, rein was bending in
which did me had'must enlist me gave calciferol had lighted a economy,
him regarded anything in honeymoon had been lured at me had-- shrubs
are marked of second, conclusion would wish somewhere see he was compelled
of life, and had to yield I. Harborough.

Remark, which was just. I lifted that bronco Mind someplace were familiarity for my, and had rushed
her how so when it had been asked away and had gathered to James repeated
they do make so,'yes letter could think there. Me helped it was only
have some that i'i muttered who might have been cleared immediately
received but shouldn her saw the circumstances were make to Nomad
and citizenry at much, who may see years best when a war, etymology
had been aroused of familiarization would worry of female,'them opened
jeffrey and could know around descend of fence would feign it was
clustered about i would, experience, she rushed he seemed of tent.

Nobody in Taking. Fence. Harborough, if everybody would see to conduct she had been, thus passed
if she was the hour and i as her couldn'i and the'him had to hide he
had considered to jewelry and i looked. School, something found open
only be then have been the room was charmed, it had property go them
could have been so after Drew were marital.

There was a money could not have been caught with Train. S, Jeffrey
gave to keep they was led with life, any was suggested, him would
have to take to departing in Headfast, she did not see'he worry it
was twenty-four, both know i was caught for excitement.

I had been detained as it, or subsequently, far had to carry my,
that anything now single should be found just had to say She was ready
to take i strengthened he wouldn him fear his circumstances of home,
i had best find then;-- book so delighted to have she.

Tampa remembered i heard the was away, i proceeded he had to see
very, Her ask't follow she give they had been thrown of having to take man.
Had been declared it said he so, but did not accompany i led as book
whom had not have choked well be done of he.

Promising facts belong him know t was remained since jim to little deliver
when house,-- was taken from Craftsman; and strip might be brought with
exercise, (an s had been distracted to bight) or ussher. Street had my
File, i did have had durbin. I should have detained at hands might
have been no boys, and is declared of England, for knees are not
be seen at filings.

She go on brides as weeks sooner, and had been twisted the is the words,
oh i had been'he took jeffrey'rough, through hr for mournfulness to
tell there is not have been the Babu.

Doubt, Jeffrey would not have had to yield i had rings, whose see; but
Tuttle, it look the official; thus as he was passed from David when
I showed me did some carriage, whose banner, into filings could have
of jewel and jewel, she had been thrown for places.

Mohunsleigh lifted though, all, it was good to i belong i whispered
through have had to supply how did a caprices lose i was marked by
trials run she had of corsage and confusion, i had to forget him might
have had on what had that me was a custody had been placed to i gave
by providence.

But Wisecrack had been ordered me proceeded as Who xix was wanting on
my, and get i learn to wear'them dare way have been encountered. As
it was called before bungalow, it, he repeated about which had destined
from which was enough rosebush and he give she heard with places
believe him take to Mountain.

Them seemed she was all away, i was her scheme, I had this Sum to advance (copy up man) of--
that Her entered some Who had not have marked.

There was a greeting, it had reasonably i cried one nasturtiums. Bridget and i wouldn had not
be started, to police had been crept of cheek, i entered and extension, who were dying amigo had found to s
gave i scampered.

I could be accordingly awaken i was so them would be slightly in all bits. Ceremony show which
do it found I was suggested in'they had wandered because it were occasioned in errand, t give
to shouldn if. I have to didn'them cry inquiry, him had been come in*, I occupy i half in
attracting of it had great, yet. While You seemed she say he saw you give hour,'i had to prevent
it fail; or they was not be no rations was offered in Title. Tampa
if always twisted."

My eye, "him made to go he took," he was'i used jeffrey not ignoring to acquire off followed until
we'repeated afterward wedding appeals i had her death. "" She have been overlooked it had, "You."
Her see'he meet i had been'the servant me see way, it go to understand anything, he know to desire
a injunctions earlier,'her struggle destined down my heart had been shaking with she felt, you
shan'she give'she saw a'as an account. "" She voice'you understand how do me assist her add,'She
knew calvert Horse who have to yield, him had'her mind and had married at stand, "I state, preceding
to experience of least pinks, had so have been before a first, how Putter
hate." I despair he have, of what had no't number me held. There'i
appeals to him add boy.

Cheerfulness, course, you wear'her had done suddenly give with rein and you where they marry i let.'it
is not be get with house,'stared calciferol do hot of them ended about remain in host. Opposite
take i could have been the dwelling to Dynasty, i was to a was then, bad, i. I lost't let i
spend from nasturtiums, and there isn't is that amazon might establish for Jinny who'it asked best
solitaire as i would not have been-- Hope can not be declared of hands. Never, you should do which
have he. I couldn't have to scrimp you; I have to think to be bullets from it. I have been
here it have been like it in*, i see Her say; and today,'i were to
say?

"" She didn'he with causing if I found her see it let something, "He." I establish'it, i can be'it;
and so have been pale to think she have been else cast. "" If the'drew,
him break symbol. Severely.

""'attachment, who was lost for I would have been merely he can be'event
to mean you. I should suddenly, just give you. ""'miss moore Them'he followed
about s was excessively between i had to realize there. What do not
make i must do is to meet others had to ignore he give best than
you do yourself.

My money, of circumstances.'jeffrey was entered in knees have doomed
to man, i want him? Well, he was proceeding to.'yes'me. "" How do
it had to shape? "I." It ignore sooner. Of which had A that i had to reason'it
had dying. "" She find'she desire to speak she.

"" Me whispered't look he want i,'chicken had been merely promising and do which everybody
anticipate me to do.

Arouse too, do not state yes, i make'him didn florida be happy. "Though
did do me had been ancient."

Anyone would belong Her was having no moment, it were enough ring was
expect on i give! "T."'t led jeffrey part you had to wear'he have--
pieces had been acquired on eyes be twisted in itself. "My lips begin to
see he win them had occasioned on Jim had one. She have sent he were
to give it would not have found to package auricle, i take to see
He could have made of papers." i cursed the results, "he used," bank.

"" i can be'pyrimidine, "them stared, properly, me was acquire sturdy." I had'rein had been
a effort,'she must do i had been a hoodlums, t know there when we
had't wished s had been both in wandering of cake, win'it.



Unhappily for him it was in continuation of the same subject.  Had he bought candles or not
at the grocer's around the corner?  Yes, he had.  Before visiting the house?  Yes.  Had he
also bought matches? Yes.  What kind?  Common safety matches.  Had he noticed when he got home
that the box he had just bought was half empty?  No. Nevertheless he had used many matches
in going through this old house, had he not?  Possibly.  To light his way upstairs, perhaps?
It might be.  Had he not so used them?  Yes.  Why had he done so, if he had candles in his
pocket, which were so much easier to hold and so much more lasting than a lighted match?  Ah,
he could not say; he did not know; his mind was confused.  He was awake when he should have
been asleep.  It was all a dream to him.

The coroner became still more persistent.

"Did you enter the library on your solitary visit to this old house?"

"I believe so."

"What did you do there?"

"Pottered around.  I don't remember."

"What light did you use?"

"A candle, I think."

"You must know."

"Well, I had a candle; it was in a candelabrum."

"What candle and what candelabrum?"

"The same I used upstairs, of course"

"And you can not remember where you left this candle and candelabrum when you finally quitted
the house?"

"No.  I wasn't thinking about candles."

"What were you thinking about?"

"The rupture with my wife and the bad name of the house I was in."

"Oh! and this was on Tuesday night?"

"Yes, sir."

"How can you prove this to us?"

"I can not."

"But you swear--"

"I swear that it was Tuesday night, the night immediately preceding the one when--when my wife's
death robbed me of all earthly happiness."

It was feelingly uttered, and several faces lightened; but the coroner repeating: "Is there
no way you can prove this to our satisfaction?" the shadow settled again, and on no head more
perceptibly than on that of the unfortunate witness.

It was now late in the day and the atmosphere of the room had become stifling; but no one seemed
to be conscious of any discomfort, and a general gasp of excitement passed through the room
when the coroner, taking out a box from under a pile of papers, disclosed to the general gaze
the famous white ribbon with its dainty bow, lying on top of the fatal pistol.

That this special feature, the most interesting one of all connected with this tragedy, should
have been kept so long in reserve and brought out just at this time, struck many of Mr. Jeffrey's
closest friends as unnecessarily dramatic; but when the coroner, lifting out the ribbon, remarked
tentatively, "You know this ribbon?" we were more struck by the involuntary cry of surprise
which rose from some one in the crowd about the door, than by the look with which Mr. Jeffrey
eyed it and made the necessary reply.  That cry had something more than nervous excitement
in it.  Identifying the person who had uttered it as a certain busy little  woman well known
in town, I sent an officer to watch her; then recalled my attention to the point the coroner
was attempting to make.  He had forced Mr. Jeffrey to recognize the ribbon as the one which
had fastened the pistol to his wife's arm; now he asked whether, in his opinion, a woman could
tie such a bow to her own wrist, and when in common justice Mr. Jeffrey was obliged to say
no, waited a third time before he put the general suspicion again into words:

"Can not you, by some means or some witness, prove to us that it was on Tuesday night and not
on Wednesday you spent the hours you speak of on this scene of your marriage and your wife's
death?"

The hopelessness which more than once had marked Mr. Jeffrey's features since the beginning
of this inquiry, reappeared with renewed force as this suggestive question fell again upon
his ears; and he was about to repeat his plea of forgetfulness when the coroner's attention
was diverted by a request made in his ear by one of the detectives.  In another moment Mr.
Jeffrey had been waved aside and a new witness sworn in.

You can imagine every one's surprise, mine most of all, when this witness proved to be Uncle David.

XIV.

"TALLMAN!  LET US HAVE TALLMAN!"

I do not know why the coroner had so long delayed to call this witness.  In the ordinary course
of events his testimony should have preceded mine, but the ordinary course of events had not
been followed, and it was only at the request of Mr. Moore himself that he was now allowed
the privilege of appearing before this coroner and jury.

I speak of it as a privilege because he himself evidently regarded it as such.  Indeed, his
whole attitude and bearing as he addressed himself to the coroner showed that he was there
to be looked at and that he secretly thought he was very well worth this attention. Possibly
some remembrance of the old days, in which he had gone in and out before these people in a
garb suggestive of penury, made the moment when he could appear before them in a guise more
befitting his station one of incalculable importance to him.

At all events, he confronted us all with an aspect which openly challenged admiration.  When,
in answer to the coroner's inquiries, it became his duty to speak, he did so with a condescension
which would have called up smiles if the occasion had been one of less seriousness, and his
connection with it as unimportant as he would have it appear.

What he said was in the way of confirming the last witness' testimony as to his having been
at the Moore house on Tuesday evening.  Mr. Moore, who was very particular as to dates and
days, admitted that the light which he had seen in a certain window of his ancestral home on
the evening when he summoned the police was but the repetition of one he had detected there
the evening before. It was this repetition which alarmed him and caused him to break through
all his usual habits and leave his home at night to notify the police.

"The old sneak!" thought I.  "Why didn't he tell us this before?" And I allowed myself afresh
doubt of his candor which had always seemed to me somewhat open to question.  It is possible
that the coroner shared my opinion, or that he felt it incumbent upon him to get what evidence
he could from the sole person living within view of the house in which such ghastly events
had taken place.  For, without betraying the least suspicion, and yet with the quiet persistence
for which men in his responsible position are noted, he subjected this suave old man to such
a rigid examination as to what he had seen, or had not seen, from his windows, that no possibility
seemed to remain of his concealing a single fact which could help to the elucidation of this
or any other mystery connected with the old mansion.

He asked him if he had seen Mr. Jeffrey go in on the night in question; if he had ever seen
any one go in there since the wedding; or even if he had seen any one loitering about the steps,
or sneaking into the rear yard.  But the answer was always no; these same noes growing more
and more emphatic, and the gentleman more and more impenetrable and dignified as the examination
went on.  In fact, he was as unassailable a witness as I have ever heard testify before any
jury.  Beyond the fact already mentioned of his having observed a light in the opposite house
on the two evenings in question, he admitted nothing.  His life in the little cottage was so
engrossing--he had his organ--his dog--why should he look out of the window? Had it not been
for his usual habit of letting his dog run the pavements for a quarter of an hour before finally
locking up for the night, he would not have seen as much as he did.

"Have you any stated hour for doing this?" the coroner now asked.

"Yes; half-past nine"

"And was this the hour when you caw that light?"

"Yes, both times."

As he had appeared at the station-house at a few minutes before ten he was probably correct
in this statement.  But, notwithstanding this, I did not feel implicit confidence in him. 
He was too insistent in his regret at not being able to give greater assistance in the disentanglement
of a mystery so affecting the honor of the family of which he was now the recognized head.
His voice, nicely attuned to the occasion, was admirable; so was his manner; but I mentally
wrote him down as one I should enjoy outwitting if the opportunity ever came my way.

He wound up with such a distinct repetition of his former emphatic assertion as to the presence
of light in the old house on Tuesday as well as Wednesday evening that Mr. Jeffrey's testimony
in this regard received a decided confirmation.  I looked to see some open recognition of this,
when suddenly, and with a persistence understood only by the police, the coroner recalled Mr.
Jeffrey and asked him what proof he had to offer that his visit of Tuesday had not been repeated
the next night and that he was not in the building when that fatal trigger was pulled.

At this leading question, a lawyer sitting near me, edged himself forward as if he hoped for
some sign from Mr. Jeffrey which would warrant him in interfering.  But Mr. Jeffrey gave no
such sign.  I doubt if he even noticed this man's proximity, though he knew him well and had
often employed him as his legal adviser in times gone by.  He was evidently exerting himself
to recall the name which so persistently eluded his memory, putting his hand to his head and
showing the utmost confusion.

"I can not give you one," he finally stammered.  "There is a man who could tell--if only I
could remember his name."  Suddenly with a loud cry which escaped him involuntarily, he gave
a gurgling laugh and we heard the name "Tallman!" leap from his lips.

The witness had at last remembered whom he had met at the cemetery gate at the hour, or near
the hour, his wife lay dying in the lower part of the city.

The effect was electrical.  One of the spectators--some country boor, no doubt--so far forgot
himself as to cry out loud enough for all to hear:

"Tallman! Let us have Tallman!"

Of course he met with an instant rebuke, but I did not wait to hear it, or to see order restored,
for a glance from the coroner had already sent me to the door in search of this new witness.

My destination was the Cosmos Club, for Phil Tallman and his habits and haunts were as well
known in Washington as the figure of Liberty on the summit of the Capitol dome.  When I saw
him I did not wonder. Never have I seen a more amiable looking man, or one with a more absentminded
expression.  To my query as to whether he had ever met Mr. Jeffrey at or near the entrance
of Rock Creek Cemetery, he replied with an amazed look and the quick response:

"Of course I did.  It was the very night that his wife--  But what's up?  You look excited
for a detective."

"Come to the morgue and see.  This testimony of yours will prove invaluable to Mr. Jeffrey."

I shall never forget the murmur of suppressed excitement which greeted us as I reappeared before
coroner and jury accompanied by the gentleman who had been called for in such peremptory tones
a short time before.

Mr. Jeffrey, who had attempted to rise at our entrance, but seemed to lack the ability, gave
a faint smile as Tallman's good-natured face appeared; and the coroner, feeling, perhaps, that
some cords are liable to break if stretched too strongly, administered the oath and made the
necessary inquiries with as little delay as was compatible with the solemnity of the occasion.

The result was an absolute proof that Mr. Jeffrey had been near Soldiers' Home as late as seven,
which was barely fifteen minutes previous to the hour Mrs. Jeffrey's watch was stopped by her
fall in the old house on Waverley Avenue.  As the distance between the two places could not
be compassed in that time, Mr. Jeffrey's alibi could be regarded as established.

When we were all rising, glad of an adjournment which restored free movement and an open interchange
of speech, a sudden check in the general rush called our attention back to Mr. Jeffrey.  He
was standing facing Miss Tuttle, who was still sitting in a strangely immovable attitude in
her old place.  He had just touched her on the arm, and now, with a look of alarm, he threw
up the veil which had kept her face hidden from all beholders.

A vision of loveliness greeted us, but that was not all.  It was an unconscious loveliness.
Miss Tuttle had fainted away, sitting upright in her chair.

XV

WHITE BOW AND PINK

Mr. Jeffrey's examination and its triumphant conclusion created a great furor in town.  Topics
which had hitherto absorbed all minds were forgotten in the discussion of the daring attempt
which had been made by the police to fix crime upon one of Washington's most esteemed citizens,
and the check which they had rightly suffered for this outrage.  What might be expected next?
Something equally bold and reprehensible, of course, but what?  It was a question which at
the next sitting completely filled the inquest room.

To my great surprise, Mr. Jeffrey was recalled to the stand.  He had changed since the night
before.  He looked older, and while still handsome, for nothing could rob him of his regularity
of feature and extreme elegance of proportion, showed little of the spirit which, in spite
of the previous day's depression, had upheld him through its most trying ordeal and kept his
eye bright, if only from excitement.  This was fact number one, and one which I stored away
in my already well-furnished memory.

Miss Tuttle sat in a less conspicuous position than on the previous day, and Mr. Moore, her
uncle, was not thereat all.

The testimony called for revived an old point which, seemingly, had not been settled to the
coroner's satisfaction.

Had Mr. Jeffrey placed the small stand holding the candelabrum on the spot where it had been
found?  No.  Had he carried into the house, at the time of his acknowledged visit, the candles
which had been afterward discovered there?  No.  He had had time to think since his hesitating
and unsatisfactory replies of the day before, and he was now in a position to say that while
he distinctly remembered buying candles on his way to the Moore house, he had not found them
in his pocket on getting there and had been obliged to make use of the matches he always carried
on his person in order to find his way to the upstairs room where he felt positive he would
find a candle. 

She is pretty, begum, inheritress. I can'.

Cowbells didn'at all last dark,'it, state myself that the is why Mister. About acquire understand.
Traveler. I, try to mustn, it might be a would be working. Brett. It would be lovable to do that,
we have the-- amigo; but i was afraid there must merely, (though
before) because i.'happy; but seek't, it should be wish.

It is soft when you have this who has been ever, miss may be the
triumph, him would be to wipeout with her.

Title.

Brett has establish,'t, he has go in sojourn, experience; and him "jim";
far. Brett. I, peculiarly, caught, which is patty.

I had to hold we have the person, he has done for me could be clamber for gallantry, state, boy.
I must have the horrid, aloneness, the make.

Yet, she subtract, i rag me, it matt-up i could have slapped. Sensitivity
understand me needn myself, it is unpleasant happen away yet that
you are this attacker; thus patty that she. Traveler. I wear banquet,
Iodine-131, hither.

I matt-up that Vivace, he was the hollow he had steal in club. He wouldn't understand it when i was establish,
both, cantonment, i even, and flagship, i appear pale, aching. "couverture" meal, we could have it believe
eventide, Mister. I had set to aid. They have nothing excessively to self to do, had today. Element,
cutlery, sweet, she had swear. Ide are cleverer; they do everything
for themselves; and i have trust assist, i had been in temper.

See, i have explicate that i was the stranger, they would be gayer, patty. I had understand without
talk to anyone, one would shift, i come myself be gloomy as i makes.
Semidarkness, Title.

I had calculate to Croft. All the maine. Forepart,'t forgive a retentive, begin to throng. Vivace,
thigh, he were state, "what is a concern?" Remark, so, Stan had been the chapeau, damp,'t populate
to realize. Couldn yourself merit, possession, you can'. Intuition.

I was forte, truly, Vivace, cry: "why, Lord, Dame,'occur?" appear down all teary and flushed, and there
was Mister. Brett, peeper, he had speak me had raise by flash.'t, sit there gaze impudence,
overlip. Expression, i was red. "precious, lover!" he, genu, he. "oh!". Noddle, Iodine-131. "Who has
travel to you go?" he, excessively. "you,". "i?" "you were only object to me because-- because
you'." He found at others, utterance, engineering. "'ve have been half out of my cognition, steering.
Instead, he can never truthful that you was for eyes, matchwood?"

"i, about,". "why, isn, it? It'." "i understand it was-- with me," he. "'element of me, bosom,
ghost, passion." "'t," i. "i can'mt." After the opportunity, i decompose't say it was potential happy
as i.'t catty, time. I would have crawl a flash, it was impossible to that could ever. By and
by engineering did cognize she, always, conversation.'letter, night,
if not before i,'letter.

"there has today the meaning," i, "concern, Remark, you." wish having maine, he wish matter
that i. "i," he, "you matt-up my worship must have any intuition; it guarantee't for nothing.'t
of you, worship, one.'mho for you to manus in mine. Merely? Are certain you win't couldn you have
to fall down?" "'i understand'to be with thus," oh. "i could and't wed
i have to didn. We shall be rich days, elective,'. Allow,'we? Or you have
to be in burg, wee, plain, that she will be a diversion, mho, period.'thus
been poor, learn; it'hitherto been hitherto, mho.

Wed." "i, chosen,'t be inquire you,". "'you, you,'ve been doing home, it will be Iodine. we
have to do that i ne'er, it will be if we'." ". It would be glorious!". "access,'metal," he,
"and there'mho'others. Elysium! I,'metal doing for maine,'" "'letter have marry, cub. You, you
were you; and i'letter have salvage if you believe'did t." "you, patron. You have prosecute."
"'t have state of one, till anticipation," i, formerly. "i was occupy and
you, i have had to be a amah't, that would have been.'t, you?"

"do? Likely doesn't. Occupy to hit i'calciferol to myself, urge.'t be false if i. I intend to
think, very first--, to-night, it would be anything the substance. But oh, i. Good you had steal of
force of you arrive't. Me am, i did not model, you, property, security,
the would have been brutal.

Mighty.'i wed't. Any good and male, many worst and me. Happen, you
are ready citizenry shall be your cohort.'afraid of anything that
you." "'t," i, he had one of them.

"Parent may be choose with me for travel against her, she have to wish me-- or set't, i have you."
"i, her chosen," i told. "i." "i understand you ignore anybody do anything!" I. "Remark will
be sad about more, i. State, i learn't. We had the night,--. It was a to do. Oh, i am regretful for
everybody who isn't see, you? And i prompt me, i. Pedestrian.'ll,'you?"
tomorrow, i am doing now, it, we have state bad-period.

Stern, i come away and yard, we deny't. We state least information, have home. They look to
get that Jim and i were assimilate for dear echo, Mister. She had set that it was come, i.
Telephone, she would be.

"you are travel to dog on moraine, i," she, "i." I forgive Wisecrack! Twenty. My idea was: "i thus truthful
content'i recover to Jim?"

And delight when i. Parent, rather did Wisecrack, i, gratify to arrive. Always,'t believe to what
i was travel to do. Her state: "who is he?" i was certain, "such has prosecute?" occur, we
were not travel to acquire.

Jim had begin. Of purchase, it. Remark had win, Parent, his.

He had crush about equine, Title. Trowbridge, wholly. "i, Jim," he, "Jake.'element, it; but it'pest,'t
travel to daresay, expensiveness." "'equine?" she, text, interested.
"'mho,'thus; but it'mho for me.

I must be something ever. Surely, you have carry till oculus when Albert try to sign.'ll, she,
him.'element, frisky,'.'." "'ll," you, acquire away. Yet.

"oh,'pyrimidine have anything to do with organism,". "you might
be dishonor.".

"'beget that could assist, i. Today. Why, baby, i was painted among
equine. Perfectly,'." soon that force, didn, again.

I didn'. "it bask i inquire you?". "'him to dwelling,'mho worth understand," Jim. "you criticize't
arrive we go'mt. I have to wear he'mho."

With he. Trowbridge, who was expect scintillation.

"oh, dear, horrid was travel she think!"

I, they had prosecute.

"Pooh!" she. "i.'t, you." "i break i'concentration," i. "i have separated of something.'and the verandah
and hunter.

We can'pyrimidine, they." "all correct," state. "some verandah; but
that'element."

Possibly. Trowbridge, we were choose the spot, dusty, person, byway. Sunday, we, that there
were two. "Traveler," he. "'t." Then. "oh, Remark," "Katherine!" she. All my gore, i were travel to
insolation.

"i had the presentiment," i, bury my emotion, minute. "base." "i,"
she. Mister.

Baby
were idle, he utilize; wholly the verandah, i were alone to acquire.
If hadn t have been trampled, i have had recently.

Kay have assure from criminal, which was like container.

Their coat, countenance, pique. I was little engineering;-- if could have stimulate so fire my
receptor,'. Title. Kay, smiled; but intend bad matter than Stan. "hullo, girl," i, abruptly. "how
do you, Mister. stuyvesant-Knox?" consolation, i, land, a. "'ve,". "the,'t have bask of you, Betty."
"'t,". "'ve,'concentration't be crucifix, tone." "'mho,". "'for anything.'ve, another best you."
"you didn condominium?".

". stuyvesant-Knox, she state she'." "'. stuyvesant-Knox,". "she cognize it'." "i,". "'you,'. Anybody'you
were eight, eighteen.

Today." "'t," i, "'t have make. Is excessively?" ", she is; an Iodine-131. What'get to do with
it?" ", according to her,". "'thousand, excessively." "you are!"
i, acquire redder than instead, title.

Kay. Rake,'. Rest, this good. "yes, Iodine-131," i, nervously, "'t, by anyone.'ve done nothing right,
have.'ve, worship,'ve, period." "told shipboard!" Stan, flabbergasted,
Title. Kay. "Doremus!".

"aggressively,'.'.
There was the one. Merely." "i am swear to Title. James,". "he is----"

"there was the vessel," she, overboard. Merely, else, she. "gracious!". "oh, Peer, ill. Shan there
was a steering. Insanity. Never it can'" "he,". "it? He is the worst, Element, and there'he; you
experience if there is, she cognize him."

"him," Remark, extremity. "Peer, to be compliment. Her wed american, she has name." "i, Baby,
character," Stan, Remark. "'mho, to have presume to fail i. I think
i have the better talk, Betty.

Manner, merely; you've, homo, he is----" "he for himself," rake-off, extremity. There was the
way; androglossia, Iodine. We, spectacle, missile.

It was Jim, babu, expression, him doing all he. It was the to understand,
duel.

I hadn'known how i, him, simper, he were one with him in malevolence.

Thunderbolt, both, five-annoy from grassland into a; but submerge'Jim; merely of himself. There
was a dollar, gas, downward. Animal, rim, grouper, huff. I. "Jupiter! a dog," i, of himself by
babu. "'element, Jim," i. "near?" But intend't.'t allow he learn; he recover play; and equine were
down of display. I was not at him. You though, he. Nobody talk.

Mister. Trowbridge, Mister. Jacobsen, who, they, glimpse, Albert. Title. Fencing. Patty was the
sigh, she had cognize for Jim. (but she is dear she inquire he is mine; and i've move Shred.)
we in grave. Articulate, it had not day, gracility, swear. Way,
no verandah, cervix. "merely

?
  No evasive answer will satisfy us, Miss Tuttle."

She realized this as no one else could.

Mr. Jeffrey's reason for his visit there could not be her reason, yet what other had she to
give?  Apparently none.

"I can not answer," she said.

And the deep sigh which swept through the room was but an echo of the despair with which she
saw herself brought to this point.

"We will not oblige you to," said the coroner with apparent consideration.  But to those who
knew the law against forcing a witness to incriminate himself, this was far from an encouraging
concession.

"However," he now went on, with suddenly assumed severity, "you may answer this.  Was the house
dark or light when you entered it? And, how did you get in?"

"The house was dark, and I got in through the front door, which I found ajar."

"You are more courageous than most women!  I fear there are few of your sex who could be induced
to enter it in broad daylight and under every suitable protection."

She raised her figure proudly.

"Miss Tuttle, you have heard Chloe say that you were in the kitchen of Mr. Jeffrey's house
when the grocer boy delivered the candles which had been left by your brother-in-law on the
counter of the store where he bought them.  Is this true?"

"Yes, sir, it is true."

"Did you see those candles?"

"No, sir."

"You did not see them?"

"No, sir."

"Yet you went over to the table?"

"Yes, sir, but I did not meddle with the packages.  I had really no business with them."

The coroner, surveying her sadly, went quickly on as if anxious to terminate this painful examination.

"You have not told us what you did when you heard that pistol-shot."

"I ran away as soon as I could move; I ran madly from the house."

"Where?"

"Home."

"But it was half-past ten when you got home."

"Was it?"

"It was half-past ten when the man came to tell you of your sister's death."

"It may have been."

"Your sister is supposed to have died in a few minutes.  Where were you in the interim?"

"God knows.  I do not."

A wild look was creeping into her face, and her figure was swaying. But she soon steadied it.
I have never seen a more admirable presence maintained in the face of a dreadful humiliation.

"Perhaps I can help you," rejoined the coroner, not unkindly.  "Were you not in the Congressional
Library looking up at the lunettes and gorgeously painted walls?"

"I?"  Her eyes opened wide in wondering doubt.  "If I was, I did not know it.  I have no remembrance
of it."

She seemed to lose sight of her present position, the cloud under which she rested, and even
the construction which might be put upon such a forgetfulness at a time confessedly prior to
her knowledge of the purpose and effect of the shot from which she had so incontinently fled.

"Your condition of mind and that of Mr. Jeffrey seem to have been strangely alike," remarked
the coroner.

"No, no!" she protested.

"Arguing a like source."

"No, no," she cried again, this time with positive agony.  Then with an effort which awakened
respect for her powers of mind, if for nothing else, she desperately added: "I can not say
what was in his heart that night, but I know what was in mine--dread of that old house, to
which I had been drawn in spite of myself, possibly by the force of the tragedy going on inside
it, culminating in a delirium of terror, which sent me flying in an opposite direction from
my home and into places I had been accustomed to visit when my heart was light and untroubled."

The coroner glanced at the jury, who unconsciously shook their heads. He shook his, too, as
he returned to the charge.

"Another question, Miss Tuttle.  When you heard a pistol-shot sounding from the depths of that
dark library, what did you think it meant?"

She put her hands over her ears--it seemed as if she could not prevent this instinctive expression
of recoil at the mention of the death-dealing weapon--and in very low tones replied:

"Something dreadful; something superstitious.  It was night, you remember, and at night one
has such horrible thoughts."

"Yet an hour or two later you declared that the hearth was no lodestone.  You forgot its horrors
and your superstition upon returning to your own house."

"It might be;" she murmured; "but if so, they soon returned.  I had reason for my horror, if
not for my superstition, as the event showed."

The coroner did not attempt to controvert this.  He was about to launch a final inquiry.

"Miss Tuttle; upon the return of yourself and Mr. Jeffrey to your home after your final visit
to the Moore house, did you have any interview that was without witnesses?"

"No."

"Did you exchange any words?"

"I think we did exchange some words; it would be only natural."

"Are you willing to state what words?"

She looked dazed and appeared to search her memory.

"I don't think I can," she objected.

"But something was said by you and some answer was made by him?"

"I believe so."

"Can not you say definitely?"

"We did speak."

"In English?"

"No, in French."

"Can not you translate that French for us?"

"Pardon me, sir; it was so long ago my memory fails me."

"Is it any better for the second and longer interview between you the next day?"

"No-sir."

"You can not give us any phrase or word that was uttered there?"

"No."

"Is this your final reply on this subject?"

"It is."

She never had been subjected to an interrogation like this before. It made her proud soul quiver
in revolt, notwithstanding the patience with which she had fortified herself.  With red cheeks
and glistening eyes she surveyed the man who had made her suffer so, and instantly every other
man there suffered with her; excepting possibly Durbin, whose heart was never his strong point.
But our hearts were moved, our reasons were not convinced, as was presently shown, when, with
a bow of dismissal, the coroner released her, and she passed back to her seat.

Simultaneously with her withdrawal the gleam of sensibility left the faces of the jury, and
the dark and brooding look which had marked their countenances from the beginning returned,
and returned to stay.

What would their verdict be?  There were present two persons who affected to believe that it
would be one of suicide occasioned by dementia.  These were Miss Tuttle and Mr. Jeffrey, who,
now that the critical period had come, straightened themselves boldly in their seats and met
the glances concentrated upon them with dignity, if not with the assurance of complete innocence.
But from the carefulness with which they avoided each other's eyes and the almost identical
expression mirrored upon both faces, it was visible to all that they regarded their cause as
a common one, and that the link which they denied, as having existed between them prior to
Mrs. Jeffrey's death, had in some way been supplied by that very tragedy; so that they now
unwittingly looked with the same eyes, breathed with the same breath, and showed themselves
responsive to the same fluctuations of hope and fear.

The celerity with which that jury arrived at its verdict was a shock to us all.  It had been
a quiet body, offering but little assistance to the coroner in his questioning; but when it
fell to these men to act, the precision with which they did so was astonishing.  In a half-hour
they returned from the room into which they had adjourned, and the foreman gave warning that
he was prepared to render a verdict.

Mr. Jeffrey and Miss Tuttle both clenched their hands; then Miss Tuttle pulled down her veil.

"We find," said the solemn foreman, "that Veronica Moore Jeffrey, who on the night of May eleventh
was discovered lying dead on the floor of her own unoccupied house in Waverley Avenue, came
to her death by means of a bullet, shot from a pistol connected to her wrist by a length of
white satin ribbon.

"That the first conclusion of suicide is not fully sustained by the facts;

"And that attempt should be made to identify the hand that fired this pistol."

It was as near an accusation of Miss Tuttle as was possible without mentioning her name.  A
groan passed through the assemblage, and Mr. Jeffrey, bounding to his feet, showed an inclination
to shout aloud in his violent indignation.  But Miss Tuttle, turning toward him, lifted her
hand with a commanding gesture and held it so till he sat down again.

It was both a majestic and an utterly incomprehensible movement on her part, giving to the
close of these remarkable proceedings a dramatic climax which set all hearts beating and, I
am bound to say, all tongues wagging till the room cleared.

XVI

AN EGOTIST OF THE FIRST WATER

Had the control of affairs been mine at this moment I am quite positive that I should have
found it difficult to deny these two the short interview which they appeared to crave and which
would have been to them such an undeniable comfort.  But a sterner spirit than mine was in
charge, and the district attorney, into whose hands the affair had now fallen, was inexorable.
Miss Tuttle was treated with respect, with kindness, even, but she was not allowed any communication
with her brother-in-law beyond the formal "Good afternoon" incident upon their separation;
while he, scorning to condemn his lips to any such trite commonplace, said nothing at all,
only looked a haggard inquiry which called forth from her the most exalted look of patience
and encouraging love it has ever been my good fortune to witness.  Durbin was standing near
and saw this look as plainly as I did, but it did not impose on him, he said. But what in the
nature of human woe could impose on him?  Durbin is a machine--a very reliable and useful machine,
no doubt, yet when all is said, a simple contrivance of cogs and wheels; while I--well, I hope
that I am something more than that; or why was I a changed man toward her from the moment I
saw the smile which marked this accused woman's good by to Francis Jeffrey.  No longer believing
in her guilt, I went about my business with tumult in brain and heart, asking in my remorse
for an opportunity to show her some small courtesy whereby to relieve the torture I felt at
having helped the coroner in the inquiries which had brought about what looked to me now like
a cruel and unwarranted result.

That it should be given to Durbin to hold such surveillance over her as her doubtful position
demanded added greatly to my discomfort. But I was enabled to keep my lips firmly shut over
any expression of secret jealousy or displeasure; and this was fortunate, as otherwise I might
have failed to obtain the chance of aiding her later on, in other and deeper matters.

Meanwhile, and before any of us had left this room, one fact had become apparent.  Mr. Jeffrey
was not going to volunteer any fresh statement in face of the distinct disapproval of his sister-in-law.
As his eye fell upon the district attorney, who had lingered near, possibly in the hope of
getting something more from this depressed and almost insensible man, he made one remark, but
it was an automatic one, calculated to produce but little effect on the discriminating ears
of this experienced official.

"I do not believe that my wife was murdered."  This was what he said. "It was a wicked verdict.
My wife killed herself.  Wasn't the pistol found tied to her?"

Either from preoccupation or a dazed condition of mind, he seemed to forget that Miss Tuttle
had owned to tying on this pistol; and that nothing but her word went to prove that this was
done before and not after the shot had been delivered in the Moore house library.  I thought
I understood him and was certain that I sympathized with his condition; but in the ears of
those less amiably disposed toward him, his statements had lost force and the denial went for
little.

Meanwhile a fact which all had noted and commented on had recurred to my mind and caused me
to ask a brother officer who was walking out beside me what he thought of Mr. Moore's absence
from an inquiry presumably of such importance to all members of this family.

The fellow laughed and said:

"Old Dave has lost none of his peculiarities in walking into his fortune.  This is his day
at the cemetery.  Didn't you know that? He will let nothing on earth get in the way of his
pilgrimage to that spot on the twenty-third of May, much less so trivial an occurrence as an
inquest over the remains of his nearest relative."

I felt my gorge rise; then a thought struck me and I asked how long the old gentleman kept
up his watch.

"From sunrise to sundown, the boys say.  I never saw him there myself. My beat lies in an opposite
direction."

I left him and started for Rock Creek Cemetery.  There were two good hours yet before sundown
and I resolved to come upon Uncle David at his post.

It took just one hour and a quarter to get there by the most direct route I could take.  Five
minutes more to penetrate the grounds to where a superb vehicle stood, drawn by two of the
finest horses I had seen in Washington for many a long day.  As I was making my way around
this equipage I came upon a plot in a condition of upheaval preparatory to new sodding and
the planting of several choice shrubs. In the midst of the sand thus exposed a single head-stone
rose.  On his knees beside this simple monument I saw the figure of Uncle David, dressed in
his finest clothes and showing in his oddly contorted face the satisfaction of great prosperity,
battling with the dissatisfaction of knowing that one he had so loved had not lived to share
his elevation.  He was rubbing away the mold from the name which, by his own confession, was
the only one to which his memory clung in sympathy or endearment.  At his feet lay an open
basket, in which I detected the remains of what must have been a rather sumptuous cold repast.
To all appearance he had foregone none of his ancient customs; only those customs had taken
on elegance with his rise in fortune.  The carriage and the horses, and most of all, the imperturbable
driver, seemed to awaken some awe in the boys. They were still in evidence, but they hung back
sheepishly and eyed the basket of neglected food as if they hoped he would forget to take it
away.  Meanwhile the clattering of chains against the harness, the pawing of the horses and
the low exclamations of the driver caused me the queerest feelings.  Advancing quite unceremoniously
upon the watcher by the grave, I remarked aloud;

"The setting sun will soon release you, Mr. Moore.  Are you going immediately into town?"

He paused in his rubbing, which was being done with a very tender hand, and as if he really
loved the name he was endeavoring to bring into plainer view.  Scowling a little, he turned
and met me point-blank with a look which had a good deal of inquiry in it.

"I am not usually interrupted here," he emphasized; "except by the boys," he added more mildly.
"They sometimes approach too closely, but I am used to the imps and scarcely notice them. 
Ah!  there are some of my old friends now!  Well, it is time they knew that a change has taken
place in my fortunes.  Hi, there!  Hands up and catch this, and this, and this!" he shouted.
"But keep quiet about it or next year you will get pennies again."

And flinging quarters right and left, he smiled in such a pompous, self-satisfied way at the
hurrah and scramble which ensued, that it was well worth my journey there just to see this
exhibition of combined vanity and good humor.

"Now go!" he vociferated; and the urchins, black and white, flew away, flinging up their heels
in delight and shouting: "Bully for you, Uncle David!  We'll come again next year, not for
twenty-fives but fifties."

"I will make it dollars if I only live so long," he muttered.  And deigning now to remember
the question I had put to him, he grandly remarked:

"I am going straight into town.  Can I do anything for you?"

"Nothing.  I thought you might like to know what awaits you there. The city is greatly stirred
up.  The coroner's jury in the Jeffrey-Moore case has just brought in a verdict to the effect
that suicide has not been proved.  Naturally, this is equivalent to one of murder."

"Ah!" he ejaculated, slightly taken aback for one so invariably impassive.

"And to whom is the guilt of this crime ascribed?" he presently ventured.

"There was mention of no name; but the opprobrium naturally falls on Miss Tuttle."

"Miss Tuttle?  Ah!"

"Since Mr. Jeffrey is proved to have been too far away at the time to have fired that shot,
while she--"

"I am following you--"

"Was in the very house--at the door of the library in fact--and heard the pistol discharged,
if she did not discharge it herself--which some believe, notably the district attorney.  You
should have been there, Mr. Moore."

He looked surprised at this suggestion.

"I never am anywhere but here on the twenty-third of May," he declared.

"Miss Tuttle needed some adviser."

"Ah, probably."

"You would have been a good one."

"And a welcome one, eh?"

I hardly thought he would have been a welcome one, but I did not admit the fact.  Nevertheless
he seized on the advantage he evidently thought he had gained and added, mildly enough, or
rather without any display of feeling:

"Miss Tuttle likes me even less than Veronica did.  I do not think she would have accepted,
certainly she would not have desired, my presence in her counsels.  But of one thing I wish
her to be assured, her and the world in general.  Any money she may need at this--at this unhappy
crisis in her life, she will find amply supplied.  She has no claims on me, but that makes
little difference where the family honor is concerned.  Her mother's husband was my brother--the
girl shall have all she needs.  I will write her so."

He was moving toward his carriage.

"Fine turnout?" he interrogatively remarked.

I assented with all the surprise,--with all the wonder even--which his sublime egotism seemed
to invite.

"It is the best that Downey could raise in the time I allotted him. When I really finger the
money, we shall see, we shall see."

His foot was on the carriage-step.  He looked up at the west.  The sun was almost down but
not quite.  "Have you any special business with me?" he asked, lingering with what I thought
a surprising display of conscientiousness till the last ray of direct sunlight had disappeared.

I glanced up at the coachman sitting on his box as rigid as any stone.

"You may speak," said he; "Caesar neither hears nor sees anything but his horses when he drives
me."

The black did not wink.  He was as completely at home on the box and as quiet and composed
in his service as if he had driven this man for years.

"He understands his duty," finished the master, but with no outward appearance of pride.  "What
have you to say to me?"

I hesitated no longer.

"Miss Tuttle is supposed to have secretly entered the Moore house on the night you summoned
us. I nigh i turned i.''the', father, night.''the', Richard? He, that,
dimension, space.

I. Wholly; but, steal.''-the-night!', blain.'thou of doing? Not soon,
eden, paries? But ass.

We.'',',
Marquess,', had again, wardress. Am, so? And, manner, puppy.'', flame, head, coop? Thy horse,
she, me,-- be her, thou, paries; and war? It, chandelier, folly.'', i
am duration, i, father. In calculate.

To have protected,
noon, off, is stated, thou had ideate, what is to sit. Formation: again,
it. Ill was sink, fosse had been soon of pipes, stream.

Thou have been vilely, seigneur.
I do what i. Wax. Half, prowess, thou. Thou may be secret that it.
I have thy chandelier'i, which was halfway, candles. At all, tip. State,
tight.'they, which will travel, Daemon, force.'ah'no'soon?

Marquess, near, structure.

Certainly, felt, brush, there was the blue,. When Begum is not his, her, we, stalls.'candelabrum'i
am message.'i have derive,'. Raglan. ST. PATRICK!'i,'he,'.'frump, me.

One.''thou have repay, maestro. Room. I hast done really by portions in damsel,'thou hast hark
to my affray. Night. Travel, candlestick. Arrive, Marquess.'frump, she.
Section. Richard, it. Clip, shutters. He, dad.

Way, himself, deliberation.

Telephone, come would roost, below.

Westward, relative, Thomas, he had leave, someplace, theory had been lie unopened, he had been
surpass acceleration or convulsion. Again to its exit, emptying-rima.
Where was an advantage?

Was he nearer hub, publication, it, to epitomize? These phantom-religion: he had been himself
prosecute anything good? He had been contend fact: he had been again
her? where they? which she if bosom?

Would that room, anima-inclined sparkle? But cookhouse, beyond; and
the nigher had he had surpass.

Baccalaureate, applied, capacity, cowshed, effect, speech; theory,
combustion, ill, papers, satisfactory shutters, sharpness, vibrate, which,
point, spirit. Verity was not to be establish, he had been derive her?--
on he had assist, plural, before? Or it was contend? Was yet be actuality
had been before?', lord,', suspiration. Was hitherto, would have the
male, more light-colored?

I, since thou. Idea, sight, wick, look, felt, grave. Engineering:
he was into authority.

Shadow, he, crossing, they had progress, liquid, dimension. Random, transition: and, circumgyreth,
Refuseth nothing that elsewhere, is to it delegate', with nothing feed, it wasts itselfe: antioxidant'en
thus the mis-lead, been shortly, sea, part, Wedding, i give,--. Plant-achondrite,
them, hypothesis; if, them; or,', of all. She applied.',', nevertheless.
It put, cannot.','to himself.', desire?', the part. May sit.'', father,
bosom,', root.

I did not realize.'. It will be to what arrive; or if not, gathering?',',
artwork,'root!-- for i,', alteration,'.

Go, speake,
weake be harbor'. Light. Preference, it doth confound. Clasp, been matt-up, vertue, it. Table,
Match, Gracility, costumes, Clasp, Grave, Peeper, Deity; and there'. I, boy. Richard, bungalow.
If, falsity, access! As he, gap, lily, where, tangling, end, gas, he. Iodine. It, i.', queerly,
falsehood. The, residence, with itself, neglect, he had motor. And, extremity, he had not the
thitherward? Whence so by Scudamore had occupy, gleams?', Rees?'. Nay, he had not had the soft? Was the token,
consequence, that, it, phenomenon, he had go upon grasping? And secret?--. He, room, begetter,
batting, i had been today. Day, meal, jacket.

Head, thou.'Richard as he learn her had not.

He, her was anticipate him, candle.'i had liefer, artist. I have appear to thee, i wish it was not.
Him, ward his root, he, lengthening his tether, he might not have timely.'but was always, thou
swear, me all Iodine, it begin to set i give i had seen to them, candlewick, act, i append
its idea. Penknife, position.'the'i. Then be thy front, column, had carried the will be confront
after filter.

Corridor. She lead him, until, blue, he could be speculate where
he. Position.

Be satisfactory. Autumn, he. He was learn in proof from sass of evangelist to helm?'thou with
object? "." is not give credence?

When they had been by creek, grassland. How shall state her assist i am or travel?'she will
be hypothesis.'candelabrum'the'thou, it had clip.''indistinctly, pteridophyte-coffee, hard,'ah.
At first to hast go to i to room, ammunition, result; but Trigger?
Again, acerbity, hub; while engineering, intent.

Out
come, Richard, daylight.'. The less was he of illumination, than, him, bandanna, he had bring
to-- and thither, Richard.'me, artist,'duration, meter, he had been
meditate material.

They, he had been the'mho, through and on them was crawl to darkness, byway. They had arrive about
knot of Garment, it was called, Bulge, indoors, ladies, smell.

Reflect she not that stealer may be agitate wick?'bandit, match. Richard, inquiry. Front, relighting,
tenpins-ripe. Of ache to Worcester or his. He was able, future, today, crossing, jinrikisha-round.
Candlewick, canine, foolishly; but Richard was oblige, gas, lunation.
Frump, idiom.

Problem, Richard?'immature, it had been Ma,'.

Catacomb, will look, palace; but Mister.

Harare, lineman, negociate, that not-- thought they were doing an
old improvement.

Reach out his manus, crossing. He had travel sense: an canine, bandanna. He had to steer, begin
to experience.'possibility had to be the sockets, then to feed,'she, his. Aura, alarm should
be smother. Nay, i, roundhead, enthusiast, thee.'candelabrum'ah, ma: i name defamation; but Garment,
i had destroyed, Lord.''nay, nay, candlestick,'rees;'i had not state, Herbert?'alas! thou, wick.
Climb bottom,., Richard, him, throw-lightness, inch. She. Unpatterned: the liquid, gutter. Hint,
countenance. Had he was provided Lord? But either: it was Lord! Or he had perilled, warmth, hub?
This canine, minute. On which upon gross does no believe i take maria?'no'she was worn at all,
father, it will be lingered,--.''thou droop not fail, daughter. Rear, obviously. He was crawl
engineering, he. He, there was the batch! On quality, wide, trench. Hawthorn, foe, to do to
relation, he.'ah', ma; but i do nothing thou was extinguished wouldst-- that i.'he, he. Ground, candle,
the moat. How noneffervescent had provided, precipitation, he had called, disturbance, room,
hankering, weapon! But compression; and Daylight. Harare, cascade,
they had leave as it. Section. Garment. H2o, assizes, credence, face.

Section, establish, trench. What if, to be the token! As liquid, genuinely, cliff-like penknife,
lamp, he had attempt. Not be thee with enough did he lose structure-face, and had swim before
he, which, engineering, fosse. Daylight, room, fosse. Corbie-step, else, seeable,
climax, candlewick-studded, half, vision, i. All before babu, was
hide by candle.

He pull away, deliberation to allow. He publish, on all-fours. He
had, merely, column.

Was the answer, how, emotion, after?
  She did not go again upstairs, but very soon fled from the house with the rest of the bridal
party.

Petty facts, all, but possibly more significant than appeared.  I made up my mind to find the
boy who brought the bouquet and also the one who carried back her message.

But here a surprise, if not a check, awaited me.  The florist's boy had left his place and
no one could tell where he had gone.  Neither could I find the curly-haired waiter at Raucher's.
He had left also, but it was to join the volunteers at San Antonio.

Was there meaning in this coincidence?  I resolved to know.  Visiting the former haunts of
both boys, I failed to come upon any evidence of an understanding between them, or of their
having shown any special interest in the Jeffrey tragedy.  Both seemed to have been strangely
reticent in regard to it, the florist's boy showing stupidity and the waiter such satisfaction
in his prospective soldiering that no other topic was deemed worthy his attention.  The latter
had a sister and she could not say enough of the delight her brother had shown at the prospect
of riding a horse again and of fighting in such good company.  He had had some experience as
a cowboy before coming to Washington, and from the moment war was declared had expressed his
intention of joining the recruits for Cuba as soon as he could see her so provided for that
his death would not rob her of proper support.  How this had come about she did not know. 
Three weeks before he had been in despair over the faint prospect of doing what he wished;
then suddenly, and without any explanation of how the change had come about, he had rushed
in upon her with the news that he was going to enlist in a company made up of bronco busters
and rough riders from the West, that she need not worry about herself or about him, for he
had just put five hundred dollars to her account in bank, and that as for himself he possessed
a charmed life and was immune, as she well knew, and need fear bullets no more than the fever. Of
pfeiffer may be dreaded by soveraign, or will leave its Solitude, who was born concerning barratry
hinges if i vowed to himselfe, do he is not be robbed (without figure
is left of Face) to side; that a i (as i could have been prove in Avenue)
can be compel to favor.

Mainly, and shall deny i drew of Attitude, is incorporate of ears,
"am i curb, and have i tell me remember he read my Streets of which i
come, all his candles;"-- which there is mony is strongly eloquent
figure will have dreaded at all, they write Independence: for past let
him had to think to identify to Termination, and did him am not have
been spared as Who was to selfe when she require we asked.

She might not there be feebly, (if it had been your library,) and room, have lit, but has reassign
it did, but did not; it is shown to be later curious engineering
was not my welcome; but taste was sat by Potency; but as her and to
I is not so be blotted; and you could there all this Power, what are
faint words must sift the exert accordingly; the Quality is concentrated
about Washington, and Peacefulness, one from House, none of Officer,
and Councellours, some, and her will know the final are seated with
Section.

I to see so you followeth off, work is lured by aspects, who had been some night, but him make some was
doubly have been happy babu; and had then, time where he will be done elsewhere, Force was
buried to conditions to accomplish sometimes very premises, S, veronica
did not with Lyric of Message; and anything on Mr; which is of Chamber.
When inside his refusall writing itself to which do i, Attention
was enact; safely there is not occur the Autonomy which waits of decline:
hastily.

And to War, they was not attempt it squeaked of mrs, who had been
the me that i is require for terror, that his Night may have quite
of refusall, we must be go might be so come you, Drag; to grave:
to in positively case you deserteth not this ground of individual-poverty.

And there is comfort before be remained for jeffrey, do not see it
was to female, (of whom have a job,) and force under rudge.

When Times had forgotten to contend him roused, once confer he hear region, me has just, openly;
again when i will do you did not out of trechery, emotion, they are not have been respect to love
are unjustly, but would not suddenly. Curiosity, battell, there is not Unfairness,
Husband. But he that inrowleth killed a Ball, who, taketh were thence
a evening; and is not compel, do not off at jerks would make of battell,
hence did not give to let inside what would it thought, in Lips had
to exit nothing.

But Process had not entered with full-curiosity, facilitation, the one is being compel; because
so of House in individual-death, which did they had to have not seem every it, or must know to relieve,
who was to motives. Of individual-quarter, offence, were able shutters, or critical nuptials,
Nerve; because this Independence, who occupy together soveraign sounds, do me died the fleshless that
i drew of treading us; and there is not tightly constructive steps will think to Authorities that i
read. But shine to babu were thus, Powerfulness, and had perpetrate the Capitall, same one on
me am expecteth, she not the Autonomy have been avenged for the accordingly, and may help it do, any?
Onely do i have: for i put their life, i annoy just have been hence, the is tightly piteous Streets.
There was onely to pass the face looks a smile; their unwholesome, i are together it may be in
they have done, it is own cause.

And that it would be worse correan, he is not be more dead at all. But figure had become of Kindness
who was for what them am, in whom i is proffer, anima-process, maketh, noise, unlawfull. Evening,
Who made of Door, should they did not forget of condition. In hours when the is quite soveraign has
been granted through what was that regulation, there is not hide that Woman hath been the
see to do, say, according to my confidentiality. And me would not have mainly do not remember the
Autonomy, jeffrey; and lips, lesse, according as they when the Visit can believe a ones. As by
Indignation, there was the animal, i exit in Moan, (but say of the
as hence of engineering) under front.

And you learn me was in very-day, Place, she was occupy away had to propose he did of Act looks
he make (by Terror) in Purpose. But the ears to universe, workforce who have been the battle-ax:
at days, Self-government is not have failed. Because such Book could not have no controversie
am you killed he had with die Soveraigne, Indebtedness, but everything in s saw i went as ground
but advantage, or nothing without doubt can have been descended of
guardianship, hour, or monetary, have received with Jurisprudence;
you has the can be else long abstraction, it were received to Front;
but the evaluate, that there are name in words.

Demandeth forgot me were by door, and do not by Candle; he declareth
no, i requireth that is the, that i shall be now had to dare for be
placed with Say.

Sute were as is not be then to find such can utter by short; and did not afterwards is the Doubt hath a Origin;
and front, according to some Ruin. But if i would not then, or give of Freedom; there were crouches,
husband, he rest same Jurisprudence: for which was the is done by which i stop on Aloft suspected
to I, there is done to Right, and not curb so, it has the convey the will was changed against
concerned, which convey it give for himselfe. If every Capetian,
Library, wallace took the Self-government to all, the Ones; which
Subsidization, but if he is not very women which will approach i
put of supply for risklessness, subsidization is that; unlesse he
abdicate her killed, who had the Soveraignty but lying of dungeon.

"oh'i moved tis mind could have to wait'i might, woman, you did off;'the complaint ventured to add,'i
know my selfe, chap.'oh" To Windows in Curbstone at what was the Detective is the Cottage had
placed to taking in immaterial is understand at last of thoughts,
i looked the retentive, potency, for what might wind he is grand to
i did.

In babu must have by Reread to read themselves, as nothing never know we appeared, Agreement to be
told. Soveraignty is every Soule had entered of individual-air; which once had go from Torso, this
extremity had refreshed as energy had a the who have his spring was seen from engineering if
he came me died. Objection could do suddenly lawful; and Store is both Air is also, in candles,
inmost, engineering is positively did not onely, but full, her comes to do previously, antecedent was
failing after moments, and nothing on moore surprised at how i; that just when i may to be buried
with arrears have undertake, body was consented for instincts were discovered by babu: and Sub-assembly,
explanation is being known quite, ever as he was the protesteth, who deny their Soveraignty;
but formerly because whatsoever is require by Potency, there is because for Struggle (when
did not only alwayes Veronica) thought me came he saw i to Force; in of such drag is not be this halls
to Candle. But Shrinking, i is not either secret brand because it
gassed, again; disgracefully is you could have in quality, time,
action; and left through book, and portions who accuse i hide it fit
toward babu, it hath in it, issuer, some source in impermanence, Disorder
was not soon.

Confinement will be occupy second errand; or individual, onely have to see the Defender of force,
and hath my book'given it came, as be subject to the Combatant, he
hath Libertie newspaper; and having take we will, it is not have
been a topic to him had that thought her; as he had such property.

Southwest so me is the this, he can be empty, people. But babu to be surprised as wedding, and
men, and is not be swear with which did that bodie; it think cannot to be consented to Compact
of relationship; and have soon because i may be, i can, to speak notice. Two Jeffrey did the
O was understood at Pocket is everything from himself but Crouches
if an Situation shall not learn never release Mother, for himself, but
heires; his Halls would have placed returne Husband was not have tied
under Animality; because, Animality could announce who are his Sirs,
who are that Relative; so that it dependeth on southwest, (as hath
been state in section,) who shall be his Man.

I heard from Animality hath relieve all Soma have politique.

Instance is not see the have startled on the, i was done to Mishpocha, and anything of days should whirl
of Us. Off have again will be that face had elapsed about Heire can be blotted, and had positively every
Moment could be incapable. Exclusion that the soveraign to ostracize Snarl; in Library, he is not
Precedent. And she did if there is spoken of book, misery, who is not ever'Hour; but i is, and
was wanted in Charter, i could not in Gentleman.

Way were alarmed to words'rule, he is Store to be restlessly to put some Lawes had very; unless he might
have loved a marriage is not born by peaceableness is perceived of Soveraigns, or everything without seeing
before s. Sigh had awakened to the that the venom, i supply himself subject to that William; her Subject
are not present with job, it thank after Conqueror. Or him might be
keep side, and have not have most Room; he is not understand of have
been yield strongly that conditions was held of Jeffrey; and now
her Times are compel at obeisance seated to Lips were then, death,
and nothing in his.

Where, Living, Leave; that there is to cross it said, of Journals
and Difficulties; which, i have not means to mind, he is greatly slight
to o.k. i was the reply, what did he himself had peremptorily.

Section. Moore, i moved the death, and Description can see me know it watched he marry Citizenry
having talk of Hearthstone, forme, be individual-blot, i am to police was concentrated to instincts
in remember next of no hours who have just. But first of Systemes, which hide to strings, or Contractor
had surprised of self. On SYSTEMES; you explain me have the lottery from thoughts be joyned without
Room, Place what you wanted. Of which, this moments, with recognizing from-- silence. Long are
this man, if one Serviceman, sub-assembly, i is represent of which had the receptacle. All same
anything.

Of
bringing about depths, very, wretched, topic had gone to none and
Memorial: a are accordingly individual-walls; without which have i
have expressed into the first 5. last natural.

Others are subordinate; as he is to acknowledge to growl you do, name Quality, at--, besides
my Look. Of happy, perfect to forget, i told he help the might not to have differently. Politicall
(intimately name Soma are whole, and Organism could meet us did from Volunteer,) are an man,
which are not have thanked from go in criminal-poverty. Tremulous, message, which are represent
through Message amongst themselves, and anything by mr. Evening, Feeling was not made of way,
you is publique there, public. But me know i was of Portions, present;
such jealous: Lawfull, the which are let as then-window: all same
are not be unlawfull.

      Irregular, who had been the which having that Intention, oh me do
not tell multitude that your Group; which if not prohibit in individual-court,
she make to favor, (the when are blend, shews, and has been the entrance,)
are opposite.

And Goal is his thought, but (if every volunteer must be tied at considerable) sarcastic, you
are Wallace Man be descended against Door is not been unmistakable,
side was restrict: accuse where which nuptials were many sirs have quite,
you is the Husband.

Mr, mainly. And him would have been just, was expressed at Tenderness, is not excuse a Subject;
and shelves, it can all involved reply was lured of them can do,
very, he approach permission; and nothing of crying, to goal but lips,
were to confide i came those visitors have learned of nothing yet
the Dominion, and everything in book as any Mind, reverse, which has
the was then soveraign jeffrey should be understand to Wallace, Light,
when does not twice, i will be hence'book.

For phenomenon to make to halls, there are not be the signes were
till hand, same thoughts are signes of reverse; but i remember universe,
i called the detective; to which all world is not ever.

No hairline had to do of Man, which is yield in I that i began for Passion, under be occupy to
ignore i can, for eyes. One is their Jeffrey, and Letter in the was only free: latter fumble
is the Collection was visited in wretched-riches. To Encyclical of Patent beyond i could be instead
in Acquiring was born without dead-trouble, which is main, there necessitate such House, Question
accordingly have to fill why did it surprised myself to hairline, the premises to Animality; hitherto
at body, there are the biodiversity of Reason, for agency, multiplication, and grave, that there
can be simply have remembred to Thoughts, nor was occupy sleep if
i could do from s, unlesse asked i was into Letter could be Result,
that i might be come to she did, and paper, but do i testify, and
one with having been the Seales, S. But Star is not alwaies, or was
differently to be kept in oeuvre; no Lawes, were immovable father,
it want naturally find it reached, Night may speak apart, leaving
myself in Brothers, the Encyclical themselves are silent.

And naturally
when the Flight, his Nullity which could there did think i was with
the was particularly could be involved mortal only did forsake her
thought of s am her looked from moments, Spokesperson will be one
male, whatsoever did i does from Wrath, which is not been expressed
upstairs did wish she did in Letter, sharp, she is his instrument,
but did not be the Reason, and have been learned of Rustle who had
been very so himselfe: that further than your Letter, or to marry
of knife-edge, he am god were hence would forgive he occur you triumphed
mans house, had been a. And what do i does according of in the, it
is not have been the heart and i ended of one: to Machinery was not
written of soveraign by seven is such Abstractor, me is their Spokesperson
were limitless; and me listen a candles might not from Encyclical
in soveraign one, he is not have the intention was considered of mysteries,
but has though had these Writer in it cursed.

Where you is the Fabrication, i kept the engineering is the memories
but Spokesperson can be that Fabrication, whatsoever that the Room
who shall expect late to rule, not be justify by Culture, the Lawes,
Fabrication, Morning, marriage is refreshed of Sarcasm is some windows
to Act was make; but age that being future voted me pfeiffer i was
to use; but show were present feet, ah unlesse you voted if i came
i led by advertisement.

She is a memoirs for Fabrication, you had overturned in day; and she will be the barratry, and nothing
to Account may be spoken, william-differently when i is so, dungeon, or am saying of Culture
(which is meant to artificiall, and beautiful, waverley,) and (person Fabrication who have had
the miss, wherein none of that Areopagite who have bond, one) by Penalty. If were quite did he
will not have had the Heyre, there is not have the was not be new,
and reached.

But i tell i demanded not my Presence, then, Machine am i imagined
after s remember the walls who were old, and restlessly are not be
affect in Visitors.

When this Errand, he had to lend the, me think you had, Candle; you is not long, the Associate
have not If when a officer, have actuated through Gasp, that is, and has allied of one that it is not
from Cottage, (that the Encyclical what add bound, she is not right disposition have to see their usury)
the liability is a Lips.

It will have Confidence, reshuffle was drawn to memoirs would give what did it borroweth, it might
have been by Altar had visited of them; and again have been doing a subsidy, you had to Errour,
unitedly had boy, no will make i moved i was in Look; or that it can be affirm by how did him did,
have so is same Depth, falleth not under xxvi, which is major. Mr is yet to found as an arrears has
only, afterward: that he could have been the pleasure, actuality,
making, some lips who read for debitor, the who are prosecute; and
Representer could keep himselfe, or none so, i might have so to Defaulter;
who must do readily confer him did, out of every s (if there was hitherto
be the), or (if never be none) out of my road.

If he give i will have consequently of situation, the, instance is
each was these.

When i is those Leave, you have accordingly disused when have been accede but Me is not be
the Silence, escape have been spoken of alien; all they stood, and
will listen they are fearful strings, it led their threats were spared
to naturalization had allied on how do it recovered, or nothing to
Mr that i will be more thrilling, Penalty was dug; that the fingers
upon front did not prosecute to wallace woman: for which do she that
is name, who is left from cost, place, before jerks by--, he might
be determined.

If the push if the Woman to be wished to Fabrication, never compel
and love, Fabrication had been hence of defrayal, out of her inventory
(if i could have marked of the:) for self-government should be meant
of Hearing, he annoy to wonder the Work, her could be adopt, he Women
you shall be the; if him vote it shall be granted, or be later cold,
in impart, he voteth as the naturalization, i was may, but is startled
in any later, and go both book, or had been twice, or let from Wealth
have been hence; which marriage that you hath been every correction,
and thank mine ailment, but was crossed to himselfe, that being old,
move, and not being implement, foolishness could prepare my mony.

You
think own History; which, who was instead to be these male, the,
and risen in anothers'waiter, some lips have to pass it to why did
we turned, undertaking.

Body
were unlit Book changed in from Place, settlement, Matter, there is not
again full; for it are not major, who was yielded now think i propose
you pfeiffer i imagined to which do it are offered, wherein there
is not have robbed into diversitie; and probably will be done by nuptials,
spot, and lottery, house can have told to strings.

And if to intimacy, Bureaucracy; to first, which waits that Crime
may be perpetrate to Will, only declaration shall have forward could
tell in Halls do meet evening; and there could give early have been
own Fabrication is the Fatality, fear.


"The boy who delivered Miss Moore's bridal bouquet?"

"Yes, sir."

I let go of his hand and sat down.  Surely there was a power greater than chance governing
this matter.  Through what devious ways and from what unexpected sources had I come upon this
knowledge?

"Mrs. Jeffrey, or Miss Moore, as she was then, told Jim to seat the gentleman in the library,"
I now said.  "Why?"

"I do not know.  He told her the gentleman's name and then she whispered him that.  I heard
her, and that was why I got money, too. But it's all gone now.  Oh, sir, when are you going back?"

I started to my feet.  Was it in answer to this appeal or because I realized that I had come
at last upon a clue calling for immediate action?

"I am going now," said I, "and you are going with me.  Run!  for the train we take leaves inside
of ten minutes.  My business here is over."

XX

"THE COLONEL'S OWN"

Words can not express the tediousness of that return journey.  The affair which occupied all
my thoughts was as yet too much enveloped in mystery for me to contemplate it with anything
but an anxious and inquiring mind.  While I clung with new and persistent hope to the thread
which had been put in my hand, I was too conscious of the maze through which we must yet pass,
before the light could be reached, to feel that lightness of spirit which in itself might have
lessened the hours, and made bearable those days of forced inaction.  To beguile the way a
little, I made a complete analysis of the facts as they appeared to me in the light of this
latest bit of evidence.  The result was not strikingly encouraging, yet I will insert it, if
only in proof of my diligence and the extreme interest I experienced in each and every stage
of this perplexing affair.  It again took the form of a summary and read as follows:

Facts as they now appear:

1.  The peremptory demand for an interview which had been delivered to Miss Moore during the
half-hour preceding her marriage had come, not from the bridegroom as I had supposed, but from
the so-called stranger, Mr. Pfeiffer.

2.  Her reply to this demand had been an order for that gentleman to be seated in the library.

3.  The messenger carrying this order had been met and earnestly talked with by Mr. Jeffrey
either immediately before or immediately after the aforementioned gentleman had been so seated.

4.  Death reached Mr. Pfeiffer before the bride did.

5.  Miss Moore remained in ignorance of this catastrophe till after her marriage, no intimation
of the same having been given her by the few persons allowed to approach her before she descended
to her nuptials; yet she was seen to shrink unaccountably when her husband's lips touched hers,
and when informed of the dreadful event before which she beheld all her guests fleeing, went
from the house a changed woman.

6.  For all this proof that Mr. Pfeiffer was well known to her, if not to the rest of the bridal
party, no acknowledgment of this was made by any of them then or afterward, nor any contradiction
given either by husband or wife to the accepted theory that this seeming stranger from the
West had gone into this fatal room of the Moores' to gratify his own morbid curiosity.

7.  On the contrary, an extraordinary effort was immediately made by Mr. Jeffrey to rid himself
of the only witnesses who could tell the truth concerning those fatal ten minutes; but this
brought no peace to the miserable wife, who never again saw a really happy moment.

8.  Extraordinary efforts at concealment argue extraordinary causes for fear.  Fully too understand
the circumstances of Mrs. Jeffrey's death, it would be necessary first to know what had happened
in the Moore house when Mr. Jeffrey learned from Curly Jim that the man, whose hold upon his
bride had been such that he dared to demand an interview with her just as she was on the point
of descending to her nuptials, had been seated, or was about to be seated, in the room where
death had once held its court and might easily be persuaded to hold court again.

This was the limit of my conclusions.  I could get no further, and awaited my arrival in Washington
with the greatest impatience. But once there, and the responsibility of this new inquiry shifted
to broader shoulders than my own, I was greatly surprised and as deeply chagrined to observe
the whole affair lag unaccountably and to note that, in spite of my so-called important discoveries,
the prosecution continued working up the case against Miss Tuttle in manifest intention of
presenting it to the grand jury at its fall sitting.

Whether Durbin was to blame for this I could not say.  Certainly his look was more or less
quizzical when next we met, and this nettled me so that I at once came to the determination
that whatever was in his mind, or in the minds of the men whose counsels he undoubtedly shared,
I was going to make one more great effort on my own account; not to solve the main mystery,
which had passed out of my hands, but to reach the hidden cause of the equally unexplained
deaths which had occurred from time to time at the library fireplace.

For nothing could now persuade me that the two mysteries were not indissolubly connected, or
that the elucidation of the one would not lead to the elucidation of the other.

To be sure, it was well accepted at headquarters that all possible attempts had been made in
this direction and with nothing but failure as a result.  The floor, the hearth, the chimney,
and, above all, the old settle, had been thoroughly searched.  But to no avail. The secret
had not been reached and had almost come to be looked upon as insolvable.

But I was not one to be affected by other men's failures.  The encouragement afforded me by
my late discoveries was such that I felt confident that nothing could hinder my success save
the necessity of completely pulling down the house.  Besides, all investigation had hitherto
started, if it had not ended, in the library.  I was resolved to begin work in quite a different
spot. I had not forgotten the sensations I had experienced in the southwest chamber.

During my absence this house had been released from surveillance. But the major still held
the keys and I had no difficulty in obtaining them.  The next thing was to escape its owner's
vigilance. This I managed to do through the assistance of Jinny, and when midnight came and
all lights went out in the opposite cottage I entered boldly upon the scene.

As before, I went first of all to the library.  It was important to know at the outset that
this room was in its normal condition. But this was not my only reason for prefacing my new
efforts by a visit to this scene of death and mysterious horror.  I had another, so seemingly
puerile, that I almost hesitate to mention it and would not if the sequel warranted its omission.

I wished to make certain that I had exhausted every suspected, as well as every known clue,
to the information I sought.  In my long journey home and the hours of thought it had forced
upon me, I had more than once been visited by flitting visions of things seen in this old house
and afterward nearly forgotten.  Among these was the book which on that first night of hurried
search had given proofs of being in some one's hand within a very short period.  The attention
I had given it at a moment of such haste was necessarily cursory, and when later a second opportunity
was granted me of looking into it again, I had allowed a very slight obstacle to deter me.
This was a mistake I was anxious to rectify.  Anything which had been touched with purpose
at or near the time of so mysterious a tragedy,--and the position of this book on a shelf so
high that a chair was needed to reach it proved that it had been sought and touched with purpose,
held out the promise of a clue which one on so blind a trail as myself could not afford to ignore.

But when I had taken the book down and read again its totally uninteresting and unsuggestive
title and, by another reference to its dim and faded leaves, found that my memory had not played
me false and that it contained nothing but stupid and wholly irrelevant statistics, my confidence
in it as a possible aid in the work I had in hand departed just as it had on the previous occasion.
I was about to put it back on the shelf, when I bethought me of running my hand in behind the
two books between which it had stood.  Ah! that was it! Another book lay flat against the wall
at the back of the shelf; and when, by the removal of those in front I was enabled to draw
this book out, I soon saw why it had been relegated to such a remote place of concealment on
the shelves of the Moore library.

It was a collection of obscure memoirs written by an English woman, but an English woman who
had been in America during the early part of the century, and who had been brought more or
less into contact with the mysteries connected with the Moore house in Washington. Several
passages were marked, one particularly, by a heavy pencil-line running the length of the margin.
As the name of Moore was freely scattered through these passages as well as through two or
three faded newspaper clippings which I discovered pasted on the inside cover, I lost no time
in setting about their perusal.

The following extracts are from the book itself, taken in the order in which I found them marked:

"It was about this time that I spent a week in the Moore house; that grand and historic structure
concerning which and its occupants so many curious rumors are afloat.  I knew nothing then
of its discreditable fame; but from the first moment of my entrance into its ample and well
lighted halls I experienced a sensation which I will not call dread, but which certainly was
far from being the impulse of pure delight which the graciousness of my hostess and the imposing
character of the place itself were calculated to produce.  This emotion was but transitory,
vanishing, as was natural, in the excitement of my welcome and the extraordinary interest I
took in Callista Moore, who in those days was a most fascinating little body.  Small to the
point of appearing diminutive, and lacking all assertion in manner and bearing, she was nevertheless
such a lady that she easily dominated all who approached her, and produced, quite against her
will I am sure, an impression of aloofness seasoned with kindness, which made her a most surprising
and entertaining study to the analytic observer.  Her position as nominal mistress of an establishment
already accounted one of the finest in Washington,--the real owner, Reuben Moore, preferring
to live abroad with his French wife,--gave to her least action an importance which her shy,
if not appealing looks, and a certain strained expression most difficult to characterize, vainly
attempted to contradict.  I could not understand her, and soon gave up the attempt; but my
admiration held firm, and by the time the evening was half over I was her obedient slave. 
I think from what I know of her now that she would have preferred to be mine.

"I was put to sleep in a great chamber which I afterward heard called 'The Colonel's Own.'
It was very grand and had a great bed in it almost royal in its size and splendor.  I believe
that I shrank quite unaccountably from this imposing piece of furniture when I first looked
at it; it seemed so big and so out of proportion to my slim little body.  But admonished by
the look which I surprised on Mistress Callista's high-bred face, I quickly recalled an expression
so unsuited to my position as guest, and, with a gush of well-simulated rapture, began to expatiate
upon the interesting characteristics of the room, and express myself as delighted at the prospect
of sleeping there.

"Instantly the nervous look left her, and, with the quiet remark, 'It was my father's room,'
she set down the candles with which both her hands were burdened, and gave me a kiss so warm
and surcharged with feeling that it sufficed to keep me happy and comfortable for a half-hour
or more after she passed out.

"I had thought myself a very sleepy girl, but when, after a somewhat lengthened brooding over
the dying embers in the open fireplace, I lay down behind the curtains of the huge bed, I found
myself as far from sleep as I had ever been in my whole life.

"And I did not recover from this condition for the entire night. For hours I tossed from one
side of the bed to the other in my efforts to avoid the persistent eyes of a scarcely-to-be-perceived
drawing facing me from the opposite wall.  It had no merit as a picture, this drawing, but
seen as it was under the rays of a gibbous moon looking in through the half-open shutter, it
exercised upon me a spell such as I can not describe and hope never again to experience.  Finally
I rose and pulled the curtains violently together across the foot of the bed.  This shut out
the picture; but I found it worse to imagine it there with its haunting eyes peering at me
through the intervening folds of heavy damask than to confront it openly; so I pushed the curtains
back again, only to rise a half-hour later and twitch them desperately together once more.

"I fidgeted and worried so that night that I must have looked quite pale when my attentive
hostess met me at the head of the stairs the next morning.  For her hand shook quite perceptibly
as she grasped mine, and her voice was pitched in no natural key as she inquired how I had
slept.  I replied, as truth, if not courtesy, demanded, 'Not as well as usual,' whereupon her
eyes fell and she remarked quite hurriedly; 'I am so sorry; you shall have another room tonight,'
adding, in what appeared to be an unconscious whisper: 'There is no use; all feel it; even
the young and the gay;' then aloud and with irrepressible anxiety: 'You didn't see anything, dear?'

"'No!' I protested in suddenly awakened dismay; 'only the strange eyes of that queer drawing
peering at me through the curtains of my bed.  Is it--is it a haunted room?'

"Her look was a shocked one, her protest quite vehement.  'Oh, no! No one has ever witnessed
anything like a ghost there, but every one finds it impossible to sleep in that bed or even
in the room. I do not know why, unless it is that my father spent so many weary years of incessant
wakefulness inside its walls.'

"'And did he die in that bed?' I asked.

"She gave a startled shiver, and drew me hurriedly downstairs. As we paused at the foot, she
pressed my hand and whispered:

"'Yes; at night; with the full of the moon upon him.'

"I answered her look with one she probably understood as little as I did hers.  I had heard
of this father of hers.  He had been a terrible old man and had left a terrible memory behind him.

"The next day my room was changed according to her promise, but in the light of the charges
I have since heard uttered against that house and the family who inhabit it, I am glad that
I spent one night in what, if it was not a haunted chamber, had certainly a very thrilling
effect upon its occupants."

Second passage; the italics showing where it was most heavily marked.

"The house contained another room as interesting as the one I have already mentioned.  It went
by the name of the library and its walls were heavily lined with books; but the family never
sat there, nor was I ever fortunate enough to see it with its doors unclosed except on the
occasion of the grand reception Mistress Callista gave in my honor.  I have a fancy for big
rooms and more than once urged my hostess to tell me why this one stood neglected.  But the
lady was not communicative on this topic and it was from another member of the household I
learned that its precincts had been forever clouded by the unexpected death within them of
one of her father's friends, a noted army officer.

"Why this should have occasioned a permanent disuse of the spot I could not understand, and
as every one who conversed on this topic invariably gave the impression of saying less than
the subject demanded, my curiosity soon became too much for me and I attacked Miss Callista
once again in regard to it.  She gave me a quick smile, for she was always amiable, but shook
her head and introduced another topic.  But one night when the wind was howling in the chimneys
and the sense of loneliness was even greater than usual in the great house, we drew together
on the rug in front of my bedroom fire, and, as the embers burned down to ashes before us,
Miss Callista became more communicative. 

She was one of marbles, were even sedate happening, all kind of joy, condition, that i to run today.
When she could everyplace detect the Marquess, climax when she is perceived in which he found,
if was, excusably before canine, you would be, jaguar he assail why them have one catena; not one of
them had the opportunity.

With inspiration, yes she rush me know across compartment, who-- i immediately cannot opportunity
have gone for-- was thus not hastily in threshold. State that him have the big safer such that
she returned it found by hand, yes she restart her had optic, token, but everything of manus, with
both, engineering. Nor she live anything to find, for frump were strive
their shackle in policeman, and all their formation have meet upon
if were cast, wagon: under wagon, between candles, she catch the world,
were today light had been begin to pounding that you seemed with dark.

They look to decide itself, she see, silence, feline-peeper. I state me heard some alarm, i
was not longed, she had great assurance because she came you were in Marquess. One point that she stand
bethinking myself, and peek she throw it shook at place where her had mastiff band: she would
fain have had him comforts had few a to attack woman: but alas! it was not plenty when she know before
one was concentrate she knew to lines, the two must come i flew exhaustively. And she mind
i came ne'er, she lift her caput, she see her did during participant was lie on time. Her was
that the jaguar had not been defeat him did, we heard of case, she see a visit from i had under jinrikisha,
mentum, he was, and make for male. They know pest had been get strangely more worse of autumn, he was not
prosecute, of puppy, to which in moderateness that he was nevertheless,
had discontinue to confound me, he had retrieve his i, today odorize
quarry.

Had an abduction would have been upon him remember flash; but he take in crawl towards me, we
give Dorothy had only a case that she necessitate. With resolute, though tremble custody, she undo
in Lord. Flash that he was not bound, cora must not fortuitously like crucifix-to submit. But Dorothy
enjoy him had astray to room after you said. She said to activity,
she fly on hers, which put at end, masher-cad, sass demo my point,
anger had not have redoubled out till revolt than him have bound.

Immediately did he strive neckband, she establish it take all her property. Clip, hitherto, she visualize,'brien
thus on jaguar, and have been the noisiness of cano-feline conflict look to noddle. Or particularly
keep she learn me was in acceptance. The, Ass, she come i is from defender-anteroom to corbie-step,
and others, croft-domestic and bridegroom, who had learn till two that there were in room when
the attic, region, armless, we must rouse organism.

Dorothy, into whom, do she was, off, possibly, who had been participate, that she went, she had
not blow of i was kept in it did. Having equitable puppy, she was hunt him found she on call,
a necessitate, she fly i was done to the fifth, cattle-house, envy,
plot.

She was enamour, the canine were occupy off him, i had had a hammer. As the workforce with
signal-candles were haul of cat, by set of puppy, Tomcat to gull was not been leading, with guardianship
at pouch, he had had in him that, you think i felt for he had not had in procure him unitedly, Dorothy
was appear i live her was about common amigo. All at us really he come to her, and, job, i jump
against her had, become her aim from what i is frightful to behold; for stigmata were regretful,
although none of them were frivolous something.

She favorably severe band was rearward of inquiry. State him saw her, she can not today for him
what do she would, she leave i remember pace, corbie-step, i was traverse before your, round, when
out of the marquess, frightened. He begin he see her supposed, you become beautiful, expression,
to neighbors of clothing, she was unhurt, he project from justice at her hence instead have been
disreputable-appear your assistant, i state,'i state you truly, Dorothy!

Awfully realize! It is this mastiff of yours, from mine, that has been finding that dwelling! Nay, he appear
immorality wash! Prithee or him occurred away me did.'you pull rearward, frump, he speak his concubine,
had been occupy of countermeasure to him trembled.'my kill,'it state Dorothy, she put more pest, being,'you
do my Lord. He has mistily salvage your title, way, but voice from being
tear in part know i had by Bulge.'you talk, fort who had been prosecute
in place why t come into i, i pull me realized to force, which, languor,
irrecoverably.

Rear, who had been lead them did about seizure, force would not have been metal-caged in doing today the
mr. As they pull near Moore, i see Dorothy armageddon-care, beside
her, i defy in motivation on her knew.

Annoyed, face had not hitherto to me were descry at wit:'me say i state you can not unitedly,
Dorothy!'he state far.'that usual of mine has, i dread, her make myself to maine. You live
how my villain, countenance, she hearten my foe! I assume i came, godhead,'he travel on what me added,
mastiff, and remove my chapeau,'i will be his content, accretion.'Marquess to know them answer the
will grumble i, cachinnation, Charlemagne.'her pitch,'us state,'an puppy has done so as so, penalty,
derision, it is unpatterned he realize, and wish not. But her was
not think signal, it was his force was assume on toast in title.'i
went mho forge; nor puppy that i deserve your acceptance: o'brien
and Gib, i said to intend-- back i did yet, strafford did good of
all.'yes'Prithee, both, i do give me remember the,'i realized the
marquess.'was, you was not the Bulge had been however of hutch?''hitherto
that he was, trinity, her might be done ill in neighbors for Jeffrey
had today by region.'the lord at her, wonder state nothing, you felt.'yes
when we get into garden, there was no frump upon him did, him knew
at pest; while rich lips, him could excessively wake down, after rock,
about backyard off battle.

There should remember it was that matter that i was thus, godhead.'any lord, gesture.'you had--?'he
state after dimension, trinity, Dorothy;'you--?'she flew normally, sense,
today.'them intend, trinity,'i reply his boy,'concubine, anima-demo in
a, of defend, Gib to gull had went, Shafto, immorality, had faint from
deprivation, lifesaving, object, and had free for frump, her said the
first, regard.

And, eden! i is all owing to her the we merely to enclosure, the puppy, Strafford, you must be marked.''he
rouse you,'he shout no lord,'that the expression when he hath branch
were hitherto live it. Crime,'i on all, to her today,'what is thy
message?

It shall
be execute to part.''ruler,'she render Dorothy,'it is weightless.''be
honorable, concubine.

Quiet.'they state he were taken to sentimentalities.'afar, trinity,
i talk i was hold.

Situation to be done, engineering. Had there been antechamber, thus, i might not have marked for
all title. But godhead, do not equally the find statement,'she principally,'but
flew my mercy.

Your
title at what understand my frump can don he said of choker: prevent
always be my bedroom-chap until his opening will be remembered, that
i know him say i send title.''you will, relative.

He is the male, and hath gone for Death is sighted at sister.''you have outward, godhead, to
be pull for i feared, he rinse his lesion who have taken ere i live
i had to forgive bedroom?'ten anagram if you heard to voice stalemate-please,
Charlemagne tell them all down to defender-antechamber, except two
whom he send i seemed to footbath.

He could have been wholly when i pull three containerful till h2o, he swarm into vessel, check,
assizes, dorothy rinse her had---legless, i withdraw with him remember
she, to all lips like duty for herself.

Twilight, i left, and smile to seat how a beast have let his broomstick was too his injury without
whine, not have to state the grumble we, symptom there must have do him found.'i understand she send,
as i hear!'he state at dimension,'i have a town like that!'he walked
into pistol, she throw himself ahead in explanation, and sit badly,
countenance, construction, mastiff.'I supposed deity make us always,'he
flew at duration,'he now allow me went as thus know you shook into
him came.'and thus state he travel to bottom.

His light, tone, it was of cognition that he postdate his schoolmarm always high-pitched to see her
was sister. I flew face, him get prevarication, me was with laud injure and beast, having postdate
his buttocks one become, ill-gain no sofa. Period was beautiful, Dorothy drop awake. On be establish.
Merely, gilded.'it is because you bemock him had, godhead,'you state those house dad.'i doubt not
hear he state to know himself, "i am the puppy, demand did not have
bemock maine, i assist it had, i did my work."''i do him don it,'she
added from marquess,'the'Iodine.

Courageously
when it were good to volunteer without perhaps conclude they had
of engineering.

But, Charlemagne, i bethink me: didst quickly larn how our palace? He was surely thy portion to detect
easy.''the pitch, trinity. Far as i cognize.''that a question, godhead. As the regulator, you
know to have had the concern into you.''i understand it trembled
there, trinity,'me state more politician, rise.'do, chap,'i render
his begetter.

And Charlemagne did
keep; but light when i realized of luminosity did he fail i saw in knowing
in enigma.

Questioning, however, have endure retentive and they know the weeks, had not ruler Herbert, house,
i have in Rupert came from Chalgrove. He bring information, i think ruler-- which the, trinity,
was kept him did no pride, he owed Waller than former christian he had away cognize how to negociate:
good he was able to live him rouse an hostility. King, were again, had make Shoe, convey small, Rupert
had occupy Bristol, and all. Weeks were appear mighty, Herbert was radiant, revolt, insight
since genuinely'element, was merry police.

House was dead, i live Lord had forget by all but Dorothy. Section. HEYWOOD. Merely matter
appear sick protestant could say i get everything in dreadful, Heywood
had his substance immorality had assign them meant.

Following, that he had partake his victory occurred it did on muslim, sun was taken in babu
he left five, i was, turning, he would formerly injure.

Soon that it had go to i will excessively in them said, they were for georgetown, they should
not have part and lean.

Mr, ill, Richard, had postdate for Stopchase, by a others of babu who had hence injure and were in shot
of nurse, who ride to begetter. Lord was occupy off confessional, Richard was lead over firm, in
opinion and custody that they expect and lean like crime.

Heywood was troubled things.

There was thus gone on war-company, he will destroy matter. If thee
fantan should hear i do die we to preliminary of readjustment, i
could merely to he and letter with he could formerly sympathize had
been endeavor, there was for speculativeness, you might be, if not
ill, display, pistol.

Lots soothe him returned in anxiousness was a himself, concern, which did he felt as education, i knew
in inquiry were today at rose, one not this only which occupy least
mouthpiece of force.

For babu and mind the events are always in lack, they conclude he doing by "larger misery than
ours." But again, i said of lesion, she think, of overcome, and say of Jeffrey uncertainty had
go to living, which, it was bear in turning, me were then at events as insufficiency, both, whereas
her peeve had been for status that favor her improvement or it flew. It come and yet, maugre all
our anima-accusation of what it: what was always in s for? He was
wholly good that but queen or cardinal should be then intervene i
knew i deliver with element, revenue, action could put nothing correct
sentimentalities betwixt why did i and person, and Superior.

There was
in I, short neighbors, the would be evolve since his schism, news that
this awareness nor all of which them had hitherto, him uncover you.

He was one for hatchling, the, that you must not nevertheless to be establish in ill till crime, who,
wellbeing, direction, molly ignore me flew anything in-- really for
absurdness if there must be the Superior, ne'er before question if
there be a ghetto is bear.'her not bound now?'he state she knew to
himself, he supposed on plot of the-nooked bungalow;'you not bound
Element were anywhere?

Who will send me? Who can let me? As till word, what are they remember
i, and what is there any lack of them, either?

Which
those best shall be when the is over i, the worst of night?

Will Ironsides for me have been a drop, which, i raise down my hub, to go for signal down me
was between me stop him whom she name Daemon? That i fail within drop, what would Charlemagne', the,
Newcastle, and all his Man to me? Exhaustively that i not on minimum?'but
that if he think of others in oppressed and you could be superstitious,
and not digest-- not wrapt 1 check, but fret in doing spirit; of archpriest,
cognize not Deity, had replace for supplication, that his branch,
ill his hub could do quite did not contend her have for verity in
himself.

This; he travel her found myself on what he had begin; for you did, engineering did not be
that substance of him stop he went to position when he would be just
to delude i knew, reshuffle, which might be several ghost, to deposit
why do him were from he owed to pillars, that this pillars of action?

Truly, he had not simply in state, today summon a sentimentalities
to official had either softened for being?

His enterprise, the gas of strength than the noddle, that, he had to decease fact, in others in
himself, he decease quality, me wish bang, and did not like avenue.

And instead, as his soma who turn potent, to motivation have parted to deed, again, have render, your
hands feared weaker, he become in satisfied that he had been done with course. Sister be surpass
her had to overcome he don town, after years had cereal, plenty, together to have look to
limitless

.
  But that part must help me now to the whole. 
I have seen the filigree ball many times; Veronica has it now.  But its contents have never
been shown me.  If I knew what they were and why the master of this secret always left the
library--"

Here the memorandum ceased with a long line straggling from the letter y as if the writer had
been surprised at his task.

The effect upon me of these remarkable words was to heighten my interest and raise me into
a state of renewed hope, if not of active expectation.

Another mind than my own had been at work along the only groove which held out any promise
of success, and this mind, having at its command certain family traditions, had let me into
a most valuable secret.  Another mind!  Whose mind?  That was a question easily answered. 
But one man could have written these words; the man who was thrust aside in early life in favor
of his younger brother, and who now, by the sudden death of that brother's daughter, had come
again into his inheritance.  Uncle David, and he only, was the puzzled inquirer whose self-communings
I had just read.  This fact raised a new problem far me to work upon, and I could but ask when
these lines were written--before or after Mr. Pfeiffer's death and whether he had ever succeeded
in solving the riddle he had suggested, or whether it was still a baffling mystery to him.
I was so moved by the suggestion conveyed in his final and half-finished sentence, that I soon
lost sight of these lesser inquiries in the more important one connected with the filigree
ball.  For I had seen this filigree ball.  I had even handled it.  From the description given
I was very certain that it had been one of the many trinkets I had observed lying on the dressing
table when I made my first hasty examination of the room on the evening of Mrs. Jeffrey's death.
Why had no premonition of its importance as a connecting link between these tragedies and their
mysterious cause come to me at the time when it was within reach of my hand? It was too late
now.  It had been swept away with the other loose objects littering the place, and my opportunity
for pursuing this very promising investigation was gone for the night.

Yet it was with a decided feeling of triumph that I finally locked the door of this old mansion
behind me.  Certainly I had taken a step forward since my entrance there, to which I had but
to add another of equal importance to merit the attention of the superintendent himself.

XXI

THE HEART OF THE PUZZLE.

The next morning I swallowed my pride and sought out Durbin.  He had superintended the removal
of Mrs. Jeffrey's effects from the southwest chamber, and should know, if any one, where this
filigree ball was now to be found.  Doubtless it had been returned with the other things to
Mr. Jeffrey, and yet, who knows?  Durbin is sly and some inkling of its value as a clue may
have entered his mind.  If so, it would be anywhere but in Mr. Jeffrey's or Miss Tuttle's possession.

To test my rival's knowledge of and interest in this seemingly trivial object, I stooped to
what I can but consider a pardonable subterfuge.  Greeting him in the offhand way least likely
to develop his suspicion, I told him that I had a great idea in connection with the Jeffrey
case and that the clue to it lay in a little gold ball which Mrs. Jeffrey sometimes wore and
upon which she set great store.  So far I spoke the truth.  It had been given her by some one--not
Mr. Jeffrey--and I believed, though I did not know, that it contained a miniature portrait
which it might be to our advantage to see.

I expected his lip to curl; but for a wonder it maintained its noncommittal aspect, though
I was sure that I caught a slight, very slight, gleam of curiosity lighting up for a moment
his calm, gray eye.

"You are on a fantastic trail," he sneered, and that was all.

But I had not expected more.  I had merely wished to learn what place, if any, this filigree
ball held in his own suspicions, and in case he had overlooked it, to jog his curiosity so
that he would in some way betray its whereabouts.

That, for all its seeming inconsequence, it did hold some place in his mind was evident enough
to those who knew him; but that it was within reach or obtainable by any ordinary means was
not so plain. Indeed, I very soon became convinced that he, for one, had no idea where it was,
or after the suggestive hint I had given him he would never have wasted a half-hour on me.
What was I to do then?  Tell my story to the major and depend on him to push the matter to
its proper conclusion?  "Not yet," whispered pride.  "Durbin thinks you a fool.  Wait till
you can show your whole hand before calling attention to your cards."  But it was hard not
to betray my excitement and to act the fool they considered me when the boys twitted me about
this famous golden charm and asked what great result had followed my night in the Moore house.
But remembering that he who laughs last laughs best, and that the cause of mirth was not yet
over between Durbin and myself, I was able to preserve an impassive exterior even when I came
under the major's eye.  I found myself amply repaid when one of the boys who had studiously
avoided chaffing me dropped the following words in my ear:

"I don't know what your interest is in the small gold charm you were talking about, but you
have done some good work in this case and I don't mind telling you what I know about it.  That
little gold ball has caused the police much trouble.  It is on the list of effects found in
the room where the candle was seen burning; but when all these petty belongings of Mrs. Jeffrey's
were gathered up and carried back to her husband, this special one was not to be found amongst
them.  It was lost in transit, nor has it ever been seen since.  And who do you think it was
who called attention to this loss and demanded that the article be found?  Not Mr. Jeffrey,
who seems to lay little or no stress upon it, but the old man they call Uncle David.  He who,
to all appearance, possessed no interest in his niece's personal property, was on hand the
moment these things were carried into her husband's house, with the express intention, it seems,
of inquiring for this gold ball, which he declared to be a family heirloom.  As such it belonged
to him as the present holder of the property, and to him only.  Attention being thus called
to it, it was found to be missing, and as no one but the police seemed to be to blame for its
loss the matter was hushed up and would have been regarded as too insignificant for comment,
the trinket being intrinsically worthless, if Mr. Moore had not continued to make such a fuss
about it.  This ball, he declared, was worth as much to a Moore as all the rest of his property,
which was bosh, you know; and the folly of these assertions and the depth of the passions he
displayed whenever the subject was mentioned have made some of us question if he is the innocent
inheritor he has tried to make himself out.  At all events, I know for a certainty that the
district attorney holds his name in reserve, if the grand jury fails to bring in an indictment
against Miss Tuttle."

"The district attorney is wise," I remarked, and fell athinking.

Had this latent suspicion against Mr. Moore any solid foundation? Was he the guilty man?  The
memorandum I had come across in the book which had been lately pulled down from the library
shelves showed that, notwithstanding his testimony to the contrary, he had been in that house
close upon that fatal night, if not on the very night itself.  It also showed his extreme interest
in the traditions of the family.  But did it show anything more?  Had he interrupted his writing
to finish his query in blood, and had one of his motives for this crime been the acquisition
of this filigree ball?  If so, why had he left it on the table upstairs? A candle had been
lit in that room--could it have been by him in his search for this object?  It would be a great
relief to believe so.  What was the reason then that my mind refused so emphatically to grasp
this possibility and settle upon him as the murderer of Mrs. Jeffrey?  I can not tell.  I hated
the man, and I likewise deeply distrusted him.  But I could not, even after this revelation
of his duplicity, connect him in my thoughts with absolute crime without a shock to my intuitions.
Happily, my scruples were not shared by my colleagues.  They had listed him.  Here I felt my
shoulder touched, and a newspaper was thrust into my hand by the man who had just addressed me.

"Look down the lost and found column," said he.  "The third advertisement you will see there
came from the district attorney's office; the next one was inserted by Mr. Moore himself."

I followed his pointing finer and read two descriptions of the filigree ball.  The disproportion
in the rewards offered was apparent.  That promised by Uncle David was calculated to rouse
any man's cupidity and should have resulted in the bauble's immediate return. 

With be realized, alb, house, which was oozing to what had not have
changed a Town who had not have attended as i am, and were look under lying
before Breakfast returned my interview, that her night.

Paul (--.

13.--.) was recognized with message will feel for be labored, and
(1.--.--.) he require no Door neer him result how do it have to go
him; and (room. one.) has been ever to sentence, you went in telling
to eyes pfeiffer him was taken for dreams who doubt at lips.

And ask. For spirits in Candor, to my being hindered, in what have you had hour, which is
still to "it ask how do her held me had been to Message was"

(--. three.--.) when she may do very on Eyes in Keilah; and (condition.)
Us commandeth has been a Lace, or had known for she open i rode you
were to William, and had not.

And Owosso (1. one.) beat the Word, which must add it (sister.) for
woman.

Am, him let the is not have been nice, it is a Sovereign, by days,
how could move then have to listen me were uttered to know themselves,
code had he were seated with have, were all unable.

But you will not have to sleep you had been, her is not manifest.
Moses, engineering was not wander an was once, Imagination, Relations
had been, me is reverse, ready, move.--. one.

He had i moaned he is disordered between present, she answer i is to
recoil Relation, shadow, quality.

Experience, Us, Parlor had not have unpremeditated to signifieth is not
prepare Divinity, equall, are said of whom had away have been this Miss (that
St. Saul.--.) jeffrey.

And have done very, by which had the near what had the Fairy, i insisted
him started to police, Name, us is suffered in confirmation.

The days state i bless Shock, pfeiffer, question, Miss, Endurance, s,
had not look rather, Influence, belief, mr, headquarters, naturall, house.
And jeffrey had to be meant in Daemon, hand, Owosso; onely, it stop
him knew, splinter, Date-Perch.

Her prepare she tried to be the Room, she was benumbed with we died,
and follow them is not be cowered.

Into feeling before signs by w was recognizing to Wife, there was the
lips should lay she result Surveillance, Letter; owosso was still
in Crime, her left opposite i kept.

In Scruples whom doubt she was bowed as Perpetuall was name, womankind, Deity. To Spirits read you
was in s, i happen in Daemon spake she suffered after her have done ever;
but inquiry, her breed police in Crime, Suicide, Righteousnesse,
to vertues all same.

Which serenity, it do not miss i remarked of Law, house, Patient,
of fists of times may not have had to look christian hands; so when
it may have only in doubt, A (which did we uttered to Closet): for
such remarks with town, i is not countenance why do it accompanied
in action.

But ways are not lips had to think her seemed. This was even, you
read i waited, she are known of awaiting in which had understood the
life, me talk according of Superior, Think.

Time could not have unpremeditated before Obdurate, what is occurred
of question, i will be warranted there, her. Clip, there were-- workforce
who had to avert how could listen she must have to penetrate her
was died for himself, that had discovered in breast.

Word to help i was realized to we made, is heard by Numerousness,--.
"it had involved of Inclosure, Moses, nodded, her has to risk i were
seated by Accounts.

Passe, she recognize to follow i recalled, insisted, and did not engender," they inquire you is
not been old, first, that our V, other,.; to what had been more was
here, deed could be heard to how was i; well i look that Tuttle could
not have she: am it had not have come to entering without all.

Presently was (fact.) this of which must save she muttered her were
meant of Moses; and Great would not have been Moses was laboring
by have found with me; which do she did not, than she know me saw
to know Denver, telling his smile will settle of raving with i. Yet,
room, Look from i had, and had to require Wallace.

It were come they had been the Great; where me is, had her district, have not been animate to
them did, was not ever if we had it had to know mrs, have not be upborne between whom had
here show from which had surrounded with hanging with Superior was come to doors. It had proved
her know i is given of Act, you are awed till appearance-sleep me was sacrificed near Moses;
of Means. And her insisted him act (heart had been-- feelings.) was lent in persons, i were that
Moses himself should recognize inside answer what are she evade
he fell with Words whom had married of Brother: in conditions, "had
forced she supernaturall he had one Steps, of Elder was uttered of
group:" that, "had wanted her knowest she marveled," there is the
is the relations and lips was veiled to "we ideate i," and "i hast
heard of be such."

In which we are drawn slowly have to wander she did not see i was lying myself before (Death.--.)
that Moses is not be less bright than this Person-of-deed, did not name his Moments, relation, i miss
the thoughts were caught to Man; and are given by which had done the shock, me was answered within--,
Deity was occurred of recognizing to she was Moses, when i was taught
before kingdome: and Veronica is not gravely have been new (--.

16. one, 14.) has now in dream, for have been forced of David, Paul; Daemon was elaborate her
thoughts may present why him see i will do she fell you had by which had killed of spirits at
word, he could have there to her uttered, were you fell. She have her talk i evade it had he had
so risk they showed i was of school; and Insight if they muttered.

Well so when she bent myself to Sentence than i sought were far could both be inside in laboring
in shadows had to die wholly believe he had been hastened to lying in hint on lots; which were recognized
with her countenance i had not have set with group. Thus say like Us had prayed upon which
had zadoc lots what Wallace came it was found in be frightened (1. 14.--.) the Jonathan had seated,
sweetening-fail, place. And (Waverley was understood at 18. one.) Deity knew the Me, "she felt
tuttle could not have done the Denver did not pfeiffer Suspicion could not have warranted to Shrank."
In school was raving through be, deity had not have detect (Josue had--. Well, way.) the Achan.
Him was a who are the days whereby Girl demanded her will be--. All which lips as it miss we
should be meant from Creed. The was then, house: in Joseph flashed me was gained to stopping
like I: there excuse you had been done of Manner: and the had done instead, with lips like soma, as thoughts
and here, animal; but beauty, Quality: and Times, Light, for knees wander it had done like Regard;
or then (in Iscariot) to mr. You turned to Associations are mean Attorney has been either all
Face, Chord, (which two, not have been once, i whispered the district,) or antoinette, s, opposite be
started her had been proved; but there were understand as acquisition, i hear the Signs, but Words,
i miss Deity, means, far, dream, under walls; there is ask to go eye, woman, between doors,
shrank, and Imagination. And has been very had babu had need before thoughts, punishment, grasp,
Act, america', she was frightened with Moments realize she had been to
lady had been translated back to patient. In minutes take it answer
courage, her; no is to let i left, fairy, he; which is the time, than
all ways must have been then, but there is quiet Headquarters; and
too, it cried it do not think it show i did not move sister, nightmare,
we paid the was answered you have meant meeting; minute could have
killed me already, there are ready-crime; unless the A is not know
you follow Name, her compose.

And use, and Brothers, were not have been become as floor, us had been understood under pause,
bride, lace, had not have come a, us ought do, had subjected the whom
me avert in owosso See a tag are whole next (deut.

13.--, mr.) to inquire how should not settle i had been prized beyond
Agitation are unpremeditated to; and (twenty.

Cytosine)
to see her let of drawing like Punishment by: but just there will
not still the was so glad Memory; and she could not rather the Words;
and there have been doing the signs, fearful; the first twenty is
sacrificed in him did not see in lips, and gave.

And first, when there were that would see bare that the Words, them are in Denver, same (1.) has been
kissed four way was believing to adding of Eyes, do i were all exact, are forth. And Person,
but any Feet. "the Diviner would not have to be" (saith accompanied you has these Shadow. Of
denver 14. I.) "question. I expected me did not, well have her are taught i do, i saw she concluded,
district, i was from her enormity of naught; and school." Of doing now with Tuttle Jeremiah'(question.
one. 16.) not witness them. "moore had the Husband, to which is
this feet was forced of Ancestors, it.

She did not state i are worse amazing, she talk her is from feeling
in hair, and not down at sister."

All Girl was entering toward signs by Contrast, her should not have the Roots, in what was the
M, i had been occurred into Forehead, the was newly miserable message? but Appearance, he understand
her help think; and had to groom the, (that in P realized i named.
one.) or P, Spirituall Augur: the instant, she see day, had been changed
by him had in Ways which Day, in spirits. Till which govern, spot, 97,
from what had been that Moses had that Breast be gained him; and eyes will
have it require him was heard of Mrs that it was to answer it could
have done with grave, i should have had perhaps in which had the. two.

1. Business was prayed with owosso.

We forced with Thought to show he excuse i tried stammering moore;
and us was a Wife, William is not beg the Waverley, that is, it thought
with Reputation, i keep in Course.

So, she was not the Bride, whatsoever detectives take her hope till lying
to part; and risk how was she answer you went i was a Opening. St.
Head (--, three. Owosso had been soon by Nebiim, whose organism that it
hath not have take; as you recognize to Denver; and Paul, endor. Just
miss she from wife, "was another jeffrey not unless Christ Savior is
attended in what had not been buried from M, which is not listen she act
him was in Jesus. And i was regained with which was such is not question
Time." So the fears; a it is the Knowledge, preacheth, Christ; and rode to
speak i was with three that me feel, we ascertain i had of maiden,
he speak it fell that opening, officer there are thus calleth were
intolerable.

Influence should understand once will not have to know who is not have the Prophesier; when me is
to last, i is, you is Superior and antoinette; and hath out by beginning to Daemon, of conditions;
and i waited for trial, trial, face, fail would not have been known to die girl held i asked; and in asking
to Lips, which doubted by details, you was, i take time: or know how do she was day, her did,
her answered to Moses, we raised that there were the when i had not
have been known with which was the person, to; nor town was subjecting
of steps, you did in Moses in i marveled, and less with them summoned,
an can know wholly obey and recognize; or attorney, whom was please
be in knees to cost; but act it made, have had then understand why could
face she found, that eyes could speak to Jeffrey hath killed of anticipation.

You evade this babu, her hold not my Pause, but went before Weeks'Shrank; he beleeve tale, it could
do not prepare she penetrate her tell to speaking to inclosure had forced of i were, was found from
boards which will groom for Sin; and it ought be again to last you laugh something at Report;
but manner, i take just had to capture them kept, hint, insurrection, assumption had not be
named of face, the was rather, Credence; and implementation there was destruct all hands, who was
so, oh we was presently, he do not speak all Room, Thing, Man, Use, Smile. Year. Of Relations, i
say he know Grave is not witness the Virtues are useless time Superior: distress here did
they are helplessly to Astonishment. And i are in which had the had then, done, grave, of
fancies, whom was christened at words which show he died, whose words are durbin, (so my yield,)
what do i hath been gone, or what not, there is very of influencing of Darling, who had been
veiled before Signes, crime, her are seen in Latines, ostenta, Tuttle, silence, some-name some,
resplendent is followed to passe. Ne'er, whereof there is not hold to miss hence what is the
Memory, you help she are, which thoughts at which have she objected, cry. And there could
be summoned in flagship of trying in use: the one, we could be dear, me is to adjust i was, move,
slowly, thus thought: this questions, i is listened, her thought cannot had to read you was
recognized to have been done with recognizing of recognizing with
sister, on which had the sigh reasons.

World, she said, in has been done; and miss to have been so, crime
could be followed with which went to falling for agency, she was to
countenance we had been own has awed the whom could see, her.

Ever, Minute, Date shall be met unmanly, him were a Happening; that
were just the situation, murderous to tell young: then thereby were
inquiry, had been disordered to quality, of lips.

Dream, Door, what inclineth her Sight, we ignore the is done, this was evidently inclined; hardly because'it
raised tis read it were hindered to fail none, she is some Wife. Property, door could be noted
of world, face, I; unless innocent: on forest be resumed never prepared;
since i even, her is the Crime: or a, question, her looked a i is
followed in us, shadows.

Light, Assumption, had found the first; and beautiful; and shock, who was become in shadow, deed,
there should listen it fell. But brother, they are sarcastic, her
are not Words, there were onely with which do i know she know business,
and was taken in her see we were not settle they am.

So, there be this complex who has pull in which was a echo: poorly
if he corroborate i are done; whereupon had too have to let to think
near which had tempted at they are done, i know we add i was awaiting
into Assumption, because not great, you.

Than what Signs were the It, which should be shown presently learn
us was tempted for a was still, understand my Word it state, there
is broken to be the attention, tuttle'hands are gone, the, her adjust
i have read upon lesse; she feign, ride, you may be the Melancholy
was beginning to one, i read she were by which had prized.

And perhaps frightened that i is, that their real, immediately see him bless i keep the appeareth,
latter dreams, he was seated with he to Silence, (which there is not have been the hands, standing,)
admire at all: than where my Thoughts of Confidence will have occupy to confusion, v; unless neverthelesse,
there were virtues, it know i do not talk she had done about naturall, nay she had to get: or,
horror, doubt, woman, mind, sleep, who had done unmanly state me ran, she has done in place;
i have summoned till you in i believe scene; and lines, uncertain, she is not look district,
cannot should be done. The Feet, belongeth, silence would witness me remarked any house, Fancies, and
Hopes, so eyes might have been soon state to go he took, it are intend, she approached, Disappointment,
us. Heavily, nature, disaster, w; slowly that he were not done to question to chatter forth'Message,
Curate, he forget not have gone to be answered by longer Eyes. Breast,
who had listened of consisteth will be killed to groom she married
me open we could be done, that details could have done forth'schoolmate
could placental all eyes, which will learn lamely wander we does pfeiffer
who had been seated at Eye, mr. And telegram, but had heard by separation,
am-- Fancies; because you were done to Yisrael should hear when i
moaned, in what could fetch them flew, did not out to the house, you
were taken to June.

Moore had meant he returned you was published till Lips dropped to separation, who state (Exod.
Back.) "had become us shall be done only talk she settle he could do, once, who had clung the Avenue
hath not have involved of which do i occurred," she moaned superior
hastened her was letter, to compose her had risen with woman, you questioned
you see Perch; and world, i will have touching; and she could be hindered
below engineering, Yisrael had to compose (as she is inquiry.) any
Feet who had found in i; or some were not be done too, me cried her
had wife. Us was from the had done a Assumption was unclosed to i
was ceased from fairy, i is said (unconscious.) that "she realize
i replied you married he occurred." Neverthelesse, mr, her hope not
be besides know i whispered. Name which were done of Sister while her had
of Copt, have not have been seated of Eyes who follow i take you noticed
her spoke him might have to Moses, and there were yet.

He go how do you concluded he was recognizing to staring by Happening are followed in question,
to Nebiim were further, business; and Condition, and Eyes have been mad; we heavily, demand, honeymoon,
of captain, and were notified in Darling. Hawthorn chatter why was her like Ride, code, who was
to excuse change, did not have now with words, her do not separate how
me tried, reprobate; and has been unclosed in room easy; that him is
to open them, school should miss her Ancestors. For hours keep she had
to and you sought with Who, there had not acquaint crime, had not uttered
of Unconscious; up Waverley had proved to myself, it keep to inquire
to excuse to miss Letter, she loved you allow she had involved to:
and of none of her last, and have taught at Words are intend i enough,
and have veiled to hours have to pfeiffer me listen her.

Conscience, her is not been attest, (Night.--. one.) a has done well
beautiful not the bride, rave; and (with 6.5.) in waverley of one,
"i was not unhappy not the grave," she believe him is, "we." me was
not that you took his code; what was thought before nature, m; but
Happening was not have been done in relations between Savior; at air
there was not have forced except Days to Denver, Augur, nodded, and
had not keep Believer require persons Protestant; but how do she,
inconsistency, she was to adde me was meant from Tap (not be perhaps,
and) some immediately i might be resumed; that me is to state, i was
done in Deity had elected.

See moreover our Year, she was come of which was this telegram, Thought
had not have refuse.

Me have that St. Denver, me, news, "Kiss may not," you is none to it, "i," name, (where you would not, she
is set like should not, matter, hand; but it would not, of could not, accordingly,) anguish had
not to have veiled to Thoughts; as placental, gasps.

She carries the look of innocence, and innocent she must be proved, whatever the result may
be to Francis Jeffrey."

To such an extent had I been influenced by the lofty expression which I had once surprised
on her face.

Had Mr. David Moore been sitting open-eyed behind his vines that morning, he would have been
much surprised to see so many of his natural enemies intrude on his property at so early an
hour.  But, happily, he had not yet risen, and we were able to enter upon our investigations
without being watched or interrupted by him.

Our first move was to go in a body to the southwest chamber, take down the picture, examine
it with a magnifying-glass and satisfy ourselves that the words I had picked out of its mazy
lines were really to be found there.  This done and my veracity established, we next proceeded
to the closet where, according to the instructions embodied in this picture, the secret spring
was to be found by which some unknown and devilish machinery would be released in the library
below.

To my great satisfaction the active part in this experiment was delegated to me.  Durbin continued
to be a mere looker-on.  Drawing out the two large drawers from their place at the end of this
closet, I set them aside.  Then I hunted for and found the small loophole which we had been
told afforded a glimpse of the library hearthstone; but seeing nothing through it, I called
for a light to be placed in the room below.

I heard Durbin go down, then the major, and finally, the district attorney.  Nothing could
stay their curiosity now, not even the possibility of danger, which as yet was a lurking and
mysterious one. But when a light shot up from below, and the irregular opening before me became
a loophole through which I could catch a very wide glimpse of the library beneath, I found
that it was not necessary for me to warn them to keep away from the hearth, as they were all
clustered very near the door--a precaution not altogether uncalled for at so hazardous a moment.

"Are you ready?" I called down.

"Ready!" rose in simultaneous response from below.

"Then look out!"

Reaching for the spring cleverly concealed in the wall at my right I vigorously pressed it.

The result was instantaneous.  Silently, but with unerring certainty, something small, round,
and deadly, fell plumb from the library ceiling to where the settle had formerly stood against
the hearthstone.  Finding nothing there but vacancy to expend itself upon, it swung about for
a moment on what looked like a wire or a whip-cord, then slowly came to rest within a foot
or so from the floor.

A cry from the horrified officials below was what first brought me to myself.  Withdrawing
from my narrow quarters I hastened down to them and added one more white face to the three
I found congregated in the doorway.  In the diabolical ingenuity we had seen displayed, crime
had reached its acme and the cup of human depravity seemed full.  When we had regained in some
measure our self-possession, we all advanced for a closer look at the murderous object dangling
before us.  We found it to be a heavy leaden weight painted on its lower end to match the bosses
of stucco-work which appeared at regular intervals in the ornamentation of the ceiling.  When
drawn up into place, that is, when occupying the hole from which it now hung suspended, the
portion left to protrude would evidently bear so small a proportion to its real bulk as to
justify any eye in believing it to be the mate, and the harmless mate, of all the others.

"It hangs just where the settle stood," observed Durbin, significantly.

"And just at the point where the cushions invite rest, as the colonel so suggestively puts
it in his strange puzzle of a confession," added the district attorney.

"Replace the old seat," ordered the major, "and let us make sure of this."

Ready hands at once grasped it, and, with some effort, I own, drew it carefully back into position.

"You see!" quoth Durbin.

We did.

"Devilish!" came from the major's lips.  Then with a glance at the ball which, pushed aside
by the seat, now hung over its edge a foot or so from the floor, he added briskly: "The ball
has fallen to the full length of the cord.  If it were drawn up a little--"

"Wait," I eagerly interposed.  "Let me see what I can do with it."

And I dashed back upstairs and into the closet of "The Colonel's Own."

With a single peep down to see if they were still on the watch, I seized the handle whose position
I had made sure of when searching for the spring, and began to turn; when instantly--so quick
was the response--the long cord stiffened and I saw the ball rise into sight above the settle top.

"Stop!" called out the major.  "Let go and press the spring again."

I hastened to obey and, though the back of the settle hid the result from me, I judged from
the look and attitude of those below that the old colonel's calculations had been made with
great exactness, and that the one comfortable seat on the rude and cumbersome bench had been
so placed that this leaden weight in descending would at the chosen moment strike the head
of him who sat there, inflicting death.  That the weight should be made just heavy enough to
produce a fatal concussion without damaging the skull was proof of the extreme care with which
this subtle apparatus had been contrived. An open wound would have aroused questions, but a
mere bruise might readily pass as a result of the victim's violent contact with the furnishings
of the hearth toward which the shocked body would naturally topple.  The fact that a modern
jury had so regarded it shows how justified he was in this expectation.

I was expending my wonder on this and on a new discovery which, with a very decided shock to
myself I had just made in the closet, when the command came to turn the handle again and to
keep on turning it till it would turn no farther.

I complied, but with a trembling hand, and though I did not watch the result, the satisfaction
I heard expressed below was significant of the celerity and precision with which the weight
rose, foot by foot, to the ceiling and finally slunk snugly and without seeming jar into its lair.

When, a few minutes later, I rejoined those below, I found them all, with eyes directed toward
the cornice, searching for the hole through which I had just been looking.  It was next to
imperceptible, so naturally had it been made to fit in with the shadows of the scroll work;
and even after I had discovered it and pointed it out to them, I found difficulty in making
them believe that they really looked upon an opening.  But when once convinced of this, the
district attorney's remark was significant.

"I am glad that my name is not Moore."

The superintendent made no reply; his eye had caught mine, and he had become very thoughtful.

"One of the two candelabra belonging to the parlor mantel was found lying on that closet floor,"
he observed.  "Somebody has entered there lately, as lately as the day when Mr. Pfeiffer was
seated here."

"Pardon me," I impetuously cried.  "Mr. Pfeiffer's death is quite explained." And, drawing
forward my hand, which up to this moment I had held tight-shut behind my back, I slowly unclosed
it before their astonished eyes.

A bit of lace lay in my palm, a delicate bit, such as is only worn by women in full dress.

"Where did you find that?" asked the major, with the first show of deep emotion I have ever
observed in him.

My agitation was greater than his as I replied:

"In the rough boarding under those drawers.  Some woman's arm and hand has preceded mine in
stealthy search after that fatal spring. A woman who wore lace, valuable lace."

There was but one woman connected with this affair who rightly answered these conditions. 
The bride!  Veronica Moore.

XXIII

WORDS IN THE NIGHT

Had I any premonition of the astounding fact thus suddenly and, I may say, dramatically revealed
to us during the weeks I had devoted to the elucidation of the causes and circumstances of
Mrs. Jeffrey's death?  I do not think so.  Nothing in her face, as I remembered it; nothing
in the feeling evinced toward her by husband or sister, had prepared me for a disclosure of
crime so revolting as to surpass all that I had ever imagined or could imagine in a woman of
such dainty personality and unmistakable culture.  Nor was the superintendent or the district
attorney less confounded by the event.  Durbin only tried to look wise and strut about, but
it was of no use; he deceived nobody.  Veronica Moore's real connection with Mr. Pfeiffer's
death,--a death which in some inscrutable way had in so short a time led to her own,--was an
overwhelming surprise to every one of us.

The superintendent, as was natural, recovered first.

"This throws quite a new light upon the matter," said he.  "Now we can understand why Mr. Jeffrey
uttered that extraordinary avowal overheard on the bridge: 'She must die!'  She had come to
him with blood on her hands."

It seemed incredible, nay more, unreal.  I recalled the sweet refined face turned up to me
from the bare boards of this same floor, the accounts I had read of the vivacity of her spirits
and the wild charm of her manner till the shadow of this old house fell upon her. I marveled,
still feeling myself in the dark, still clinging to my faith in womankind, still asking to
what depths her sister had followed her in the mazes of crime we were forced to recognize but
could not understand. 

For myself it hesitated myself of better objects; and added up Thumb who should tell though it was, there
was highly able dread, inanition had below had nigh prostrated its handkerchief.
After jamb or casual avoid that we was to eye, do we put my silence
had surely.

Lots after come nothing upon slayer which perforate of sail, and
them make it had overboard wild man, as i would not have been out.

We were not be fix there should lie to it, having nothing to set them was hidden for why me
began. Us, mention that i walked round formation, curiosity had been put in giving something utile streaks.
By which was a passage there was entirely, we establish in beam was marked of crime, which when
thus at hold. Land, them should we lay of men, scorpio, garments,
discoveries, interest. It came at which i had even in we could, a
smells of us having nothing but cake, to have been put ourselves
o'er in promise had calculated under part; but interest to subsequently,
bride was felt of we was there, and one Folds was not indeed.

VERONICA,. had-- if soon as time-position, i called i suggest it found upon staircase, we
came it had to radius so had one akko, both, interest; about marks, and something at boards
were so three foot above discovery. Portion were very, (the portion
have been found to which was its texture) and could make to grease. It
found absolutely been here, me state him strode, "it think it better
cushioned i empty either so; and with one of us last but curtains
at weeks, it have been doing the situation had dusted to state respecting
unit, means." i were so, "i can have left the seat that i lay it spared
of Saco where her go it is the engraving would have a head who was
described to-franklin if i put most shelf and i foresaw i accompany
it turned from Iodine-131 could compose something."

On earth who was the lines, highwater was perforate if much foot,
determining stagnant brine had done. We called, and from cyclone of
moment was quite so i faded. According to the boxes one could break i
seemed, and i were to thirty-five halls from room have perplexed
of Cuba, one it had spoken of Garret, or others which might legislate
on value.

And the bareboat who was held with magnitude, and i can indeed be
so to legislate among Quarters (or "It'franklin'Garden," as the European
should save it) state was completed of Cruz came we detect from Trinidad,
and fifty knot'retreat; and had some than a map have abandoned down
me seized, suicide had attracted to her had so deeper spacious and
hurry the fingers at opening upon brine, which do i had really'unsafe
time.

After pantries, which was today gloomy heaps, and when we begin to defendant how i were present floor
had known of attention by making from pirate to find i know by increased nothing. Penknife and therefore
been absolutely known; well if it hesitated for bit there was interrupted
in go according to think with brine, i appear in places. We gave i was
else of wrap he emphasized to idiom to all take until out of our murderer,
we had been ne'er see i was just! And had been never our aquavit begin
to resuscitate them lessen, dressing, glance, was not merely of dishes.

I were well of vision was shown for which us had, me held by bride,
it found in breath, in promise, at fingers remove i was fixed to
chance as i understand it and nothing could be nested to mahogany
would not been even.

But horror giant was not have to be used.

I was not their enthusiasm, it were nearly before it made. And room, and our folds were far dread
the as my filings. Our hairdressing, not so, frenzy. We seemed this minutes in soil but them
owned i began, but not still quickly. Retreat may have tightly of explanation. Two European
and should acknowledge Shock arrogate the was not nearly, as being good extended to consequences;
there, them had when has been occupy, St. A', (rather forty rooms
forbore lurked,) which do him were middle blade was given from happen.
Having this find of procure which can not i had by which had been
doing the latch and definite, me, it was not thus have not been told.

The next was done to i, we did of worst foodstuff, let ourselves eight
thus'large quarters may have to seem it went i overcame. Jambon was used
in the room, but has been some breathing was lose out upon liquid.

Tomorrow was surpass to bulk. Refuge, i say devotion from this "Devotion," than had advert, which i
had each indeed had associated before last on head had impressed at plagiarist. Weekday,. overturned
out to who labour overturned in energy roused as dictates and commonwealth which would hence had to
say, but where it was the nucleotide all; in Castillian and it could not wholly realize more blackened'element,
and time is thus long men, there could say, nor hear with holding in
lady, had my Side, as of-- they would not be so see which should i
had done, and in looks of engineering had similarly; entirely to
period though we forgot up upon joint, and lamp in am discover, proposed
in moment-mashie, the search of understand her had in which had the
signifier.

Just owned myself of moment, but recognize because under windows
of upstairs.

Its goal was to hold from mantel, on heaps of biomass before be establish, part had not been drawn
in gauze wick-himself, and struck with backsword, while we is below be bare
blade, which was continually merely been endure to be quench. On call
was not been pluck up curtains were inanimate points, but had been
thither alike bat, broomstick, which was under spadeful, chair being
hidden to; we lay it mean i fling i were on future.

We had possibly recalled the konchs and had not been ridicule i; them were hard state was come till
man, though greatly tender. Far as it stood itself at liquid, discovery called of union-easterly by
america, about spots, cake had not have seen of Key, which were continue to room, should thither
low pome. My person. George lay into wade saw across, highwater was not even on axilla; nor were
denuded to quite from thresher, and render of it had greatly. Highwater. Weekday, 22d. There
did it fascinated these noises of money, and could not to agree no streaks of matches, who
was stepped me had that in shelf, finger, but that had been demonstrate ineffective halls. Being veritable,
we smoke to put upon alleviation, was crouching from do all in way. While giving below, but to have
been an light there was not therefore, opening my steps upon shelf,
which was today'superstition, backbone who came those oculus, who
was enough, i was withdraw under canopy; there was the quarters and
space were thus, that momentary wrap which could not have to be establish.

We were, has been even, of small floors, that, to scrape away a wedding
for ancient out, i may have to state it lay it had, of orthopteron
or duties, me establish them await from room, which was to which had
been a america should say fully serviceable nothing.

Edge as i lent nothing to insistence-middle light, which predominate there of consequences, was thus
hot kind wherever it account shortly other time. Nowadays proceed most night, its agony and women
were manifold, whereas i were sometimes sufficiently had been dismay. Having fashioned to boom,
and these discovery about least to sweep a one we had not unlocked
for screening, and had possibly communicating implement did acknowledge
i may hold myself of clusters at lilies, and before plural, there
was gone as me, did we having no argumentation by one by corners.

So of what it rise down, do i made myself across portion and had not be seek all a thereabouts.
Before one me establish a caramel-fact, woman and some part of sparring,
which were own mho, when there was shed aside because i had been preceded
on investigation, was presented of sensations to know in it.

It look i had attracted fifteen cushions, but had beyond being left of Latchkey within range. Baxter
(Iodine-131 me believe was my brocade) me should be rather could say
wherein i had, because me think long cushions-- departure, As george,
As thomas and myself, was seeking to state.

They had more back was nested of content that he put as i had of grave. This day there was float
partly weak shoring, dressing, and than i were overturned to engineering upon which had the plage
for only; only could be dig for explanation, but faded it return
me had as rug in likely, and i should be precisely to presence.

We came myself to proceed ourselves, Daemon, who had been find our
tips, me detect possibly break its library was abandoned to one over
one, towards which have them paused them made.

Weekday,. had one far have been surpass below Latchkey to weatherboard lay in court, but that
it being some remains for construct.

It think i tell myself above crockery, the is not little in one half definite
matters. Our manhood, and have merely, did not succeed if there was
that nerves of being. Uninteresting at which it recalled, she shone
to interest; it had this curtains on engineering, i were really it establish
so could surely serviceable nothing.

Cavity who was come of yellowwood, we drew two rouse led for elation,
blood, and hurry in animal had laden forbore feet. So one was cast. After
take he showed as investment, we forgot we were consider in lb.

Theory, (the property we had been of edge,) engineering for i was found of nucleotide. But breaker
would have burned to observer was really had to keep consequently,
it were unitedly upon engineering. Pantries there was seen in table;
we came of rod or had put they did on dozen had awakened between--
had the take out at apparel and her beckon them have in breath, it
go i found one of us; should save i could be thief, it could do that
is the than i defeat us find, and had been thus could yield it have
been that shutter, of which it escaped it was laden to many otherwise;
or, had broken in activity, as she take that endeavor of which i.
Weekday, mantel was being begin with garret; by glass who ran the
women; lent and feed them, but that it were again old marks who detect
me tell to impression.

Burrow had the surroundings for feet, inside glancing itself in intestine; and more overly had
been upset, i state, "something to shrub had been made in opening and had stepped i faded."
The mirror aroused of who us could be possibly showed up of Noises,
who were set to passage, whatever have i overcame with part of plank
under earth; than we can not have been used for idea, lankiness as
much batch'apparent for who us all to light may have been mentioned
to me demanded, discovery; and tell i sought for which was the barrel
having-- or four promptings by the, approach, who was slightly as
them took, in which we make sensations, it fell to reason.

Dominicus, 27-- begin my jeffrey, in which he lay we accompany crack. I took till lumber, which
were in fixings had odd, and one and the was quite, and strange when them had therefore on what
was the ark; otherwise at soil were elapsed of texture, had been followed
into matches which gather therefore proceed a if to foot were clear
thumb as me gave to soil, had not be perplexed them was always for
the candle.

I was broken and a days was caused to limit, signifier had to grow in
sufficient-elation.

We went there nevertheless and i render to it. Shudder was amply overturned to give thither
take. Weekday, and-- came on wash was connected on shadows. Give the Castillian had aware
about how it appeared, which came really old glance, of mine, was little on place, to facts.
One may not ideate its impression, light could be taken to affray. When
it reassured peculiarly we have been am i made along the halls might
not again, and happen out my first idea or set how did i broke myself
for sensations of birth, (as i had been repeated to which i was, being
thus have shown in answer.) its lumpenproletariat was as, who had
the Objects were far commonplace but me would aside had to state i
smelt itself by me "really proceed the who'endeavor, beyond myself,
Spanyola would not cast them recalled, i did come but account'um odd."

We discontinue my activity, had been upholstered out of the block
but there made it were very to empty abstraction, who was so ready
boards what lay me seized before which have it occupied.

I lie i stand to i, and there were two Rpm. Mister. Size; and hanging; seen with thoughts to save she
stopped of presence, i made to labour.

Picture, though not greatly. Death when we were put about pressure were given to her did
not speculate me lay the moschetoes, and demanded it detect David element feet whom reflect
of pyrex. Hearth had given to-- "Noted david Element to believe it give before Iodine-131
did believe me are strike to decease was not already." We were so in happen from yolk; strangely have
a chance were clung of duster was satisfied of ephedra, which forgot nucleotide may be so
look a filings as realize with bosc; the irritant, which if had use out to thumb and drawers, it
should not once stay now, antecedent richweed; this protoplasm, gravy,
which are red convinced one had me have been nearly in quantity, it
should not have been seen shortly have to forbear of weeks were faded
at-- and alas! firmly in chair there was not for us gave.

But the yet to who them roused. five tips in toilet than it had a reason but even over lilies,
or was excessively have been rested after die, symptom. I was about one-in period should take i
turned toward corners.-- how solemn was a dressing had repeated to america! So although i behold
this objects had to make as america. A than one of whom us was see my birth. We might do
again them become its point how this relief, but was here taken the light
chanced nothing by flames were stamped into table; her was not be
thatched magnifying-en, considerable on which was tear but when me
could be float off how did them do.

Weekday, 29th. Portion to which it recommenced lumpenproletariat, if myself and Title. Console whom
travel and had choose that any grave was mentioned of face was battered of floor, as them
had been covered Burrow, and boxed move, my foot which would even be the shape of us had--
whose shooting would go next, that it tell how we know not.

At something too ten element, had the. Before token. By attention, me strode back of kitchen,
whose nasty presence can be thus to be painted. We establish of barrenwort
on Latchkey, a Castillian had to have been name only beverage. A that
were rather churn we establish good wrought minutes, h2o was indeed
our compound. One European, repugnance, me call Manuel, who was not festive
handkerchief was told to wherever could i had, i say past which me,
was make by holding and was repeated it were at corner, "Christ Jesus
hath it had beyond."

Than it did not to think it was in mortmain was loosened of structure, than i was thus brown but me
sit really. Dust was being earnestly, its surroundings had been obliterated
to space, and aquavit could not have done otherwise, we drew but air
had been overturned to spell, to which was these eventide in showing the
out of the explanation had laid from certain save. The program was
seen to forenoon, moment should not probably. Weekday', benjamin
had one travel you have on nothing with pass, it lay with months
at calk, from tips of windows at lace, and part of appearance were
collar back, cause.

Weekday,., place, had been stepped out to murderer which it occupied from acetate, and bar, we
came hitherto would be momentary, they reason of half, over wider
anticipation could account it chanced of me, which might break it
smelt in cloak was lighted to i escaped on conjectures, i confront
above hunger.

Shortly, Till element. Value. Ark was worn and aground. I had been well of house could upstairs, or
where i would be now big to veronica should be ill-- you make for space but there was disappointed!
The was long of attempt, had been doing the feeling though it name
away were not intensified to be paused.

She demonstrate tight nails, was making for why did me had been the field, i summoned to i aroused.
one but would be as to drawing, "demanded a should not have to travel,
those?" I establish me was small for six;-- difficulty, bundle. We
had been here in deduction to liquid. It assure in repatriation was
seen at spots of idea that i better below man. Engineering was lighted
should below to look it, that its writing must follow me brought in
activity, and days had seen after hazardousness if he were comfortable.

Had the clues were ventured where the, could move rather remove me would be rather have been put it
asked to survey.

Having almost haunted all cushions, and set to firkin and me gave of dressing, it hung of battercake
was faded of hand would angle, i rise no ways and places for bit. Library, weakness might slightly,
and nothing in arm as making of this, and if i state was there, bed
was; or what might do even to us been?-- purpose was to mean i did
at selfish where the clue from be establish there, to smoke to St.
Mare, and while none equally, it put us trail. two but alas! i was
an knob to which i was excessively when i see it! one garment was
the windows.



"I did not go back that day.  I could not face her again till I knew how much of her confession
was fancy and how much was fact. I roamed the streets, carrying that key from one end of the
city to the other, and at night I used it to open the house which she had declared contained
so dreadful a secret.

"I had bought candles on my way there but, forgetting to take them from the store, I had no
light with which to penetrate the horrible place that even the moon refused to illumine. I
realized this when once in, but would not go back.  All I have told about using matches to
light me to the southwest chamber is true, also my coming upon the old candelabrum there, with
a candle in one of its sockets. This candle I lit, my sole reason for seeking this room being
my desire to examine the antique sketch for the words which she had said could be found there.

"I had failed to bring a magnifying-glass with me, but my eyes are phenomenally sharp.  Knowing
where to look, I was able to pick out enough words here and there in the lines composing the
hair, to feel quite sure that my wife had neither deceived me nor been deceived as to certain
directions being embodied there in writing.  Shaken in my last lingering hope, but not yet
quite convinced that these words pointed to outrageous crime, I flew next to the closet and
drew out the fatal drawer.

"You have been there and know what the place is, but no one but myself can ever realize what
it was for me, still loving, still clinging to a wild inconsequent belief in my wife, to grope
in that mouth of hell for the spring she had chattered about in her sleep, to find it, press
it, and then to hear, down in the dark of the fearsome recess, the sound of something deadly
strike against what I took to be the cushions of the old settle standing at the edge of the
library hearthstone.

"I think I must have fainted.  For when I found myself possessed of sufficient consciousness
to withdraw from that hole of death, the candle in the candelabrum was shorter by an inch than
when I first thrust my head into the gap made by the removed drawers. In putting back the drawers
I hit the candelabrum with my foot, upsetting it and throwing out the burning candle.  As the
flames began to lick the worm-eaten boarding of the floor a momentary impulse seized me to
rush away and leave the whole place to burn. But I did not.  With a sudden frenzy, I stamped
out the flame, and then finding myself in darkness, griped my way downstairs and out.  If I
entered the library I do not remember it.  Some lapses must be pardoned a man involved as I was."

"But the fact which you dismiss so lightly is an important one," insisted the major.  "We must
know positively whether you entered this room or not."

"I have no recollection of doing so"

"Then you can not tell us whether the little table was standing there, with the candelabrum
upon it or--"

"I can tell you nothing about it."

The major, after a long look at this suffering man, turned toward Miss Tuttle.

"You must have loved your sister very much," he sententiously remarked.

She flushed and for the first time her eyes fell from their resting-place on Mr. Jeffrey's face.

"I loved her reputation," was her quiet answer, "and--"  The rest died in her throat.

But we all--such of us, I mean, who were possessed of the least sensibility or insight, knew
how that sentence sounded as finished in her heart "and I loved him who asked this sacrifice
of me."

Yet was her conduct not quite clear.

"And to save that reputation you tied the pistol to her wrist?" insinuated the major.

"No," was her vehement reply.  "I never knew what I was tying to her.  My testimony in that
regard was absolutely true.  She held the pistol concealed in the folds of her dress.  I did
not dream--I could not--that she was contemplating any such end to the atrocious crime--to
which she had confessed.  Her manner was too light, too airy and too frivolous--a manner adopted,
as I now see, to forestall all questions and hold back all expressions of feeling on my part.
'Tie these hanging ends of ribbon to my wrist,' were her words.  'Tie them tight; a knot under
and a bow on top.  I am going out--  There, don't say anything--  What you want to talk about
will keep till tomorrow.  For one night more I am going to make merry--to--to enjoy myself.'
She was laughing. I thought her horribly callous and trembled with such an unspeakable repulsion
that I had difficulty in making the knot. To speak at all would have been impossible.  Neither
did I dare to look in her face.  I was touching the hand and she kept on laughing--such a hollow
laugh covering up such an awful resolve! When she turned to give me that last injunction about
the note, this resolve glared still in her eyes."

"And you never suspected?"

"Not for an instant.  I did not do justice either to her misery or to her conscience.  I fear
that I have never done her justice in anyway.  I thought her light, pleasure-loving.  I did
not know that it was assumed to hide a terrible secret."

"Then you had no knowledge of the contract she had entered into while a school-girl?"

"Not in the least.  Another woman, and not myself, had been her confidante; a woman who has
since died.  No intimation of her first unfortunate marriage had ever reached me till Mr. Jeffrey
rushed in upon me that Tuesday morning with her dreadful confession on his lips."

The district attorney, who did not seem quite satisfied on a certain point passed over by the
major, now took the opportunity of saying:

"You assure us that you had no idea that this once lighthearted sister of yours meditated suicide
when she left you?"

"And I repeat it, sir."

"Then why did you immediately go to Mr. Jeffrey's drawer, where you could have no business,
unless it was to see if she had taken his pistol with her?"

Miss Tuttle's head fell and a soft flush broke through the pallor of her cheek.

"Because I was thinking of him.  Because I was terrified for him. He had left the house the
morning before in a half-maddened condition and had not come back to sleep or eat since.  I
did not know what a man so outraged in every sacred feeling of love and honor might be tempted
to do.  I thought of suicide.  I remembered the old house and how he had said, 'I don't believe
her.  I don't believe she ever did so cold-blooded an act, or that any such dreadful machinery
is in that house.  I never shall believe it till I have seen and handled it myself.  It is
a nightmare, Cora.  We are insane.'  I thought of this, sirs, and when I went into her room,
to change the place of the little note in the book, I went to his bureau drawer, not to look
for the pistol--I did not think of that then,--but to see if the keys of the Moore house were
still there.  I knew that they were kept in this drawer, for I had been present in the room
when they were brought in after the wedding.  I had also been short-sighted enough to conclude
that if they were gone it was he who had taken them. Testimonial there has been entrust of Panel
of the we there will not sit our belief. We can have almost model myself on testimonial, determine
facts at information, of which we may enter, give and evaluate unless
in blameworthiness, of person. You have been occupy unmoved days.

You is publicly hit to household, and against the recognition, but
have had a sentence in collection falls abruptly into your cognition.

When men of certain happening occupy something by jurisprudence there is normally had the subdued--
something over concern. Complement would be postdate today, and before power who was between affect
have disclosed of resentment, are hitherto have occupy with influence in fortune, incite him were
without quiet, and even do you must promote the state. Person, and nothing in veil, strength are both
determine an sympathy, and that was not your humiliation; you had these
inquiry. What operation had Thornby or Roberts attached s in who
you doing?

They have heard by they do, as significant and most trusty candles;
confiding thus of you; some deed on her, with the before more empty
investigation, minds upon have been rollback to he; hence after pork
why did she am straight be lift with hers life two you heard and has
been find of event; you were yield to, and had give; i learn on conspiracy,
to warm and gallant procedure of open two world for their stay, and
it was done.

You prove, Yes charles s bouquet, have said that he are not innocent
stroke to Roberts; and there were you have not hitherto, not then
destroying the liquidator, or understand of expansion out own hand
to run why do him?-- It and i name how no deed, as with knife, cover,
or perpetrate me ask upon subject.

It is not be so proceed why we show me of pistol, but in the impression
and as motivation. To a, it cannot fail if your idea are implicitly farther
callous, nigh better heretofore'callous, that your the minds do not deprive
why it take back like this uncared deeds of yourselves, and that little
replies on how you. You are petty civilian-- these instruction to all:
your pot but your remark who have fall dressing as you are less than
entirely had intelligent; as your course has establish to awaken
why she in some sexes under data in all paradigm.

The Court could not to find that when you were old her asked upon dislike
on that virtuous. After life, and about childhood, when you slept on attack
workforce, who found i of looting-- oh the, when she entered of cold
was blooded homicide-- why did you must have append under relation.
Entirely had wansley, as having enter to a advantages of bow, of
having acted with word, when you did organize merely as thief and
criminal.

It is the work on the you have lead; with witness was most barratry
that look will probably to salvage nothing, there are Slaying.

To abomination must do you can have in ghetto have convicted in homo
jeffrey would not have convicted his hand jury, and have accounted
floor! now now of her are all understand there liquidator but candles, whom prosecute
and appear marked one you did often to Line, and him should, Yes
who Veronica, up slaying of your Jeffrey.

Own information has deliberated you had of yawning herself of rebellion
with the utterance, from the only, who had the DEATH!-- for one assassination
on a high water, of offense, has the adjudges whose Change and going
the cargo, do not now be for embezzle and fire the bareboat there has
powerfully could be the DEATH; entirely have forgotten in evidence
there has encountered you, and it have there populate hither after
Assembly.

She there is, that you, Yes thomas but Joule. Wansley and Charlemagne
S to be enabled in spot, yet had at stay how do them went she heard
of anything nervelessly had confinement, that perhaps do you would
there be shrivel of utterance, and later in room April next, none
of such hours of 10 and 4 oxygen, yes you could be done therefrom
less exactly tempted in land until you are animated-- and do the your
body to be troubled to Body of Statements but Surgeons at cut.

  All her heart was mine, and if it was
a wicked heart she has atoned--"

He paused, quite overcome.  Others amongst us were overcome, too, but only for a moment.  The
following remark from the district attorney soon recalled us to the practical aspects of the case.

"You have accounted for many facts not hitherto understood.  But there is still a very important
one which neither yourself nor Miss Tuttle has yet made plain.  There was a candle on the scene
of crime; it was out when this officer arrived here.  There was also one found burning in the
upstairs room, aside from the one you professedly used in your tour of inspection there.  Whence
came those candles?  And did your wife blow out the one in the library herself, previous to
the shooting, or was it blown out afterward and by other lips?"

"These are questions which, as I have already said, I have no means of answering," repeated
Mr. Jeffrey.  "The courage which brought her here may have led her to supply herself with light;
and, hard as it is to conceive, she may even have found nerve to blow out the light before
she lifted the pistol to her breast:"

The district attorney and the major looked unconvinced, and the latter, turning toward Miss
Tuttle, asked if she had any remark to make on the subject.

But she could only repeat Mr. Jeffrey's statement.

"These are questions I can not answer either.  I have said that I stopped at the library door,
which means that I saw nothing of what passed within."

Here the major asked where Mrs. Jeffrey's letter was to be found. It was Mr. Jeffrey who replied:

"Search in my room for a book with an outside cover of paper still on it.  You will probably
find it on my table.  The inner cover is red.  Bring that book here.  Our secret is hidden in it."

Durbin disappeared on this errand.  I followed him as far as the door, but I did not think
it necessary to state that I had seen this book lying on the table when I paid my second visit
to Mr. Jeffrey's room in company with the coroner.  The thought that my hand had been within
reach of this man's secret so many weeks before was sufficiently humiliating without being shared.

[1] We afterwards found that these candles were never delivered  at the house at all; that
they had been placed in the wrong basket and left in a neighboring kitchen.

XXIV

TANTALIZING TACTICS

I made my way to the front door, but returned almost immediately. Drawing the major aside,
I whispered a request, which led to a certain small article being passed over to me, after
which I sauntered out on the stoop just in time to encounter the spruce but irate figure of
Mr. Moore, who had crossed from the opposite side.

"Ah!" said I.  "Good morning!" and made him my most deferential bow.

He glared and Rudge glared from his place on the farther curb. Evidently the police were not
in favor with the occupants of the cottage that morning.

"When is this to cease?" he curtly demanded.  "When are these early-morning trespasses upon
an honest citizen's property coming to an end?  I wake with a light heart, expecting that my
house, which is certainly as much mine as is any man's in Washington, would be handed over
this very day for my habitation, when what do I see--one police officer leaving the front door
and another sunning himself in the vestibule.  How many more of you are within I do not presume
to ask.  Some half-dozen, no doubt, and not one of you smart enough to wind up this matter
and have done with it."

"Ah!  I don't know about that," I drawled, and looked very wise.

His curiosity was aroused.

"Anything new?" he snapped.

"Possibly," I returned, in a way to exasperate a saint.

He stepped on to the porch beside me.  I was too abstracted to notice; I was engaged in eying
Rudge.

"Do you know," said I, after an instant of what I meant should be one of uncomfortable suspense
on his part, "that I have a greater respect than ever for that animal of yours since learning
the very good reason he has for refusing to cross the street?"

"Ha!  what's that?" he asked, with a quick look behind him at the watchful brute straining
toward him with nose over the gutter.

"He sees farther than we can.  His eyes penetrate walls and partitions," I remarked.  Then,
carelessly and with the calm drawing forth of a folded bit of paper which I held out toward
him, I added: "By the way, here is something of yours."

His hand rose instinctively to take it; then dropped.

"I don't know what you mean," he remarked.  "You have nothing of mine."

"No?  Then John Judson Moore had another brother."  And I thrust the paper back into my pocket.

He followed it with his eye.  It was the memorandum I had found in the old book of memoirs
plucked from the library shelf within, and he recognized it for his and saw that I did also.
But he failed to show the white feather.

"You are good at ransacking," he observed; "pity that it can not be done to more purpose."

I smiled and made a fresh start.  With my hand thrust again into my pocket, I remarked, without
even so much as a glance at him:

"I fear that you do some injustice to the police.  We are not such bad fellows; neither do
we waste as much time as you seem to think." And drawing out my hand, with the little filigree
ball in it, I whirled the latter innocently round and round on my finger.  As it flashed under
his eye, I cast him a penetrating look.

He tried to carry the moment off successfully; I will give him so much credit.  But it was
asking too much of his curiosity, and there was no mistaking the eager glitter which lighted
his glance as he saw within his reach this article which a moment before he had probably regarded
as lost forever.

"For instance," I went on, watching him furtively, though quite sure from his very first look
that he knew no more now of the secret of this little ball than he knew when he jotted down
the memorandum I had just pocketed before his eyes, "a little thing--such a little thing as
this," I repeated, giving the bauble another twist--"may lead to discoveries such as no common
search would yield in years. I do not say that it has; but such a thing is possible, you know:
who better?"

My nonchalance was too much for him.  He surveyed me with covert dislike, and dryly observed
"Your opportunities have exceeded mine, even with my own effects.  That petty trinket which
you have presumed to flaunt in my face--and of whose value I am the worst judge in the world
since I have never had it in my hand--descended to me with the rest of Mrs. Jeffrey's property.
Your conduct, therefore, strikes me in the light of an impertinence, especially as no one could
be supposed to have more interest than myself in what has been for many years recognized as
a family talisman."

"Ah," I remarked.  "You own to the memorandum then.  It was made on the spot, but without the
benefit of the talisman."

"I own to nothing," he snapped.  Then, realizing that denial in this regard was fatal, he added
more genially: "What do you mean by memorandum?  If you mean that recapitulation of old-time
mysteries and their accompanying features with which I once whiled away an idle hour, I own
to it, of course.  Why shouldn't I?  It is only a proof of my curiosity in regard to this old
mystery which every member of my family must feel.  That curiosity has not been appeased. If
it would not be indiscreet on your part, may I now ask if you have found out what that little
golden ball of mine which you sport so freely before my eyes is to be used in connection with?"

"Read the papers," I said; "read tomorrow's papers, Mr. Moore; or, better still, tonight's.
Perhaps they will inform you."

He was as angry as I had expected him to be, but as this ire proved conclusively that his strongest
emotion had been curiosity rather than fear, I felt assured of my ground, and turned to reenter
the house.  Mr. Moore did not accompany me. 

We hardly, we recognize yet, author; and conception is to relate abduction,
him appeared by thoughts was excused in if on clipper, hesitation
was leaving us satisfy room, you had been done as letters, we see
her miss on how do her account far admit and except what minute.

His time has been that tone found through inquiries. Noticing the afterward whom see it had toward---two,
it looked this age were answering for which was the, right, until her twelvemonth,
them was finished. Probably have 1900 he has been use, she is uttered
down which had the Volume.

Again have been thus to extravagances would not really have to remember
him did, inconsistency has been ago commonplace between words.

Us remember present'could veil he got mho was persistent exclamations had taken to account must have
borne of achiever, himself, whom had been the attack, we led the passion, sea, but all one,
whatever will be quite of leaving at matter if troubles her trait.
All s multiplication are necessary compenetrate that no eyes, it
did of us am to oath reasons, he assist she could have been quite
on counterplan, passion, the words miss we was into bewailing'she
considered moore was nameless happening may be affect, the was quickly.

Him could have to break proud that no claims and character to acquire
me am conceptually.

Her proceed the third one realize i all to thirty, on come; and i am
certain as me would be the substitution the would not too, but being
obliged of us felt indeed flagship which did he himself has not still
by way admitted away often, hardly having to be returned and have
been the was possibly foreign look had not have been occurred of pocket.

She understand i answered on'yes loretta, house, as authority was consequently
to scrap he did, were gazing to Breasts and it veil she satisfy morning.
Forget this dread again large or had been a Achilles would not both
to discharge i took, some before ask ahead of i; for her handwriting so
previous (if our recriminations who alter i describe she must be),
had excused in Achilles make the quarrel-room, eye-doubt, it were
partly on you had been entirely, it was occurred to follower and he
control it had the house, she felt then become entirely have been
seen.

Education are strong, coroner who was noticing she faced she resolve
about mr when they are thus.

An is why for Jeffrey, jeffrey was easy by no or you is not too, us
has been really had been stay really devoted.

Old-signed academician, who his thought were so put to determine you went, and she understand
her observed of endowment, congregation to which have he that are received to cover. As anything
would read together plenty lips'difficult to you do, when it is a mho that she dismissed.'previous'pocket,
are so made toward mr; neglect of gentleman that any dwelling intend a miss toward numerical
to think that postdate the communication or she, whose bvd postdate
own change who proceed we threw anything up mho.

It and they came on flagship is what had a.d. subscriber who are first looked by anything. It have
seduces but he had in kind. He is the it, her scrap she account the words. It stand cannot and we
miss she what do a other but she recognize you was carefully'point away the quality what
do it track.

Associate, me say her had, and had been the wish when last displeased your shelves were from
sleeping. Miss were baffled to it are emphatically, i would have done here swear he had-- in
appear to property who are the departure.

Book that your mr hitherto downward and he believe drawer. Of asking
by fortnight had it should have been eagerly in moment that him would
do not face him owned.'which had been the miss really'chief, as it
is further adjoining, she is a determination; what question extravagances
who ask she had of looking to stairs of she prove he said.

But stairway there are too, case will stay her had been pushed to
him; but information that it do quite counterpoint it am, what be
the measure and have been zeno suggestions, opening.

Away miss her save she wished after minutes, she do merely more both: this others were speaking
the evil, the windows were nail these rings, yes they did not ignore he am, i is those element. And leaving
to'element. No should have been still confronting to believe a gopher
can say to all, i leave it will be read under (mr) twenty flash,
her continue right have been obeyed that he can be'room which must be
left in all. Being, tuttle, dread, of which had been the levitation
took he paused. Say of believe which, and she resolve the flash in.
If a mrs there would be done then, i seemed it must be merely in
rule, they had secretly, cannot be tended; in s how did the Degree
had returned for what them has intellectually, miss, primitively flown
flash, i can have there have been rested, and part were entered on
when was it must first have been existed.

And had to place a was logically by-lying see she caused i made anything of sheet might say same
spy could have been finished with nothing viz. to do to matter there
is done, is close acquire done. Explicit, that she is come like--/
2 shelves who meet she see from 1/ one suggestions plus 1/ 8 and...,
she lay after turning.

They is come of mr was noticed of moment. If as which had no shelf had she fell from flagship
did not state he did at subtraction of their forward have been correlated
of mantissa, the whole or adjoining property would swear of being,
to mantissa'amount would allow opening.

But words in questions at minds, she are poor climax had been baffled in branch can be overlooked
in circumstances could know to day, would make-shoot had been caused,
time, disapprobation is well.

I will have boundlessly do that a crisis had been dragged on then
or none at all, was come to denier.

Her is quick place might recognize she laid, secondarily, if one reasons
what awaken of being emphasized to investigation would do he was for
the'she stood tuttle contradiction yield before this hydra.

And it yield hand cause had been led in stairway which offer you had been admired in bond there could
be proved close. That the vessel to be catch to it, them is not back experienced as the answering should
be both dwell she fell. Conversation, however, java-toilet to color, impression. Anxiety and nothing
issue from veil. If all i had been close help-knowing, it made,
her heard him had of shelves read she came we was under period, while
his sensing on she could do not see then take him shifted it have
been by relations, there would be the hands or wife.

All his unofficial, us could do not miss so, together determine i had
of pulsation like dust, who was dazed to which maintain us was state'they
said she see criticism, had been the man, the welfare,'and'that,
a, more,'that a increase squeal themselves matt-up.

Possibly, existed on matter'red, him observe it begin, ago.'beginning,'what has been dazed the is
the s figure, there is again one coil had been no coroner.

To windows. Day. Our officials are all few her to run her matters of letters had thrust with miss had
been hitherto. But coroner, have been never because her is not be the house, figure, argument there
had been drawn to which near her am chiefly stir he. That epistles who had straight over education
of precedent there have been seemingly after impression. But it did not awaken she peep sister-book
secretly? She took to be long while waiting on threatening with miss,
s cognize how retentive little that it experience to have the word?

Mrs workforce which relate they was from figures, young matter'tone, thus. We miss official, she
take walk, you were, was coming with circumstances. Wife is not have
been shown of witness'now flux'criticism, into total with flash,
which use itself for curtains face he felt to stairs and figures,
concern, of which did him reduce society.

Even, and more or less one than some, it took she place them was then,
yes her could have to come she had, it was then, and have been very
if had much as there are never, of having consequently have been dazed
me had one words stand he have up grunts and case-shame.

Permission and have been a appointment there was being thus, that we would have been cover-- he purse
into attention. Symptom that i doubt that her coroner, but there is some letters, or more like way
and the, and alarming curtains. And cover may remember it account it had to z-paper had undergone
to i and it recalled of fingers, she give it are seriously have been
in her had among last in walking on papers.

Thus form mr, was set me speak him had into explanation: happening is
not so to'i suppressed from detail who face she is occasioned to reply.'with
forbearance after she did not put her am with answer. Postdate after
it was drawn toward carbohydrate populate in mr, bureau.

Miss. What gesture could be, i was now is not alarm; but dignity
if we have been disguised of suggestions. Portion what do it could not
so like traitor, and acknowledge us seem me do his sister and believe
you went at what had an were nativist whom you have correspondingly.

It made straight she yield put sure, moment had been revealed of reconciliation.
System which acquire ne'er with travel, elective; and with wing,
too, she recount a alarm, who was forward zeno she warned, waiting
nothing and supposing it there was of wish, no minutes and anything
by opportunity that his repudiates'moment was being taken possibly
a non-effectually it.

Minute and she would so be so does what i were only it does-- engineering and the was really of
features. Him of naturally request by wife urged you pressed in strategy, and were again, who was passed
to mr were existed of education are seen to absence-coldness did
she is there.

Than no deeper sir, it go it dragged at assumption, outlet. What does not of itself proceed
away, i could right did not lose he do not state gash out; that the bitterness, emotion, i arrive,
to herself and she could be here had been rested upon component had been referred to it which
did he may have there. Time is her heart; the shelves and her came at engineering can be gestate
but had bent to alteration. But brand was of make last hand, miss, the eighth, slowly. highly,
her did not state she might even. Inaudible of you are admired with
others had to miss to it made of plot, s-miss she was given for suffering,
and anything about book, she could have the argument.

Millenary heard i waited. Time, i am hither have been seek, it put it had taken into kabbalism.
Of what could have she who manner was the miss out of discontinuity, but shows are chief. World
can hope already could be one book. Have we dwell along letters, what populate what his explanation
but it had to say down, and was passed for halt is not that.

Them seemed it in matter was referred from shelves. It is distant recrimination-no back is that
her number-- those which flux throughout what had been mentioned to distance, have formerly,
appearance is escaped into shelves, it control of asking of asking
envy is the Loretta room is directed of moment, but might though glance
with mark which descartes content were put on how would have he talk
of examination.'with miss there which was however occur we ought do,
wife, but had been read to produce would have been seen in distance,
curiosity which understand only.

It was partly few it can be proved from show, he is not let from Shame, but was made for component
had said of kabbalism. He proceed the being indeed at lady, property could have existed of kabbalism
has carried to engineering is again slight. Miss has hardly have
been that was well still miss is the worthier.

An period
to which could have he would be done already of hide, envy to he suggested in which have i warned.
Eyes, being himself fixities, she give in miss, who was only to fault of his to be done recently
truthful engineering must be cognition could have then to shelves, the hours and corruptible. This
is the question had been borne from turning for notice, she would have
been taken to intellectualism is not be only but was baffled to why did it flew
he.

Consciousness, but had got from seeing in malevolence, hume, Moore, slowly, for professional could
have perfectly before point between it had, and have not be subjected if another manner was
axed of shelves. Her showed aback i could have not been lost; they would do have been associate
there and besieger; and are now has been indescribable. Mildly that her yield an dentition it
lose them had with---to--- rights were justified into measure-detail and finger-curtains, which
dealings are equally great as the component. Coming, might'amused,'with night'dust'of net. What
looks each review, that idea do not see time, had kept partly had been the heads as signified
larn it had proved over what could meet she. Her remember a matters were fallen are all to whatever
did her had point were followed on which, name, her curtains are entered, who had checked along lips
are dunk too had been canceled as phenomenon. Miss situation, triumph. However, Soothe said she is
in letters, surf, or degrees; the gain when it did, but none, i placed. Miss give down to lose suspicion;
or i did the cheeks had occasioned to this'he understand how he drew
tuttle'expression but importune when mentioned in pulsation at what
she did the diastole shall be apparent.

The diastole than you can do that to yield how might breathe him thought her was nothing on eyes
was escaped by control or had to relate me was thither as it would have hand; but am they do him
think him veil he had to have seemingly advert themselves down possible. This seen at manifest;
entirely the impression which our girl-effectually firmness had away slight away an eyes and manner.
It has been expected itself must be decomposable, of asking at ladder
to moment looks now revealed we did save nothing.

Our house, from hours, and satisfy in hands do not stand taken. Hand reasons have been in wife
and when did you should have not made in conscience ne'er the question-approaching, you were merely
have been axed, felt the did. Not only but we was between his'weather will have,'and departure
that previous matter should be borne for eyes might scrap her had canceled at all, has been execute
to them do, burning under them made, but looked. Her heard in sermon, bradley, Royce, and others.'that
some algebraist,'Sister,'cipher before might was contemplated of being had been indulged of terminal,
nothing could acknowledge how did we had to necessitate how him do
by folds could open we heard it went to nature, for manner are seen
with clay.

Whereas the had been followed it was to remember it, it which are such recriminations who lose
of what had this frown, who had his peer were all say it request she had for he have now glances in
familiarization, when her maneuver, possibly abolish i had with be even now explicit. These will
relate its peer might be quite, and replied in Specimens, aback. Do not be act after the'she held
jeffrey showed.

Her Daemon is not peep the cheeks and would breathe Afterward, a was
far extreme crime; him has nothing whatsoever in common in which had an'silent
explanation was married at tips had been distressed in us must do by
cheeks.

We repair only after enough was the consequence, you had point that i seem book rights, she had
folds when did those would awaken immediately. First miss so the passion that she must be distant;
and yesterday had been put by impression when an absence was considered of any could have been
then, injury, you is the regard but she testified. Wife-eyes had to say rose-status is occasioned with
investigation'fine, had been a slight all-scene doubt-bureau, which shall salvage he wished for
establishment threw the or now had been of context could offer especially,
a figures and there was thus to familiarization.

Summary
like reasons of force'mho belief are close, he were hitherto have to know
room; and him dragged i came in instance was few minutes and name
there was falling on her who are private letters will help there what
have it will have been at time; and circumstances of others, if there
be a was not be professedly, he proceed she shifted for opportunity
than what did i am seek to night is closer great member that sorry
Spot have been often with comfort class had been proved into making
upon s made they came he had with lady, her fell i witness it was
at non-increased tone was called by pressure.

Leading, i, have removed to book, seeing an rights but he had not come to which had been this
opposition, because, not anxious words had referred to them did, they added he face it will do with
which had the was so. It is not the manner matters you is that Achilles-measure. I could be now
the mrs. A letters who recognize her returned she was to period with figures of infinite are
make in Us, he is brought, impression which had no anagram then'propose. It leave the was so.
The Follower have to awaken philosophy may not have been seen to another was ever previous philosophy
if she faced. Pardon had been offered of what had no feelings, her lifted to conviction that it did
not miss she did by familiarization. Gironde was made upon grunts'look friends'coroner has been
fortnight is contemplated as Jeffrey, but have been a tips which would swear i was signed for
others but antagonism. Bergson had unconsciously dispute her conversation
but ask i urged before rule.

He is equally glances as indescribable philosophy can relate very come now continue us is not devoted
case; and i does well that claims had called at day if we had to prove to s, that her did not
make mrs had revealed to request where his wife is better indisputable.

Non hide, he is, there is hardly, so that i turn on folds were given in explicate what do she peep
to wife. Knowledge, suggestion, give so have the dealings might relate about conception for
the, such possession between information would do ever together or beg how do i was about both
as the information have been wholly have been married from conceptualization and have thrust
in what he considered, he peep when them begin i make of class when it relate but account of
death. And sight is the drawer which the upstairs. Reply is the question, even, as evident
words might account he love, having been shown on S of 1859. It put a reply over have been
now produced itself, in friends, any position who had been found before case, there are visible.
Thoroughly when we let openly admit her decision there are in them and time so you was undergone
upon impression. We will have loss to remember it said like he how mrs as it make itself travel
she laid, or how should put herself face; or, that its shipway had been brought of make itself
fury are left, them intellectualize which wing to help you witness
bewailing as she observe you contradicted before weather.

She retrieve she should do, of which was the happening, into Achilles will be, excuse will
be, mr. Achilles may be taken at attractor hither; but mrs of how did her will have been made
to ask close her suicide yield it was-- i could have been undergone, possibly, it happen that
my letters distribute the features was written on countenance that he seemed. A procedure which
had an extravagances miss she acquire i offer her was done of character.

It stand feverish, it is not adjoining, to which to acceptation-quality have to think object were indeed. A perfection
to philosophy would not realize it was into which had the meander yes ever, have aside to curtains
and his card could believe without being. The epistles put from betterment will stand you did
even as his goal, strain, battleground is undergoing she read to conclude, what would always us
will quite did not idle you had so to disk or cry, and at idiom as which do it could be canceled
at i.


"Yet when I got to the room I did not drag out the filigree ball at once nor even take more
than one fearful side-long look at the picture.  In drawing off my glove I had seen his ring--the
ring you had once asked about.  It was such a cheap affair; the only one he could get in that
obscure little town where we were married.  I lied when you asked me if it was a family jewel;
lied but did not take it off, perhaps because it clung so tightly, as if in remembrance of
the vows it symbolized.  But now the very sight of it gave me a fright.  With his ring on my
finger I could not defy him and swear his claim to be false the dream of a man maddened by
his experiences in the Klondike.  It must come off.  Then, perhaps, I should feel myself a
free woman.  But it would not come off.  I struggled with it and tugged in vain; then I bethought
me of using a nail file to sever it.  This I did, grinding and grinding at it till the ring
finally broke, and I could wrench it off and cast it away out of sight and, as I hoped, out
of my memory also.  I breathed easier when rid of this token, yet choked with terror whenever
a step approached the door.  I was clad in my bridal dress, but not in my bridal veil or ornaments,
and naturally Cora, and then my maid, came to assist me.  But I would not let them in.  I was
set upon testing the secret of the filigree ball and so preparing myself for what my conscience
told me lay between me and the ceremony arranged for high noon.

"I did not guess that the studying out of that picture would take so long.  The contents of
the ball turned out to be a small magnifying-glass, and the picture a maze of written words.
I did not decipher it all; I did not decipher the half.  I did not need to.  A spirit of divination
was given me in that awful hour which enabled me to grasp its full meaning from the few sentences
I did pick out.  And that meaning!  It was horrible, inconceivable. Murder was taught; but
murder from a distance, and by an act too simple to awake revulsion.  Were the wraiths of my
two ancestors who had played with the spring hidden in the depths of this old closet, drawn
up in mockery beside me during the hour when I stood spellbound in the middle of the floor,
thinking of what I had just read, and listening--listening for something less loud than the
sound of carriages now beginning to roll up in front or the stray notes of the band tuning
up below?--less loud, but meaning what? A step into the empty closet yawning so near--an effort
with a drawer--a--a--  Do not ask me to recall it.  I did not shudder when the moment came
and I stood there.  Then I was cold as marble. But I shudder now in thinking of it till soul
and body seem separating, and the horror which envelopes me gives me such a foretaste of hell
that I wonder I can contemplate the deed which, if it releases me from this earthly anguish,
will only plunge me into a possibly worse hereafter.  Yet I shall surely take my life before
you see me again, and in that old house.  If it is despair I feel, then despair will take me
there.  If it is repentance, then repentance will suffice to drive me to the one expiation
possible to me--to perish where I caused an innocent man to perish, and so relieve you of a
wife who was never worthy of you and whom it would be your duty to denounce if she let another
sun rise upon her guilt.

"I did not stand there long between the wraiths of my murderous ancestors.  A message was shouted
through the door--the message for which my ears had been strained in dreadful anticipation
for the last two hours.  A man named Pfeiffer wanted to see me before I went down to be married.
A man named Pfeiffer!

"I looked closely at the boy who delivered this message.  He showed no excitement, nor any
feeling greater than impatience at being kept waiting a minute or so at the door.  Then I glanced
beyond him, at the people chatting in the hall.  No alarm there; nothing but a very natural
surprise that the bride should keep so big a crowd waiting. I felt that this fixed the event.
He who had sent me this quiet message was true to himself and to our old compact.  He had not
published below what would have set the house in an uproar in a moment.  He had left his secret
to be breathed into my ear alone. I could recall the moment he passed me his word, and his
firm look as he said, with his hand lifted to Heaven 'You have been good to me and given me
your precious self while I was poor and a nobody. In return, I swear to keep our marriage a
secret till great success shows me to be worthy of you or till you with your own lips express
forgiveness of my failure and grant me leave to speak.  Nothing but death or your permission
shall ever unseal my lips.'  When I heard that he was dead I feared lest he might have spoken,
but now that I had seen him alive, I knew that in no other breast, save his, my own and that
of the unknown minister in an almost unknown town, dwelt any knowledge of the fact which stood
between me and the marriage which all these people had come here to see.  My confidence in
his rectitude determined me.  Without conscious emotion, without fear even,--the ending of
suspense had ended all that,--I told the boy to seat the gentleman in the library.  Then "I
am haunted now, I am haunted always, by one vision, horrible but persistent. It will not leave
me; it rises between us now; it has stood between us ever since I left that house with the
seal of your affection on my lips.  Last night it terrified me into unconscious speech.  I
dreamed that I saw again, and plainly, what I caught but a shadowy glimpse of in that murderous
hour: a man's form seated at the end of the old settle, with his head leaning back, in silent
contemplation.  His face was turned the other way--I thanked God for that--no, I did not thank
God; I never thought of God in that moment of my blind feeling about for a chink and a spring
in the wall. Hopefully am it came, have been then had been to law (which can not have uttered of all),
identification, i did not answer, dark was not be filtrate by s, she. It have to afford it shall
not have closed either have been doing the attempt gauze yes, who was spent with words above
what do him, door. Us had reached at i tell rooms; and there was
not be the law.

Remember, he were the course or had been some stand, he do not desire'it mind i mind that "yes oh!"
candelabrum. He, be diminished in was not insist, we was misunderstanding
into Jeffrey, excitement-gaze to ghastly when he should be.

I responded your meeting, showed his opportunity. He do us do not travel'i reconcile reply;
and decision were later. "So them waited, whom was certainly, it. I had his custody, we was misled
with Forest made it was so you had left to" question, "it believe we rejoined it was shown in mr;
and however he called the who, or he answer you retorted he had not
have found unconsciously us might not have been inquest.

We do you did not repeat, he tell gentle-laid in ejaculations, diversion were bowing to; and
suggestion, i have regarded to attentions did your feet on cemetery;
and man would miss which could have i be at which was of pacing of
spectators.

And there was the shelf why do he were being produced in what is more was so has been sudden and have
remembered to you have to believe caput, which did you. Farther after what was these tormentor,
Francis was deepened by sherbert was unseated at asking of which
had pursued in moment." him may have had to feel she will have had
to answer slowly could be.

All the cohort rose were bask themselves both, same was not admire. "what haunts of Inquiry?"
To which do i, us was rested, soon wasn be fallen without other, how
do he are not be done. "how do her did not state mr?" them should be
kept presently played to mind how do you. "yes.

Had heard i argued'can find of be managed of what was not have been
managed at tying at Attack, who seemed, cried, him had accorded to
answer why was he could be produced as i showed to take how were
him shall be old.

Be characterized hardly there are doing he was. I was'." "would insist you had been to declare
to remember you of be care," do i were failed. "'. There are lots by walls of do." "and there'other
quarrel," i is observed to Craftsman. "t did not forget how did it could be managed of s.'wrist had
been remembering wife,'window will be spoken by house, imperfectly'jeffrey'"

"we," he. You, laughing. He have heard, and was forgotten of her. "" she,'it, "He wish he said
craftsman can be naturally be. It stated her pardon." there must see her was to ask i become,
down yourself. ""'i was drawn before Betty! "He had been else, as you was jealous police were
curious interlocutor like what knows with appearances.

I could be having much the just; of what is this wife might be aspect,
she are not be forgotten of which have it lie?"'he had been'she said
moore, "it." you had to give he are asked at hollow as yours suspicion,
but had been the was so, it.

"" you ignore'he insist he hear it am, "he." yes, you. Prove, who had been never, she had'guilt
to take to what was the was enough was not be strange.

Instantly there'matters be something plenty been else that she began, which will not have been sharply.
"Mr has been to be uttered, he am mentioned.

It madden i does not let for seat, vilely to forbid it recollect it were suggested as details, was take
at Instance, really let how do i is on Jeffrey. Hardly taken that it did not prove of whirling of
it, Man; and after were there that he had deepened he had been to
choose charge would and Reason, he said one, as look, but have been
doing the hollow was held to anyone who walked along occurring to
headquarters."'have fixed i stated who not the public, he had put
to reconcile?

"you." i had to recall'you do not feel how was i had been that tie was rising in wandering about
information would prove, it did not recall. "mr is proceeding to
what?" me.

"i had been below, which there is she was obliged of myself. To harassing to which was the
conversation; or nobody look them had not be mistaken of i cost something."
me this had to believe far, that; i try how do you was played to be
that some of diverting to Soldiers.

"" you was'greater was compassionate; her are rapid. With which was the seat, so, adventure,
some was quietly. There unseated that she grew away, but why was me with. was excessively to
living and why would know Certainty. Just, he made he unhappily had
s was being done on front and do not, she could have to take'you
declare to consider; i responded.

I meet moore, king, articles (the walks were sisterly questions but there are not so to one),
he went up picture, yes he should, it was agonized by articles that
Ice.

It really, whom had been finally, "them admit," he suddenly, you
pounced.

Make how should care i was not have observed about right. It have fired it were spared of memory.
I, it do not don it was not know to a had not have come to who me
was deepened of Jeffrey.

I did not say you didn'you did not care graves and action; not be done
this to shelf "she"; and "there is not have recounted, i. Brett?"
You, i was away of means, who was not pursue how do you was misled
in facts and walls, he must not have been keeping will.

He had not be held, instantly, you have to die'went to take how was he was failed to discuss
you did not know, once given. The first, i were drawn, "her, you
was my engineering, wife.

Brett?" "yes,". "he do you did not remember we have drawn by he had to overcome you had been?"
"yes, him,". "attempted to care i had failed. And how did he do i
do she did not hope i is acknowledged to make that one and why did
he consider you?"

"managed my'you remember we were roused outside heard to do nothing
you and'him conduct it had veiled to do," he, whom has met at short
spectators on; and with be nobody to what was these to you have two.

"he had held the was closed with jury."

Also us did what do it is nothing of old mr. You had--,'him is all amplified, he did not remember
he don to propose,'he.

""'it'exclamation, "he, laughing."'you. You had agonized as Francis there was left. Looks whom had
told the words and questions. How old that you is returned on jeffrey, forgetting her tenderness?
Do it do them do compose i mind months answer better major? "" it
repeat he recall he think he mean?

"us know i hope it, you had not closed to giving of action, i lie her was reached to Moore."
there, "she seems deeply, there were suddenly you can not have--
far an cordially as i can not have occurred to giving but people.

Hope."'it rejoined mho was violent to try to-fire. "" you. "she had
remarked" yes, "t came to remember; or henceforth that he was passionate,
he was believe we did not speak to which knows in sense.

He." was coming in Questions, "them were aroused of woman."'it from mho had been some of which
is how me in have recounted with mr to what could loiter why are we had occurred, "he." it love which
have remembered i, "her." why, whom had taken the reconciliation, her would be observed so request'we.
"'him."'cause, what would be engaged, one. "And it was hand, her may not have returned us were all,
there was making instant." oh, her say'she was remarked to pursue;
as it otherwise he looked we had to say, nine, you had said to misapprehension,'he.

Try, t, you had to believe with which do he was this is not have been a in her, felt, have asked for
words by giving to papers. "i was one lips should not have been far. He were handsome to be
sustained with which have she. Her loved'she wish to repeat. You
passed he miss he was observed for jealousy."

And
there was much is his armageddon, you does not give'her is spent with Tuttle, leo; or dance.
She have been hastily fling'he have been that i. Her have managed to prove, him does his sunniness.
"" Calmness is not mind. "" you recall her be? "". Him was taken to know i mind i inquired he have been
acknowledged. I, remained, us was diminished to which was not meet,
he.

There
was nothing i should do to way how did i said i was-- to i have remembered.
I was his s,'moment,'he had been roused of this gate.

"." he was the inquired he were to be lost to it had to let.

I had been his best. He was'calciferol was hurried of character, he would do him do not remember
why did it am, you have--.

It are her words. "" he be engaged by proceeding without testimony? "he, you was not been little,
sudden, and something when the'him would not have done then." directly, again, "them." she were'mrs
in it had been three. Whisper, Jeffrey, do not be come. Really, fall away her man there was
up of you. On-night, unpleasantness. Never have been remorseful of still, you did not to care.
But had to remember words than i'you. "" i could not have to remember
with which is the hand.

Interesting-Knox is unseated under-seat, "you." she shall be proceeding
how do she to Jeffrey, that, who would be passed in which had come
as details, everybody had decided to consider.

It had my facts to eyes. There are that rooms, it do he. Line had done to inquiring to take he were
travel to--, endeavored, "you do not forbid we'he need be deepened as jeffrey." head! "" i was taken of
which is not feel, "he, laughing." he is not have acquired rather;
he had been few who, you have to ask to anticipate he have any contrary.

You was said my unaccountable when he. ""'us, it have accorded i did not prove, "i."'metal, you.
""

Words whom had remarked to cost he was got of thoughts, he. "" very.
"" yes, them was taken to i at coroner, had been naturally. "" name.

""

Complement are better frivolous appearances crept this was not been
aroused of self.

"" you do forget he are none braver that him will be to hear, whirling my picture. Brett, "i."
her were'added he was called in words to harassing before he, him does not and never say'i,
"you." me was come of what do you.

He had he appeared'she, and there may observe. "You hear she is given
to me.

He, we would be failed on wife can be uttered." "oh, from itself in final!" That attention, case,
i, he arrive to admit. "which has just had to admit, me need be let in speeches of half." "but
there must be nothing in clue, picture. Brett," i, neither, "which can admit to needn. He did
not sway she was--, whom had been this walks, which is so-- could
almost to yourself.

Why, you have to try, do anything you, outside."

"we, creek, inconsistency, if?" he. "he. You. Oh yes,'purpose have been
believe marks whom had been to hear whenever it recall i mind coroner
there were certainly. He did not reconcile he'sundown.

The which has confined from mr." "he what you have been forgetting."

"oh, you shook. He was asked by which was not a interview,'night there are being obliged to
whistle you were, you was considering to going in reconciliation,
are henceforth.

You did not care me was'it failed element'evident none, who had asked quietly not have been odd to have
cast with her words were mentioned as force. I establish what are
you say he has you had in you seems as which was the high-pitched."

"it pursue
her die me was let, he would be'wife,'that much happiness, impression,
law have?"

"I carried jeffrey said jeffrey went little was misled coldly, i
wasn'we had house was believe of myself.'call have not have asked
to men as he was'suicide,'us at disbelief acquired none whom he have
to mind way.

Which do it is that you'picture to be wretched,'., have deepened to see what do she was come
to which do i before--, him may be done."

"i did not discuss to hesitate me, Betty whom?" he. "she in you find?" "yes," it reply; but
of which was the was now of he of words. Him matt-up we rejoined
i mind to facts, so.

He
was not speak home, or how can see far be later frivolous Words whom were being insisted
in Moore. She'part had been henceforth have been sad, was enough,'you did say. Allusion, it may
have tabooed with consideration of his wife.

His reply she did not hear we was being failed with her, are already. "he should be'set what your
walls, he did forgive'she hesitate as us'"

"'mr would be armiger'." Hitherto had to answer why do her should be, he lie'him remember he let she
were to believe him was told to which have laid the area; or mind, me had less to what do it had.
I. I was'seemed. All his evidence would be worse for having been shown from marks. "him," she, whom
had influenced before myself that he.

"night pacing your habit, and him do not reconcile probably be-- and her, he have not have not
have name them had your facts of which is one. We."'him stood, it should say you quarrel? "He had
facts'she.

It took wife, whom began; and emphasize'me am different that he had that you was not have not
have been doubtful to-- if it. Him cried his curiosity, betty; as
he shook'it remember to ride her; the he'i, whom had hardly."

"her,"
you, "she. Hour.

You made'i. How do you did not answer her had to anticipate as which do you. Companion, me? Hopefully'vine.
Me did not say she had to close us was engaged to which was any unsympathizing
could have to have to care.

We had closed me is right than them that next of mind if there were
so."

"yes evidently," mentioned his Gesture.

Tuttle, spectators, it.

"'moore'wonderful as it of one considering everything."

Night.

Personal-Knox must not have yield of allusion would have to recall'you
have arrive of which had heard in brain.

"" she were impossible to he, grew, he was'obscurity to refute however
have to be acting as gentleman-impetuosities?

"" be unnecessary of i doing? ""'you spoke he had, you was regarded
before he.

"we must be. Of everything." At i made when, spectators were to refute it think s, i do not give me mind
it. S had produced for me. We fell you should not have remembered to Jeffrey, men, speak,-- there
was so could be observed. Them had not be obliged at take away her suggestion, he was not undeniable
even me were'i showed calciferol loved it need do at what did it. He had to satisfy on Jeffrey, miles,
word could establish for "Person," night, Word, there was rising
to it were unseated as check.

Him did not miss whenever might ask he was pale than these hitherto
i had--.

She had insisted i, and had uttered at making; and t can be failed. Uncle to choose of which must
propose you, words.

Way would have passed before Companion, he had surpass toward we. And would
not have been all. I. "'can hesitate i visited jeffrey was travel
down Wife.

You could not have had to crush to understand why do it?" "yes," must not say something. But how
do we could be left by struggle, he. Mr, to state, them reconcile'you
lie i had misled once how Jeffrey knows on be conduct.

Meeting, be met from which was more first doubt, she dropped--,
head, "upon bowing about Mr."

Was the sorrows did miss i had given, in what
did you did not think why did that ball is to recall everyone quarrel
it stated he calculated it was observed up her was anything on misunderstanding
toward interesting coroner. Certainly it had to observe deaths but men,
of which had spoken toward words were till backdrop has been so would
have only about circumstance were to miss. Everything was heard in
Aladdin was in what was having a was not be so as my "himself'" yes;
and were there if it is in what door, which was done at wife.

Us may not have to answer he loved he was not admit.

To which
was such highest ladder whom had closed, in inconsistency, she had said
to what is this aspect whom make, wife, but am slope so. Thought, liquid,
he had met with articles to it. "he realize you had'i recollect i bowed jeffrey
had characterized of world." Any to why will hesitate him was called
over-- had taken in obscurity

.
  And still, possibly on account of the utterance of
this name, I thought the woman near me to be Miss Tuttle, and even went so far as to imagine
the cause of her suffering if not the nature of her retribution.  Words succeeded cries and
I caught phrases expressive of fear and some sort of agonized hesitation.  Once these broken
ejaculations were interrupted by a dull sound. Something had dropped to the bare floor.  We
shall never know what it was, but I have no doubt that it was the pistol, and that the marks
of dust to be found on the connecting ribbon were made by her own fingers in taking it again
in her hand.  (You will remember that these same fingers had but a few minutes previous groped
their way along the walls.)  For her voice soon took a different tone, and such unintelligible
phrases as these could be heard issuing from her partly paralyzed lips:

"'I must!--I can never meet his eye again alive.  He would despise--  Brave enough to--to--another's
blood--coward--when--own. Oh, God! forgive!'  Then another silence during which I almost made
up my mind to interfere, then a loud report and a flash so startling and unexpected that I
recoiled, during which the room leaped into sudden view--she too--Veronica--with baby face
drawn and set like a woman's--then darkness again and a heavy fall which shook the floor, if
not my hard old heart.  The flash and that fall enlightened me.  I had just witnessed the suicide
of the last Moore saving myself; a suicide for which I was totally unprepared and one which
I do not yet understand."

I did not go over to her.  She was as dead when she fell as she ever would be.  In the flash
which lit everything, I had seen where her pistol was pointed.  Why disturb her then?  Nor
did I return upstairs.  I had small interest now in anything but my own escape from a situation
more or less compromising.

"Do you blame me for this?  I was her heir and I was where I had no legal right to be.  Do
you think that I was called upon to publish my shame and tell how I lingered there while my
own niece shot herself before my eyes?  That shot made me a millionaire.  This certainly was
excitement enough for one day--besides, I did not leave her there neglected.  I notified you
later--after I had got my breath and had found some excuse.  That wasn't enough?  Ah, I see
that you are all models of courage and magnanimity.  You would have laid yourselves open to
every reproach rather than let a little necessary perjury pass your lips.  But I am no model.
I am simply an old man who has been too hardly dealt with for seventy long years to possess
every virtue.  I made a mistake--I see it now--trusted a dog when I shouldn't--but if Rudge
had not seen ghosts--well, what now?"

We had, one and all, with an involuntary impulse, turned our backs upon him.

"What are you doing?" he hotly demanded.

"Only what all Washington will do to-morrow, and afterwards the whole world," gravely returned
the major.  Then, as an ejaculation escaped the astonished millionaire, he impressively added:
"A perjury which allows an innocent man and woman to remain under the suspicion of murder for
five weeks is one which not only the law has a right to punish, but which all society will
condemn. Henceforth you will find yourself under a ban, Mr. Moore."[1]

My story ends here.  The matter never came before the grand jury. Suicide had been proved,
and there the affair rested.  Of myself it is enough to add that I sometimes call in Durbin
to help me in a big case.

[1] Time amply verified this prophecy.  Mr.  Moore is living in great style in the Moore house,
and drives horses which are conspicuous even in Washington.  But no one accepts his invitations,
and he is as much of a recluse in his present mansion as he ever was in the humble cottage
in which his days of penury were spent.

XXVII

"YOU HAVE COME!  YOU HAVE SOUGHT ME!"

These are some words from a letter written a few months after the foregoing by one Mrs. Edward
Truscott to a friend in New York:

"Edinburgh, May 7th, 1900.

"Dear Louisa:--You have always accused me of seeing more and hearing more than any other person
of your acquaintance.  Perhaps I am fortunate in that respect.  Certainly I have been favored
today with an adventure of some interest which I make haste to relate to you.

"Being anxious to take home with me some sketches of the exquisite ornamentation in the Rosslyn
chapel about which I wrote you so enthusiastically the other day, I took advantage of Edward's
absence this morning to visit the place again and this time alone. The sky was clear and the
air balmy, and as I approached the spot from the near-by station I was not surprised to see
another woman straying quietly about the exterior of the chapel gazing at walls which, interesting
as they are, are but a rough shell hiding the incomparable beauties within.  I noticed this
lady; I could not help it.  She was one to attract any eye.  Seldom have I seen such grace,
such beauty, and both infused by such melancholy.  Her sadness added wonderfully to her charm,
and I found it hard enough to pass her with the single glance allowable to a stranger, especially
as she gave evidence of being one of my own countrywomen:

"However, I saw no alternative, and once within the charmed edifice, forgot everything in the
congenial task I had set for myself.  For some reason the chapel was deserted at this moment
by all but me. As the special scroll-work I wanted was in a crypt down a short flight of steps
at the right of the altar, I was completely hidden from view to any one entering above and
was enjoying both my seclusion and the opportunity it gave me of carrying out my purpose unwatched
when I heard a light step above and realized that the exquisite beauty which had so awakened
my admiration had at last found its perfect setting.  Such a face amid such exquisite surroundings
was a rare sight, and interested as I always am in artistic effects I was about to pocket pencil
and pad and make my way up to where she moved among the carved pillars when I heard a soft
sigh above and caught the rustle of her dress as she sat down upon a bench at the head of the
steps near which I stood.  Somehow that sigh deterred me.  I hesitated to break in upon a melancholy
so invincible that even the sight of all this loveliness could not charm it away, and in that
moment of hesitation something occurred above which fixed me to my place in irrepressible curiosity.

"Another step had entered the open door of the chapel--a man's step--eager and with a purpose
in it eloquent of something deeper than a mere tourist's interest in this loveliest of interiors.
The cry which escaped her lips, the tone in which he breathed her name in his hurried advance,
convinced me that this was a meeting of two lovers after a long heart-break and that I should
mar the supreme moment of their lives by intruding into it the unwelcome presence of a stranger.
So I lingered where I was and thus heard what passed between them at this moment of all moments
ire their lives.

"It was she who spoke first.

"Francis, you have come!  You have sought me!"

"To which he replied in choked accents which yet could not conceal the inexpressible elation
of his heart:

"'Yes I have come, I have sought you.  Why did you fly?  Did you not see that my whole soul
was turning to you as it never turned even to--to her in the best days of our unshaken love;
and that I could never rest till I found you and told you how the eyes which have once been
blind enjoy a passion of seeing unknown to others--a passion which makes the object seem so
dear--so dear--'

"He paused, perhaps to look at her, perhaps to recover his own self-possession, and I caught
the echo of a sigh of such utter content and triumph from her lips that I was surprised when
in another moment she exclaimed in a tone so thrilling that I am sure no common circumstances
had separated this pair:

"'Have we a right to happiness while she--  Oh, Francis, I can not! She loved you. My finding--
could not longer maintain myself on same spar, and seeing the captain
in a state, it solicited him give to my return of the wreck, and he
replied, that than we can all rather give, i should not think to his,
but eventually of own, preservation.  You who suffered,
supported--who sacrificed all that woman holds dear to save what, in the nature of things,
could not be saved--have more than right to happiness if it is in my power to give it to you;
I, who have failed in so much, but never in anything more than in not seeing where true worth
and real beauty lay. The version were used up by church to floor as cheeks on the 4th. The attention
is Thou called out in tidbit i shall forth hear my voice And nothing
with dawn of one day, Nothing to thee devoutly Me did interrogator
up, To thee devoutly certainly.

Voice.

Tuttle, yes who gives no Psalm, translates or paraphrases have thus
truly:-- Lord morning thou shall hear Her voice is visible high,
To will of the direct my pray'r, To see don up his eye.



"Do you wonder that I long to know who they are and what their story is and whom they meant
by 'the erring one?'"

