Note: Images of the original pages are available through the Florida
      Board of Education, Division of Colleges and Universities,
      PALMM Project, 2001. Toils despising,
      Upward, upward! Turn thine eyes,
     Only be content when rising,
      Fix thy goal amid the skies."

CONTENTS.

  LECTURE I. THE VALUE OF A GOOD REPUTATION

 LECTURE II. THE PRINCIPLES AND PURPOSES OF LIFE

LECTURE III. SELECTION OF ASSOCIATES

 LECTURE IV. THE HABITS AND AMUSEMENTS

  LECTURE V. THE RELIGIOUS SENTIMENTS

 LECTURE VI. MARRIAGE

PREFACE.

The Lectures embraced in this volume, were written for the pulpit, in the usual manner of preparation
for such labor, without any expectation of their appearing in print. The author is but too
sensible that they are imperfect in many features, both in matter and style. It is only in
the hope that they will be of some benefit to the class to whom they are addressed, that he
has consented to submit them to public perusal. He has aimed at nothing eccentric, odd, or
far-fetched; but has sought to utter plain and obvious truths, in a plain and simple manner.
There is no class more interesting, and none which has higher claims on the wisdom, experience,
and advice, of mature minds, than the young who are about to enter upon the trying duties and
responsibilities of active life. Whatever tends to instruct and enlighten them: to point out
the temptations which will beset their pathway, and the dire evils which inevitably flow from
a life of immorality; whatever will influence them to honesty, industry, sobriety, and religion,
and lead them to the practice of these virtues, as "Golden Steps" by which they may ascend
to Respectability, Usefulness, and Happiness, must be of benefit to the world. To aid in such
a work, is the design of this volume. If it subserves this end--if it becomes instrumental
in inciting the youthful to high and pure principles of action, in hedging up the way of sin,
and opening the path of wisdom, to any--if it drops but a single good seed into the heart of
each of its readers, and awakens the slightest aspiration to morality, usefulness, and religion--it
will not have been prepared in vain. With a prayer to God that he would protect and bless the
youth of our common country, and prepare them to preserve and perpetuate the priceless legacy
of Freedom and Religion, which they will inherit from their fathers, this book is given to
the world, to fulfil such a mission as Divine Wisdom shall direct.

THE AUTHOR. AUBURN, June, 1850.

LECTURE I.

The Value of a Good Reputation.

    "Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against
    the time to come."--1 Tim. vi. 19.

In this language St. Paul asserts a principle which should commend itself to the mature consideration
of every youthful mind. If the young would have their career honorable and prosperous--if they
would enjoy the respect and confidence of community; if they would have the evening of their
days calm, serene, and peaceful--they must prepare for it early in life. They must lay "a good
foundation against the time to come"--a foundation which will be capable of sustaining the
edifice they would erect. The building cannot be reared in strength and beauty, without it
rests on a secure "corner-stone." The harvest cannot be gathered unless the seed is first cast
into the ground. A wise Providence has so ordered it that success, prosperity, and happiness
through life, and a respected and "green old age," are to be enjoyed only by careful preparation,
prudent forecast, and assiduous culture, in the earlier periods of our existence.

    "True wisdom, early sought and gained,
      In age will give thee rest;
      then improve the morn of life,
      To make its evening blest."

The youthful live much in the future. They are fond of gazing into its unknown depths, and
of endeavoring to trace the outline, at least, of the fortunes that await them. With ardent
hope, with eager expectation, they anticipate the approach of coming years--confident they
will bring to them naught but unalloyed felicity. But they should allow their anticipations
of the future to be controlled by a well-balanced judgment, and moderated by the experience
of those who have gone before them.

In looking to the future, there is one important inquiry which the young should put to their
own hearts:--What do I most desire to become in mature life? What position am I anxious to
occupy in society? What is the estimation in which I wish to be held by those within the circle
of my acquaintance?

The answer to these inquiries, from the great mass of young people, can well be anticipated.
There are none among them who desire to be disrespected and shunned by the wise and good--who
are anxious to be covered with disgrace and infamy--who seek to be outcasts and vagabonds in
the world. The thought that they were doomed to such a condition, would fill them with alarm.
Every discreet youth will exclaim--"Nothing would gratify me more than to be honored and respected,
as I advance in years; to move in good society; to have people seek my company, rather than
shun it; to be looked up to as an example for others to imitate, and to enjoy the confidence
of all around me."

Is not his the desire of the young of this large audience? Surely there can be none here so
blind to the future, so lost to their own good, as to prefer a life of infamy and its ever-accompanying
wretchedness, to respectability, prosperity, and true enjoyment? But how are these to be obtained?
Respectability, prosperity, the good opinion of community, do not come simply at our bidding.
We cannot reach forth our hands and take them, as we pluck the ripe fruit from the bending
branch. Neither will wishing or hoping for them shower their blessings upon us. If we would
obtain and enjoy them, we must labor for them--EARN them. They are only secured as the well-merited
reward of a pure and useful life!

The first thing to be aimed at by the young, should be the establishment of a GOOD CHARACTER:
In all their plans, anticipations, and prospects for future years, this should form the grand
starting-point!--the chief corner-stone! It should be the foundation of every hope and thought
of prosperity and happiness in days to come. It is the only basis on which such a hope can
mature to full fruition. A good character, established in the season of youth, becomes a rich
and productive moral soil to its possessor. Planted therein, the "Tree of Life" will spring
forth in a vigorous growth. Its roots will strike deep and strong, in such a soil, and draw
thence the utmost vigor and fruitfulness. Its trunk will grow up in majestic proportions--its
wide-spreading branches will be clothed with a green luxuriant foliage, "goodly to look upon"--the
most beautiful of blossoms will in due time, blush on every twig--and at length each limb and
bough shall bend beneath the rich, golden fruit, ready to drop into the hand. Beneath its grateful
shade you can find rest and repose, when the heat and burden of life come upon you. And of
its delicious fruit, you can pluck and eat, and obtain refreshment and strength, when the soul
becomes wearied with labor and care, or the weight of years. Would you behold such a tree?
Remember it grows alone on the soil of a good reputation!! Labor to prepare such a soil.

Believe not, ye youthful, that God has made the path of virtue and religion hard and thorny.
Believe not he has overhung it with dark clouds, and made it barren of fruit and beauty. Believe
not that rugged rocks, and briers, and brambles, choke the way, and lacerate the limbs of those
who would walk therein! No! he has made it a smooth and peaceful path--an easy and pleasant
way.--"Wisdom's ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace."

The young who overlook these considerations--who lay their plans, and cherish their expectations,
in reference to their future career, without any regard to the importance of a good character--who,
in marking out their course, lose sight of the necessity of laboring to establish a worthy
reputation to commence with--who, in building their hopes of success and happiness, are not
convinced that "a good name" is the only foundation on which such hopes can legitimately rest--have
commenced wrong. They have made a radical and lamentable MISTAKE at the outset. A mistake,
which, unless speedily corrected, will prove most disastrous in all its influences, and be
keenly felt and deplored throughout life.

Those who fall into error on this point, who view a good reputation as a matter of no moment--well
enough if you can secure it without much trouble, but not worth laboring for, with zeal and
perseverance--have placed themselves in a most critical position. They are like a ship in the
midst of the wide wastes of ocean, without chart compass, or rudder, liable to be turned hither
and thither by every fickle wind that blows, and dashed upon dangerous reefs by the heaving
billows. Failing to see the importance of establishing a good character, they fall easy victims
to sinful temptations, and, ere long, verging farther and farther from the path of rectitude,
they at length find every fond hope, every fair prospect, blasted for life.

To a young man, a good character is the best capital he can possess, to start with in life.
It is much better, and far more to be depended on than gold. Although money may aid in establishing
a young man in business, under favorable circumstances, yet without a good character he cannot
succeed. For since it is the character
our countrymen, to do good without much pomp and lodge, they seldom think the fact that there
was a way to do the right thing with elegance and grace have expired and Instead, driven by a
spirit of contradiction, easy to fall into, by a surly Being her favorite virtue in contrast to present.

Such
roles played our very good actor and he played so often and exclusively,
that he had about it to be a similar kind is accepted in ordinary
life.

William got into great movement when he recognized him, for he remembered how often He had
seen this man standing next to his beloved Mariane in the theater, and he heard him still
scold, he heard her sweet voice, with which it's tough being in some roles had to face.

The first question to the vibrant new comers, whether a shelter to find away and was to be
hoped, was unfortunately answered in the negative, and you had to hear that the companies where one asks,
occupied, and some of them are even worried about the forthcoming War must be separate. The blustering
old man had with his daughters from annoyance abandoned and love for a change, an advantageous
engagement, had with the pedants whom he found on the road, rented a car to hieherzukommen,
where is also found as, Good advice was expensive.

The time in which the others were talking about their affairs very lively, William brought to
think. He wished the old man to talk alone, and wished was afraid to hear from Mariana Islands,
and was in the biggest unrest.

were the novelties of the newly arrived women did not tear out of his dream; But a word change
that arose, made him aware. It was Frederick, the blonde upgrade boy, Philine used, but this
time resisted lively, as he table should cover and bring her food. "I have committed," he exclaimed,
"you to serve, but do not wait on all people. "She fell into a violent Dispute. Phil insisted
he had to do his duty, and when he stubbornly resisted, she told him no circumstances, he could
go where he wanted.

"Do you think that I am not remove from you?" he exclaimed, was defiant away, took up his bundle
and went immediately out of the house.

"Go, Mignon," said Phil, "and we created what we need, tell it to the waiter, and help come
up!"

Mignon stood before William and asked in their laconic way: "If I may I?" And William replied:
"Do my child, what does Mademoiselle you."

The child gets anything and waited for the whole evening with great care to the guests. After
dinner with the old Wilhelm sought to take a walk alone: ​​he was able to and after many questions
as he went so far, the discussion turns to the former company, and William ventured recently to
ask for Mariana Islands.

"Tell me nothing of the vile creature!" cried the old man, "I have sworn, not to think of it. "William
was shocked by these comments, but was still in the larger Embarrassment when the old man went
on to chide their frivolity and debauchery. How gladly would have our friend, the conversation
stopped, but he would have it, the blustering Effusions of the strange
man to endure.

"I am ashamed," continued he, "that I was her so inclined. But you would have the girl closer knew,
you would certainly apologize.

She was so pretty, and of course good, so kind and reasonable in every sense. I never would have imagined
that insolence and Ingratitude should be the main elements of their character. "

Already, William had been taken to hear the worst of it when he suddenly remarked with surprise that the
tone of the Old was mild, his speech faltered at last and he took a handkerchief from his pocket
in order to dry the tears that his speech last interrupted.

"What is it?" exclaimed Wilhelm. "What are your feelings at once so opposed Direction? Hide me it's
not, I suppose the fate of this girl more interest, than you think,
just let me know everything.

"

"I have little to say," replied the old man, he returned to his serious, dour Ton went over,
"I will never forgive it you, I have tolerated them. She had" continued He continued, "is always
a certain confidence to me, and I loved her as my daughter had, and since my wife was alive,
made the decision to take her to me and in the hands to save the elderly from their guidance,
I did not promise me much good. My wife died The project fell through.

Towards the end of the stay in your home town, it's not even three years, I realized her a visible
sadness, I asked her but she dodged. Finally, we made forward to the trip. She drove with me
in a car and I saw what to me soon confessed that she was pregnant, and the biggest fear of
float, from our Director failed to be. Also, it only lasted a short time, he made the discovery
announced her on the contract that was in any case just six weeks, at once paid, which makes
them was demanding and had them, regardless of all representations, in a small town, back in a
bad inn.

The devil take all wanton wenches, "the old woman cried with vexation," and especially this, which
has spoiled so many hours of my life.

What should I tell long as I I adopted her what I did for them what
I hung on, as I also in the Absence had provided for them.

I would rather throw my money into the pond and my Request by e time
to educate mangy dogs, than ever again in such a creature of the slightest
attention to business.

What was it? In the beginning I received letters of thanks, message from places of their stay,
and no last word, not even much for the Money I had sent to her weeks. Oh, the adjustment and the
recklessness of the Women is quite matched in pairs to give them a comfortable life and an
honest guy, some to create vexatious hour! "

Book II, 8 Chapter

Chapter Eight

Think of William's condition when he came home from this interview.

All his Old wounds were reopened and the feeling that they do not entirely unworthy of his love been
to become lively again, for in the interest of the old, in the praise he her reluctantly had to give
was our friend all her kindness reappeared; even the severe indictment of the passionate man
was nothing, what they before William Eyes could've put down. Because of these known themselves
as accomplices of their Offenses, and their silence did not last him blameworthy, he made rather
sad just thinking about it, saw it as a new mother, as mothers in the world without the aid wandering
around, probably wandering around with his own child; ideas which the most painful Feeling aroused
in him.

Mignon was waiting on him and lit him up the stairs. When they set down the light had asked him to
allow that to him today night may come up with a Kunststuecke. He would rather tolerate that,
especially since he did not know what it should be.

But he could this good creatures refuse nothing. After a short time she came in again. She wore
a rug under his arm, which she spread on the ground. William to let . Guaranteed She brought out four
candles, put one on every corner of the carpet. A Basket of eggs, which they took out, made
the intention clear. Artificially measured They now walked on the carpet back and forth and put in
some masses apart the eggs, then they called in a man who came up
in the house and played the violin.

He joined with his instrument in the corner, she combined her eyes, gave the signal and began
at once with the music, like a wound clockwork, their movements as they beat and melody accompanied
with the blow of the castanets.

Nimble, easily, quickly, precisely, they led the dance.

She performed as sharp and as safely between the eggs into it by the balls down that you thought
at any moment, they would have to tread a or throw away in fast turns the other. Not at all!
Does it affect, though they have all kinds of steps, narrow and wide, even with jumps and finally
half kneeling through the ranks through the roof.

Inexorably like clockwork, she ran her way, and the strange music was always the beginning from
the front end and go peeling out punch with each iteration, a new
shock.

Wilhelm was the strange spectacle quite carried away, he forgot his troubles, followed every Movement
of the beloved creature and was surprised how her character in this dance EXCELLENT developed.

Severe, sharp, dry, hard and soft positions in more solemn than was agreeable they are. He felt what
he had felt for AA, at this moment in time. He longed to draft that abandoned being of a child's
heart, it in to take his arms and bring the love of a father's joy
of life in him.

The dance was over, she rolled the eggs gently with the feet together
in a heap, let no turning back, not damage and introduced himself
to this by the binding of the Took their eyes, and ended with a Kunststueck
bows.

Wilhelm thanked her for giving him the dance, which he wished to see, so pretty and unexpected have
argued. He stroked it and regretted that they have let's be so sour. He promised her a new dress,
which she responded fiercely: "Your color!" Also, the promised He, though he clearly does not
know what they mean by it. She gathered the eggs, the rug from under his arm, asked if he had
to order something else, and jumped to Door.

Of the musician, he learned that she has for some time been much trouble to him to dance, which
was the famous Fandango, so long to sing until he can play him. They also have offered him
for his efforts a little money, he do not take.

Book II, 9 Chapter

Chapter Nine

After a restless night, our friend alarmed some awake, some heavy
dreams spent where it Mariana soon in all beauty, now in miserable
shape, now with a child in her arms, now deprived of it saw was the
morning barely dawned, when Mignon came in with even a tailor.

She brought gray cloth and blue taffeta and explained by its nature, that they have a new waistcoat
and trousers Schiffer as such to seen the boys in town would have with blue cuffs and bands.

Wilhelm
had taken since the loss of Mariana, all cheerful colors. He had to the Gray, the clothes of
the shadow, used to, and only about a sky blue lining, or a small
collar of the suit revived in some measure those quiet clothes.

Mignon, eager to take its color operation, the tailor, who promised to deliver in a short work.

The
dance and fencing lessons, which began today with our friend Laertes
did not want the best .

Happiness They too were soon interrupted by Melina's arrival, which
was inconvenient, as now, a little company together, be with what
you already perform pieces enough can.

He renewed his request that William some money for establishment advance should, and this again
showed his indecision.

Phil and the girls were soon on this in with laughter and noise. They had once thought of a ride,
for alteration of the place and the objects was a pleasure after they missed forever. to eat
every day in another place it was greatest wish. This time it should be a water ride.

The ship, which they wanted to go down the bends of the river was pleasant, even appointed
by the pedants.

Phil drove the company did not hesitate and was soon embarked.

"What we start now?" Phil said, adding they had all settled on the benches.

"The shortest would be," replied Laertes, "we extemporaneous a piece. Each take one Role that his
character is most appropriate, and we want to see how we succeed. "

"For, Well!" Wilhelm said, "because in a society where one is not pretending, follows in which
each only his sense of grace and satisfaction can not live long, and where one is always adjusted,
meaning they do not come at all. So it is not done evil, we give us the same adjustment to
the beginning and after photos are under the mask so sincerely, as we want. "

"Yes," said Laertes, "that's why is so pleasant to be's with women who never in can see their natural
shape.

"

"It does," replied Madame Melina, "that they are not so vain as the men who imagine that they
are always lovable enough, as it has created by nature.

"

However, one was between pleasant bushes and hills, between gardens
and vineyards went there, and the young woman, and especially Madame
Melina, expressed their delight about the landscape from. Last-named
even started a pretty poem by describing the genus about to recite
a similar nature scene solemnly alone Phil interrupted her and suggested
a law before that no one should dare to speak of an inanimate object;
it was rather a proposal for the extemporaneous Comedy by with zeal.
The rumbling Old should a retired officer, Laertes vazierenden a fencing
master, the pedant imagine a Jew, she would even make a Tyrolean woman
and left the rest, to choose their roles. You should pretend as if
a company unworldly People are coming together just in a market ships.

She
began at once to the Jews their role to play, and spread a general
cheerfulness themselves.

It was not long gone when the skippers still
held to with the permission of the Company anyone take that stood
on the shore and had waved.

"That is still what we wanted," said
Phil, "a stowaway was missing the Travel company. "

A well-educated
man boarded the ship, the one on his clothes and his venerable Face
probably would have for a priest can take. He welcomed the society
him in their own way thanked him and soon made acquainted with their
joke. Hark
to that fearful roar! It is the fatal breakers! Hard up the helm! Put the ship about! See,
on every hand frowns the fatal lee-shore! Pull taught each rope--spread every sail. It is in
vain! Throw out the anchors! Haste! strain every nerve! Alas! It is all too late. The danger
cannot be escaped. On drifts the fated craft. Now she mounts the crest of an angry wave, which
hurries forward with its doomed burthen. Now she dashes against the craggy points of massive
rocks, and sinks into the raging deep. One loud, terrific wail is heard, and all is silent!
On the rising of the morrow's sun, the spectator beholds the beach and the neighboring waters
strewn with broken masts, rent sails, and drifting fragments--all that remains of the proud
ship which yesterday floated so gaily on the ocean waters!!

Behold, O ye youthful, a picture of the fate of those who rush upon the career of life, without
forethought or preparation, and without the light of well-selected moral principles to guide
them. All may appear fair and promising at the outset, and for a season. But before many years
can elapse, the prospects of such youth must be overclouded; and ere long disappointment, overthrow,
disgrace and ruin, will be the closing scenes of a life, commenced in so much blindness.

"Well begun is half done," was one of Dr. Franklin's sound maxims. A career well begun--a life
commenced properly, with wise forecast, with prudent rules of action, and under the influence
of sound and pure, moral and religious principles--is an advance, half-way at least, to ultimate
success and prosperity. Such a commencement will not, it is true, insure you against the misfortunes
which are incident to earthly existence. But if persevered in, it will guard you against the
long catalogue of evils, vexatious penalties and wretchedness, which are the certain fruit
of a life of immorality; and will bestow upon you all the real enjoyments, within the earthly
reach of man.

As people advance in years, they perceive more and more the importance of commencing life properly.

See that wretched outcast! Poor and miserable, shunned by all but depraved associates, he drags
out the worthless remnant of his days. Does he think he has acted wisely? Hark to his soliloquy--"Oh,
could I begin life again:--could I but live my days over once more--how different the course
I would pursue. Instead of rushing on blindly and mindlessly, without forethought or care,
and allowing myself to become an easy prey to temptation and sin, I would reflect maturely,
and choose wisely the path for my footsteps. Faithfully I would search for the way of virtue,
honesty, sobriety, and goodness, and strictly would I walk therein!" The opportunity he so
eagerly covets, and to obtain which he would deem no sacrifice too great, is now before every
youth in the assembly.

This thought is beautifully elaborated in the following allegory:

"It was midnight of the new year, and an aged man stood thoughtfully at the window. He gazed
with a long, despairing look, upon the fixed, eternal, and glorious heaven, and down upon the
silent, still, and snow-white earth, whereon was none so joyless, so sleepless as he. For his
grave stood open near him; it was covered only with the snows of age, not decked with the green
of youth; and he brought with him, from a long and rich life, nothing save errors, crimes,
and sickness--a wasted body, a desolate soul, a breast filled with poison, and an old age heavy
with repentance and sorrow. The fair days of his youth at this hour, arose like spectres before
his mind, and carried him back to the bright morning, when his father had first planted him
at the starting-point of life; whence, to the right, the way conducts along the sunny path
of virtue, to a wide and peaceful land, a land of light, rich in the harvest of good deeds,
and full of the joy of angels; whilst, to the left, the road descends to the molehills of vice,
toward a dark cavern, full of poisonous droppings, stinging serpents, and dank and steaming mists.

"The serpents clung around his breast, and the drops of poison lay upon his tongue, and he
knew not where he was.

"Senseless and in unutterable anguish, his cry went forth to heaven: 'Grant me but youth again!
O, father, place me but once again upon the starting-point of life, that I may choose otherwise!'

"But his father and his youth were far away. He beheld wandering lights dance upon the marshes,
and disappear upon the graveyards; and he exclaimed, 'These are my days of folly!'

"He beheld a star shoot through the heaven, and vanish: it glimmered as it fell, and disappeared
upon the earth. 'Such, too, am I!' whispered his bleeding heart; and the serpent-tooth of remorse
struck afresh into its wounds.

"His heated fancy pictured to him night-wandering forms slow-creeping upon the house-tops;
the windmill raised its arm, and threatened to fell him to the earth; and in the tenantless
house of death, the only remaining mask assumed imperceptibly his own features.

"At once, in the midst of this delirium, the sounds from the steeple, welcoming the new year,
fell upon his ear, like distant church music.

"He was moved, but to a gentler mood. He gazed around, unto the horizon, and looked forth upon
the wide earth; and he thought of the friends of his youth, who, happier and better than he,
were now teachers upon the earth, fathers of happy children, and blessed each in his condition.

"'Alas! and I, too, like ye, might now be sleeping peacefully and tearless through this first
night of the year, had I willed so! I too might have been happy, ye dear parents, had I fulfilled
your new-year's wishes and admonitions!'

"In the feverish reminiscences of his youth, it seemed to him as if the mask which had assumed
his features in the house of death arose, and grew into a living youth, and his former blooming
figure stood before him in the bitter mockery of illusion.

"He could look no longer; he hid his eyes, a flood of hot tears streamed forth and were lost
in the snow. And he sighed, now more gently, and despairing, 'Return but again, O youth, come
once again!'

"And youth did return; for he had but dreamed thus fearfully in the new-year's night. He was
still young; but his sinful wanderings, they had been no dream; and he thanked God that he
could yet turn from the miry ways of vice, and again choose the sunny path which leadeth unto
the pure land of the harvest of righteousness.

"Turn thou with him, young man, if thou standest upon his path of error. This fearful dream
will in a future be thy judge; but shouldst thou ever exclaim, in the bitterness of remorse,
'Return, fair time of youth!'--youth will not come when thou dost call for her."

It is much easier to start right and keep right, than to start wrong, and then endeavor to
get right. Although those who take the wrong path at the commencement, should afterwards seek
to obtain the right one, and persevere until they find it, still the labor to retrieve the
early error will be difficult. It is painful to walk in the way of wickedness--it is painful
to break away from it, when once there. It is painful to continue on--it is painful to turn
back. This is in consequence of the nature of sin. It is a path all evil, all pain, all darkness--everything
connected with it is fruitful of wretchedness. Those who stray therein, find themselves beset
with perils and troubles on all sides. Avoid it, as you love happiness!

    "Ne'er till to-morrow's light delay
     What may as well be done to-day;
     Ne'er do to-day, what on the morrow
     Will wring your heart with sighs and sorrow."

A young man may, in early life, fall into vicious habits, and afterwards turn from them. Some
have done so. But they declare that the struggles they were compelled to make--the conflicts
and trials, the buffeting of evil passions, and the mental agony they endured, in breaking
away, were terrible beyond description. Where one, who has fallen into bad habits in youth,
has afterwards abandoned them, there are a score who have continued their victims, until ruin,
and a premature death, closed their career. How much safer, how much easier and pleasanter,
how much more promising and hopeful, to commence life with good habits well established, with
high principles, sound maxims, enlightened rules of conduct, deeply fixed in the soul. This
is a plain, pleasant, prosperous path--readily found, and easily followed. In no other can
you secure true enjoyment.

    "We cannot live too slowly to be good
     And happy, nor too much by line and square.
     But youth is burning to forestall its nature,
     And will not wait for time to ferry it
     Over the stream; but flings itself into
     The flood and perishes. *******
     The first and worst of all frauds is to cheat
     Oneself. **************"

There is nothing more essential to the young than to accustom themselves to mature reflection,
and practical observation, in regard to the duties of life, and the sources of human enjoyment.
This is a task, however, which but few of the youthful are inclined to undertake. The most
of them are averse to giving up their thoughts to sober meditation on the consequences which
accrue from different courses of conduct, or to practical observation on the lessons taught
by the experience of others. The Present!--the Present!--its amusements, its gayeties, its
fashions, absorbs nearly all their thoughts. They have little relish to look towards the future,
except to anticipate the continuance of the novelty and joyousness of the spring-time of life.
The poet utters a most salutary admonition in his beautiful lines:

    "The beam of the morning, the bud of the Spring,
     The promise of beauty and brightness may bring;
     But clouds gather darkness, and touched by the frost,
     The pride of the plant, and the morning are lost.
     Thus the bright and the beautiful ever decay--
     Life's morn and life's flowers, oh, they quick pass away!"

I would not cast one unnecessary shadow on the pathway of the young; but they should be often
reminded, that the season of youth, with its romance and light-heartedness, soon, too soon,
departs! Spring, with its budding beauties, and fragrant blossoms, does not continue all the
year. It is speedily followed by the fervid summer, the mature and sober autumn, and the dreary
snows of winter. In order to have thriving and promising fields in summer, rich and abundant
harvests in autumn, and bountiful supplies for comfort and repose in winter, "good seed" must
be sowed in the spring. So, also, if you would have the summer of life fruitful of prosperity--its
autumn yield a rich and bountiful harvest, and the winter of old age made comfortable and peaceful--the
good seed of pure habits, and sound moral and religious principles, must be carefully sowed
in the rich soil of the heart, in the budding spring-time of youth.

Due observation and reflection will enable the young to sow the right kind of seed at the right
time. There is much in this. Those who sow late will be likely to have their harvest blighted
by chilling rains and nipping frosts. The earlier the seed is cast into the ground, the greater
the certainty that it will produce an abundant crop. Reflection and discrimination are all-essential
to the youthful. Those who think deeply will act wisely. They will detect and avoid the dangers
which beset their pathway, and into which the thoughtless so easily fall. They will readily
penetrate the specious appearance, the harmless aspect, the deceptive veil, which vice and
immorality can so readily assume. They will understand the old maxim, that "all is not gold
that glitters." This is a simple truth, and yet how few of the young practise upon it. See
this young man. How easily he gives way to temptation--how readily he is led astray. Why does
he thus turn aside from virtue's path? Why thus trample upon the affectionate counsel and admonition
of wise parents and kind friends? Ah! he sees a glittering bauble in the way of sin, and imagines
it is the shining of the gold of true and solid happiness. Eagerly he presses on to secure
the prize. He plunges into the wickedness to which, it tempts him--he seizes the dazzling treasure,
and finds--what? Pure gold?--true delight?--unalloyed happiness? Alas, foolish youth! No! That
which he took for the glitter of gold, proves to be worthless ashes in his hand. And the high
pleasure he was anticipating, results in naught but disappointment, disgrace, wretchedness.

    "Teach me the flattering paths to shun,
     In which the thoughtless many run;
     Who for a shade the substance miss,
     And grasp their ruin in their bliss."

A well-established habit of practical observation, enables the youthful to guard against the
mistakes of conduct, into which others have fallen, and to make the shortcomings of their fellow-beings,
salutary admonitions for their own instruction. When thoughtful, observing young persons, see
an individual do a mean, unmanly action, they will reflect much upon it. They will notice how
contemptible it makes him appear--how it degrades him in the estimation of the honorable and
high-minded--how it belittles him in the view of society at large--and how unworthy it makes
him appear even in his own eyes. These observations, if faithfully made, will guard them against
like acts themselves.

When they behold one arraigned at the bar of public justice, to answer to the offended laws
of his country, they will make it a salutary lesson of instruction. They will realize the deceptive
and ruinous nature of wrong-doing--how, while promising them the very elixir of happiness,
it pours naught but bitterness and poison into the cup of life, entailing degradation and wretchedness
upon its victims. They will become satisfied of the solemn truth of the words of the Most High,
that "though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished."

When they see neighbors, who might promote each other's enjoyments, by living peaceably together,
fall out in regard to some trivial misunderstanding, and engage in angry disputes, and a bitter
warfare, disturbing the harmony of the neighborhood, and destroying their own happiness--the
young who exercise practical observation, will be instructed, to avoid similar troubles in
their own affairs. They will realize the folly and blindness of such a course, and the necessity
of exercising a forbearing and forgiving spirit, and the wisdom of submitting to injuries,
if need be, rather than to become involved in angry recriminations and hostilities.

Thus by a constant habit of observation and reflection, the youthful can turn the failings
of others to their own account. As the industrious bee extracts honey from the most nauseous
substances, so can the thoughtful and observing draw instruction not only from the example
of the wise, but from the folly of the wicked!

In preparations for future usefulness and success, the young should establish certain fixed
principles of moral conduct, by which they will be steadfastly governed in all their intercourse
with the world. Without some well-defined landmarks, by which they can be guided in emergencies,
when everything depends on the course of conduct to be pursued, they will be in imminent peril.
Temptations are strewed along the pathway of the young, and assail them at every turn. If they
could clearly contemplate the effects of giving way to temptation--were all the unhappy consequences
to stand out visibly before them--they would never be induced to turn aside into sin. Could
the young man as he is tempted to quaff the fashionable glass of intoxicating beverage, see
plainly the ignominious life, the poverty and wretchedness, and the horrid death by delirium
tremens, to which it so often leads, he would set it down untasted, and turn away in alarm.
But it is the nature of temptation to blind and deceive the unwary, and lead them into sin,
by false representations of the happiness to be derived from it. Hence the young need to establish,
in their calm, cool moments, when under the influence of mature judgment and enlightened discretion,
certain fixed rules of conduct, by which they will be governed, and on which they will depend
in every hour of temptation.

One of the first and most important rules of life which should be established by the youthful,
is the constant cultivation of purity of heart. This is the great safeguard of the young. It
is their brightest jewel--their most attractive ornament--the crowning glory of their character
and being. It adds a captivating lustre to all charms of whatever description; and without
it all other excellencies are lost in perpetual darkness. It should be a fixed rule, never
to violate the dictates of purity either in action, language, or thought. Many imagine it is
a matter of small moment what their thoughts may be, so long as in action they do not transgress
the requirements of virtue. This, however, is a serious error. The outward action is but the
expression of the inward thought. Wicked deeds would never have birth, were they not first
prompted by wicked desires. Hence if the young would have their words and deeds characterized
by purity, they must see that their hearts and thoughts are constantly pure.

    "Pure thoughts are angel visitants! Be such
     The frequent inmates of thy guileless breast.
     They hallow all things by their sacred touch,
     And ope the portals of the land of rest."

The heart is the source of all actions. A dark, muddy fountain cannot send forth clear waters.
Neither does a pure fountain send forth muddy waters. A foul heart, the receptacle of unclean
thoughts and impure passions, is a corrupt well-spring of action, which leads to every vicious
practice. Let the hearts of the youthful be pure as crystal, let their thoughts be sanctified
by virtue and holiness; and their lives shall be as white and spotless as the driven snow--winning
the admiration of all who know them. With purity as a shield, they are doubly guarded against
sin. However enticing temptation may be--however artfully or strongly it may assail them--they
are prepared to rise above it, in any and every emergency.

Another of the fixed rules of conduct should be to aim high in all the purposes of life. The
great obstacle to success with many of the young, is that they adopt no standard of action
for their government; but allow themselves to float along the current of time like a mere straw
on the surface of the waters, liable to be veered about by every puff of wind and whirling
eddy! If the current in which they float happens to waft them into the smooth waters, and the
calm sunshine of virtue and respectability, it is a matter of mere fortunate chance. If they
are drawn into the dark stream of sin, they have but little power to resist, and are soon hurried
into the surging rapids, and hurled over the boiling cataract of ruin! True, they may not utterly
perish even in plunging down the cataract. They may possibly seize hold of some jutting rock
below, and by a desperate effort drag themselves from the raging waters. But they will come
forth bruised, bleeding, strangling, and half-drowned, to mourn the folly of their thoughtlessness.
How much wiser and better to have taken early precaution, and guarded in the first place against
the insidious current, which compelled them to purchase wisdom at so dear a rate.

To avoid this great folly, the youthful should establish a fixed purpose for life. They should
set their mark, as to what they wish to become; and then make it the great labor of their lives
to attain it. And let that mark be a high one. You cannot make it too elevated. The maxim of
the ancients was, that although he who aims at the sun will not hit it, yet his arrows will
fly much higher than though his mark was on the earth. A young man who should strive to be
a second Washington or Jefferson, might not attain to their renown. But he would become a much
greater and better man, than though he had only aspired to be the keeper of a gambling-house,
or the leader of a gang of blacklegs. In all your purposes and plans of life, aim high!

    "Again a light boat on a streamlet is seen,
     Where the banks are o'erladen with beautiful green,
     Like a mantle of velvet spread out to the sight,
     Reflects to the gazer a bright world of light.
     The fair bark has lost none of its beauty of yore,
     But a youth is within it,--the fair child before;
     And the Angel is gone--on the shore see him stand,
     As he bids him adieu with a wave of the hand.
     Ah! a life is before thee--a life full of care,
     Gentle Youth, and mayhap thou wilt fall in its snare.
     Can thy bark speed thee now? without wind, without tide?
     Without the kind Angel, thy beautiful guide?
     Ah! no;--then what lures thee, fair youth, to depart?
     Must thou rush into danger from impulse of heart?
     Lo! above in the bright arch of Heaven I see
     The vision, the aim so alluring to thee:
     'Tis the temple of Fame, with its pillars so fair,
     And the Genius of Wisdom and Love reigneth there.
     Advance then, proud vessel,--thy burden is light,--
     Swift speed thee, and guide his young steps in the right;
     For in life's 'fitful changes' are many dark streams,
     And paths unillumed by the sun's golden beams."

Cherish self-respect. Have a deep regard for your own estimation of your own merits. Look with
scorn and contempt upon low and vicious practices. Cultivate pride of character. I care not
how proud the youthful are of all their valuable attainments, their correct habits, their excellings
in that which is manly, useful, and good. The more pride of this description, the better. Though
it should reach even to egotism and vanity, it is much better than no pride in these things.
This pride in doing right is one of the preserving ingredients, the very salt of man's moral
character, which prevents from plunging into vice.

Live for something besides self. Build with your own hands, the monument that shall perpetuate
your memory, when the dust has claimed your body. Do good. Live for others, if you would be
embalmed in their recollections.

"Thousands of men breathe, move, and live--pass off the stage of life, and are heard of no
more. Why! They did not a particle of good in the world; and none were blessed by them; none
could point to them as the instruments of their redemption; not a line they wrote, not a word
they spoke could be recalled, and so they perished; their light went out in darkness, and they
were not remembered more than the insects of yesterday. Will you thus live and die, O man immortal?
Live for something. Do good, and leave behind you a monument of virtue that the storm of time
can never Destroy. Write your name by kindness, love, and mercy, on the hearts of the thousands
you come in contact with year by year, and you will never be forgotten. No, your name--your
deeds--will be as legible on the hearts you leave behind, as the stars on the brow of evening.
Good deeds will shine as brightly on the earth as the stars of heaven."[1]

    "Up! it is a glorious era!
      Never yet has dawned its peer;
     Up, and work! and then a nobler
      In the future shall appear.
     'Onward!' is the present's motto,
      To a larger, higher life;
     'Onward!' though the march be weary,
      Though unceasing be the strife.

     "Pitch not here thy tent, for higher
      Doth the bright ideal shine,
     And the journey is not ended
      Till thou reach that height divine.
     Upward! and above earth's vapors,
      Glimpses shall to thee be given,
     And the fresh and odorous breezes,
      Of the very hills, of heaven."

[Footnote 1: Dr. Chalmers.]

Among the fixed principles which you should establish for your government, by no means overlook
Honesty and Integrity. The poet never uttered a truer word than that

    "An honest man's the noblest work of God."

Honesty is approved and admired by God and man--by all in heaven, and by all on earth. Even
the corrupt swindler, in his heart, respects an honest man, and stands abashed in his presence.

In all your actions, in all your dealings, let strict and rigid honesty guide you. Never be
tempted to swerve from its dictates, even in the most trivial degree. There will be strong
allurements to entice you from this path. The appetite for gain--the voice of avarice--will
often whisper that honesty may be violated to advantage. There will be times when it will seem
that its dictates may be placed aside--that a little dishonesty will be greatly to your benefit.
Believe not this syren song. This is the time you are in the most danger of being deceived
to your serious injury. Although there may be occasions when you will seem actually to lose
by adhering to honesty, yet you should not shrink a hair's breadth. Whatever you may lose,
in a pecuniary point of view, at any time, by a strict submission to honesty, you will make
up an hundred-fold in the long-run, by establishing and preserving a reputation for integrity.
Looking at it in simply a pecuniary point of view, community will give their countenance, their
patronage, and business, much quicker to a man who has established a reputation for honesty,
than to one who is known, or suspected of being fraudulent in his dealings. Every consideration
which can bear upon the young, religious, moral and pecuniary, unite to urge them to establish,
in the outset of life, the rule of unswerving honesty and integrity, as their constant guide. Also say it stands the poet free, the natural
time sequence of events presented by him in any way To shorten it passes through the sacrifice
of common probability of a dramatic increase in the can achieve effect, it seems to me not in her place.
For such a sacrifice is still only be justified where it just bothers the probability [3], but
not where the causal Unlinked, and the dramatic effect would have happened no demolition if the
timing left undetermined, would instead be constrained by explicit comments to a few days be.

[3] As in the advertising of Richard III. by Anna, at the bier of
him murdered king.

  
  

It is so difficult a problem as that of the leave as Macbeth unsolvable, that I still dare attempt
to add a remark that points to a new way out. Ludwig Jekels has recently been felt in a Shakespeare
study a piece to guess the art of the poet, which could also be considered for Macbeth. He thinks
that Shakespeare often a Character in two divided, each of which then appears incomplete understand
as long as they are not with the other in turn composed to unity. It could also with Macbeth
and his Lady, and then it would naturally lead to nothing, they wanted take as an independent
person investigate the motivation of their conversion, without having to to take the Supplementary
Macbeth consideration. I follow this trail further, but I but will give what support this view
in such a conspicuous manner that the fear germs, the forth night of the murder in Macbeth, not
with him, but the Lady development get [4]. It is he who has had prior to the crime, the hallucination
of the dagger, but she, the later of mental illness falls, he heard screaming for the murder in the
house: Sleep no more, Macbeth murdered sleep and therefore should not sleep Macbeth, but we
hear nothing about it that King Macbeth does not sleep, as we see that the Queen from her sleep
and gets up sleepwalking betrays their guilt, and he stood there helplessly with bloody hands
and complained that all of the sea god flood not wash away his hand, they comforted at the time:
A little water washes us from the fact, but then it is a quarter of an hour long wash their
hands and remove the stain of blood can not. "All the perfumes Arabia do not sweet-scented
this little hand. "(Act V, Scene 1) How satisfied are in it, what he feared in his pangs of conscience,
it is the remorse after the fact, it is the defiance, together they exhaust the possibilities
of reaction to the crime, like two disunited Shares of a single psychological individuality and
perhaps after-images of a single Role model.

[4] See, intestinal Stetter l. c.

  Do we have the figure of Lady Macbeth can not answer the question,
why after success as the patient collapses, then beckons us perhaps
a better chance at Creation of another great dramatist, the task of
the psychological account to pursue with unrelenting severity loves.

Gamvik Rebecca, the daughter of a midwife is, for by her adoptive father, Dr. West freethinker
and Verächterin those shackles have been brought up, which was founded
on a religious faith wants to create the morality of life wishes.

After the death of the doctor she procures Inclusion in Rosmersholm, the ancestral seat of an ancient
family, whose members are laughing do not know and the joy of a rigid devotion to duty have
sacrificed. On Rosmersholm House of Pastor John Rosmer and his sickly, childless wife Beate.
"From the savage, unconquerable lust "for the love of the noble man taken Rebecca decides that
Woman standing in her way to clear away, and makes use of her "brave, free-born" inhibited
by no considerations will. She plays her a medical book in the hand is presented in which the
procreation as the purpose of marriage, so that the arms on the permission their marriage is
wrong, they can guess it that Rosmer, whose reading and thought they shares, is about to break free
from the old faith and the party of the Enlightenment , And after they take the confidence
of women in the moral reliability of her husband shaken, she has finally gives her to understand that
they, Rebecca, now the house leave in order to conceal the consequences of illicit trafficking
in Rosmer. The criminal Plan succeeds. The poor woman who was subject to melancholy and insane
crashes from the mill bridge down into the water, in the sense of his own unworthiness, and to
the happiness of the beloved Man not to be in the way.

Since year and day are now living alone in Rebecca and Rosmer Rosmersholm in a relationship which
he will hold for a purely spiritual and ideal friendship. But from the outside establish the first
shadows of defamation on this ratio fall, while tormenting Doubt
be made in Rosmer active, has gone from what motives his wife to death,
he begs to become his second wife, Rebecca, to the sad past, a new
living Able to confront reality.

(Act II), you rejoice at this motion for a moment long on, but the next she says that it is
impossible, and if he penetrates further into it, going the way they're going, the beat is
gone. " Rosmer blankly takes this rejection contrary, it is even more incomprehensible to us
that we do more of Rebecca's intentions and . Know We can not just doubt that it is no joking.

How
did it get that with the brave adventurer, free-born will, in without any regard for the way of achieving
their desires paved, now will not access because it is offered to pick the fruit of success? It
gives us even the Enlightenment in the fourth act: "That's just the terrible, now that all the luck
in the world to me with full Hands is on offer, - now I am a grown such that my own past I blocked
the path to happiness. "She's become so one other meanwhile, their conscience is awake, she got a
sense of guilt, which denied her the pleasure.

And how her conscience has been aroused? Let us listen to them and then we consider whether we you
may fully believe: "It is the view of life of the house Rosmer is - or at least your view of life
- which has infected my will ... And has made him sick. has enslaved him with laws that have not
previously been subject for me. Living together with you - you think that my mind has ennobled.
"

This influence is, to accept without, has only be enforced as if they alone Rosmer was allowed
to live together, "- in silence - in solitude - as you give me your thoughts without any Subject gave,
- a mood any, as soft and as fine as you feel they test - since came the great change a ".

Shortly
before, she had complained to the other side of this change: "Because Rosmersholm me strength
has taken, here is my bold will has been paralyzed.

And disfigured! For me, the Time passed, I got to risk everything and anything. I have lost
the power to act, Rosmer. "

This statement is Rebecca, having the right by a voluntary confession
Rosmer and Kroll, the brother of the woman disposed of her exposed,
as a criminal added.

Ibsen has little traits determined by masterly subtlety that this is not Rebecca lying, but it
never is quite sincere. How, despite all the freedom from prejudice their age has reduced by
one year, so is her confession before the two men incomplete and by the insistence of Kroll
added a few key points.

Also, we are left the freedom to believe that disclosing the information of their renunciation,
the only one to be a to conceal another.

Certainly, we have no reason to distrust their statement that the air on Rosmersholm, her Dealing
with the noble Rosmer, and ennobling - a paralyzing effect upon it. She says that, what she knows
and has felt. But it did not have to be all that went on in her is, nor is it necessary that
she could give an account of everything. The influence Rosmer could just be a smokescreen
behind which hides a different effect, and after the other direction
has a remarkable train.

Even after her confession, in the last conversation that ends the piece, she asks Rosmer again
to be his wife. He forgives her, which she has committed a crime out of love for him. And now she
does not answer what they should, that no pardon could take their sense of guilt, they acquired
through the treacherous betrayal of the poor Beatrice, but they are
burdened with another charge that we must touch unfamiliar with the
free thinker, not the place deserves to which it is informed by Rebecca:
"Oh, my friend - never come back it!

It is an impossibility - For you must know Rosmer, I have a past. " You will of course suggest that
she has had sexual relations with another man and we want to remember that their relationships
with this a time when they are free and no one responsibility was a stronger association with the
obstacle Rosmer really seem as its criminal conduct against his wife.

Rosmer refuses to listen to this past. We can guess them, although all what has meaning in the
play as it were underground and remains to be developed from hints must. From indications, however, which
are inserted with such art, that a misunderstanding the same is impossible.

Between Rebecca's first rejection, and its admission is going on something of vital Importance
for their future destiny.

The Rector Kroll they attended to them through the message to humble, he knew that she was an
illegitimate child, the daughter of that very Doctor West, who she adopted after her mother's death.
The hatred has sharpened his instincts, but he does not tell her to something new. "In fact,
I thought you knew exactly Decision.

It would have been otherwise very strange that you adopt from Dr. West were --. 'And he takes
her - just after the death of your mother. He treated It hard. And yet you stay with him. You know
that he will not leave a penny is. They have also only get a box of books. And yet you stay out
with him. Bear his whims. Care of him until the last moment. "-" What have you done for him,
the I guide her from the natural instinct of the daughter. You think all the rest of occurrence
I am a natural result of your origin. "

But Kroll was in error. Rebecca had known nothing of it, that she was the daughter of the Doctor should
be West. As Kroll began with dark allusions to her past, she had assume he meant something else.
After she realized what it refers, they can maintain her composure for a while, because they
may believe that their enemy's calculation that age has estimated that she falsely stated
in a previous visit.

But after Kroll rejected this objection victorious, "Maybe. But the bill may still be true,
because a year before he was hired, is West up there temporarily been visited, "according to
this new release she lost her bearings. "That's not true." - It goes around and wringing her
hands: "It is impossible. You try and tell me the bare. That can be true now, nor ever. Can not
be true! Now, nor ever - Her Emotion is so bad that they are not due to his communication can
Kroll.

Kroll: "But, my dear, - why, for God's sake, you because so violent? They make me really scared!
What to believe and think - "

Rebecca: "Nothing. They should not believe something something . Think "

    
    Kroll, "Then you would have me but really explain why you this thing
    - the opportunity to take it to heart.

    "
    

    Rebecca (edited again): "That's very simple, Mr. Rector. I have no
    desire for an illegitimate child . Shall apply "

    
    The mystery in consultation Rebecca admits only one solution.
    The news that her doctor West can his father, is the heaviest blow
was the concern her because she was not only adopted daughter, but
also the mistress of this man.

As Kroll began his speech, she said, he would allude to this relationship, which they probably
referring on their freedom had claims responsibility. But the rector was distant, and he knew
nothing of the Love affair with Dr. West, as none of his paternity. Nothing but this love
affair they may have in mind when they face the last refusal Rosmer vorschützt, they have a
past that make them unworthy to be his wife. Probably Rosmer would have if he had wanted to,
given only one half of her mystery and the heavier portion of the same secret.

But now we understand, however, that this past her as the more serious obstacle to the Marriage appears
as the more serious - crimes.

After learning she has, that she was the mistress of her own father, subjects they now have their
powerful bursting forth guilt.

It shall present Rosmer and Kroll from the confession by which it is labeled a murderer finally
divested to the happiness to which they had paved the way by crime, and prepares for departure.
But the real Motive of her consciousness of guilt, which they can fail at success, remains secret.
We have seen, there is something quite different than the atmosphere of Rosmersholm and the civilizing
Rosmer influence.

Who followed us so far, will not now fail to submit an objection,
then the some doubt can be justified.

The first dismissal takes place before Rosmer by Rebecca yes Kroll's second visit, before his
discovery of their illegitimate birth, and to a Time, because she knows about her incest yet
- if we understood the true poet. But this dismissal is meant seriously and energetically. The
sense of guilt that her on the Profit from his deeds without words is so even before their knowledge
to their capital crimes effective, and if we admit as much, then the incest as a source of
guilt may be deleted at all.

We have been treated Rebekka West, as if it were a real person and
not a creation led by the most critical minds imagination of the poet
Ibsen.

We must try to in the execution of this objection to hold the same position. The objection is well
a piece of conscience was awake even before the knowledge of incest with Rebecca. There is nothing
to make in the way of this change the influence charge that Rebekah herself admits and accuses.
But we come from the recognition of the second motif is not free. The behavior Rebekah at the
release of the rector, immediately following their response through the Confession leaves no doubt
that only now the strongest, the essential appeal the waiver is in effect occurs. It is just a case
of multiple motivation in the deeper motive behind the superficial appears. Recommendations
of the poetic Economy make the case were called so, for these deeper motive should not be discussed
out loud, it had to remain covered, removed from the comfortable perception of the listener
or reader's theater, otherwise would have collected in this heavy resistance, based on the most
painful feelings, which could compromise the action of the play in question.

By law we must not require that the subject can not pushed without interdependence of the covered
by it was, but as a mitigation of and discharge from the latter legally.

And if we may trust the poet, that his conscious poetic combination is the result of unconscious
logical conditions, we may also attempt to show that he has fulfilled this requirement make. Rebecca's
sense of guilt arises from the source of the incest allegation, before the rector with her
this analytical precision brought to consciousness. If we execute and complete their implied by
the poet Reconstruct the past, we will say it can not without a hint of the intimate relations
between her mother and the doctor have been West. It has made her a great impression have,
when she became the successor of the mother at this man, and she was under the Rule of the
Oedipus complex, even if they knew that this general imagination made their case for the reality was.
When she came to Rosmersholm, they drove the internal Violence that first experience of this is
to achieve through active action the same situation which is the first time she had realized
without doing anything to address the wife and mother; to take their place in the man and father.
She describes with compelling urgency, as it was forced against their will to do step by step
to eliminate beats.

"But you think because I went and acted with cool reflection! At that time I was not but what I am
today, when I stand before you and tell. And then there are also,
I should think, two Species will in a human.

    I would have gone Beate! On any way, but I believed it not, then it
    would ever . Come With every step that I am tempted to venture forward,
    It was me that shouted something in me: Well no more! No More step!
    - And yet I could not help. I had to a tiny Spürchen further. And
    a single Spürchen. And then another - and still one --. And so it happened.
    - This is such a thing before him. "
    
    This is not whitewashing, but true justice. Everything on Rosmersholm
    with it was going on, falling in love Rosmer and hostility against
    his wife, was already Success of the Oedipus complex, forced replica
    of her relationship with her mother and to Dr. West.

And that is the feeling of guilt that they can reject the advertising first Rosmer, basically
not different from that of larger one, which forces them to release
the Kroll to confess.

How it but under the influence of Doctor West to free thinker and religious Verächterin become
moral was, she walked through the new love for Rosmer to conscience and Adel man. As far as she
knew from their own internal processes, and therefore they could designate by law the influence
Rosmer than their more accessible location for amending it.

The psychoanalytically-working doctor know how often or how regularly
the girl who as servant, companion, teacher enters a house, there
consciously or unconsciously the daydream spins, the contents of the
Oedipus complex is seen that the woman of the house somehow disappear,
and the Lord will take its place in marriage.

"Rosmersholm" is the supreme art of the genre, which deals with this everyday imagination of girls.
It is a tragic poetry by adding that the daydream of the heroine, the very appropriate Reality
is preceded by a prior history [5].

[5] The evidence of the incest theme in "Rosmersholm" is already the same means as here, in the
opulent works of O. Rank, Das Inzest-Motiv in Dichtung and Sage, 1912, provided been.

  After long stays in the seal, we now return to the medical experience.
  But only to a few words the full agreement of both observed. The psychoanalytic
  Work shows that the forces of conscience, which can be diagnosed
  on success rather than as usual the refusal, in an intimate way with
the Oedipus complex are related, the relationship father and mother,
as perhaps our sense of guilt at all.

III.

The criminals from guilt.

In the notification of their youth, particularly through the years
of prepuberty, I have often later, very decent people of tort reported
that they had at that time will be guilty of theft, fraud and even
arson.

I used dismiss these data with the information that the weakness of moral inhibitions known in
this lifetime was, and did not try it in a meaningful context classified. But at last I was by flash
and more favorable cases in which such offense were committed while the patients were in my care,
and where it is People beyond those early years acted invited to more thorough study of such
incidents. The analytical work then brought the surprising result that such acts, especially were
carried out it is because they banned because of their design a psychological relief connected to
the perpetrator was. He suffered from an oppressive sense of guilt of unknown origin, and
after he had committed a crime, the pressure was alleviated. The sense of guilt was at least somehow accommodated.

Paradoxical
as it may sound, I must say that the guilt was there earlier than the Offense that it is not
out of this emerged, but on the contrary, the passage from the guilt. This person could be described
with good reason as criminals from guilt. The Pre-existence of guilt, of course, had a number of
other expressions and effects can be detected.

The discovery of a curious set of scientific work but no goal. There are to answer two questions,
where the hidden guilt feeling is fueled, in fact, and whether it is likely that this type of causation
in the crimes of the people has a larger share.

The pursuit of the first issue promised to provide information about
the source of the human sense of guilt at all.

The regular result of the analytic work was that this dark sense of guilt from the Oedipus complex
originates, is a reaction to the two great criminal intentions, to kill the father and intercourse
with the mother sexually. Compared with these two were however to fix the guilt crimes committed
facilities for the tortured.

Here one needs to remember that parricide and incest, the two parent major crimes of the people are the
only ones in primitive societies, such as be followed and abhors. Also remember how close we believe
other studies come, in that the human conscience, which now occurs as an inherited soul power has
acquired the Oedipus complex.

Answering the second question goes beyond the psychoanalytic work. In children you can without
further observe that they are "bad to provoke punishment, and after of punishment are reassured
and satisfied. A subsequent analytical study often leads on the trail of guilt that she was looking
fine. From adult criminals probably have to remove all those who commit crimes without guilt,
that either do not have developed moral inhibitions or in combat
with the company for their actions entitled to believe.

But in the majority of other criminals, in which, for the criminal statutes are actually made
such a motivation of the crime could well be considered come, illuminate many obscure points
in the psychology of the criminal and the punishment is new psychological foundation giving.

A
friend told me then pointed out that the "criminal of guilt "Nietzsche was known. The pre-existence
of Guilt and the use of the fact to rationalize the same Glimmer us from the dark speeches Zarathustra
"On the pallid Criminals "against. We leave it to future research To decide how many of the
criminals on this "pale" to are expected. They make me really scared? What to believe because so violent?
They make me really scared!

Let them wind not a single coil of their fatal chains around the free spirit of the young.
The same appalling consequences will be visited on every youth who indulges them, that have
fallen on those whose condition excites Loth pity and loathing in their breasts.

In youth, habits are much easier formed and corrected, than at a later period of life. If they
are right now, preserve, strengthen and mature them. If they are wrong--if they have any dangerous
influence or tendency--correct them immediately. Delay not the effort an hour. The earlier
you make the attempt to remedy a bad habit, the easier it will be accomplished. Every day adds
to its strength and vigor; until, if not conquered in due time, it will become a voracious
monster, devouring everything good and excellent. It will make its victim a miserable, drivelling
slave, to be continually lashed and scourged into the doing of its low and wretched promptings.
Hence the importance of attending to the habits in early life, when they are easily controlled
and corrected. If the young do not make themselves the masters of their passions, appetites,
and habits, these will soon become their masters, and make them their tool and bond-men through
all their days.

Usually at the age of thirty years, the moral habits become fixed for life. New ones are seldom
formed after that age; and quite as seldom are old ones abandoned. There are exceptions to
this rule; but in general, it holds good. If the habits are depraved and vicious at that age,
there is little hope of amendment. But if they are correct--if they are characterized by virtue,
goodness, and sobriety--there is a flattering prospect of a prosperous and peaceful life. Remember,
the habits are not formed, nor can they be corrected, in a single week or month. It requires
years to form them, and years will be necessary to correct them permanently, when they are
wrong. Hence, in order to possess good habits at maturity, it is all-important to commence
schooling the passions, curbing the appetites, and bringing the whole moral nature under complete
control, early in youth. This work cannot be commenced too soon. The earlier the effort, the
easier it can be accomplished. To straighten the tender twig, when it grows awry from the ground,
is the easiest thing imaginable. A child can do it at the touch of its finger. But let the
twig become a matured tree before the attempt is made, and it will baffle all the art of man
to bring it to a symmetrical position. It must be uprooted from the very soil before this can
be accomplished. It is not difficult to correct a bad habit when it commences forming. But
wait until it has become fully developed, and it will require a long and painful exertion of
every energy to correct it.

Permit me to enumerate a few of the more important habits, which the young should seek to cultivate.

First of all--the most important of all--and that, indeed, which underlies and gives coloring
to all others--is the habit of TEMPERANCE. Surely it is needless for me, at this day, to dwell
upon the evils of intemperance. It cannot be necessary to paint the bitter consequences--the
destruction to property, health, reputation--the overthrow of the peace of families, the want
and misery, to which its victims are frequently reduced. The disgrace, the wretchedness, the
ruin, the useless and ignominious life, and the horrid death, which are so often caused by
habits of intemperance, are seen, and known to all. No one attempts, no one thinks of denying
them. The most interested dealer, or retailer in intoxicating drinks--the most confirmed inebriate--will
acknowledge without hesitation, that intemperance is the direst evil that ever cursed a fallen
race!! The deleterious consequences of other vices may sometimes be concealed for a season,
from outward observation. Not so with intemperance. It writes its loathsome name, in legible
characters, upon the very brow of its wretched victim. "I am a drunkard!" is as plainly to
be read as though a printed label was posted there!

Need I warn--need I exhort--the young to avoid the habit of intemperance. Perhaps there is
not a youth present, who is not ready to say, "To me this exhortation is needless. I have not
the slightest expectation of becoming a drunkard!" Of course not. There never was a man who
desired, or expected, to become a victim to intemperance. The great danger of this habit is,
that it creeps stealthily and imperceptibly upon the unwary. It does its work gradually. The
most besotted inebriate cannot tell you the day, nor the month, when he became a confirmed
drunkard. It is in the nature of this habit, that those who expose themselves at all to its
assaults, become its victims, while they are entirely unaware of it.

The only safeguard and security, against this scourge of man, is total abstinence from all
intoxicating drinks!! Here is the true, the safe ground for the young. There is no other condition
of entire security. No man who drinks, however sparingly, has assurance of a sober life. He
needlessly, and foolishly, places himself in danger--turns his footsteps into the only path
that can possibly lead to the drunkard's ruin and the drunkard's grave!

Drink the first drop that can intoxicate, and your feet stand at the very brink of the ocean
of intemperance. Its briny waters are composed of human tears. Its winds, the sighs of those
made poor and wretched by the inebriation of husbands, fathers, sons. Its billows, ever tossing,
are overhung with black and lowering clouds, and illuminated only by the lightning's vivid
flash, while hoarse thunders reverberate over the wide and desolate waste. Engulphed in this
dreary ocean, the wretched drunkard is buffeted hither and thither, at the mercy of its angry
waves--now dashed on jagged rocks, bruised and bleeding--then engulphed in raging whirlpools
to suffocating depths--anon, like a worthless weed, cast high into the darkened heavens by
the wild water-spout, only to fall again into the surging deep, to be tossed to and fro on
waters which cannot rest! Rash youth! Would you launch away on this sea of death? Quaff of
the intoxicating bowl, and soon its hungry waves will be around you. Would you avoid a fate
so direful? Seal your lips to the first drop, and the drear prospect will sink forever from
your vision!

Young men who would guard themselves against the baleful habit of intemperance, should shun
all resorts where intoxicating drinks are vended. They should avoid throwing themselves in
the way of temptation. "Lead us not into temptation," should be the constant prayer of the
young. When by any combination of circumstances, they find themselves in the company of those
who quaff of the poisoned bowl, whether in public or private, they should exercise a manly
pride in firmly refusing to participate in their potations. This is a legitimate and commendable
pride, of which the young cannot have too much. Let them place themselves on the high rock
of principle, and their feet will not slide in the trying hour.

    "Oh! water for me! bright water for me,
     And wine for the tremulous debauchee!

"The young man walks in the midst of temptations to appetite, the improper indulgence of which
is in danger of proving his ruin. Health, longevity, and virtue depend on his resisting these
temptations. The providence of God is no more responsible, because a man of improper indulgence
becomes subject to disease, than for picking his pockets. For a young man to injure his health,
is to waste his patrimony and destroy his capacity for virtuous deeds.

"If young men imagine that the gratification of appetite is the great source of enjoyment,
they will find this in the highest degree with industry and temperance. The epicure, who seeks
it in a dinner which costs five dollars, will find less enjoyment of appetite than the laborer
who dines on a shilling. If the devotee to appetite desires its high gratification, he must
not send for buffalo tongues and champagne, but climb a mountain or swing an axe. Let a young
man pursue temperance, sobriety, and industry, and he may retain his vigor till three score
years and ten, with his cup of enjoyment full, and depart painlessly; as the candle burns out
in its socket, he will expire."[2]

[Footnote 2: Horace Mann.]

Next to Temperance in importance, I would rank the habit of INDUSTRY. We were evidently made
for active occupation. Every joint, sinew, and muscle plainly shows this. A young person who
is an idler, a drone, is a pest in society. He is ready to engage in mischief, and to fall
into vice, with but little resistance. It is an old saying, that "an idle brain is the devil's
workshop." Those who are not actively employed in something useful, will be very likely to
fall into evil practices. Industry is one of the best safeguards against the inroads of vice.
The young, whatever may be their condition, or however abundantly they may believe their future
wants already provided for, should actively engage in some honorable occupation or profession--in
something that will benefit mankind. They should be fired with the high and noble ambition
of making the world better for their living in it. Who can wish to pass a blank existence?
Yet this is the life of every idler, poor or rich. Be stirring in anything which is useful--anything
which will make others happy. Then you will not have lived in vain. Behold how a good man can
devote his life to labors for the benefit of others. Would you partake of the immortal fame
of a Howard? Imitate, to the extent of your ability, the example of industrious benevolence
he has placed before the world.

    "From realm to realm, with cross or crescent crowned,
     Where'er mankind and misery are found,
     O'er burning sands, deep waves, or wilds of snow,
     Mild Howard journeying seeks the house of woe.
     Down many a winding step to dungeons dank,
     Where anguish wails aloud and fetters clank,
     To caves bestrewed with many a mouldering bone,
     And cells whose echoes only learn to groan;
     Where no kind bars a whispering friend disclose,
     No sunbeam enters, and no zephyr blows;--
     He treads, inemulous of fame or wealth,
     Profuse of toil and prodigal of health;
     Leads stern-eyed Justice to the dark domains,
     If not to sever, to relax his chains;
     Gives to her babes the self-devoted wife,
     To her fond husband liberty and life,--
     Onward he mores! disease and death retire;
     And murmuring demons hate him and admire."

To young women industry is equally essential and commendable. An idle woman is a poor and worthless
thing. For what does she imagine she was created? Of what service is she to the world? In what
respect would not the world be as well without her? A do-nothing young lady is most assuredly
pitied and despised by those whose good opinion she is most anxious to secure.

It is not enough that a young woman can play skilfully, sing delightfully, dance gracefully,
dress fashionably, and has an abundant flow of "small talk." The world looks beyond these outward
ornaments, and asks--Has she a good heart and gentle disposition? Is she affectionate and forbearing?
Can she rule her temper and control her tongue? Does she respect and obey her parents? Has
she a well-cultivated and well-stored mind? Is she industrious, prudent, economical? Is she
able and willing to engage in household duties? Accomplishments are not to be overlooked. But
the qualities above enumerated are essential, indispensable, to the character of a good daughter
and a useful wife.

"ACTION! That's the word. The great world itself throbs with life. Action, untiring harmony
pervades the Universe of God. The Creative Power has so ordained it. The physical formation
of the world, and all therein, forbids inactivity. The vast machinery must move, or the whole
cease to exist. Man was never designed to be a drone. Had he lived pure in the first Paradise,
he could not have been idle. Sick or well, in cold or heat, day or night, he machine moves
on, the heart, like a steam-engine, throbs away, and faithfully pumps its crimson currents
unceasingly to every part of the animal frame. Action is one of the first elements of health
and happiness. The mind will stagnate and engender moral miasma, as much as the pool never
stirred by a tide or swept by the winds.

"God has written action on the Heavens. Silent, but ceaseless, the worlds that gleam out upon
us, keep on their course. Every orb follows the track marked out for it. The Ocean rolls and
heaves. The spring gushes out from the hill-side and dances from rock to rock, and the brook
hums and murmurs its melody as it goes. Upon the meadow, the springing grass tells of the process
that annually clothes the turf with wealth and beauty. The leaves put out, rustle in the winds,
and fall to their rest, while others follow. The fierce, fiery energy of the lightning writes
the truth upon the scudding clouds. The formless waves that in the atmosphere ripple and dash
against the cheek, tell of a restless ocean around us, a medium of health and sound. From the
world that rolls, to the summer flies that float on the air and glance in the sun, the truth
is proclaimed that all is activity. Man cannot be idle--should not."[3]

[Footnote 3: T.W. Brown.]

"One of the most mischievous phrases in which a rotten Morality, a radically false and vicious
Public Sentiment, disguise themselves, is that which characterizes certain individuals as destitute
of financial capacity. A 'kind, amiable, generous, good sort of man,' (so runs the varnish,)
'but utterly unqualified for the management of his own finances'--'a mere child in everything
relating to money,' &c. &c.--meaning that with an income of $500 a year, he persisted in spending
$1000; or with an income of from $2000 to $3000, he regularly spent from $5000 to $8000, according
to his ability to run in debt, or the credulity of others in trusting him.

"The victims of this immorality--debtor as well as creditor--are entitled to more faithful
dealing at the hands of those not directly affected by the misdemeanors of the former. It is
the duty of the community to rebuke and repress these pernicious glosses, making the truth
heard and felt, that inordinate expenditure is knavery and crime. No man has a moral right
thus to lavish on his own appetites, money which he has not earned, and does not really need.
If public opinion were sound on this subject--if a man living beyond his means, when his means
were commensurate with his real needs, were subjected to the reprehension he deserves--the
evil would be instantly checked, and ultimately eradicated.

"The world is full of people who can't imagine why they don't prosper like their neighbors,
when the real obstacle is not in the banks nor tariffs, in bad public policy nor hard times,
but in their own extravagance and heedless ostentation. Then
the old woman crossed herself with habitual About and assured the abundance, they have made
of dreams and signs long before known this whole disaster, and also the fact that the Mr. Julius
Caesar in the Krumlov castle was again handled and it was the warden that in an armchair opposite
him and the Emperor Rudolf, lowered his head in his hand, about the night away in the Moldau
valley saw stars.

Who did not believe such, the habit of despising the old Rosalka bluntly, for they thought it
was a lack of education and experience, and for one of the many ill effects the culture that "in
the big city" is always more powerful to make progress. She could then also not help in the
evening, when Mrs. Wanka with her son at all serious and considerate talks seemed to lead to
the daughter Luisa, who so completely unnecessary with large lost eyes dabeisaß to sneak into
the kitchen and also wave to them from the sinful mouths of heretics warning that would have more
fear of anything - in any cemetery and before any midnight so together, not even from both. And
there was evoked by a short that mood, in which the old woman felt at home: things all around,
from the stiff kitchen cupboard until the clumsy washing trough, which had just been standing
still as sober, began with a male be listening to, and it was as they advanced in order to
lose no word Rosalkas closer and closer to the two women, such as noise awakened by steps,
and for no reason laughed one of the old tin pans: plink "Then was the maid, and with a beating!
Heart pursued both the silver clay and they happened that an invisible Clock any an important
hour had struck. And sometimes the old kitchen light, walked as in agreement with Rosalka, just as was
this last manned, and the heavy and rich twilight sultry reeling from thousands of possibilities.
Luisa, who always sat very silently in a corner, became smaller and smaller these powers over,
they seemed to dissolve and leave nothing anxious than two large eyes, which haunts the faithful with a
certain confidence . Going about It was then, as in the great hall of the mask Krumlov Castle, whose
walls way up to the vaulted ceiling, echoing up with life-size figures are painted. A French
Painter to many hundreds of years, this carnival groups as clever in so rich and surprising changes have
composed that one - even in the light of day - after each appear figure still new, fantastically
dressed guest sees. In Cesky Krumlov, but knows you definitely that such is not on the merits
of the painter, but on the strange Fact is that the knights and ladies start at a certain hour
to wake up to the to repeat a distant spectacle that night. rising from the walls, they meet
the Hall with its gleaming throng. Until the huge infantrymen on the Saalthüre the halberds hard
hit the ground: there is order the rows. A thunder rolls over them. With its wild, black six
horses, Prince Julius Caesar, the second son of Rudolf secret, from the towering ramp driven up and
barely a breath later, he is black and slender, among the guests, who bow down, down, like a cypress
in the flying field of corn. Then mix the music, the crowd, a strange music, which, in the
stringing together strips of precious Dresses seem to arise and growing, spreads and roaring rises
from the masses, as the melody of a sea. And here and there, the prince tells a wave of the shining
waves, disappears in them increases, on the other corner proudly from them, can be brilliant Smile
like a sun flash glide over it and throws a bright, mischievous word, like a precious ring, after
all snatches the midst of the surging inside. And under the wilder and burrowing to and fro growing
secret pleasure. At a silver knight Page recognizes the Prince a pale blue lady and feels at once:
the love for her, hatred for her companion. And both are in it is red and quickly. And he has
the silver Knight made a good king, for the flows down through the bare tank a purple, always
wider and bleeding, until he breaks silence under the weight of the royal coat: "It goes so
many kings," he laughs, the Prince in the dying eyes.
 The very word recreation--(re-creation)--indicates
that to a degree, proper amusement has the power to revive the wearied energies, supply afresh
the springs of life, and give a renewed elasticity and endurance to all the capacities of our
nature.

Yet there is no subject surrounded with greater difficulties, than the amusements of the youthful.
There is no amusement, however harmless and proper in its nature, but what can be carried to
such excess, as to inflict deep injury. It is while searching for recreations, that the youthful
meet the most dangerous temptations, and fall into the most vicious practices. How important
that they should make this a matter of mature reflection and acute discrimination. Pleasure
we all desire. It is sought for by every human being. But it is essential to distinguish between
true pleasure, which we can enjoy with real benefit, and false pleasure, which deceives, demoralizes,
and destroys. The poet truly describes the nature of this distinction, when he says,

    "Pleasure, or wrong, or rightly understood,
     Our greatest evil, or our greatest good!"

One of the first things requisite to be understood is, that in order to enjoy any amusement,
a previous preparation is necessary. That preparation is to be obtained by useful occupation.
It is only by contrast that we can enjoy anything.--Without weariness, we can know nothing
of rest. Without first enduring hunger and thirst, we cannot experience the satisfaction of
partaking of food and drink. In like manner, it is only by faithful and industrious application
to business of some kind--it is only by occupying the mind in useful employment--that we can
draw any satisfaction from recreation. Without this preparation, all amusement loses its charm.
Were the young to engage in one unceasing round of pastimes, from day to day, with no time
or thought devoted to useful occupation, recreation would soon be divested of its attractions,
and become insipid and painfully laborious. To be beneficial, amusements should be virtuous
in their tendencies, healthful in their influence on the body, and of brief duration.

Among the many pastimes to which the young resort for amusement, card-playing often fills a
prominent place. This is a general, and in some circles, a fashionable practice; but it is
objectionable and injurious in all its influences, and in every possible point of view. Nothing
good or instructive, nothing elevating or commendable, in any sense, can come from it. All
its fruits must necessarily be evil.

It is a senseless occupation. Nothing can be more unmeaning and fruitless, among all the employments
to which a rational mind can devote its attention. It affords no useful exercise of the intellect--no
food for profitable thought--no power to call into activity the higher and better capacities.
It is true, I suppose, there is some degree of cunning and skill to be displayed in managing
the cards. But what high intellectual, or moral capacity is brought into exercise by a game
so trivial? It excludes interesting and instructive interchanges of sentiment; on topics of
any degree of importance; and substitutes talk of a frivolous and meaningless character. To
a spectator, the conversation of a card-table, is of the most uninteresting and childish description.

There are, however, more serious objections than these. Card-playing has a tendency of the
most dangerous description, especially to the youthful. Let a young man become expert in this
game, and fond of engaging in it, and who does not see he is liable to become that most mean
and despicable of all living creatures--a GAMBLER. Confident of his own skill as a card-player,
how long would he hesitate to engage in a game for a small sum? He has seen older ones playing--perhaps
his own parents--and he can discover no great harm in doing the same thing even if it is for
a stake of a few shillings. From playing for small sums, the steps are very easy which lead
to large amounts. And in due time, the young man becomes a gambler, from no other cause than
that he acquired a love for card-playing, when he engaged in it only as an amusement.

Parents have a responsibility resting on them in this respect, of which they should not lose
sight. They cannot be surprised that their children imitate their examples. With all the dangerous
associations and tendencies of card-playing, would they have their children acquire a passion
for it? What wise parent can make such a choice for his son? Ah, how many a young man has become
a gamester, a black-leg, an inmate of the prison cell, because, in the home of his childhood,
he acquired a love of the card-table. He but imitated the practice of parents, whose duty it
was to set him a better example, and was led to the path of ruin!

If, from its influences, card-playing, even for amusement, is improper for gentlemen, I conceive
it much more so for ladies. A woman--and more especially a young woman--seems entirely out
of place at a card-table. The associations are so masculine--they bring to mind so much of
the cut-and-shuffle trickery, vulgarity and profanity--so many of the words and phrases of
that hell, the gaming-table--that for a lady to indulge in them, appears entirely opposed to
that modesty and refinement, which are so becoming the female character. I trust all young
ladies of discretion will shun the card-table. I am confident every woman, who possesses a
proper sense of the dignity and delicacy which form the highest attractions of the female character,
will avoid a practice which is made an instrument of the most despicable uses, and to which
the most vile and abandoned constantly resort.

    "Daughters of those who, long ago,
       Dared the dark storm and angry sea,
     And walked the desert way of woe,
       And pain, and trouble to be free!

     "Oh, be like them! like them endure,
       And bow beneath affliction's rod;
     Like them be watchful, high and pure--
       In all things seek the smile of God."

The same caution I have uttered in regard to card-playing, I would apply to all games of hazard
and chance. The young should never indulge in them, even for amusement. Although they may be
able to see no harm in them as recreations, yet the influences they exert, and the associations
into which they lead, cannot but exert a deleterious influence. They can do no good. They may
lead to the most dire results!

Another amusement in which the youthful frequently engage, is Dancing. This is the most fascinating
of pastimes. And it might be made the most proper, healthful, and invigorating. In the simple
act of dancing--of moving the body in unison with strains of music--there can be no harm. It
is a custom which has been practised in all ages, and among all nations, both civilized and
barbarous. The very lambs in the green and sunny meadow, and the cattle on a thousand hills,
in many a fantastic game, exult and rejoice in the blessings a kind Providence bestows upon
them. It is one of Nature's methods of attesting the consciousness of enjoyment.

Dancing, when viewed in the light of a pleasant bodily exercise, is undoubtedly healthy and
beneficial. It is peculiarly so to females, and those whose occupation and habits are of a
sedentary character. When properly engaged in, it strengthens the limbs, developes the chest,
enlarges the lungs, and invigorates the whole system.

But this pastime is greatly abused, and is so perverted as to have become one of the most serious
evils. In this view, it is subject to severe and well-grounded censure. As dancing is usually
conducted in modern times, it has proved one of the greatest evils into which the youthful
have fallen. The routs and balls to which the young resort, as generally managed, cannot be
too severely condemned. The late hours to which they are prolonged--the rich and unhealthy
pastry partaken of in abundance--the intoxicating drinks passed around, or conveniently found
in the side-room, or at the bar--the thoughtless manner of dressing, exposing to cold and damp,
and so confining the lungs, that when, by reason of exercise, they need the most room for expansion,
they have the least, thus sowing the seeds of speedy disease and early death--the long-continued
excitement and over-fatigue--the improper company which often assembles on such occasions--these
all combine to make such assemblages a source of injury in all their influences and consequences.
They should be discountenanced by every parent and well-wisher of public good. The young of
both sexes, who have any just regard for their morals--and their health, should avoid these
routs, and balls, and cotillion parties. Their tendency, in every respect, is evil in the extreme.

Dancing among children [unreadable] their pastimes--or by young people, at private parties,
or social gatherings, engaged in temperately, and for a brief period, with proper precautions
in regard to health, cannot, be objectionable. In this, as in most other amusements, it is
the excess, the abuse, that causes the injury.

In urging these considerations on the young, I would not seek to deprive them of any amusement
suited to their age and circumstances. Youth is the season of joyousness--of light-hearted
pleasure, and budding hope. I would not overshadow one ray of its bright and beautiful sunshine--nor
check one throb of its innocent pleasure. The shadows, the cares, and burthens of life, will
come upon them full early enough, at the latest. In the spring-time of their days--the delicious,
romantic morning of their being--they can experience some of the sweetest hours of their earthly
existence. Nor would I rob them of that which God and nature designed them to enjoy. But I
would have them seek for innocent amusements--for recreations and enjoyments, of a pure and
elevated character. None other can make them truly happy. All things sinful in their nature,
or demoralizing in their tendency, are unmitigated evils, destructive in their consequences.
However attractive they may appear to the inexperienced, in the form of amusements, yet in
the end, they will "bite as a serpent, and sting as an adder."

There is no necessity that the young should resort to that which is low and vicious to find
amusement. A thousand means of recreation surround them, of the most harmless character. The
enjoyments of the paternal roof--the social party, where the young engage in sprightly conversation,
or innocent pastimes--the friendly call--the perusal of interesting and instructive books--the
scanning of the journals of the day, by which they can look out upon the shifting scene of
the busy, restless world--the summer morning walk, to behold the opening beauties of the glorious
day, and listen to the singing of the birds, the lowing of the flocks and herds, the murmuring
of the streamlet, nature's early anthem of praise to God--or the evening ramble, to watch the
flowers as they open their fragrant leaves to be bathed in sweet distilling dews--to gaze upon
the golden sunset, making the fleecy clouds to blush with a crimson glow, as the king of day
bids them "good night;" or to behold the stars, as one by one they come forth to their appointed
stations, bestudding the whole heavens with crystal coronets.--These, O youth! and countless
other fountains, are open for you, from which the sweetest and purest enjoyments can be obtained.
Seek for amusement--for pleasure--in these directions, and the cup which you press to your
lips shall be one of unmixed happiness!

    "While some in folly's pleasures roll,
     And court the joys that hurt the soul,
     Be mine that silent, calm repast,
     A conscience peaceful to the last."

LECTURE V.

The Religious Sentiments.

    "Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth."--Eccl.
    xii. 1.

There are few subjects so generally uninteresting to the youthful as Religion. The great majority
prefer to have their attention called in any other direction, and to be addressed on any topic,
rather than this, which, in fact, is the most important of all. There is evidently a defect
somewhere in this matter, which should be corrected. Where shall we seek for it? Not in any
natural, inherent aversion to the subject of religion, resting in the hearts of the young.
It is neither reasonable in itself, nor respectful to the Creator, to insist he has so constituted
the human soul, that it is naturally and necessarily indisposed to a topic which is most vitally
connected with its happiness, and which should receive a large share of its attention.

This indifference is to be attributed chiefly, I think, to improper impressions in regard to
the nature and objects of religion. The young look upon it as something gloomy, saddening,
and distasteful--something that forbids enjoyment, chains in dire bondage the free, glad spirit
of early life, and casts dark and cheerless shadows on the sunshine of youth's bright morning!
They imagine it to stalk forth from a dark cell, arrayed in hood and cowl, to frown upon them
in their innocent pastimes--to curdle their blood with severe rebukes, because of the buoyancy
of their hearts and to drive them back with scowling reprimands, when they would walk in the
sunny paths which God has kindly opened for their elastic footsteps. Hence they close their
ears to its invitations; turn away from its instructions, as something designed to impose a
heavy yoke upon them; and postpone its claims, to be attended to among the last acts of life.

That these views and feelings should widely prevail, on a subject so important as religion,
is a matter of deep regret. They are erroneous and deleterious in the extreme. Let the young
strive to become acquainted with the true nature of the religion of Christ, and they will learn
that such are not its requirements, nor its fruits. It is not the purpose of its Divine Author
to sadden the heart, or fill the mind with gloom; but to cheer and gladden the soul, and lead
it to the highest and sweetest enjoyments of existence. It is not the aim of religion to deprive
the young of any real enjoyment--any recreation proper to their age or their nature, as intellectual,
moral, and spiritual beings. But it would assist the young to distinguish between permanent
happiness, and those hurtful and wicked gratifications which corrupt the heart, and plunge
the whole being into the dark pool of sin and woe. Religion is the friendly Guide sent from
our Father in heaven, to lead his creatures away from peril and woe, and direct their footsteps
into the most beautiful and happy paths of existence.

    "Through life's bewildered way,
      Her hand unerring leads;
     And o'er the path her heavenly ray
      A cheering lustre sheds."

What sight can present itself to the eye more pleasing than a religious youth. By this I do
not mean a gloomy, downcast, sorrowful young man, or young woman, whose countenance is overcast
with shadows, and whose presence chills every beholder. It is a darkened superstition, a cold,
cheerless asceticism, and not the Christian religion, which gives this unnatural and forbidding
appearance. A religious youth is one who is cheerful and happy--whose countenance is pervaded
with an expression of benevolence, a smile of contentment--who is constant in attendance on
public worship--who respects the Scriptures, and makes their daily perusal one of the fixed
duties of life--who loves God, and strives faithfully to keep his commandments--who reverences
the Saviour of man, and takes him as a pattern in all things--who is honest, industrious, economical,
and strictly temperate. Behold the fair picture! Is it not goodly to look upon? Can earth furnish
a spectacle more beautiful? Such a youth is beloved of all men. Angels, Christ, the Father,
smile their approval on every one treading this high pathway

     "Sweet is the early dew
      Which gilds the mountain tops,
    And decks each plant and flower we view
      With pearly, glittering drops;
      But sweeter far the scene
      On Zion's holy hill,
    When there the dew of youth is seen
      Its freshness to distill."

Is there a youth in the audience who does not desire to occupy a position so elevated and so
honorable? Do not imagine it is beyond your reach. Every one can attain to it by proper exertion.
It is not difficult of accomplishment. With pure desires, and right intentions, nothing is
more feasible. In fact, so to conduct as to secure such a character, and attain to such a position,
is the most easy, pleasant, and happy path in which the young can walk. All others are full
of difficulty, vexation, trouble, and wretchedness. All others yield fruit the most bitter
and poisonous--fruit which, however luscious and tempting it may appear to the eye, like the
apples of Sodom, will turn to ashes in the hand.

If the young are looking simply for a peaceful and happy life, where prosperity will be the
most likely to attend them, and where the richest and choicest blessings will be showered on
their pathway, they will find it in the practice of religion. The privileges, which they derived from this injustice, and the
Insubordination, which resulted from it, had contributed not a little to the conflicts which
later led to the outbreak of neurosis to tighten. In one of these patients discussed was the
setting performed to life when she learned that a painful organic disease, which she had prevented
from reaching their life goals, congenital Origin was. As long as they did this suffering for a random
future acquisitions, endured it patiently, from their education at, it brought along a piece
of heritage, it was rebellious. The young man who thought he was guarded by a special providence
was as Infant, the victim of an accidental infection by his nurse, and had become his whole
later life of his claims about how sapped of injury pension, without knowing what he based his
claims. In his case, the analysis that this result remains obscure from memory and symptom
interpretations designed, through communications the family confirmed objectively.

For obvious reasons I can of these and other medical records one more
do not tell.

I will also be on the obvious analogy with the Charakterverbildung after long ill-health of children
years and in consultation with entire nations suffer severe past not respond. Other hand, I will
not fail me, to those created by the greatest poets Figure noted in the character of Ausnahmsanspruch
with the moment of congenital Discrimination linked so intimately and is motivated by this.

In the introductory monologue in Shakespeare's Richard III. says Gloucester,
later King:

"But I do not play with farce made Still to compete for
love with mirrors; I coined raw denuded of Love Majesty Prior to easily
be dreh'nden nymphs boast; I have to shorten this beautiful symmetry,
cheated by nature wrong with education, Disfigured unkempt, sent ahead
of time In this world of breathing, barely half-finished Made, and
in such a lame and unbecoming, That dogs bark, I hink where over;
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - And so, because I do not as a lover Reduce,
these finely eloquent days Am I willing to be a villain Enemy and
the vain pleasures of these days.

"

    
    Our first impression of this program maybe
    the question is related to our topic . Miss Richard
    seems nothing more than to say: I'm bored in this
    idle Time and I want to enjoy myself.
    Because I am not but because of my deformity
    as a lover can talk, I will play the scheming
    villain, murdering, and what else I like.
    Such a frivolous motivation would stifle any
    hint of sympathy in the audience when
    nothing more serious verbärge behind her.
    Then the piece would also be psychologically
    impossible because the poet has with
    us a secret background of sympathy for
    his hero to create understanding, if we admired for his boldness
and skill without internal Opposition to feel, and such sympathy can
only understand the sense of potential inner communion with him are
well founded.

I mean about the monologue Richards does not say anything, he just indicated, and shall refrain us
to run the Implied. If we make but this completion, then vanish the appearance of frivolity, then
comes the bitterness and detail with which Richard his deformity has described to her right,
and we will make the community realize our sympathy for the villain forces. It is said then: Nature
has a heavy Injustice perpetrated on me by my good form has denied that people's love wins.
Life is my compensation for guilty that I'm going to get me. I have the right to be an exception,
I ignore the concerns of the other can be prevented. I may even do wrong, because to me has been wronged,
- And now we feel that we might even be just as Richard, so that
we are in the small Scale already.

Richard is a huge increase in this one side, we also belongs to us. We all have reason to
believe that we are due to nature and fate congenital and infantile disadvantages rumble, and we
urge all compensation for early Insults our narcissism, our self-love. Why us, nature has not
the golden Balder curls or given the strength of Siegfried or the high brow of genius, the noble
Face section of the aristocrats? Why are we born in the royal palace rather than in public office?
We would also make good, to be beautiful and elegant, like all of us now is must envy.

But it is a fine economic art of the poet that he was his hero, not all secrets his motivation
can be expressed loudly and completely. Thus he forces us to supplement them, employs our mental
activity, it distracts from the critical thinking, and keeps us in the identification with the
hero. A bungler in his place would be all he us wants to communicate, take into conscious expression
and then would find our cool, free-moving Intelligence over that makes a depression of the
illusion impossible.

But we do not leave the "exceptions", without considering that the right of women rests on Privileges
and Immunities of coercion as much of life on the same ground. As we learn from the psychoanalytic work,
to consider all women as infantile damaged without reducing their debt for a piece and reset,
and the bitterness Sun some daughter against her mother to the last
root of the charge that she as a woman rather than as a man brought
to the world.

II

The failure of success.

The psychoanalytic work has given us the sentence: The people are diagnosed neurotic result of
the refusal. The refusal to satisfy their libidinous desires is meant and a longer detour is
necessary to understand the sentence. Because the origins of neurosis This requires a conflict
between the libidinal desires of a man and that share his being, we are called to be I, the
expression of his self-preservation instincts, and his ideals of his own nature includes.
Such pathogenic conflict is only to come into existence when the
libido wants to throw out ways and goals that I am overcome by the
long and are ostracized, it has therefore banned for all time, and
that is the only libido if you have the possibility of an ideal ichgerechten
satisfaction is dazed.

Thus, the deprivation, the denial of a real satisfying the first
condition for the emergence of neurosis, albeit far from the only one.

The more it has, surprisingly, seem so confusing if you do as a doctor's experience, that people
occasionally fall ill just when they are firmly grounded and long cherished wish has come true.
It looks as if your luck is not would tolerate, since the causal link between the success and
the disease one can not doubt. So I had the opportunity in the fate of a woman's access to
, Take that I will describe as a model for such tragic twists.

Of good family and well educated, she could as a young girl, not her love of life To curb tore
himself away from home and wandered around in the adventurous world until the Made the acquaintance
of an artist who appreciates her feminine charm knew, but also knowing the finer contact with the degraded
understand.

He took her to his house and won her a loyal partner, the only chance for full rehabilitation
of the Civil seemed to be missing. After years of living together, he pushed through it, that
his family is with her friends, and was ready to make her his wife before the law. In this
Moment they began to fail. They neglected the house, the lawful mistress now should be held, followed
by relatives for receiving them in the family wanted, the man imprisoned by senseless jealousy
every traffic stop him in his artistic work and soon fell into incurable
mental disease.

Another observation showed me a most respectable man, even academic Teacher, had nurtured for
many years the understandable desire to succeed in the teaching profession his master to be,
who himself had introduced into science. When, after the Withdrawal of that old man's colleagues told
him that no one else to succeed him when he had been chosen, he began to be timid, reduced
its earnings, declared himself unworthy of the position he filled the thing you bought, and lapsed
into a melancholy that it knocked out for the next few years by each activity.

As different as these two cases are otherwise, they shall take it together in the one that
The disease occurs through the wish-fulfillment and the enjoyment
of them does nothing.

The contradiction between such experiences and the proposition that people contract refusal,
is not insoluble. The distinction between an outside of an inner denial lifts him on. If longer
exists in reality, the object found in the satisfaction of their libido can, this is an external
frustration. It is ineffective in itself, not pathogenic, as long as not a refusal to their
inner joins.

This must come from the ego and the Libido other items to dispute, that they will seize now.
Only then arises a conflict and the possibility of a neurotic disorder,
ie, a substitute satisfaction by way of the repressed unconscious.

The inner refusal is in all cases considered, but they will not enter into effect as to the refusal
is the real external situation has prepared for them. In exceptional cases, when people fall
ill in the success, has the inner refusal in itself worked, so she's only emerged after the external
refusal of wish fulfillment has its place. It remains something for the first Seem obvious, but
on closer consideration we recall but it was not unusual that the ego tolerates a desire to
be harmless, as long as he lives a life of fantasy and seems far from fulfilling, as it sharply
against him has taken action as soon as he the performance approaches and threatens to become
reality. The difference for well established Situations of neuroses education is only in that
other internal improvements in libido occupation the hitherto little appreciated and tolerated
imagination to the dreaded enemy while making where in our cases, the signal to the outbreak of
the conflict through a real outer change is.

The analytic work shows us easy to see that there are certain powers that prohibit the person to benefit
from the fortunate change in the real long hoped for. A difficult Task, however, is to explore
nature and origin of judging and punishing tendencies surprise us by their existence often where
we did not expect to find them. What we know or suspect about it, I will, for obvious reasons
not to cases of medical Observation, but to discuss figures, the great poet from the wealth of their knowledge
of soul have created.

A person who breaks down by level of success after it with unflinching
energy has struggled to find him is Shakespeare's Lady Macbeth.

There is no wavering in advance and does not indicate an inner struggle in it, no other desire than
the concerns of their ambitious and But to defeat mild sentient man. The murder of intent they
will even sacrifice their femininity, without considering the critical role of femininity must
fall, if it shall be deemed to that reached by crime to assert goal of their ambition.

(Act I, Scene 5):

"Come, you spirits You listen to the thoughts of murder, sterilization, me. " - - - - - - -
- - To my breasts Murders her helper! I sucked milk bile! "

(Act I, Scene 7):

"I gave the chest and white, How tenderly you love the child that
is impregnated.

    And yet, seeing me smile into his face, I wanted to tear from my
mother's bosom His toothless little mouth, and his brain ausschmettern,
'I should have sworn, as you swore that!

                          "
    
    A single quiet stirring of reluctance to take
    before the deed:

    

                        (Act II, Scene 2):
    
    "Had he not resembled my father When he slept,
    I'll have done. "
    
    Now that she has become queen of the murder of Duncan, volatile registers
something like a Disappointment, as a surfeit.

We do not know where.

    

    (Act III, Scene 2):
    

"Nothing you, all lies, has Succeed, the desire, and yet the lack sufficiently 'Tis safer to
be what we destroy, As to the destruction swear eternal fear.

    "

    
    But they are holding. In the following scene of
    the banquet after these words they kept alone
    the reflection reveals the confusion of her husband, finds a pretext
to dismiss the guests.

And then she vanishes us. We see them (in the first scene of the fifth act) as a somnambulist
again, fixed on the impressions of that night of the murder. She speaks to her husband again, as then,
the courage to:

    "Fie, my lord, fie, a soldier, and timid? - What we have to fear, who
    knows? No one takes our power to Accountable. "- - -
    

She hears the knocking at the gate that scared her husband after the fact. In addition, they
also sought they "make Deed," which can not be undone. She washes their hands are stained with
blood and smell of blood, and the futility of this Conscious effort. Repentance seems to have thrown
down, which seemed so unrepentant. When she dies by Macbeth, who meanwhile has become as inexorable
as it initially showed only a brief gossip for you:

    (Act V, Scene 5):

"You could die later.

    There was still time enough
    for such a word. "

And now you wonder, what has broken this character, forged from the hardest metal seemed? Is
it just the disappointment, the other face, which shows the accomplished fact, to we infer that
even in the Lady Macbeth was originally a soft and feminine mild Mental life had worked their way
up to a concentration and high voltage, no persistence could be full, or should we look for signs
to us that breakdown bring a deeper human motivation in more detail?

I think it is impossible to make a decision here. Shakespeare's Macbeth is a Occasional piece,
composed for the accession of the former Scottish king James. The substance was given and treated
simultaneously by other authors, whose work Shakespeare has probably benefited in the usual way.
He offered strange allusions to the current Situation. The "virgin" Elizabeth, know of the talk was that
she never able would have had to bear a child, once in the news of James' birth painful Outcry
as "a tribe called barren" had [1], was just by their childlessness been forced to leave the Scots
king to be her successor. But he was the son that Mary, whose execution it, albeit reluctantly,
had ordered, and despite turbidity of all the relations by political considerations, but their
blood relatives and their Guest could be named.

  

      
      [1] See Macbeth (Act III, Scene 1):
      
      "In my head they placed barren gold A barren scepter, you made a fist,
That it will slip into foreign hands, Since it is not my son follows
me. - - -

The accession of James I, was as a demonstration of the
curse of infertility and the blessings of continuous generation.

And on this same contrast the development Listed in Shakespeare's Macbeth. The fate of sisters
have promised him that he himself Be king, but the Banquo that his children should come to the crown.
Macbeth outraged against this fate saying he is not content with the satisfaction of their own Ambition,
he wants to be the founder of a dynasty and the benefits have not murdering a stranger. We
overlook this point when we see in Shakespeare's play, only the tragedy of ambition wants.
It is clear, as Macbeth himself can not live forever, so there is only one way for him, the part
of the prophecy of his reluctance to refute, when he noted that even children has to follow him. He
also seems to be by his strong wife as follows:

(Act I, Scene 7):

    

    "You, areas only sons,
    Only men should your unschreckbar Mark Assembly.
    "- - - - - - -

And just as clearly, if he is deceived in this expectation, then it must be fate To subject or
his actions lose the object and purpose and turns into a blind rage destroy a doomed, yet the
first is what he achieved, will. We see that Macbeth goes through this development, and at the
height of the tragedy, we find those harrowing, so often identified as ambiguous phrase that the
key to the mentioned conversion, could the exclamation Macduff:

(Act
IV, Scene 3):

"He has no children."

    

    

That is certain: Just because he is childless, he could kill my children, but it can also take
in more, and most importantly, it could lay bare the deepest motive which both Macbeth also
pushed far beyond its nature as well as the character of the woman at his hard only weak spot
hits. If one but look around from the top point that these words Macduff's call, we see the
whole piece of relations on the father-child relationship interspersed. The murder of the benign
Duncan is little more than a parricide, in the case of Banquo Macbeth has killed the father while
the son escapes him, he kills Macduff at the children, because he is the father fled. A bloody
child and a crowned him leave the fate of sisters appear in the incantation scene, the main armed well before
Macbeth is in itself But the background stands the dark figure of the avenger Macduff, himself
an exception from the laws of generation, because he was not born from his mother, but from their
Body was cut.

It would be well within the meaning of the Talion built on poetic justice if the Childlessness
of Macbeth and the barrenness of his Lady were the punishment for their crimes against the sanctity
of generation, if Macbeth could not become a father because he children the father and the father
of the children abducted, and if so at the Lady Macbeth of the Entweibung had taken place, which
it has invoked the spirits of the murder. I think you understand without further disease of
the Lady, the transformation of their outrage courage in repentance, in response their childlessness,
by which they convinced of their powerlessness against the statutes of the nature and is reminded
at the same time the fact that her crime through their own fault for the better part of his
income has been brought.

In the Chronicle of Holinshed (1577), from which Shakespeare drew the substance of Macbeth, Lady
refers to only a single mention ambitious, the man incites to murder her, to self-queen. Of
their fate and their development of a Character is not mentioned. However, it seems that there the
change in the character of Macbeth should be encouraged to bloody
tyrant similar to what we have just tried. This minute examination he comes to at last--though perhaps the time
devoted to the study for two or three Sabbaths is spent in the preparatory inquiries. If it
is so, it is time well spent; for by it he is now prepared to enter with interest into the
very soul and spirit of the letter. While he was ignorant of these points, his knowledge of
the Epistle itself must have been very vague and superficial. Suppose I were now to introduce
into this book a letter, and should begin at once, without saying by whom the letter was written,
or to whom it was addressed. It would be preposterous. If I wished to excite your interest,
I should describe particularly the parties, and the circumstances which produced the letter
originally. And yet how many Christians there are, who could not tell whether Paul's letter
to the Ephesians was written before or after he went there, or where Titus was when Paul wrote
to him, or for what special purpose he wrote!

"This method of studying the Scriptures, which I have thus attempted to describe, and which
I might illustrate by supposing many other cases, is not intended for one class alone; not
for the ignorant peculiarly, nor for the wise; not for the rich, nor for the poor; but for
all. The solitary widow, in her lonely cottage among the distant mountains, with nothing but
her simple Bible in her hand, by the light of her evening fire, may pursue this course of comparing
Scripture with Scripture, and entering into the spirit of sacred story, throwing herself back
to ancient times, and thus preparing herself to grasp more completely, and to feel more vividly
the moral lessons which the Bible is mainly intended to teach. And the most cultivated scholar
may pursue this course in his quiet study, surrounded by all the helps to a thorough knowledge
of the Scriptures which learning can produce or wealth obtain.

"I hope the specimens I have given are sufficient to convey to my readers the general idea
I have in view, when I speak of studying the Bible, in contradistinction from the mere cursory
reading of it, which is so common among Christians.

"Select some subject upon which a good deal of information may be found in various parts of
the Bible, and make it your object to bring together into one view all that the Bible says
upon that subject. Take for instance the life of the Apostle Peter. Suppose you make it your
business on one Sabbath, with the help of a brother, or sister, or any other friend who will
unite with you in the work, to obtain all the information which the Bible gives in regard to
him. By the help of the Concordance you find all the places in which he is mentioned--you compare
the various accounts in the Four Gospels; see in what they agree and in what they differ. After
following down his history as far as the Evangelists bring it, you take up the book of the
Acts, and go through that for information in regard to this Apostle, omitting those parts which
relate to other subjects. In this way you become fully acquainted with his character and history;
you understand it as a whole.

"Jerusalem is another good subject, and the examination would afford scope for the exercise
of the faculties of the highest minds for many Sabbaths: find when the city is first named,
and from the manner in which it is mentioned, and the circumstances connected with the earliest
accounts of it, ascertain what sort of a city it was at that time. Then follow its history
down; notice the changes as they occur; understand every revolution, examine the circumstances
of every battle and siege of which it is the scene, and thus become acquainted with its whole
story down to the time when the sacred narration leaves it. To do this well, will require patient
and careful investigation. You cannot do it as you can read a chapter, carelessly and with
an unconcerned and uninterested mind; you must, if you would succeed in such an investigation,
engage in it in earnest. And that is the very advantage of such a method of study; it breaks
up effectually that habit of listless, dull, inattentive reading of the Bible which so extensively
prevails.

"You may take the subject of the Sabbath; examine the circumstances of its first appointment,
and then follow its history down, so far as it is given in the Bible, to the last Sabbath alluded
to on the sacred pages.

"The variety of topics which might profitably be studied in this way is vastly greater than
would at first be supposed. There are a great number of biographical and geographical topics--a
great number which relate to manners, and customs, and sacred instructions. In fact, the whole
Bible may be analyzed in this way; and its various contents brought before the mind in new
aspects, and with a freshness and vividness which, in the mere repeated reading of the Scriptures
in regular course, can never be seen."[10]

[Footnote 10: Abbott's Young Christian.]

In connection with this general subject, I would make a few suggestions to the young, in regard
to those who differ from them on religious doctrines. That there should be a diversity of opinions
in respect to a subject so purely speculative as religion, should not be a matter of surprise.
Indeed, when the disparity in strength of mind, intelligence, discrimination, early instruction,
and educational bias, which prevails in society, is taken into consideration, it would be singular
if religious differences did not exist. Our civil institutions and laws, guaranteeing unto
every individual unlimited freedom of opinion, encourage investigations which tend, for a definite
period at least, to produce these differences.

There are not a few who view with alarm the multiplicity of religious doctrines and sects,
which prevails in our day. They are disposed to look upon it as an imperfection in our institutions,
or as a token of the degeneracy of our age; and they fear that the most disastrous consequences
will flow from it to Christianity. I cannot but view these apprehensions as groundless. They
seem to grow out of a singular want of knowledge of the organism of the human mind. Moreover,
they indicate an erroneous conception of the inherent power of truth; and a marvellous lack
of confidence in the self-sustaining capacity of the Christian religion. If Christianity cannot
exist and progress among men without chaining the human mind in bondage, stifling all research,
and forbidding a critical investigation of doctrines put forth in its name, then it must at
length become extinct. Men will and must think, reason, investigate, on religious subjects,
as well as other topics, whatever result may follow. I cherish, however, none of these fears.
The multiplicity of denominations, and the diversity of opinions, can work no serious injury
to religion. The discussions, researches, and critical examinations, which necessarily grow
out of this state of things, will but sift error from truth; and result, ultimately, in laying
broader and deeper the foundations of pure Christianity in human society; bringing out its
highest excellencies and beauties to the admiration of men, and elevating it far above the
poisoned arrows of scepticism. It is the errors engrafted on Christianity, in dark and ignorant
ages, that have given the infidel all his weapons of attack. When these errors shall at length
all be detected and expunged by candid research, and faithful investigation, the shafts of
the sceptic will fall harmless at the base of the graceful and glorious temple of Christ's
religion. In the words of John Milton--"Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose to
play upon the earth, so truth be in the field, we do injuriously * * * to misdoubt her strength.
Let her and falsehood grapple. Who ever knew truth put to the worse in a free and open encounter?"

What line of conduct should the young adopt towards those who differ from them on religious
doctrines?

In the first place, let it never be forgotten that others have the same civil, moral, and religious
right to differ in sentiment from you, that you have from them. This right is recognized by
our republican government, and is sanctioned by the gospel. One of the directions of the Saviour
is, that men should "search the Scriptures."[11] There would be no propriety in this commandment,
had not individuals the right to understand the teachings of the Scriptures, according to their
best judgment, with the light they possess. Moreover, Protestantism allows among its first
principles, the legitimate right of individual interpretation of the Scriptures, and private
judgment in religious matters. It was for this right that Luther and Zuinglius, Melancthon
and Calvin, and all the Reformers, contended against the arrogant assumption of the Roman Church.
That Church insisted that the people were not to understand the Scriptures for themselves,
but were bound, to receive, unquestioned, such interpretations as the bishop or priest should
teach them. Whoever deny freedom of opinion, in regard to religion, to all men, clearly violate
the spirit of the gospel, the recognized rights conferred by the Protestant religion, and the
sanctions of our political institutions.

[Footnote 11: John v. 39.]

Admitting then, as you must, the privilege of others to differ from you in religious sentiment,
you should not allow that difference to be a matter of offence. It should be no disparagement
in your view, nor lessen them in your estimation. However great you may consider the errors
of your neighbors, if you are satisfied they are sincere, you should respect them for their
sincerity! Hypocrisy, in every form, should be denounced. Those who profess to believe what
they do not, or to be what they are not--who assume the Christian name when they are in fact,
but bitter and narrow-minded bigots--are only worthy to be heartily despised.

Let me caution the young, also, against a spirit of exclusiveness. In our age and country,
a religious aristocracy is no more to be acknowledged than a political. All denominations stand
on an equality, in their rights and privileges, and in the estimation in which they are to
be held as public bodies. No sect can put on airs, and assume to lord it over others, in any
respect whatever, without subjecting itself to the severest censure. Among the rights belonging
equally to all, is the Christian name. Every denomination which receives the Scriptures as
the inspired word of God, and believes in Jesus Christ, as the Son of God and the Saviour of
men, is justly entitled to the name of Christian, and to be acknowledged and treated as such.
This is the only test laid down in the New Testament, as a careful examination will satisfy
the candid mind.

For any one sect to attempt to monopolize the Christian name, and assume that all the piety,
godliness, and virtue in the land, is to be found in its borders alone, is to place itself
in a most ridiculous position. A pretence so arrogant and groundless, in our enlightened day,
can have no other effect than to excite a smile of pity on the countenance of sincere and candid
Christians. I would have the young give no countenance to these pretensions; but seek to attain
to higher and nobler principles. Let them place sectarian bitterness and prejudice beneath
their feet, and imbibe enough of the Christian spirit to acknowledge freely, that, in all denominations,
good and pious people can be found.

In estimating those of other views, the young should avoid denouncing a whole denomination,
and condemning their doctrines as demoralizing, because some corrupt men may have been found
in their midst. If this rule of judging was generally adopted, where is there a class of Christians
which could stand? Were there not among the chosen twelve of our Saviour, a Judas to betray
him, and a Peter to deny him with oaths? Shall we, therefore, insist that Christianity is false
and corrupting? There are few sects in the land, which have not had both clergymen and church-members
guilty of the most corrupt practices. Are we to conclude from this, that the doctrines of those
who have had these unworthy members, are false and licentious? Who are willing to adopt this
test? A denomination cannot consistently apply a test to others which they are not willing
to abide by themselves.

Candor will lead all upright minds to acknowledge that corrupt men will find their way into
every sect, and that it is manifestly wrong to judge of the whole body by this class. To decide
of the practical tendencies of different and conflicting doctrines, seek to understand their
effect on the great mass of those who receive them. Do they influence them to honesty, industry,
benevolence and neighborly kindness? Do they inspire respect for the rights and interest of
fellow-beings? Do they open the ear to the cry of poverty and want? Do they lead to a love
supreme to God, and to our neighbor as ourselves? These are the legitimate fruits of Christianity.
Where they abound, you need not doubt the spirit of Christ prevails, and that the truths of
his gospel are in the midst of such a people.

I would exhort the young to respect religion, in whatever form they find it, and to have a
high and just regard for the rights and feelings of professing Christians of every class. In
this, as in all things else, be governed by the Redeemer's golden rule--"All things whatsoever
ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them."

Amid the multiplicity of sects and doctrines, let every youth search for religious truth, as
the "pearl of great price!" Be careful that your researches are in the right direction--not
downward to the dark and mysterious of past and ignorant ages, but upward to the bright, the
simple, and glorious. Ever seek for expansive and enlightened conceptions of God, his character
and purposes--of Christ, his gospel and its results--of man, his nature, his high relationship,
his duty and destiny. The more elevated and comprehensive your views on these subjects, the
more exalted will be your feelings and principles of action; and the better will you be prepared
to live a life of purity and usefulness, and to die triumphing in the brightest and sweetest
hopes of immortal light and happiness.

In concluding this subject, I would call attention to the following suggestions of several
able writers, in regard to Religion and its influence on its possessors:--

"In the great and universal concern of religion, both sexes, and all ranks are equally interested.
The truly catholic spirit of Christianity accommodates itself, with an astonishing condescension,
to the circumstances of the whole human race. It rejects none on account of their pecuniary
wants, their personal infirmities, or their intellectual deficiencies. No superiority of parts
is the least recommendation, nor is any depression of fortune the smallest objection. None
are too wise to be excused from performing the duties of religion, nor are any too poor to
be excluded from the consolations of its promises.

"If we admire the wisdom of God in having furnished different degrees of intelligence, so exactly
adapted to their different conditions, and in having fitted every part of this stupendous work,
not only to serve its own immediate purpose, but also to contribute to the beauty and perfection
of the whole; how much more ought we to adore that goodness which has perfected the divine
plan, by appointing one wide and comprehensive means of salvation: a salvation which all are
invited to partake; by a means which all are capable of using; which nothing but voluntary
blindness can prevent our comprehending, and nothing but wilful error can hinder us from embracing.

"The muses are coy, and will only be wooed and won by some highly-favored suitors. The sciences
are lofty, and will not stoop to the reach of ordinary capacities. But 'wisdom (by which the
royal preacher means piety) is a loving spirit; she is easily seen of them that love her, and
found of all such as seek her.' Nay, she is so accessible and condescending, 'that she preventeth
them that desire her, making herself first known unto them.'

"We are told by the same animated writer, 'that wisdom is the breath of the power of God.'
How infinitely superior in grandeur and sublimity, is this description to the origin of the
wisdom of the heathens, as described by their poets and mythologists! In the exalted strains
of the Hebrew poetry, we read, that 'wisdom is the brightness of the everlasting light, the
unspotted mirror of the power of God, and the image of his goodness.'

"The philosophical author of 'The Defence of Learning,' observes, that knowledge has some thing
of venom and malignity in it, when taken without its proper corrective; and what that is, the
inspired St. Paul teaches us, by placing it as the immediate antidote--'Knowledge puffeth up,
but charity edifieth.' Perhaps it is the vanity of human wisdom, unchastised by this correcting
principle, which has made so many infidels. It may proceed from the arrogance of a self-sufficient
pride, that some philosophers disdain to acknowledge their belief in a Being who has judged
proper to conceal from them the infinite wisdom of his counsels; who (to borrow the lofty language
of the man of Uz) refused to consult them when he laid the foundations of the earth, when he
shut up the sea with doors, and made the clouds the garment thereof.

"A man must be an infidel either from pride, prejudice, or bad education; he cannot be one
unawares, or by surprise; for infidelity is not occasioned by sudden impulse or violent temptation.
He may be hurried by some vehement desire into an immoral action, at which he will blush in
his cooler moments, and which he will lament as the sad effect of a spirit unsubdued by religion;
but infidelity is a calm, considerate act, which cannot plead the weakness of the heart, or
the seduction of the senses. Even good men frequently fail in their duty through the infirmities
of nature and the allurements of the world; but the infidel errs on a plan, on a settled and
deliberate principle.

"But though the minds of men are sometimes fatally infected with this disease, either through
unhappy prepossession, or some of the other causes above-mentioned, yet I am unwilling to believe
that there is in nature so monstrously incongruous a being as a female infidel. The least reflection
on the temper, the character, and the education of women, makes the mind revolt with horror
from an idea so improbable and so unnatural.

"May I be allowed to observe that, in general, the minds of girls seem more aptly prepared
in their early youth for the reception of serious impressions than those of the other sex,
and that their less exposed situations in more advanced life qualify them better for the preservation
of them! The daughters (of good parents I mean) are often more carefully instructed in their
religious duties than the sons, and this from a variety of causes. They are not so soon sent
from under the paternal eye into the bustle of the world, and so early exposed to the contagion
of bad example: their hearts are naturally more flexible, soft, and liable to any kind of impression
the forming hand may stamp on them; and, lastly, as they do not receive the same classical
education with boys, their feeble minds are not obliged at once to receive and separate the
precepts of Christianity, and the documents of pagan philosophy. The necessity of doing this
perhaps somewhat weakens the serious impressions of young men, at least till the understanding
is formed; and confuses their ideas of piety, by mixing them with so much heterogeneous matter.
They only casually read, or hear read, the Scriptures of truth, while they are obliged to learn
by heart, construe, and repeat, the poetical fables of the less than human gods of the ancients.
And, as the excellent author of 'The Internal Evidence of the Christian Religion' observes,
'Nothing has so much contributed to corrupt the true spirit of the Christian institution, as
that partiality which we contract, in our earliest education, for the manners of pagan antiquity.'

"Girls, therefore, who do not contract this early partiality, ought to have a clearer notion
of their religious duties: they are not obliged, at an age when the judgment is so weak, to
distinguish between the doctrines of Zeno, of Epicurus, and of Christ; and to embarrass their
minds with the various morals, which were taught in the Porch, in the Academy, and on the Mount.

"It is presumed that these remarks cannot possibly be so misunderstood, as to be construed
into the least disrespect to literature, or a want of the highest reverence for a learned education,
the basis of all elegant knowledge: they are only intended, with all proper deference, to point
out to young women that, however inferior their advantages of acquiring a knowledge of the
belles-lettres are to those of the other sex, yet it depends on themselves not to be surpassed
in this most important of all studies, for which their abilities are equal, and their opportunities
perhaps greater.

"But the mere exemption from infidelity is so small a part of the religious character, that
I hope no one will attempt to claim any merit from this negative sort of goodness, or value
herself merely for not being the very worst thing she possibly can be. Let no mistaken girl
fancy she gives a proof of her wit by her want of piety, or that a contempt of things serious
and sacred will exalt her understanding, or raise her character even in the opinion of the
most avowed male infidels. For one may venture to affirm, that with all their profligate ideas,
both of women and religion, neither Bolingbroke, Wharton, Buckingham, or even Lord Chesterfield
himself, would have esteemed a woman the more for her being irreligious.

"With whatever ridicule a polite freethinker may affect to treat religion himself, he will
think it necessary his wife should entertain different notions of it. Thus came to be in the place where you wanted to stay over the day, and Wilhelm fell
with the clergy, as we will call it his appearance and his role after; On the walk interesting
soon in a conversation.

"I find this exercise," said the stranger, "with the actors, even in the company of Friends
and very useful. It is the best way, the people out of themselves- hineinzufuehren and a detour
back into itself. It should be introduced at each force be that they sometimes have to practice
in this way, and the audience would certainly win this case if all months an unwritten piece
would be executed, what have certainly prepared the actors would
have to in several samples.

"

"They seemed to have," said Wilhelm, "a piece of extemporaneous not think as such, that would compose
on the spur immediately, but as such, but which plan Act and scene
division would be given, but the execution left up to the actor would
remain.

"

"Quite right," said the stranger, "and even as regards this execution, one would Such pieces as soon
as the actors would actually only once in the course gain extraordinary. Not the execution by
words, because by this must, of course, the surviving writers adorn his work, but the execution by
gestures, facial expressions, exclamations, and what related to this subject, in short, the
dumb, half of the matches, which gradually be lost to us all seems. It is probably an actor
in Germany, whose body shows what they think and feel that through silence, hesitation, by hints,
through gentle, graceful movements of the body to prepare a speech and the pauses of the conversation
by a pleasant pantomime to connect to the whole knowledge, but an exercise that a happy disposition
to the aid of came and taught it to compete with the writer is not
in progress, as it related to Consolation of those who visit the theater
would be to wish you well.

"

"Should not", said Wilhelm, "a happy disposition, as the first and
last an actor like any other artist, perhaps like all people, but
to such a high plugged goals mean?

"

"The first and last, the beginning and end, it might well be and remain, but in the middle should
the artist be missing some, if not education makes him the first of what he be should, and that
early education, for perhaps the one to whom one attributes genius,
defamation off than the one that has only ordinary abilities, because
that can easily warped and much more violent to be pushed in the wrong
way than this.

"

"But," said Wilhelm, "the genius could not save themselves, the wounds that it is defeated, heal
yourself? "

"Certainly not," replied the other, "or at least barely, for no one think that to be able to
overcome first impressions of youth. Is he loeb in a handy freedom surrounded by beautiful
and precious objects, in the intercourse grew up with good people, his master taught him what he
needed to know first, to the rest easier to understand that he has learned what he needs to unlearn
never been his first acts so conducted, that he can do good in future easier and more convenient, without
any to have to unlearn anything, this man is a purer, more perfect and happier Lead lives as another
who added his first Jugendkraefte in resistance and in error added. There is so much talk
of education and written, and I see little people the simple but
great concept that includes anything in the hold, and in the execution
can take over.

"

"That may be true," said Wilhelm, "because each person is restricted
enough, the other educate his image to do.

Those are so happy, that's fate assumes that each teaches his own way! "

"Fate," replied the other smiling, "is a genteel, expensive tutor. I would always prefer to keep
to the reason of a human master. The fate for whose wisdom I carry all respect, may at the
chance, through which it works, a very have clumsy body.

Because this rarely seems to be detailed and clear, what that had decided. "

"You seem a very strange idea to express," said Wilhelm.

"No way!

Most of what meets in the world, justifies my opinion. Show many Events in the beginning is
not a great sense, and do not go on most of something silly at? "

"Jokes you want."

"And it's not," continued the other, "with what meets individual, as well? Set, the destiny
would have a good to an actor, (and why it should not provide us
with good actors?), unfortunately it was sheer coincidence But the
young man into a puppet show, where he could not previously contained,
at some Absurd to take part, something fairly silly, did well to find
interesting and so the youthful impressions, which never laughed Oesch,
which we have a certain attachment can never escape, to receive from
the wrong side.

"

"How do you get on the puppet show?" Wilhelm fell one with some dismay.

"It was just a random example, if you do not like, we take another. Set, the destiny would have
a great painter to a determined and popular random it of breaching his youth in filthy huts,
stables and barns, believe that such a man will ever rise to the cleanliness, the nobility, the
freedom of the soul? Each lebhafterm sense he touched the unclean in his youth, and refined
in his own way has, the more violent it is revenge in the episode of his life to it, by moving,
now that he sought to overcome it, is intimately connected with him. Who early in poor, insignificant
company has lived, is when he also later a have better can always
back after that long, that his impression at the same time with the
memory still young, rarely repeating joy.

"

One can imagine that in this conversation is gradually removed the rest of society had. Especially
Phil was right from the beginning of stepping on the page. They came through a branch back to
them. Phil brought out the pledges, which in every way had to be solved, the residents are the
greatest inventions and by a informal participation of the whole society and especially the
ladies suggested much and so the hours of the day went by joking,
singing, kissing and all sorts of teasing past in the most pleasant.

Book II, 10 Chapter

Chapter Ten

When she again wanted to go home, they looked around for their clergy, but he was gone and to
find in any place.

"It's not like from the man who otherwise seems to have a lot of life," said Madame Melina,
"a company which it so kindly, without leaving goodbye."

"I am all the time already had her sober," said Laertes, "I find this strange Man would like to
have seen it once. I was just about to him about it at parting to question. "

"I was just," said Wilhelm, "and I would have certainly not dismissed
until he we would have discovered something more about his circumstances.

I am very much mistaken if I did not already somewhere would have spoken. "

"But could you," said Phil, "is really wrong. This man has actually only the false appearance of
a friend, because he looks like a human and not, as Hans or Harry. "

"What is to be called that," said Laertes, "we do not see like humans?"

"I

know what I say," said Phil, "and if you do not understand me, so let's be good. I'm not going to
lay out in the end not even my words. "

Two carriages drove up. It praised the diligence of Laertes, who had ordered them. Philine sat beside
Madame Melina, Wilhelm opposite, square, and the rest set up to as best they could. Laertes himself
rode on Wilhelm's horse, which had come out with, back to the city.

Phil sat almost in the car, as they like to sing songs and stories to the conversation to guide
knew of which they claimed that they are treated dramatically with
luck could.

Through this clever phrase they had very soon her young friend in his best mood set, and he composed
from the wealth of its living stock of images at once a whole Play with all its acts, scenes,
characters and complications. It was for good, some arias and songs weave, they wrote, and Phil,
who entered into all adapted them to the same familiar tunes and sang them on the spur.

She had just today its beautiful, very beautiful day, she knew all sorts of teasing to revitalize
our friend, he was well, as he had not been for a long time.

Since then, he had torn those gruesome discovery of the site of Mariana, he was the vow loyal,
remained to guard against the trap of fighting a female embrace,
to avoid the faithless sex, his pain, his passion, his sweet desires
into his bosom plugged.

The conscientiousness with which he observed this vow, gave his whole being a secret diet, and
since his heart does not remain without sympathy could, so was a loving message now a necessity.
He went off like on the first youth accompanied fog around his eyes
every preconceived exciting object with joy on, and never was his
verdict regarding an amiable figure was friendly.

How dangerous it had to be in a situation like the bold girl, can be all too well . See

At home, they found William's room ready for it all to the reception, the chairs in a Lecture zurechtegestellt
and set the table in the middle, on which the punch-bowl his should
take place.

The German Ritterstuecke time were very new and had the attention and affection of the audience
pulled itself. Old Boisterous had brought one of these species, and Lecture had been decided.
We sat down. Wilhelm took possession of the copy and began to read.

The knight in armor, ancient castles, the sincerity, honesty and integrity,
especially the independence of the actors were received with great
acclaim.

The reader did his best, and the company was beside himself. Between the second and the third
act of the punch came in a large bowl, and there in the play itself is very much was drunk
and initiated, nothing was more natural than that the society every such case vividly the place
of the hero said, and also resonates cheers for the favorites among the actors left.

Everyone was ignited by the fire of the finest national spirit. How much it liked this German society,
their status referred to poetically on his own land to ! Delight Especially did the vaults and cellars,
ruined castles, and the moss the hollow trees, but about all the scenes and nightly Gypsy the
secret court quite incredible effect.

Every actor now saw, as he soon in helmet and breastplate, any actress as having a large standing
collar their German unit before the public will produce. Everyone wanted to be at once a name
from the play or from German Dedicate history, and Madame Melina protested, son or daughter what
she had hoped to be baptized or no different from Adelbert Mechtilde.

Against the fifth act the applause was loud and noisy, and at last, as the hero really escaped
his oppressor and the tyrant was punished, was the ecstasy so great that they swore they had
never had such happy hours. Melina, who had been enthusiastic about the draft, was the loudest,
and because the second punch-bowl was emptied and midnight approached, swore Laertes and highly
expensive, it was not a worthy man, these glasses ever again be a lip to put these protestations
and threw his glass behind and through the windows on the Lane forward. The others followed his
example, and despite the protestations of the hurrying host was the punch-bowl himself, through
after such an unholy celebrations Drink should not be desecrated again, beaten into a thousand
pieces. Phil, the their noise is the least looked at, however, not the two girls in the decent
Positions on the sofa were, others irritated with glee to the noise. Madame Melina recited
some sublime poetry, and her husband, who was drunk is not very lovable
was started to scold the poor preparation of the punch, assured that
he is a Hard to set up quite differently understood, and was most
recently when Laertes silence commanded, always coarser and louder,
so that this, without having to remember a long time, the pieces of
him Napf threw at his head and not a little increased by the noise.

Meanwhile, the patrol was at hand and demanded to be allowed into the house. William, from
reading very heated, though he had been drinking very little to do enough to Beihuelfe to satisfy the
people of the landlord with money and good words and the members of the Society in its awkward circumstances
to create home. He threw himself on his return, overcome by sleep, full of resentment on the bed without
undressing, and nothing looked like the uncomfortable Sensation, the next morning when he opened
his eyes and with a gloomy view of the devastation the previous day,
the filth and the evil effects looked, a witty, lively and had produced
well-intentioned work of a poet.

Book II, 11 Chapter

Chapter X.

After a brief concerns, he immediately called the landlord and had
caused both the damage as Leave the bill on his behalf.

At the same time he heard not without chagrin, that his Laertes was horse riding yesterday attacked
at the bills in such a way that is likely as they say, devious and have little hope that the smith
to his emergence admit.

A greeting from Philine, the waved to him from her window, said, however, it again into a serene
state, and he immediately went into the shop to her a small gift
he her against the powder-knife was still guilty of buying, and we
have to confess, he remained outside the borders of a counter-proportioned
gift.

He did not buy only a pair of very cute earrings, but took to a hat and scarf and some other
little things that he had seen throw the first day wasteful.

Madame Melina, just him, when he handed over his shares to observe, was sought, nor before
dinner an opportunity to him very seriously about the feeling for this girl to to set speech,
and he was more astonished than he is nothing less than these accusations to believed deserve.
He swore up and expensive that it was not occurred to him to turn to that person, that all
changes he knew well, and he apologized, so good he could about his friendly demeanor and magnificent
against them, but Madame satisfied Melina in any way, but this was always morose, as they had
to notice, that the flattery, which she had acquired a kind of affection
of our friend, was not sufficient that property against the attacks
of a vibrant, younger, and by nature defending gifted happier person.

They found her husband also, and they came to dinner in very bad humor, and he began already on
him to skip over little things, when the host came in and a harp player filed. "You will," he
said, "certain pleasure in the music and the songs of this Man found,
it may be no one who heard him mentioned, to admire him and give him
something little delay.

"

"Let him leave," said Melina, "I am nothing less than vote, a Happy Man listen to, and if we
all singers of us who like to earn something. "He accompanied these words with a treacherous side
glances which he threw on Philine. She understood him and was instantly ready to protect his
chagrin the singer declared.

She turned to Wilhelm and said, "Should we not hear the man we should do nothing to us to escape
from the abject boredom? "

Melina was about to answer her, and the proceedings would become lively, if not the Wilhelm at
the moment and welcomed him in. ARISE man would have beckoned.

The figure of this strange score put the whole company by surprise, and he had already taken possession
of a chair, to ask him before anyone or anything put forward had the heart. His bald crown
was encircled by a little gray hair, big blue eyes looked gently
out from under long white eyebrows. To a well-formed nose closed a
long white beard, without covering the pleasing lip, and a long dark
brown Robe enveloped her slender body from the neck to the feet, so
he started on the Harp, which he had taken prior to preludes to.

"The offence of profane swearing is aggravated by the consideration, that in it duty and decency
are sacrificed to the slenderest of temptations. Suppose the habit, either from affectation,
or by negligence and inadvertency, to be already formed, it must always remain within the power
of the most ordinary resolution to correct it: and it cannot, one would think, cost a great
deal to relinquish the pleasure and honor which it confers. A concern for duty is in fact never
strong, when the exertion requisite to vanquish a habit founded in no antecedent propensity
is thought too much or too painful.

"A contempt of positive duties, or rather of those duties for which the reason is not so plain
as the command, indicates a disposition upon which the authority of revelation has obtained
little influence. This remark is applicable to the offence of profane swearing, and describes,
perhaps pretty exactly, the general character of those who are most addicted to it.

"Mockery and ridicule, when exercised upon the Scriptures, or even upon the places, persons,
and forms set apart for the ministration of religion, fall within the meaning of the law which
forbids the profanation of God's name; especially as that law is extended by Christ's interpretation.
They are moreover inconsistent with a religious frame of mind: for as no one ever either feels
himself disposed to pleasantry, or capable of being diverted with the pleasantry of others,
upon matters in which he is deeply interested; so a mind intent upon the acquisition of heaven
rejects with indignation every attempt to entertain it with jests, calculated to degrade or
deride subjects which it never recollects but with seriousness and anxiety. Nothing but stupidity,
or the most frivolous disposition of thought, can make even the inconsiderate forget the supreme
importance of everything which relates to the expectation of a future existence. Whilst the
infidel mocks at the superstitions of the vulgar, insults over their credulous fears, their
childish errors, or fantastic rites, it does not occur to him to observe, that the most preposterous
device by which the weakest devotee ever believed he was securing the happiness of a future
life, is more rational than unconcern about it. Upon this subject nothing is so absurd as indifference;
no folly so contemptible as thoughtlessness and levity.

"The knowledge of what is due to the solemnity of those interests, concerning which Revelation
professes to inform and direct us, may teach even those who are least inclined to respect the
prejudices of mankind, to observe a decorum in the style and conduct of religious disquisitions,
with the neglect of which many adversaries of Christianity are justly chargeable. Serious arguments
are fair on all sides. Christianity is but ill defended by refusing audience or toleration
to the objections of unbelievers. But whilst we would have freedom of inquiry restrained by
no laws but those of decency, we are entitled to demand, on behalf of a religion which holds
forth to mankind assurances of immortality, that its credit be assailed by no other weapons
than those of sober discussion and legitimate reasoning;--that the truth or falsehood of Christianity
be never made a topic of raillery, a theme for the exercise of wit or eloquence, or a subject
of contention for literary fame and victory;--that the cause be tried upon its merits;--that
all applications to the fancy, passions or prejudices of the reader, all attempts to preoccupy,
ensnare, or perplex his judgment, by any art, influence, or impression whatsoever, extrinsic
to the proper grounds and evidence upon which his assent ought to proceed, be rejected from
a question which involves in its determination the hopes, the virtue, and the repose of millions;--that
the controversy be managed on both sides with sincerity; that is, that nothing be produced,
in the writings of either, contrary to or beyond the writer's own knowledge and persuasion;--that
objections and difficulties be proposed, from no other motive than an honest and serious desire
to obtain satisfaction, or to communicate information which may promote the discovery and progress
of truth;--that, in conformity with this design, everything be stated with integrity, with
method, precision, and simplicity; and above all, that whatever is published in opposition
to received and confessedly beneficial persuasions, be set forth under a form which is likely
to invite inquiry and to meet examination. If with these moderate and equitable conditions
be compared the manner in which hostilities have been waged against the Christian religion,
not only the votaries of the prevailing faith, but every man who looks forward with anxiety
to the destination of his being, will see much to blame and to complain of. By one unbeliever,
all the follies which have adhered in a long course of dark and superstitious ages, to the
popular creed, are assumed as so many doctrines of Christ and his Apostles, for the purpose
of subverting the whole system by the absurdities which it is thus represented to contain.
By another, the ignorance and vices of the sacerdotal order, their mutual dissensions and persecutions,
their usurpations and encroachments upon the intellectual liberty and civil rights of mankind,
have been displayed with no small triumph and invective; not so much to guard the Christian
laity against a repetition of the same injuries (which is the only proper use to be made of
the most flagrant examples of the past,) as to prepare the way for an insinuation, that the
religion itself is nothing but a profitable fable, imposed upon the fears and credulity of
the multitude, and upheld by the frauds and influence of an interested and crafty priesthood.
And yet, how remotely is the character of the clergy connected with the truth of Christianity!
What, after all, do the most disgraceful pages of ecclesiastical history prove, but that the
passions of our common nature are not altered or excluded by distinctions of name, and that
the characters of men are formed much more by the temptations than the duties of their profession?
A third finds delight in collecting and repeating accounts of wars and massacres, of tumults
and insurrections, excited in almost every age of the Christian era by religious zeal; as though
the vices of Christians were parts of Christianity; intolerance and extirpation precepts of
the Gospel; or as if its spirit could be judged of from the counsels of princes, the intrigues
of statesmen, the pretences of malice and ambition, or the unauthorized cruelty of some gloomy
and virulent superstition. By a fourth, the succession and variety of popular religions; the
vicissitudes with which sects and tenets have flourished and decayed; the zeal with which they
were once supported, the negligence with which they are now remembered; the little share which
reason and argument appear to have had in framing the creed, or regulating the religious conduct
of the multitude; the indifference and submission with which the religion of the state is generally
received by the common people; the caprice and vehemence with which it is sometimes opposed;
the frenzy with which men have been brought to contend for opinions and ceremonies, of which
they knew neither the proof, the meaning, nor the original: lastly, the equal and undoubting
confidence with which we hear the doctrines of Christ or of Confucius, the law of Moses or
of Mahomet, the Bible, the Koran, or the Shaster, maintained or anathematized, taught or abjured,
revered or derided, according as we live on this or on that side of a river; keep within or
step over the boundaries of a state; or even in the same country, and by the same people, so
often as the event of a battle, or the issue of a negotiation, delivers them to the dominion
of a new master;--points, we say, of this sort are exhibited to the public attention, as so
many arguments against the truth of the Christian religion;--and with success. For these topics
being brought together, and set off with some aggravation of circumstances, and with a vivacity
of style and description familiar enough to the writings and conversation of free-thinkers,
insensibly lead the imagination into a habit of classing Christianity with the delusions that
have taken possession, by turns, of the public belief; and of regarding it as, what the scoffers
of our faith represent it to be, the superstition of the day. But is this to deal honestly
by the subject, or with the world? May not the same things be said, may not the same prejudices
be excited by these representations, whether Christianity be true or false, or by whatever
proofs its truth be attested? May not truth as well as falsehood be taken upon credit? May
not a religion be founded upon evidence accessible and satisfactory to every mind competent
to the inquiry, which yet, by the greatest part of its professors, is received upon authority?

"But if the matter of these objections be reprehensible, as calculated to produce an effect
upon the reader beyond what their real weight and place in the argument deserve, still more
shall we discover of management and disingenuousness in the form under which they are dispersed
among the public. And because the coarse buffoonery and broad laugh of the old and rude adversaries
of the Christian faith would offend the taste, perhaps, rather than the virtue, of this cultivated
age, a graver irony, a more skilful and delicate banter is substituted in its place. An eloquent
historian, beside his more direct, and therefore fairer, attacks upon the credibility of Evangelic
story, has contrived to weave into his narration one continued sneer upon the cause of Christianity,
and upon the writings and characters of its ancient patrons. The knowledge which this author
possesses of the frame and conduct of the human mind must have led him to observe, that such
attacks do their execution without inquiry. Who can refute a sneer? Who can compute the number,
much less, one by one, scrutinize the justice of those disparaging insinuations which crowd
the pages of this elaborate history? What reader suspends his curiosity, or calls off his attention
from the principal narrative, to examine references, to search into the foundation, or to weigh
the reason, propriety, and force of every transient sarcasm and sly allusion, by which the
Christian testimony is depreciated and traduced; and by which, nevertheless, he may find his
persuasion afterwards unsettled and perplexed?"

"But the enemies of Christianity have pursued her with poisoned arrows. Obscenity itself is
made the vehicle of infidelity. The fondness for ridicule is almost universal; and ridicule
to many minds is never so irresistible as when seasoned with obscenity, and employed upon religion.
But in proportion as these noxious principles take hold of the imagination, they infatuate
the judgment; for trains of ludicrous and unchaste associations, adhering to every sentiment
and mention of religion, render the mind indisposed to receive either conviction from its evidence,
or impressions from its authority. And this effect, being exerted upon the sensitive part of
our frame, is altogether independent of argument, proof, or reason; is as formidable to a true
religion as to a false one; to a well-grounded faith as to a chimerical mythology, or fabulous
tradition. Neither, let it be observed, is the crime or danger less, because impure ideas are
exhibited under a veil, in covert and chastised language."

LECTURE VI.

On Marriage. And said, For this cause shall a
    man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife;
    and they twain shall be one flesh. 4,5,6.

It is not impossible that some may doubt the propriety of introducing into the pulpit the subject
which will claim our attention this evening. Marriage is a topic of so much every-day conversation;
it is so often and habitually treated as a light and trivial affair--forming as it does, in
every circle of society, a standing matter for jest and laughter, for tattle and gossip--that
many are surprised at the idea of treating it in a thoughtful and serious manner. So far from
this being an objection, it is an urgent reason for presenting this subject under the sedate
influences of this place and occasion. I would bring out the important event of Marriage, from
amid the frivolity with which it is usually associated, and present it in its real and true
aspect--as a topic demanding the most sober and mature consideration.

Marriage is a divine covenant, instituted by God himself.--"And the Lord God said, It is not
good that the man should be alone. I will make him a help-meet for him." From the body of Adam,
woman was formed, and given to him as a companion, a wife. The Saviour also, in the language
of the text, unqualifiedly sanctions the marriage covenant, and adopts it as one of the sacred
institutions of the Christian dispensation. She held her heart, and suddenly she uttered a cry that with convulsive strength Movements
of the body was accompanied. She started up and fell at once, as in all joints broken down before
him. It was a grisly sight! All the comforts of domestic life--the
sacred and deathless ties of the family circle--the dear delights, the cherished associations,
the hallowed memories of the paternal fireside--spring directly from the marriage state. It
is this alone that gives us the home of our childhood, the love, the protection, the wise counsel
and advice of parents. It is this that affords the sacred retreat in mature days, where, from
the strifes, and cares, and bitter disappointments of the business mart, the husband and father
can retire, and amid the soothing attentions and the unbought love of wife and children, renew
his strength and courage for future struggles. It is this that furnishes the aged patriarch
and the venerable matron, with the safe covert, the quiet refuge, the warm, snug corner, where
they can pass the winter of life, surrounded by children and children's children, who delight
to rise up and do them reverence, and minister to their comforts.

    "Domestic happiness! thou only bliss
     Of paradise that hath survived the fall!

     *     *     *     *     *     *     *

     "Thou art the nurse of virtue; in thine arms
     She smiles, appearing, as in truth she is,
     Heaven-born, and destined to the skies again." He heard the wailing from the top down to his room after passing Home Places
hurry.

As the curiosity drew down our friend, he found Frederick in a kind of frenzy. The boy wept,
gnashed, stamped threatened with clenched fists and stood quite unruly anger and frustration,
Mignon faced and looked on with wonder, and the host explained to
some extent this phenomenon.

The boy was in his Rueckkunft because it Philine well received, happy, funny and was awake, sang
and danced to the time since the groom Philine Acquaintance. Now the cross between a child
and young man had begun his to show frustration, slamming the doors and up and down to run.
Phil told him ordered to come up tonight at dinner, which he just sulky and defiant become at last
he had a bowl of stew, rather than put them on the table, between Mademoiselle and the guest
who sat very close together thrown into it, whereupon the stable a few good blows given and
also threw him to the door. He, the landlord had to help clean out the two people, prepared their clothes
very ill been.

When the boy heard the good effects of his vengeance, he began to laugh loudly, even by him
always the tears were running down to the cheeks.

He was happy for some time warm up to him the insults, the put upon him the stronger, again
invaded, as he crying because of new and began to threaten.

William was thoughtful and embarrassed in front of the scene. He saw with his own innermost strong
and exaggerated features shown, and he was an insurmountable jealousy ignites, and he, if he had
not held back the prosperity, would like his wild mood satisfied
with malicious glee hurt like the beloved object and have been calls
for his rival, he would have the people only to his chagrin, seemed
to be there destroy, like.

Laertes, who was also at hand, and had heard the story encouraged mischievous the angry boy,
when he swore and swore he would have to groom the satisfaction Give
he can sit still no insult to himself; to refuse the stable, he would
know to take revenge.

Laertes was here just in his field. He went up seriously, the stable master in the name challenge
the boys.

"That's funny", he said, "I would have such a fun-night no introduction." They went down, and
Phil followed them. "My son," said the equerry to Frederick, "You're a good boy, and I refuse
not to fight with you, just as the inequality years and our forces makes the thing a little odd
anyway, I instead propose other weapons from a pair of rapiers, and
we want to spread the buttons with chalk, and who the other the first
or most collisions records the Rock is, for the conqueror are held,
and by another with the best wines, is available in the city mistreated.

"

Laertes decided that this proposal could be adopted, Friedrich obeyed
as his teacher.

The rapiers came up, Phil sat down, knitting, and saw two fighters with great Gemuetsruhe to.

The
groom, who fought see well, was kind enough to spare his opponent and to have some chalk marks put on
the skirt, which she embraced and wine brought in was. The groom wanted to know Frederick's
origin and its history, because a Story has it that he had repeated so often and with which we
at other times our readers intend to make known.

In Wilhelm's soul completed, however this battle the presentation of his own feelings: for he could
not deny that he rapier, yes still prefer to own a sword the groom wished to lead, if he already
saw that in him that the art of fencing far superior to it. But he praised Philine not one instant,
is wary of any utterance which could've betrayed his feelings, and ran after it several times on
the health of the fighters did notice, to his room, where a thousand
unpleasant thoughts zudraengten on him. In making this
choice, he should act calmly, deliberately, and thoughtfully. He should bear in mind that he
is selecting, not for a day, or a year, but for all life. The object of his affections should
be one, who will live pleasantly with him, and make him happy, not for a few months only, but
during long years to come, when the romance of marriage shall have been succeeded by the cares
and struggles of maturer life. She should be one of whom he can say, in the words of the poet:--

    "Oft as clouds my path o'erspread,
     Doubtful where my steps should tread,
     She, with judgment's steady ray,
     Marks and smooths the better way."

There is no greater folly than to select a wife for mere personal beauty alone. Beauty will
always have its attractions; and when connected with an amiable disposition and useful qualifications,
its influence, cannot be objected to. But when unaccompanied with these characteristics, its
power is to be resisted, and the heart steeled against all its fascinations. The young man
who permits himself to fall so desperately in love with a lady, on account of mere personal
beauty, as to marry her, despite the counsel of his friends, and when he himself sees, or might
see, a sad want of other and more valuable qualifications, commits an error, the wretched effects
of which will be experienced through life. When this outward beauty loses its charm and passes
away, as it will in a brief space of time, what has he left? A cross-grained, ill-natured,
fault-finding, petulant, selfish wife, who will prove a "thorn in his side," during all his
days, rather than a loving and valuable companion.

Good looks are always attractive. But there is something still more desirable in a wife, viz.,
a sweet disposition and an even temper, a gentle, affectionate heart, and a well-cultivated
and enlightened mind. Let young men, by all means, seek for such qualifications in those whom
they would choose for their companions. In these characteristics there is a beauty and loveliness
which will not fade away with the consummation of marriage; but they will grow brighter and
more attractive from year to year, during all life.

Moreover, I would caution young men against allowing their hearts to be taken captive under
circumstances where they are especially exposed to deception. A young woman may exhibit a fine
appearance in a ball-room--may be very attractive at a party, and cut a fashionable and dashing
figure in the public streets, and still make a poor, good-for-nothing wife. These are the last
places in which choice should be made of a companion, to render aid and comfort amid the struggles
of life. Whenever your attention is attracted by a young lady, study her in the family circle--learn
her domestic qualifications. Is she a respectful, dutiful, loving daughter? Is she a kind and
affectionate sister? Does she manifest a noble, generous, friendly spirit? Does she exhibit
delicacy, refinement, and purity in her tastes and manners? Is she industrious, economical,
and frugal in her habits? Will she be likely to assist you in husbanding your income, and taking
care of your earnings? Is she thoroughly versed in all domestic affairs, so that she herself
could do all things connected with household matters, should necessity require it? These, I
acknowledge, are very ordinary, very homely inquiries; but nevertheless they are of the highest
importance. A young man who will marry, without having thoroughly made all such investigations,
and becoming satisfied that his intended is not deficient, to any great extent, in these qualifications,
is blind to his own highest good, and will in long after-years, amid domestic inquietude, and
family troubles, indulge unavailing regrets at his blindness and folly. But whenever a young
woman can be found, possessing these invaluable characteristics, I would advise the youth seeking
for a companion, to win her for a wife if possible. Although she may be plain in person, and
poor in property, yet she will be of more worth than rubies; and all riches cannot be compared
with her. She will be a faithful friend and wise counsellor, and will smooth the rugged pathway
of life. However the world and its affairs may go without, he who has such a wife, will ever
have a home, where neatness and comfort, peace and love, and all that can yield contentment
and enjoyment, will smile upon him!

All the care, discrimination, and judgment urged on young men in selecting wives, I would commend
to young ladies, in accepting husbands. If to the former, marriage is an important event, fraught
with consequences lasting as life, it is peculiarly so to the latter. It surely is no trivial
event for a daughter to leave the home of her childhood, the tender care and watchful guardianship
of kind parents, the society of affectionate brothers and sisters, to confide herself, with
all her interests and her happiness, to another with whom she has hitherto associated only
as a friend. Is it not necessary to exercise prudence, forethought, discretion, in taking a
step so momentous?

A young woman should not marry because the youthful are expected to enter matrimonial bonds
at a certain age, nor merely because they have had an offer of marriage. Such an admonition
may seem to be unnecessary; but I think it called for. It is true, beyond question, that young
women sometimes receive the addresses, and finally become the wives, of men for whom they have
formed no very strong attachment, and, indeed, in whom they see many characteristics and habits,
which they cannot approbate. This is done on the principle, that it is the first offer of marriage
they have had, and may be the only opportunity of settlement for life that will ever present
itself. If a small forever, from all over, all such great things does like
them - you only think the castle on the steep rocks, these high courts, the large Cannons
on the jumps and finally in the halls - chairs and pictures and vases - all as made for giants
- then he looked to grow these things either ... "(Mrs. Wanka their Son smiling face, and then
diligently sewed on) "or - he loses all at all Courage them to grow back. For he must think
that so great "I shall never. And for sheer Stand and stare the days pass, and we forget to itself
and that these But things are really just an example. Do not you know Luisa? "

"Perhaps," the nurse nodded and did not interrupt their work.

"I told him some day felt that one can push it - as a boy," Zdenko looked over. Women to continue
indefinitely. "But then there comes the jerk, since you can before all toes is rather kneel
before add, and one has the gone, then it is not long until Drüberhinsehen. And believe me, that
makes everything. Only everything always overlook. The maximum is at, is always the master.
I've always been very clear known what makes our time so confused and so unsure, but now I
have been here in the am city and see many people - I know it: that is not over it. You tell
me that is wrong: the city is the mayor and above it the governor and must again the king is a good
piece up and see the king and emperor of the Pope. The Pope But despite his high three times
the krona is still not up to God, says her. I think it comes from the fact that the thing we usually
look at the wrong end. I seems very far down is the good God and a little away about him, the
Pope and so on. Top but is the people. But the people's not one that many, they come and push
each other, and moved one to the other the sun. Since my 'I just always, - some one would have
to raise it from time to time in the air not too high (it could easily fall down to where
the king, or the Emperor), but so that he their strong and loyal Shoulders feel between themselves
and can look with calm consideration for a while about their Heads. If he is again among them,
he will be returned as from home and his brothers can say where the sun rises and how long it
may last until then - And so much more. But now ... "Zdenko covered his eyes with his hand.
Then rose He violently: "Mua leave, now the hard work and goes to sleep, it's late. The lamp is
also go out the same. "His voice was rough. He noticed until now that no longer Luisa leaning
over the linen sat, her eyes were burning to meet him, big and bright as ever. And strangely,
he saw himself in those eyes and sat up proud and strong as before a Mirror.

But his mother sewed all the time with vigorous tireless efforts, and Zdenko had suddenly the
need to be joined by her and kiss her hands.

                   * * * * *

There was no suspicion that the girl had been still and silent Rosalka the household opposite.
Old people, it was made often so when they made the usual Kleinhäuslichkeit their Provincial
city sold itself to cope in a new place, and may be the larger scales and are not adapted as
a narrow room in a reverberant room offset inside her most secret words by invisible choirs are
nachgesprochen loud during their many violent gestures to get lost in the vastness of this unresponsive
area seem. In the beginning like them because of the novelty, but soon they will feel it as an effort
which, without adequate wages, discouraging effect of a morning and leave the hands in her lap
and are the words on the tongue. It occurs, moreover, that the people in the country are to
a capable modest. Since it is sufficient once had a fairly sizeable accident to have to for all
time, to the last God-blessed day, the respectful regret of the refer to acquaintances as a
lifelong pension. Not only should he have the ability to
obtain a livelihood, but should possess prudence and frugality to lay up and secure the fruits
of his industry.

Above all, he should be strictly and rigidly temperate. On this point I would speak with emphasis.
Most earnestly would I admonish young women never to unite their destiny with, that of a drinking
young man. Alas! how many a wife, when too late, has lamented in bitter tears her short-sightedness
in this respect. A young man, who, in this age of temperance, has not sufficient self-respect,
pride of character, and good sense, to refrain from the intoxicating bowl before marriage,
will be very likely to sink into a common drunkard afterwards. This is not always the case;
but the exceptions are so rare, that she who ventures the risk, places herself in a condition
which hazards her happiness for life. However proper his other habits may be, however amiable
and pleasant his disposition, however bright and promising his prospects, however high his
position, or respectable his family connections--if he drinks the lethean draught, even but
sparingly, he is tampering with a viper, which will almost certainly sting him to death, and
poison the joys, and destroy the prosperity of all connected with him.

The world is filled with scenes which attest the need of this admonition. All around we behold
the wrecks of families, torn asunder by the intemperance of husbands and fathers, which otherwise
might have been united and happy. Wives forsaken broken-hearted, impoverished--children beggared
and neglected, growing up in rags and ignorance, to become the victims of sin and shame. All
these attest the danger that woman encounters, who links her destiny with a drinking young
man. O ye youthful and inexperienced, turn not a cold ear to my exhortation. With all the solemnity
the momentous topic inspires, I beseech you, as you value a life of peace and prosperity, never,
under any possible consideration, give your hand to a man who presses to his lips the intoxicating
cup! Though you may have granted your affections, and plighted your troth, to one who is given,
even but slightly, to this practice, if on your earnest expostulation, he will not abandon
it, you should, without hesitation, break all connection with him. Every consideration of prudence,
self-respect, and safety, urges you to such a step, however painful; and every law, human and
divine, will justify you in adopting it.

The suggestions which follow, on the views of Marriage that should be entertained by young
men, and "Female qualifications for Marriage," are so appropriate and excellent, that I cannot
forbear giving them an insertion in these pages.

FEMALE QUALIFICATIONS FOR MARRIAGE. But if the reflections already offered are duly heeded,
they will enable those who are influenced by them, to secure the blessings and escape the evils
of the marriage state. As a general remark, I would suggest that in selecting a companion for
a connection so lasting, it should be a leading object to find as great a similarity of opinions,
habits, tastes, and feelings, as possible. This is especially important in regard to religious
sentiments. It is a serious misfortune for a young married couple to find themselves differing
materially on the subject of religion. This is more particularly an evil when both are strongly
attached to their respective opinions, and anxious to attend different churches. I have frequently
known this greatly to embitter the cup of domestic enjoyment. Where husband and wife can sympathize
in each other's sentiments--can walk together to the house of God, with their children--can
strengthen and enlighten one another in regard to the great truths to which they there listen--can
unite in instructing their family in the same doctrines and principles of Christianity--it
opens one of the highest and sweetest sources of domestic happiness. But an absence of this
unity in religious opinions, is liable to lead to frequent disputations and contentions, which
often result in recriminations, and hard and bitter feelings. There are not wanting instances
where the most serious difficulties and the greatest unhappiness have grown out of these disagreements. When
he looked up, noticed Daumer, who secretly watched him, and excited in his face a strict undisguised
shock.

There was not much, so Hill, met the wrath of the President on the first would be on the same
Evening was chased from office and only the courageous advocacy of Mr. von Tucher saved and
drew him from the storm to more guilty people, for the neglect that the Prisoners suffered, was all
too apparent. His impetuous nature according to the president sought immediately Binder on the
mayor, he made the most violent accusations. Mr. Binder was not help but agree with the President
faint, and the firmness with which he the subject treated saw exercised a deep impression
on him, and he had a barely irreparable Error to admit to yourself. From his side in the game
was only lukewarm, the Trouble with the government had annoyed him, now, suddenly, as the powerful
man his vote for the boulder up, he was aware of his willingness, all conveying values to do for Caspar
Hauser, and he agreed readily, as Herr von Feuerbach demanded the boy must be rescued from its current
location. He is subordinate to a Care to come, "said the president," Professor Daumer has volunteered
to him to take into the house, and I do not think the move will be delayed a bit. "

Tie a bow. But for a husband or a wife to refuse such
a concession, and insist that the other shall forsake their attached place of worship, abandon
their sentiments, or remain totally silent in relation to them, on pain of having the harmony
and peace of the family destroyed--would be to exhibit a spirit totally ungenerous, and in
violation of every dictate of the Christian religion.

I have made these suggestions, not only for the benefit of those who have recently entered
upon married life, but to admonish those who are unmarried to come to an understanding on this
subject, and make all these arrangements before the consummation of their vows. Or, what is
still better, let these considerations convince the youthful of the necessity of making a similarity
of religious sentiment one of the chief qualifications in forming a tie, which, for good or
evil, will connect them with another during the remainder of the earthly journey.

