 After
a short silence, during which I was dominated by the sovereign beauty the girl muttered:

- Gabriela .... You deserve to be happy. Do you cry the sweetest dream dead? And reborn in this
poor suffering soul flowers of hope. When I give a sigh to the thought that in our country we are of necessity, to a great
extent, shut from the world of art, I then rejoice in the inspiriting thought that Nature is
ever the superior. No tree painting can compare with a splendid elm, in the plenitude of its
majesty. There are colorings beyond those of Rubens poured forth around us in every autumn
scene; there are Murillos smiling by our household firesides; and as for Madonnas and Venuses,
I think with Byron,--

  "I've seen more splendid women, ripe and real,
  Than all the nonsense of their stone ideal."

Still, I long for the full advent of our American, day of art, already dawning auspiciously.

After finishing our inspection, we went back to Stafford House to lunch.

In the evening we went to Lord John Russell's. We found Lady Russell and her daughters sitting
quietly around the evening lamp, quite by themselves. Imagine that the Father has to do everything. I I'm
afraid to continue bad, but I am reassured by the idea that to be so have already been Sarmiento,
who is the doctor there, but who knows whether, to be closer, call one of Pluviosilla.
 We passed here an entirely quiet and domestic evening, with only
the family circle. The conversation turned on various topics of practical benevolence, connected
with the care and education of the poorer classes. Allusion being made to Mrs. Tyler's letter,
Lady Russell expressed some concern lest the sincere and well-intended expression of the feeling
of the English ladies might have done harm. I said that I did not think the spirit of Mrs.
Tyler's letter was to be taken as representing the feeling of American ladies generally,--only
of that class who are determined to maintain the rightfulness of slavery.

It seems to me that the better and more thinking part of the higher classes in England have
conscientiously accepted the responsibility which the world has charged upon them of elevating
and educating the poorer classes. In every circle since I have been here in England, I have
heard the subject discussed as one of paramount importance.

One or two young gentlemen dropped in in the course of the evening, and the discourse branched
out on the various topics of the day; such as the weather, literature, art, spiritual rappings,
and table turnings, and all the floating et ceteras of life. Well, no
There are more than making a gesture intended, fake a contemptuous smile, quietly malicious that says
it all. Lies and slander! The mother and sisters of the poor meritorious work to dress the boy.


We left about ten o'clock, and went to pass the night with our friends Mr. and Mrs. Cropper
at their hotel, being engaged to breakfast at the West End in the morning.

END OF VOLUME I.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: Since my return to the United States I have been informed that the Freewill Baptist
denomination have adopted the same rigid principle of slavery exclusion that characterizes
the Scotch Seceders and the Quakers. Let this be known to their honor.]

[Footnote B: This venerated, and erudite jurist, the friend and biographer of the celebrated
Lord Jeffrey, has recently died.]

[Footnote C: This, alas! is no longer true. He would later need to go, when things were truly serious.

So things went on Holy Wednesday. The family went to Villaverde, and only stayed the foreman
on the ranch, I, and Mauritius, the groom, a very nice guy and very helpful.
 This faithless measure was nobly resisted by a large and able minority in Congress--honor
to them.]

[Footnote D: This most learned and amiable judge recently died, while in the very act of charging
a jury.]

