So he became fairly happy again--happier than he had thought he could ever be. It was in vain
he told himself that he had nothing to live for; he had the greatest thing in the world to
live for, the vision of a just and sane and happy world. So long as anybody could be found
to listen while he talked about it and explained how it might be achieved, life was worth while,
life was real. It was only now and then that his bitter heartache returned to plague him--when
he awakened in the night with his arms clasped about the memory of the soft, warm, kindly body
of Eleesa Betooser; or when he came to a farmhouse where there were children, whose prattle
reminded him of the little fellow who had been his prime reason for wanting a just and sane
and happy world. Jimmie found that he could not bear to work in one farmhouse where there were
children; and when he told the farmer's wife the reason, he and the woman declared a temporary
truce to the class-war, and celebrated it with half a large apple- pie.

V

The Socialists held a National Convention at St. Louis, and drew up their declaration concerning
the war. They called it the most unjustifiable war in history, "a crime against the people
of the United States"; they called on the workers of the country to oppose it, and pledged
themselves "to the support of all mass movements in opposition to conscription". This was,
of course, a serious step to take at such a time; the comrades realized it, and there were
solemn gatherings to discuss the referendum, and not a little disagreement as to the wisdom
of the declaration. In the town of Hopeland, near which Jimmie was working, there was a local,
and he had got himself transferred from Leesville, and paid up his back dues, and had his precious
red card stamped up-to-date. And now he would go in and listen to debates, just as exciting
and just as bewildering as those he had heard at the outbreak of the war.

There were some who pointed out the precise meaning of those words, "all mass-movements in
opposition to conscription." The leading dry-goods merchant of the town, he was a Socialist,
declared that the words meant insurrection and mob violence, and the resolution would be adjudged
a call to treason. At which there leaped to his feet a Russian Jewish tailor, Rabin by name;
his first name was Scholem, which means Peace, and he cried in great excitement: "Vot business
have ve Socialists vit such vords? Ve might leaf dem to de enemy, vot?"

You might have thought you were in Leesville, listening to Comrade Stankewitz. The only difference
was that there were not many Germans in this town, and those few confined their discussions
to Ireland and India.

Jimmie would hear the arguments, back and forth and back again, and his mind would be in greater
confusion than ever. He hated war as much as ever; but, on the other hand, he was learning
to hate the Germans, too. The American government, going to war, had been forced to assert
itself, and the stores and billboards were covered with proclamations and picture-posters,
and the newspapers were full of recitals of the crimes which Germany had committed against
humanity. Jimmie might refuse to read this "Wall Street dope", as he called it, but the working-men
with whom he was associating read it, and would fire it at him whenever they got into a controversy.
Also the daily events in the news dispatches--the sinking of hospital-ships filled with wounded,
the shelling of life-boats, the dragging away into slavery in coal-mines of Belgian children
thirteen and fourteen years old! How could any man fail to hate and to fear a government which
committed such atrocities? How could he remain untroubled at the thought that he might be assisting
such a government to victory?

Jimmie was honest, he was trying to face the facts as he saw them; and when he stopped to think,
when he remembered the things he had done in company with "Wild Bill" and "Strawberry" Curran
and "Flathead Joe" and "Chuck" Peterson, he could not deny that he had been, however unintentionally,
helping the Kaiser to win the war. In his arguments with others, Jimmie dared not tell all
he knew about such matters; so, when he argued with himself, his conscience was troubled, and
doubt gnawed at his soul. Suppose it were true, as Comrade Dr. Service had tried to prove to
him, that a victory for the Kaiser would mean that America would have to spend the next twenty
or thirty years getting ready for the next war? Might it not then be better to forego revolutionary
agitation for a while, until the Kaiser had been put out of business?

There were not a few Socialists who argued this way--men who had been active in the movement
and had possessed Jimmie's regard before the war. Now they denounced the St. Louis resolution--the
"majority report" as it was called. When this report was carried in referendum by a vote of
something like eight to one, these comrades withdrew from the party, and some of them bitterly
attacked their former friends. Such utterances were taken up by the capitalist press; and this
made Jimmie Higgins indignant. A fine lot of Socialists, to quit the ship in the hour of peril!
Renegades, Jimmie called them, and compared them with Judas Iscariot and Benedict Arnold and
such-like celebrities of past ages. They, being exactly the same sort of folk as Jimmie, answered
by calling Jimmie a pro-German and a traitor; which did not make it easier to persuade Jimmie
to listen to their arguments. So both sides became blinded with anger, forgetting about the
facts in the case, and thinking only of punishing a hated antagonist.

VI

All over the country now men were sending their sons to the training-camps, and putting their
money into "liberty-bonds". So they were in no mood to listen to argument--they would fly into
a rage at the least hint that the cause in which they were making sacrifices was not a perfectly
just and righteous cause. There was an organization called the "People's Council for Peace
and Democracy", which attempted to hold a national convention; the gathering was broken up
by mobs, and the delegates went wandering over the country, trying in vain to get together.
The mayor of Chicago gave them permission to meet in that city, but the governor of the state
sent troops to prevent it! You see, the people of the country had learned all about the organization
for which Jerry Coleman had been working--"Labour's National Peace Council"; and here was another
organization, bearing practically the same name, and carrying on an agitation which seemed
the same to the average man. The distinction between hired treason and super-idealism was far
too subtle for the people to draw in a time of such peril.

It was becoming more and more the fashion to arrest Socialists and to suppress their papers;
the government authorities in many places declared the "majority report" unmailable, and indicted
state and national secretaries for having sent it out in the ordinary routine of their business.
Jimmie received a letter from Comrade Meissner in Leesville, telling him that Comrade "Jack"
Smith had been given two years in the penitentiary for his speech in the Opera-house, and the
other would-be speakers had been fined five hundred dollars each. Several issues of the Worker
had been barred from the mails, and now the police had raided the offices and forced the suspension
of the publication. All over the country that sort of thing was happening, so now if you argued
with Jimmie in favour of the war, his answer was that America was more Prussian than Prussia,
and what was the use of fighting for Democracy abroad, if you had to sacrifice every particle
of Democracy at home in order to win the fight?

Jimmie really believed this--he believed it with most desperate and passionate intensity. He
looked forward to a war won for the benefit of oppression at home; he foresaw the system of
militarism and suppession riveted for ever on the people of America. Jimmie would admit that
the President himself might be sincere in the fine words he used about democracy; but the great
Wall Street interests which had run the country for so many decades--they had their secret
purposes, for which the war-frenzy served as a convenient cloak. They were going to make universal
military service the rule in America; they were going to see to it that every school-child
learned the military lessons of obedience and subordination. Also they were going to put the
radical papers out of business and put a stop to all radical propaganda. Those Socialists who
had been trapped into supporting the President's war-programme would wake up some morning with
a fearful dark-brown taste in their mouths!

No, said Jimmie Higgins, the way to fight war was to resist the subterfuges, however cunning
and plausible, by which men sought to persuade you to support war. The way to fight war was
the way of the Russians. The propaganda of proletarian revolt, the glorious example which the
Russian workers had set, would do more to break down the power of the Kaiser than all the guns
and shells in the world. But the militarists did not want it broken that way--Jimmie suspected
that many of them would rather have the war won by the Kaiser than have it won by the Socialists.
The governments refused to give passports to Socialists who wanted to meet in some neutral
country and work out the basis of a settlement upon which all the peoples of the world might
get together; and Jimmie took the banning of this Socialist conference as the supreme crime
of the world-capitalism, it was evidence that world-capitalism knew its true enemy, and meant
to use the war as an excuse to hold that enemy down.

VII

Day by day Jimmie was coming to place more of his hopes in Russia. His little friend Rabin,
the tailor, took a Russian paper published in New York, the Novy Mir, and would translate its
news and editorials. Local Hopeland, thus inspired, voted a message of fraternal sympathy to
the Russian workers. In Petrograd and Moscow there was going on, it appeared, a struggle between
the pro-ally Socialists and the Internationalists, the true, out-and-out, middle-of-the-road,
thick-and-thin proletarians. The former were called Mensheviki, the latter were called Bolsheviki,
and, of course, Jimmie was all for the latter. Did he not know the "stool-pigeon Socialists"
at home, who were letting themselves be used by capitalism?

The big issues were two--first, the land, which the peasants wanted to take from the landlords;
and second, the foreign debt. The Russian Tsar had borrowed four billion dollars from France
and a billion or two from England, to be used in enslaving the Russian workers and driving
several millions of them to death on the battlefield. Now should the Russian workers consider
themselves bound by this debt? When anybody asked Jimmie Higgins that question, he responded
with a thunderous "No", and he regarded as hirelings or dupes of Wall Street all those Socialists
who supported Kerensky in Russia.

When the American government, wishing to appeal to the Russian people for loyalty in the war,
sent over a commission to them, and placed at its head one of the most notorious corporation
lawyers in America, a man whose life, the Jimmies said, had been sold to service in the anti-liberal
cause, Jimmie Higgins's shrill voice became a yell of ridicule and rage. Of course, Jimmie's
organization saw to it that the Bolsheviki were informed in advance as to the character of
this commission--something which was unnecessary, as it happened, because immediately after
the overthrow of the Tsar there had begun a pilgrimage of Russian Socialists from New York
and San Francisco, men who had seen the seamy side of American capitalism in the slums of the
great cities, and who lost no time in providing the Russian radicals with full information
concerning Wall Street!

It chanced that in San Francisco a well-known labour leader had been charged with planting
a bomb to break up a "preparedness" parade. He had been convicted upon that which was proven
to be perjured testimony, and the labour unions of the country had been conducting a campaign
to save his life--which campaign the capitalist newspapers had been carefully overlooking,
according to their invariable custom. But now the returned exiles in Petrograd took up the
matter, and organized a parade to the American embassy, with a demand for the freeing of this
"Muni". The report, of course, came back to America--to the immense bewilderment of the American
people, who had never heard of this "Muni" before. To Jimmie Higgins it seemed just the funniest
joke on earth that a big labour-struggle should be on in San Francisco, and Americans should
get their first news about it from Petrograd! Look! he would cry--how much real democracy there
is in America, how much care for the working classes!

So all that summer and autumn, while Jimmie Higgins slaved in the fields, getting in his country's
wheat-crop, and then his country's corn crop, there was a song of joy and awakening excitement
in his soul. Far over the seas men of his own kind were getting the reins of power into their
hands, for the first time in the history of the world. It could not be long before here in
America the workers would learn this wonderful lesson, would thrill to the idea that freedom
and plenty might really be their portion.

CHAPTER XV

JIMMIE HIGGINS TURNS BOLSHEVIK

I

Winter was coming, and the farm-workers moved to the cities; but this year they did not go
as down-and-out-o'-works--they went, each man a little kink. Jimmie wandered into the city
of Ironton, and got himself a job in a big automobile shop at eight dollars a day, and set
to work agitating for ten dollars. It was not that he had any need of the extra two dollars,
of course, but merely because his first principle in life was to make trouble for the profit-system.
The capitalist papers of this middle-Western metropolis were furiously denouncing working-men
who struck "against their country" in war-time; Jimmie, on the other hand, denounced those
who used "country" as camouflage for "boss" and made the war a pretext to deprive labour of
its most precious right.

There was a Socialist local in Ironton, still active and determined in spite of the fact that
its office had been raided by the police, and most of the party's papers and magazines barred
from the mails. You could always get leaflets printed, however; and if you could no longer
denounce the war directly, you could jeer at England's exhibition of "democracy" in Ireland,
you could point to the profits of the profiteers, and demand conscription of wealth along with
conscription of manhood. Some American Socialists became almost as subtle as that German rebel
of pre-war days, who, desiring to lampoon the Kaiser, wrote an account of the life of the Roman
Emperor Agricola, reciting his vanities and insane extravagances.

