Samantha and Timothy walked down the hill to the store. Yes, David Milliken was sitting all
alone on the loafer's bench at the door, and why wasn't he at prayer-meetin' where he ought
to be? She was glad she chanced to have on her clean purple calico, and that Timothy had insisted
on putting a pink Ma'thy Washington geranium in her collar, for it was just as well to make
folks' mouth water whether they had sense enough to eat or not.

"Who is that sorry-looking man that always sits on the bench at the store, Samanthy?"

"That's David Milliken."

"Why does he look so sorry, Samanthy?"

"Oh, he's all right. He likes it fust-rate, wearin' out that hard bench settin' on it night
in 'n' night out, like a bump on a log! But, there, Timothy, I've gone 'n' forgot the whole
pepper, 'n' we're goin' to pickle seed cowcumbers to-morrer. You take the lard home 'n' put
it in the cold room, 'n' ondress Gay 'n' git her to bed, for I've got to call int' Mis' Mayhew's
goin' along back."

It was very vexatious to be obliged to pass David Milliken a second time; "though there warn't
no sign that he cared anything about it one way or 'nother, bein' blind as a bat, 'n' deef
as an adder, 'n' dumb as a fish, 'n' settin' stockstill there with no coat on, 'n' the wind
blowin' up for rain, 'n' four o' the Millikens layin' in the churchyard with gallopin' consumption."
It was in this frame of mind that she purchased the whole pepper, which she could have eaten
at that moment as calmly as if it had been marrow-fat peas; and in this frame of mind she might
have continued to the end of time had it not been for one of those unconsidered trifles that
move the world when the great forces have given up trying. As she came out of the store and
passed David, her eye fell on a patch in the flannel shirt that covered his bent shoulders.
The shirt was gray and (oh, the pity of it!) the patch was red; and it was laid forlornly on
outside, and held by straggling stitches of carpet thread put on by patient, clumsy fingers.
That patch had an irresistible pathos for a woman!

Samantha Ann Ripley never exactly knew what happened. Even the wisest of down-East virgins
has emotional lapses once in a while, and she confessed afterwards that her heart riz right
up inside of her like a yeast cake. Mr. Berry, the postmaster, was in the back of the store
reading postal cards. Not a soul was in sight. She managed to get down over the steps, though
something with the strength of tarred ship-ropes was drawing her back; and then, looking over
her shoulder with her whole brave, womanly heart in her swimming eyes, she put out her hand
and said, "Come along, Dave!"

And David straightway gat him up from the loafer's bench and went unto Samantha gladly.

And they remembered not past unhappiness because of present joy; nor that the chill of coming
winter was in the air, because it was summer in their hearts: and this is the eternal magic
of love.