The kind lady had inspired Sami with great confidence and he now told from the beginning all
that he knew about his life up to the present moment, and also how he had come into the courtyard,
on account of the proverb, which led him to believe that here lived the people with whom he
should stay.

When Sami came to an end, the lady turned to her husband and said:

"It is the dear Lord who has led him here. We cannot send him away!"

The children all shouted together for joy.

"Can we go to the birds now, Papa? Right away?" repeated Betti with irrepressible eagerness.

"By and by, by and by," said her father, soothingly. "Sami is going with me first up to Chailly,
to show me where Herr Malon lives. I want to talk with him. When we come back, we will see
what to do first."

The mother understood that her husband wanted to have Herr Malon's assurance that everything
Sami had told was true, and held back the children, who all four were anxious to explain immediately
to Sami what they desired of him.

"But bring him back again, Papa!" cried Betti following after them as they started away.

Herr Malon was very much surprised to see Sami again, and moreover in such company, for he
recognized the master of the plane-tree estate at once. After the first greeting Sami was sent
out doors for a little, and this delighted him very much, for now he could look at the garden
again and the crooked maple-tree, under which he had so often sat with his grandmother.

Herr Malon assured his guest that all Sami's words were correct and besides gave a description
of Old Mary Ann, her fidelity and conscientiousness, so that the gentleman was very glad to
have such good news to carry to his wife.

A loud shout of delight welcomed them on their return, and still louder was the applause, when
their father announced that Sami was henceforth to remain in the house and be the children's
playmate.

Sami did not know what to make of it. Since his grandmother's death, no one had shown the slightest
pleasure in his presence; on the contrary everywhere he had felt as if he were tolerated only
out of pity, and now he was received with loud rejoicing by the children of a house to which
he had been more attracted than anywhere else before, and where his grandmother would be glad
to see him; of that he was sure. His heart was so overflowing with joy that he wanted to sing
aloud and give praise and thanksgiving evermore like the finch:

"Trust! Trust! Only trust the dear Lord!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It is now ten years since Sami entered the plane-tree estate. Whoever passes by there on a
beautiful Spring day will surely stand still at the high iron gateway and listen for a little,
for there is seldom heard such a merry song as sounds from the thick branches of the planetrees.
Up in the tree sits the young gardener pruning the branches. At the same time he sings continually,
like the merriest finch, and carols loudest the end of his song, accompanied by all the birds:

"Only trust the dear Lord!"

The young gardener is Sami. At first he received a good knowledge of reading, writing and arithmetic
with the children of the house; later, according to his great wish, he was trained as a gardener
of the estate. But he is now not only gardener, he has much more to oversee about the estate
than any one would imagine. Arthur, who has just finished his studies, is still an ardent sailor.
Without Sami, no trip is possible, and Arthur is apt to say:

"Without God's help and Sami's assistance I should have been drowned twenty times."

When Karl comes from the university in his vacation, his first question is, "Where is Sami?"
and this he asks numberless times every day, for without him he can never get ready. He alone
knows where to find everything Karl needs in vacation-time for his amusements, from his old
bow and quiver up to his riding whip and gun.

Edward has now given up his donkey cart and instead is interested in strange animals, which
have their dwelling-place in the back of the courtyard and often make a great spectacle there.
He owns two marmots, two parrots and a monkey. No one could manage these and keep them in order
but Sami, and he does it so well and so successfully that Edward often exclaims:

"Without Sami everything we have would go to ruin, animals and people, the animals for want
of proper care and the people from anger over it."

But Betti still remains Sami's greatest friend. She can call him at any hour of the day she
pleases, Sami is immediately on the spot, and Betti knows he is more devoted than any one else
and besides can keep secrets like a stone. No one knows how many little notes he has to carry
every week to the neighbouring estates. Sami will not tell, for her brothers would laugh at
their sister Betti's endless correspondence which she has with numerous girl friends around
on all the estates. Sami is her most devoted friend, for he would run through fire and water
for her without hesitation. He never forgets what persuasive words in his behalf Betti used
with her father, when, broken-hearted, he was going to fetch his bundle and go away again.

The youngest, Ella, with golden curls, who has taken over the donkey and cart from her brother
Edward, is entrusted to Sami's especial care when she desires to go for a drive. Whenever she
brings out her white robe to spread over her knees, Sami's eyes sparkle with delight and thankfulness
as he remembers how the proverb led him to his good fortune, and still more at the memory of
his grandmother, who brought about all this good, and whom he never forgets.

When, recently, a lady, owning one of the neighbouring estates, proposed to Herr von K. to
transfer his merry gardener to her, merely because the servants in her house had sullen faces,
he replied:

"You can have him, just as much as you can have one of my own children, if you should try to
entice one away. Sami is the most faithful, trustworthy, conscientious person who has ever
come in my way. I can leave my whole house and go wherever I will, I know that everything will
be taken care of, as if I stood by. This is so because Sami has another Master besides me,
before whose eyes he performs all his work. The dear Lord himself sent my glad-hearted Sami
to me, and I esteem him. He belongs to my house, and it shall remain his home!"