A lovely soul dwelt in that crooked, pain-racked body, and looked out of the gentle brown eyes
shining in the pale, thin little face. Every one loved the boy, most of all the dogs, cats,
horses, cows of the little farms, the birds and animals of forest and brookside. He knew them
all, and they knew, loved, and trusted him. The tinier creatures, such as butterflies, bees,
ants, beetles, even caterpillars, downy or smooth, were his friends, or seemed so. He knew
them, watched them, studied their habits, and was the little naturalist of Greenhills village,
consulted by all, even by older and wiser people.

A close friendship existed between the boy and Story-tell Lib, and we all understood the tale
she told us one day when Stoopin' Jacob was one of the listeners.

Diff'ent Kind o' Bundles

Once there was a lot o' folks, and every single one on 'em had bundles on their backs. But
they was all diff'ent, oh! jest as diff'ent as--as anything, the bundles was. And these folks
all b'longed to one person, that they called the Head Man. They was his folks, and nobody else's,
and he had the whole say, and could do anything he wanted to. But he was real nice, and always
done jest the best thing,--yes, sir, the bestest thing, whatever folks might say against it.

Well, I was tellin' ye about how these folks had diff'ent kind o' bundles on their backs. 'Twas
this way. One on 'em was a man that had a real hefty bundle on his back, that he'd put on there
hisself,--not all to onct, but a mite to time, for years 'n' years. 'Twas a real cur'us bundle,
made up out o' little things in the road that'd got in his way, or hurt him, or put him back.
Some on 'em was jest little stones that had hurt his feet, and some was little stingin' weeds
that smarted him as he went by 'em, and some was jest mites o' dirt somebody'd throwed at him,
not meanin' no great o' harm. He'd picked 'em all up, every bit o' worryin', prickin', hurtin'
little thing, and he'd piled 'em up on his back till he had a big bundle that he allers carried
about and never forgot for a minute.

He was f'rever lookin' out for sech troublin' things, too, and he'd see 'em way ahead on him
in his road, and sometimes he'd think he see 'em when there wa'n't any there't all. And, 'stead
o' lettin' 'em lay where they was, and goin' right ahead and forgettin' 'em, he'd pick every
single one on 'em up and pile 'em on that bundle, and carry 'em wherever he went.

And he was allers talkin' about 'em to folks, p'intin' out that little stone that he'd stubbed
his toe on, and this pesky weed that stung him, and t'other little mite o' mud he'd conceited
somebody'd throwed at him. He fretted and scolded and complained 'bout 'em, and made out that
nobody never had so many tryin' things gettin' in his way as he had. He never took into 'count,
ye see, that he'd picked 'em up hisself and piled 'em on his own back. If he'd jest let 'em
lay, and gone along, he'd 'a' forgot 'em all, I guess, after a spell.

Then there was another man with a bundle, a cur'us one too, for 't was all made out o' money,
dreadful heavy and cold and hard to carry. Every speck o' money he could scrape together he'd
put in that bundle, till he couldn't scursely heft it, 'twas that big and weighed so much.
He had plenty o' chances to make it lighter, for there was folks all along the road that needed
it bad,--little child'en that hadn't no clo'es nor no victuals, and sick folks and old folks,
every one on 'em needin' money dreadful bad. But the man never gin 'em a mite. He kep' it all
on his back, a-hurtin' and weighin' him down.

Then ag'in there was another man. He had a bundle that he didn't put on his back hisself, nor
the Head Man didn't nuther. Folks did it to him. He hadn't done nothin' to deserve it, 't was
jest put on him by other people, and so 't was powerful hard to bear. But, ye see, the Head
Man had pervided partic'lar for them kind, and he'd said in public, so 't everybody knowed
about it, that he'd help folks like that,--said he'd help 'em carry sech bundles hisself, or
mebbe take 'em off, if it 'peared to be best.

But this man disremembered that,--or, worse still, p'r'aps he didn't 'zackly believe it. So
he went along all scrunched down with that hefty bundle other folks had piled up on him, not
scoldin' nor complainin' nor gittin' mad about it, but jest thinkin' it had got to be, and
nobody could help him. But ye see it hadn't got to be, and somebody could 'a' helped him.

And then bimeby along come a man that had sech a hefty, hefty bundle! 'Twas right 'tween his
shoulders, and it sort o' scrooched him down, and it hurt him in his back and in his feelin's.
The Head Man had put that bundle on the man hisself when he was a little bit of a feller. He'd
made it out o' flesh and skin and things. It was jest ezackly like the man's body, so 't when
it ached he ached hisself. And he'd had to carry that thing about all his born days.

I don't know why the Head Man done it, I'm sure, but I know how good and pleasant he was, and
how he liked his folks and meant well to 'em, and how he knowed jest what oughter be and what
hadn't oughter be, so 't stands to reason he'd done this thing a-purpose, and not careless
like, and he hadn't made no mistake.

I've guessed a lot o' reasons why he done it. Mebbe he see the man wouldn't 'a' done so well
without the bundle,--might 'a' run off, 'way, 'way off from the Head Man and the work he had
to do. Or, ag'in, p'r'aps he wanted to make a 'zample of the man, and show folks how patient
and nice a body could be, even though he had a big, hefty bundle to carry all his born days,
one made out o' flesh and skin and things, and that hurt dreadful.

But my other guess is the one I b'leeve in most,--that the Head Man done it to scrooch him
down, so's he'd take notice o' little teenty things, down below, that most folks never see,
things that needed him to watch 'em, and do for 'em, and tell about 'em. That's my fav'rite
guess. 'Tany rate, the Head Man done right,--I'm cert'in sure o' that.

And it had made the man nicer, and pleasanter spoken, and kinder to folks, and partic'lar to
creaturs. Second, that youth, all liberal, and tending towards a single purpose - the
progress - is in great disagreement, so strange quirk that Democrats and free-changers or economists seem
to be in antagonism. The talents seem divorced from each other dominated by absolutism of ideas
or systems that have a lot of scholastic.

Also noticing the young writers and speakers theologizing some hobby all issues giving to religious
disputes that no one can be convinced, and making him take a turn Bible to any historical or political
preaching, instead of using the analysis, studying social facts carefully.


Well, come pay day, these folks all come up afore the Head Man to be settled with. And fust
he called up the man that had the bundle all made out o' things that had pricked him, and tripped
him up, and scratched him, and put him back on the road. And then he had up the man with the
money weighin' him down,--the money he'd kep' away from poor folks and piled up on his own
back. And then come the feller that was carryin' the heavy bundle folks had put on him when
't wa'n't no fault o' his'n, and that he might 'a' got red of a long spell back, if he'd only
rec'lected what the Head Man had said 'bout sech cases, and how they could be helped.

I ain't a-goin' to tell ye what he said to them folks, 'cause 't ain't my business, seems to
me. Whether he punished either on 'em, or scolded 'em, or sent 'em off to try ag'in, or what
all, never mind. Knowin' 's much as I do about the ways o' that Head Man, I bet he made 'em
feel terrible ashamed, any way.

But when he came to the man with the bundle made out o' flesh and skin and things, he looks
at him a minute, and then says he, the Head Man does, "Why," he says, "that's my own work!
I made that bundle, and I fixed it on your back all myself. I hefted and I sized it, and I
hefted you and sized you. A mite of a young one you was then. I made it jest hefty enough for
you to carry, not a bit heftier, no more nor less. I rec'lect it well," he says. "I ain't forgot
it. I never forgot it one minute sence I fitted in on, though mebbe you kind o' thought by
spells that I had. And now," he says--No, I can't tell ye what he says. It's a secret, that
is. But I don't mind lettin' ye know that the man was sat'sfied, perfec'ly sat'sfied. A Angel
told me he was, and went on to say the man was dreadful pleased to find he'd been wearin' a
bundle the Head Man hisself had made and fixed on him, heftin' it and sizin' it, and heftin'
him and sizin' him too, so's 'twa'n't too much for him to carry. But he ain't carryin' it no
more. The Angel said so.

The Boy that was Scaret o' Dyin'

VII

I have told you that little Lib was a delicate child, and that she grew more and more fragile
and weak as the summer went on. In the hot, dry days of August she drooped like a thirsty flower,
and her strength failed very fast. Her voice, though still sweet and clear, lost its shrillness,
and one had to draw very close to the little speaker that he might not lose a word of the stories
she told. Aunt Jane York often came out to us now, anxious and fussy, talking fretfully of
and to little Lib, feeling the small hands and feet to see if they were cold, and drawing the
shawl closer around the wasted form. I know she loved the little girl, and perhaps she wished
now that she had shown that love more tenderly. She talked freely, in the very presence of
the child, of her rapid decline and the probability that she would not "last long." Lib said
nothing concerning her own condition, and showed no sign of having heard her aunt's comments.
But one day, when Miss York, after speaking very freely and plainly of the child's approaching
end, had gone indoors, Lib announced, in a low, sweet voice, a new story.

The Boy that was Scaret o' Dyin'

Once there was a boy that was dreadful scaret o' dyin'. Some folks is that way, you know; they
ain't never done it to know how it feels, and they're scaret. And this boy was that way. He
wa'n't very rugged, his health was sort o' slim, and mebbe that made him think about sech things
more. 'Tany rate, he was terr'ble scaret o' dyin'. 'Twas a long time ago this was,--the times
when posies and creaturs could talk so's folks could know what they was sayin'.

And one day, as this boy, his name was Reuben,--I forget his other name,--as Reuben was settin'
under a tree, an ellum tree, cryin', he heerd a little, little bit of a voice,--not squeaky,
you know, but small and thin and soft like,--and he see 'twas a posy talkin'. 'Twas one o'
them posies they call Benjamins, with three-cornered whitey blowths with a mite o' pink on
'em, and it talked in a kind o' pinky-white voice, and it says, "What you cryin' for, Reuben?"
And he says, "'Cause I'm scaret o' dyin'," says he; "I'm dreadful scaret o' dyin'." Well, what
do you think? That posy jest laughed,--the most cur'us little pinky-white laugh 't was,--and
it says, the Benjamin says: "Dyin'! Scaret o' dyin'? Why, I die myself every single year o'
my life." "Die yourself!" says Reuben. "You 're foolin'; you're alive this minute." "'Course
I be," says the Benjamin; "but that's neither here nor there,--I've died every year sence I
can remember." "Don't it hurt?" says the boy. "No, it don't," says the posy; "it's real nice.
You see, you get kind o' tired a-holdin' up your head straight and lookin' peart and wide awake,
and tired o' the sun shinin' so hot, and the winds blowin' you to pieces, and the bees a-takin'
your honey. So it's nice to feel sleepy and kind o' hang your head down, and get sleepier and
sleepier, and then find you're droppin' off. Then you wake up jest 't the nicest time o' year,
and come up and look 'round, and--why, I like to die, I do." But someways that didn't help
Reuben much as you'd think. "I ain't a posy," he think to himself, "and mebbe I wouldn't come up."

Well, another time he was settin' on a stone in the lower pastur', cryin' again, and he heerd
another cur'us little voice. 'T wa'n't like the posy's voice, but 'twas a little, wooly, soft,
fuzzy voice, and he see 't was a caterpillar a-talkin' to him. And the caterpillar says, in
his fuzzy little voice, he says, "What you cryin' for, Reuben?" And the boy, he says, "I'm
powerful scaret o' dyin', that's why," he says. And that fuzzy caterpillar he laughed. "Dyin'!"
he says. "I'm lottin' on dyin' myself. All my fam'ly," he says, "die every once in a while,
and when they wake up they're jest splendid,--got wings, and fly about, and live on honey and
things. Why, I wouldn't miss it for anything!" he says. "I'm lottin' on it." But somehow that
didn't chirk up Reuben much. "I ain't a caterpillar," he says, "and mebbe I wouldn't wake up
at all."

Well, there was lots o' other things talked to that boy, and tried to help him,--trees and
posies and grass and crawlin' things, that was allers a-dyin' and livin', and livin' and dyin'.
Reuben thought it didn't help him any, but I guess it did a little mite, for he couldn't help
thinkin' o' what they every one on 'em said. But he was scaret all the same.

And one summer he begun to fail up faster and faster, and he got so tired he couldn't hardly
hold his head up, but he was scaret all the same. And one day he was layin' on the bed, and
lookin' out o' the east winder, and the sun kep' a-shinin' in his eyes till he shet 'em up,
and he fell asleep. He had a real good nap, and when he woke up he went out to take a walk.

And he begun to think o' what the posies and trees and creaturs had said about dyin', and how
they laughed at his bein' scaret at it, and he says to himself, "Why, someways I don't feel
so scaret to-day, but I s'pose I be." And jest then what do you think he done? Why, he met
a Angel. He'd never seed one afore, but he knowed it right off. And the Angel says, "Ain't
you happy, little boy?" And Reuben says, "Well, I would be, only I'm so dreadful scaret o'
dyin'. It must be terr'ble cur'us," he says, "to be dead." And the Angel says, "Why, you be
dead." And he was.

       *       *       *       *       *

The story of the boy that was scaret o' dyin' was the last story that little Lib ever told
us. We saw her sometimes after that, but she was not strong enough to talk much. She sat no
longer now in the low chair under the maples, but lay on a chintz-covered couch in the sitting-room,
by the west windows. The once shrilly-sweet voice with its clear bird tones was but a whisper
now, as she told us over and again, while she lay there, that she would tell us a new story
"to-morrow." It was always "to-morrow" till the end came. And the story was to be, so the whisper
went on, "the beautif'lest story,--oh, you never did!" And its name was to be,--what a faint
and feeble reproduction of the old triumphant announcement of a new title!--"The Posy Gardin'
that the King Kep'."

