 But of the atheism of the upper classes the people knew nothing; they clung piously
to a faith which held a theological justification of every sin, and in the temples fervent
prayers were murmured, not for future happiness, for that was unobtainable, nor yet for wisdom
or virtue, for those things the gods neither granted nor possessed; the prayers were that the
gods would favor the suppliant in his hatreds and in his lusts.

Such was Rome when Verus returned to wed Lucille. Before his car the phallus swung; behind
it was the pest. A little before, the Tiber overflowed. Presently, in addition to the pest,
famine came. It was patent to everyone that the gods were vexed. There was blasphemy somewhere,
and the Christians were tossed to the beasts. Faustine watched them die. At first they were
to her as other criminals, but immediately a difference was discerned. They met death, not
with grace, perhaps, but with exaltation. They entered the arena as though it were an enchanted
garden, the color of the emerald, where dreams came true. Faustine questioned. They were enemies
of state, she was told. The reply left her perplexed, and she questioned again. It was then
her eyes became inhabited by regret. The past she tried to put from her, but remorse is physical;
it declines to be dismissed. She would have killed herself, but she no longer dared. Besides,
in the future there was light. In some ray of it she must have walked, for when at the foot
of Mount Taurus, in a little Cappadocian village, years later, she died, it was at the sign
of the cross.

IX

THE AGONY

The high virtues are not complaisant, it is the cad the canaille adore. In spite of everything,
Nero had been beloved by the masses. For years there were roses on his tomb. Under Vespasian
there was an impostor whom Greece and Asia acclaimed in his name. The memory of his festivals
was unforgetable; regret for him refused to be stilled. He was more than a god; he was a tradition.
His second advent was confidently expected; the Jews believed in his resurrection; to the Christian
he had never died, and suddenly he reappeared.

Rome had declined to accept the old world tenet that the soul has its avatars, yet, when Commodus
sauntered from that distant sepulchre, into which, poison aiding, he had placed his putative
father, Rome felt that the Egyptians were wiser than they looked; that the soul did migrate,
and that in the blue eyes of the young emperor Nero's spirit shone.

Herodian, who has written very agreeably on the subject, describes him as another Prince Charming.
His hair, which was very fair, glistened like gold in the sun; he was slender, not at all effeminate,
exceedingly graceful, exceedingly gracious; endowed with the promptest blush, with the best
intentions; studious of the interests of his people; glad of advice, seeking it even; courteous
and deferential to the senate and his father's friends--in short, an adolescent Nero--a trifle
more guileful, however; already a parricide, a comedian as well; one who in a moment would
toss the mask aside and disclose the mongrel; the offspring, not of an empress and an emperor,
but the tiger-cub that Faustine had got by a gladiator.

The tender-hearted philosopher, who in a campaign against some fretful Teutons, had taken Commodus
with him, knew that he was not his son; knew, too, when the agony seized him, from whose hand
the agony came; but in earlier life he had jotted in his notebook, "Forgive, forgive always;
die forgiving"; and, as he forgave the mother, so he forgave the child, recommending him with
his last breath to the army and to Rome.

