"Pretty much everything you get your hands on seems to be," commented Dick, and the boys surrounded
Pepper with joined hands, singing: "I'll Bet He's Had a Letter from Home," until the badgered
youth tackled his brother and broke through the line of his tormentors. The Colonel had also
found at Valdez a brief letter from Swiftwater, who announced that he had gotten hold of what
he considered a good claim, and if any of his late "command" cared to come up and help him
work it, they might all be millionaires before the following spring.

"Any of you care to take the job?" asked the Colonel with a smile. "I've taken an interest
with Swiftwater in any claims he may file on, and you might find it worth while. However, I'm
frank to say that, having gotten you this far without disaster I should prefer to return you
to your homes safe and in good order."

The reader may wish to follow the later adventures of the Boy Scouts, and in the next volume,
"In the North Woods," their further history will be told.

The letters from home awakened many pleasant memories, and perhaps a little feeling of home
sickness, and there was no eager acceptance of the miner's proposition, which, anyway, was
probably made in a joking spirit.

"I believe," said Rand, "I should like to come back here some time. I sometimes think that
in spite of the fact that this great territory is so near the North Pole, it's going to be
a great commonwealth. I want to see it in the winter time, when they say it is so terrible."

"Gee, I think we've had enough of it for this time," put in Gerald, with a serious look. "I
want to get home and build another aeroplane. They'll be getting ahead of us on airships if
we stay away much longer."

"And I hae me doots," put in the economical Don, "if this country isn't too expensive for just
regular living."

"I'm going to write a book about this country, and I want to get home to do it," said Jack.

"Well," said Dick, "I'm rather in favor of a short visit to the old home at this time, just
to astonish the natives with a few of our adventures. Since this patrol was formed, its experiences
have got to be a regular habit with the Creston folks, and I have an idea they must miss something
by this time. I think it's our duty to let them have at least an 'Old Home Week' to relieve
their--hey, what do you call it, Jack, in that high school French of yours?--oh, yes, their
ongwee."

"Well," said the ingenious Pepper, unguardedly, "I've got no reason--I just want to go home."

"Nothing to do with a sudden case of 'private consumption?'" cruelly remarked Jack, and amid
the shout of laughter that followed Pepper, covered with a sunset glow, made a sudden exit
in search of the guide.

Colonel Snow had a conference with the Indians after he had inspected the "treasure," and heard
the story of its perilous recovery. He recognized that the value of the mammoth tusks as museum
specimens was far greater than its worth as ivory, and he offered to pay the Indians far above
its commercial value for their interest in it, allowing them full possession of the remaining
ivory. They gladly accepted his suggestion, and all of them returned to their village near
Skagway, with sufficient wealth to make them independent until the next "potlatch," when they
would probably give it all away.

After a conference with the old guide, Colonel Snow made him an offer to join Swiftwater in
the Fairbanks region, and operate with him on such claims as he should secure, and the old
man prepared to return to his occupation as a miner, by the first fall stage from Valdez.

