The transportation facilities of the times were, however, entirely inadequate to the needs
of the country, and the lack of better means of getting products to market was a serious impediment
to internal development. Tench Coxe wrote in 1792: "To a nation inhabiting a great continent
not yet traversed by artificial roads and canals, the rivers of which above their natural navigation
have hitherto been very little improved, many of whose people are at this moment closely settled
upon lands, which actually sink from one-fifth to one-half of the value of their crops in the
mere charges of transporting them to seaport towns, and others, of whose inhabitants cannot
at present send their produce to a seaport for its whole value, a thorough sense of the truth
of the position is a matter of unequalled magnitude and importance."

Especially was communication between the Ohio Valley and the outside world difficult and expensive.
The natural outlet for the surplus of this valley was the Mississippi River. During the Revolutionary
War, the Spanish government had given the people of the colonies the right of free navigation
of the river and a brisk trade had sprung up between the western settlements and New Orleans,
but in 1784 Spain had put an end to this trade by withdrawing the right of free navigation.
The people of the West, enraged at being deprived of what they considered their natural right,
protested furiously and appealed to Congress for protection, but their appeals were unavailing
and the river remained closed for more than a decade. The only market left to the western farmers
was the cities on the eastern coast. Peltry, ginseng and whiskey were almost the only products
that would pay their cost of transportation to Philadelphia, and the proceeds derived from
the sale of these were sufficient to purchase only a few things of prime necessity such as
salt, gunpowder, and some indispensable articles of iron. Even this small trade of the West
was crippled when the new government placed an excise tax on whiskey, and the resentment felt
against the federal authorities for their apparent disregard of the economic interests of the
western people blazed forth in open rebellion.

The commercial isolation of the Ohio Valley ended, however, in 1795, when the national government,
spurred to action by the threats of secession and clamor for protection coming from the western
farmers, secured a treaty with Spain opening the Mississippi River to navigation. The successful
conclusion of the negotiations was hailed with great rejoicing in Tennessee, Kentucky, Pennsylvania
and Ohio. Fleets of flat-boats loaded with tobacco, pork, flour, grain and whiskey began to
move down the river. In 1799, more than a million dollars worth of goods were received at New
Orleans from the country up the Mississippi. In October, 1802, the Spanish Intendant at New
Orleans, acting on his own responsibility, suddenly withdrew the "right of deposit" at the
city, and contrary to the provisions of the treaty, he refused to assign an equivalent establishment
at any other place on the banks of the river. The western people were wild with rage. It was
necessary to send troops to Kentucky to prevent an armed expedition against the Spanish province.
Fortunately, the Spanish government disavowed the action of the Intendant and in April, 1803,
the river trade was again restored. Desirous of avoiding such difficulties in the future, Jefferson
pushed the negotiations already begun with Napoleon, to whom Spain had ceded her claims to
Louisiana, for the purchase of New Orleans and the territory through which the river flowed
from the possessions of the United States to the Gulf of Mexico. The negotiations ended in
October, 1803, with a wholly unexpected result--the purchase of the entire Louisiana province.
In December, the United States took possession of the newly acquired territory and the undisputed
control of the Mississippi was secured forever.

The opening of the Mississippi marked the beginning of an active internal commerce within the
United States. The farmers of the Ohio Valley, which was now being rapidly settled, found an
outlet for their heavy agricultural produce, and consequently secured a purchasing power, enabling
them to buy manufactured goods and merchandise, which, notwithstanding the distance and the
inferior roads, could be carried to them in wagons from the East. Though the produce of the
western farmers was shipped down the Mississippi, very few of their supplies were brought up
the river, because of the difficulty of urging a flat-boat against the powerful current of
the stream. This triangular trade of the Ohio Valley grew rapidly. The receipts at New Orleans,
in 1807, including the cotton, sugar and molasses of Louisiana, which made up a third of the
total, amounted to $5,370,555. The money for which the products of the West were exchanged
at New Orleans was almost invariably spent for manufactured and imported wares from eastern
cities. Large Conestoga freighters made regular trips from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh bringing
loads of hats, boots, powder, lead and clothing which were distributed from the "Gateway of
the West" among the towns and villages down the river. Baltimore and New York also shared in
the western trade.

The internal commerce of the country in 1810, as in 1790, was greatly handicapped by the high
costs of transportation. Taking the country over, the charges for transporting merchandise
were $10 per ton per 100 miles and articles that could not stand this rate were shut from market.
Grain and flour could not bear transportation by wagon more than 150 miles. The lack of commerce
intercourse caused many sections to develop local economic and political interests which endangered
the unity of the nation. "The question of the hour was plainly how to counteract this tendency
by a system of interstate commerce which should unite them by a firm bond of self interest."[2]
Gallatin's report on internal improvements in 1808 reflects the plans and ambitions that were
in the minds of the commercial and political leaders of the country, but unfortunately the
foreign controversies in which the United States became involved at that time prevented any
attempt to carry out his proposals.

      [2] B. McMaster, A History of the People of the United States,
      vol. iii, p. 465.

The war of 1812 brought a period of unsettled commercial conditions. Domestic industry and
trade were stimulated for a time, but a sharp financial panic in 1814 caused a year of general
depression. The return of peace early in 1815 was followed by a quick revival of business,
and the next three years brought an era of prosperity to nearly everyone except the manufacturers
along the eastern coast, many of whom were ruined on account of a deluge of importations from
Europe.

Immigration to the West set in with renewed vigor after the close of the war. The fertile soil
of the Ohio Valley contributed an enormous product of grain, tobacco, fruit and hemp which
continued to find an outlet down the Mississippi, and the farmers increased their purchases
of imports which flowed into Pittsburgh from the East. In 1811 Fulton's invention was introduced
in western waters, and in 1817 the first steamboat voyage was made from New Orleans to Louisville.
The effect of this new engine of commerce on the Mississippi trade was almost magical. In 1818-19,
the first year after the steamboat became an assured success, the receipts at New Orleans rose
to 136,300 tons, valued at $16,778,000, and the volume of exports of domestic products from
the southern port was greater than that from any other port of the country.

But even more important to the commercial prosperity of the West than the introduction of the
steamboat was the spread of cotton culture into the Southern States west of the Appalachian
highland. Cotton culture had been found exceedingly profitable in Georgia and South Carolina,
and when it was discovered that the rich bottom lands of Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana
produced even better cotton than the upland districts of South Carolina, there was a rush of
settlers to the river valleys of the new region. In 1811, fifteen-sixteenths of the cotton
raised in the United States was grown in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia;
in 1820, one-third of the total crop of 600,000 bales was raised in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi
and Tennessee. In the western part of the cotton belt, as in the eastern, the planters directed
practically all their capital and labor to the production of cotton, relying on the region
north of them for provisions and live stock. The market for the grain, pork and flour of the
Ohio Valley was greatly enlarged. Flat-boat men disposed of their cargoes of food products
at the wharves of the plantations along the Mississippi River; flat-boat stores peddled clothing,
boots and shoes, household furniture and agricultural implements from village to village and
from plantation to plantation; great droves of horses and mules were driven into the Southern
States in response to the demand for draught animals for use in the cultivation of cotton.

As the western farmers enlarged the volume of their sales to the southern planters they increased
their purchases from eastern merchants. A large part of the foreign imports of the United States,
which in 1816 reached the unprecedented amount of $155,000,000, was sold in the West. Attracted
by the cheapness of the goods offered and full of confidence in their ability to meet all debts
with the proceeds of the lucrative southern trade, the people indulged in extravagant overtrading.
Purchases far exceeded sales and the specie coming from the South was drained away as fast
as it was received, but dozens of banks furnished a supply of currency by means of copious
issues of paper money, and the career of extravagance proceeded. The internal trade of the
country had never been so prosperous.

The era of good times came to a sudden end in 1819 when the nation was visited by a disastrous
money panic. Nearly all the specie had been shipped abroad, and large sums of paper money had
been issued, much of it on credit of a questionable nature. The general commercial expansion
following the war had led to extensive speculation all over the country. When the new United
States Bank suddenly began a vicious and relentless campaign against all other banks of issue
in an ill-advised effort to force them immediately to a specie basis, loans were called in
everywhere, the circulation was greatly contracted, prices fell, manufacturers and merchants
were unable to meet their obligations, factories shut down, mercantile firms went into bankruptcy,
banks closed their doors, and business everywhere was completely prostrated. To make matters
worse, the export price of the great "money crop," cotton, fell from 32 cents in 1818 to 17-1/2
cents in 1820. The provision market of the western farmers was greatly injured and thus planter,
farmer, merchant, manufacturer and banker all succumbed before the general catastrophe.

The panic gave a sharp check to extravagance and speculation, importations declined, prices
were readjusted and business soon began to recover. By 1823, the country seemed to have been
restored to its former prosperous state and manufacturing in particular was more active than
it had been at any time since the war.

Notwithstanding the revival of manufacturing and domestic trade, the farmers of the grain states
found themselves in distressing circumstances. The Ohio Valley was yielding a product far in
excess of the demands that existed and each year found a large amount of unmarketable grain
left in the fields and granaries. Many foreign nations refused admittance to American food
products and though the grain-growing capacity of the United States had increased sixfold since
1790, the annual exports of grain, meat and flour were but little more than the average for
the five years from 1790 to 1795. The plantations of the South were drawing much of their subsistence
from the northern farms, but they were unable to absorb more than a small fraction of the tremendous
surplus that was seeking a market.

Agricultural interests sought urgently for relief. Since there was no foreign market for their
surplus, they resolved to create a home market. If England would not buy food products from
the United States, the United States must refuse to buy manufactures from England, and must,
by the establishment of manufacturing industries at home, give rise to a non-agricultural population
that would consume the redundant supplies of meat and grain. The problem of attracting capital
to manufacturing enterprises, the farmers proposed to solve by the creation of a system of
protective tariffs that would check importations and encourage investment in mills and factories
at home. Manufacturing industries already in existence were in no apparent need of protection
and the shipping interests of Boston and New York and the cotton planters of the South strenuously
opposed the protective policy. But the agricultural interests were not to be denied. Under
the leadership of Henry Clay, the tariff of 1824 was enacted and the "American System" was
inaugurated. In 1828, in response to an appeal, emanating from the woolen manufacturers and
seconded by the agricultural interests, still further encouragement was given to home manufactures.

While the country was being agitated by the tariff controversy and exceptionally bitter political
contests, the New York canals were opened for traffic throughout their entire length (October,
1825). No other single work in the United States has ever had a more beneficial effect on the
prosperity of internal trade. The opening of the canals brought to an end what had been the
bane of internal commerce for half a century--the excessive cost of freight transportation.
Freight rates between Albany and Buffalo were at once reduced 90 per cent and the day of the
freighter on the Genesee road was ended. The new canal wrought a complete change in all the
rural districts of western New York. Lumber, staves, ashes, grain and vegetables, hitherto
unmarketable, were now shipped to the markets of the East; farm values doubted and quadrupled;
a stream of people poured into the fertile farming regions around Lake Erie. Not less valuable
was the new waterway to the district at its eastern terminus. The laboring population of the
growing manufacturing towns reaped immense benefits from the cheaper and better means of subsistence
they could now secure, while the shipments of merchandise westward on the canal exceeded in
value the receipts of raw produce at tide-water. New York had achieved economic unity at a
single stroke.

The success of the Erie Canal and the rapid growth of internal trade which followed the adoption
of the "American System" caused a demand everywhere for more roads and canals and a widespread
agitation in favor of government aid to internal improvements. The federal government gave
extensive aid to private and state enterprises in the way of land grants and stock subscriptions,
though it did not engage directly in the construction of commercial highways. The individual
states embarked in schemes of canal and turnpike building which involved them in debts of millions
of dollars. Ohio and Indiana began to construct canals joining the Ohio River to Lake Erie
in order to secure the advantage of the new outlet to the East. Pennsylvania, awakened to the
danger of the total loss of western trade through the state by the fact that shipments of merchandise
to the West were abandoning the wagon roads from Philadelphia, Baltimore, and New York in favor
of the cheaper route by way of the Erie Canal, began, in 1826, an extensive system of canals
to connect the Delaware River with the Ohio River and the Great Lakes. Not to be outdone by
their rival states, Maryland and Virginia agreed upon the construction of a canal from Chesapeake
Bay to the Ohio River, and on July 4, 1828, President Adams dug the first spadeful of earth
to signalize the beginning of the undertaking. Some financiers of Baltimore, dubious of the
success of an effort to build a waterway over the difficult route adopted by the promoters
of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, withdrew their support from that enterprise, and putting
their confidence in a new and almost untried transportation device, which they believed would
prove superior to canals, just as canals had proved superior to turnpikes, they boldly inaugurated
the plan of a railroad from their city across the mountains to the Ohio, and Charles Carroll,
of Carrollton, placed the stone that commemorated the beginning of its construction on the
same day that President Adams officiated at the rival celebration that marked the beginning
of the canal.

Thus by 1830, the future of the internal commerce of the United States was assured. The adoption
of the "American System" could have but one result--a tremendous expansion of domestic trade.
That this expansion had already commenced was evident from the fact that notwithstanding the
vast growth in wealth and population from 1820 to 1830, the imports of the United States had
exhibited but little increase. "The nation was building an empire of its own with sections
which took the place of kingdoms."[3] New England, New York and Pennsylvania were manufacturing
the clothing and iron utensils for the West and South. The people of the South were absorbed
in cotton raising. They relied upon the West for much of their food and live stock; they bought
their clothing and machinery from the North Atlantic States; and their exports brought in the
specie which facilitated the commerce of all sections. The West was becoming a vast granary.
Its new factories were drawing artisans from the East and taking laborers from the country
to swell the demand for flour and grain that had recently been seeking in vain for a market.
The volume of shipments of food and merchandise down the Mississippi was larger than ever and
the manufacturing population of the East, already too large to be fed by the agricultural produce
of New England, New York and Pennsylvania, was beginning to draw subsistence from the western
farms.

      [3] F. J. Turner, Rise of the New West, p. 297.

Means of cheap transportation, the lack of which had been so great an obstacle to internal
development, had been or were being supplied to meet the requirements of the new conditions.
The steamboat arrivals at New Orleans numbered a thousand each year. Water communication between
the Atlantic Ocean and the very center of the United States was established when the Erie Canal
connected the Hudson River to the waterway afforded by the series of great inland seas. There
were 1,343 miles of canals in operation in all the United States, and 1,828 miles more were
in the process of construction. Louisville was rejoicing in the completion of a canal around
the falls of the Ohio; Ohio and Indiana were rapidly pushing the work on the canals that were
to tap the regions hitherto tributary only to the Mississippi; the construction of the Pennsylvania
Canal was being hurried forward to enable Philadelphia to recover the trade lost to the Erie;
Maryland and Virginia were persistently going on with the building of the waterway westward
from Chesapeake Bay. And meanwhile 44 miles of railway had been completed and were in operation,
and to show that confidence in the new device was not lacking, 422 miles were in the process
of construction and 697 miles more were already projected.

II

1830-1860

The years between 1830 and 1860 witnessed a remarkable expansion of the United States in area,
population and wealth. By the annexation of Texas and by treaties with England and Mexico,
nearly a million square miles of territory were added to the national domain and the western
boundary was pushed to the Pacific Ocean. The total number of people increased in the thirty
years from 12,866,020 to 31,443,321; the total wealth from about $2,000,000,000 to more than
$16,000,000,000. It was a period of great prosperity for all branches of industry. As the tide
of settlers swept over the fertile lands drained by the Mississippi River and Great Lakes,
the agricultural production of the country increased with amazing rapidity. The production
of corn in 1859 was almost 1,000,000,000 bushels; of wheat and oats 175,000,000 bushels each,
and of cotton 4,300,000 bales, while the live stock of the country that year, including, among
other animals, 25,000,000 cattle, 22,000,000 sheep and 33,000,000 swine, was valued at $1,000,000,000.
The exploitation of the mineral resources of the nation was carried on more rapidly. From 300,000
tons of coal mined in 1830, the quantity grew to 13,000,000 tons in 1860; the iron mines turned
out 1,000,000 tons of ore in 1860, the copper mines 7,000 tons and the lead mines 15,000 tons,
while the production of gold in the far West, which began in 1849, averaged $55,000,000 annually
during the following ten years. Manufacturing likewise grew in importance, the value of its
products rising to nearly $2,000,000,000 in 1859. The tendency toward a territorial division
of industry was accentuated during this period. Cotton cultivation became more than ever the
dominant industry of the entire South; most of the manufacturing was done in the New England
and Middle Atlantic States; the Northern Central States were devoted primarily to the production
of grain and live stock.

The development of the country was accompanied by the construction of transportation facilities
to care for the expanding trade. A large number of important canals were completed; the Ohio
River was joined to Lake Erie; Pittsburgh and Philadelphia were connected by a rail and water
line; the Illinois River was connected with Lake Michigan at Chicago; the St. Mary's Falls
Canal was built to aid the navigation of the Great Lakes, and many other waterways of lesser
importance were constructed. Railroads grew rapidly in favor and as time went on they were
built in increasing numbers and the construction of canals was practically abandoned. Before
1840 over 2,800 miles of track were laid and by 1850 the mileage amounted to 9,000. The decade
from 1850 to 1860 was a period of extensive railway construction, especially in the Northern
Central States, where more than 10,000 miles were built. Early in the decade the trunk lines
of the Eastern States were pushed across the mountains and through railway connection was established
between the Mississippi Valley and the Atlantic Ocean. New York was connected with Chicago
by a direct rail route in 1853, and with St. Louis in 1855, and in 1858 a railroad reached
the Missouri River. In the South, roads were built into the interior from all the important
cities on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. In 1860 there was a total of 30,626 miles of railroad
in the entire country.

With the growth of population and wealth, the diversification of industry and the development
of canals and railroads, there was a great increase in internal commerce. The trade of this
period consisted of a few well-defined currents flowing between certain sections. A large volume
of products, mainly agricultural, went from the Central States to the East, and a traffic of
less volume but of greater value moved in the reverse direction. There was a heavy internal
movement from the Northern to the Southern States and a light movement from the South to the
North. Aside from these movements, there was an over-land trade by pack-horse and wagon with
the Far West which became of particular importance after the discovery of gold. For the sake
of greater clearness, these different currents of trade will be considered separately in the
order named.

1. TRADE BETWEEN THE EASTERN AND CENTRAL STATES

One of the notable features of the internal commerce following 1830 was the rise of the trade
on the Great Lakes. After the opening of the Erie Canal there was a large migration to the
lands around the lakes; in a few years thousands of acres of land were cleared and put under
cultivation; the center of cereal production shifted westward; and hundreds of shiploads of
grain were borne over the lakes toward eastern markets. Ohio was the first state west of New
York to ship grain over the lakes. By 1835, Indiana and Michigan were sending grain eastward
over Lake Erie; in 1836 the first shipment from Lake Michigan was recorded; in 1838 a shipment
of 78 bushels of wheat from Chicago marked the beginning of the cereal trade of that city,
and in 1841 the first exportation of Wisconsin wheat left the harbor of Milwaukee.

The growth of the lake grain trade was exceedingly rapid. As soon as the Ohio Canal was completed
(1832) there was a diversion of traffic from the Mississippi River to Lake Erie, and as early
as 1838, the receipts of western wheat and flour at Buffalo were larger than the receipts at
New Orleans. The repeal of the English Corn Laws in 1846 gave a great stimulus to cereal production
in the United States. As the population of the Central States increased and as canals and railroads
were built to connect all parts of the cereal belt with the lake cities, the lake grain trade
constantly swelled in volume. In 1860 the receipts of grain by lake at Buffalo, Oswego, Dunkirk,
Ogdensburg and Cape Vincent amounted to 62,000,000 bushels. The shipment from Lake Michigan
ports that year were 43,000,000 bushels, half of which came from Chicago alone.

Though grain and flour constituted the most important part of the eastbound lake traffic, there
was at the same time a considerable trade in other commodities. Large quantities of pork, bacon,
beef, lard, and other provisions were sent to Buffalo for distribution eastward; hides, wool,
whiskey and live stock formed an important part of the traffic. Millions of feet of lumber
were transported annually from Michigan and Wisconsin to all the other lake states; the shipment
of copper from Lake Superior began in 1845, and the iron ore traffic began ten years later.

The westbound shipments over the lakes were also large and valuable. In 1836, $9,000,000 worth
of merchandise was sent to western states over the Erie Canal and the lakes, and by 1854 the
amount reached $94,000,000. After the latter year there was a rapid decline in the merchandise
traffic over the canal and lake route because of railway competition. The shipments to the
West consisted mainly of dry goods, clothing, machinery, railroad iron, drugs, imported foodstuffs,
household furniture, salt and coal.

The trade over the Great Lakes and Erie Canal was without doubt the most important feature
of the commerce between the Atlantic States and the interior of the country between 1830 and
1860, but this route by no means absorbed all the traffic. The Main Line of the Pennsylvania
canal system, completed in 1832, made it possible for Philadelphia and Baltimore to retain
some of their trade with the cities of the Ohio Valley, but this trade, like the wagon trade
preceding it, was largely one-sided, the westbound movement of light merchandise exceeding
the eastbound movement of agricultural produce. The inclined planes which carried the traffic
across the mountains proved to be an expensive and cumbersome device, and because of a lack
of better transportation facilities, the trade of Philadelphia and Baltimore suffered constant
losses, and for a time it seemed that New York was destined to monopolize the entire commerce
between the Atlantic coast and the trans-Appalachian region.

In 1841, however, this situation was modified by the entrance of a new factor--the Western
Railroad, the completion of which gave through rail connection between Boston and Albany. Because
of its isolated position Boston had not shared in the direct trade with the Central States,
but had been compelled to buy and sell through the merchants of New York and Philadelphia.
The new railroad completely altered the position of Boston and brought an era of great prosperity
to the city, at the same time demonstrating the practicability of the steam road as a carrier
of nearly all kinds of freight.

The immediate success of this road was a signal for the beginning of more extensive railway
construction, and the decade from 1850 to 1860 witnessed the entrance of the trunk line roads
as competitors with the canals for traffic between the East and the West. The failure of the
Pennsylvania Canal and the growing prosperity of Boston incited the people of Pennsylvania
to take decisive steps to win back some of the trade lost by Philadelphia and in 1846 the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company was chartered for the purpose of completing steam railway connection between
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. By 1854, this line, the Erie, the New York Central and the Baltimore
and Ohio all reached the Ohio River or Lake Erie. During the next six years these four lines
took over two-thirds of the flour traffic and practically all the merchandise and live-stock
traffic between the eastern cities and the trans-Alleghany region, leaving to the Erie Canal
the forest products and grain. In addition to capturing a large share of the canal freight
the railroads easily secured most of the traffic that was accustomed to go from the cities
along the Ohio River to the eastern coast and to Europe by way of New Orleans. The lakes and
canals had previously made some inroad on the commerce down the Mississippi, but notwithstanding
their influence the river cities of Ohio and Kentucky continued to send the largest part of
their exports southward until the railroads gave them a through route to the East. After 1855
the shipments down the river from Cincinnati and other important ports on the Ohio shrunk rapidly
in volume and even before the war broke out their commerce with the East was much larger than
their river trade to the South.

While the railroads in the North were making such marked changes in the course of internal
trade, a similar transformation was occurring in the South. Trade between the eastern and western
sections of the cotton states before 1849, aside from some traffic in slaves, was almost negligible.
In 1849 when the Western Atlantic Railroad began to run trains from Chattanooga to the Atlantic
coast, the planters of Northern Alabama and Tennessee, who had always sent their cotton to
New Orleans and Mobile, turned to the markets at Charleston and Savannah. The cotton receipts
at those two ports doubled in a single year, while the receipts at New Orleans fell off nearly
100,000 bales. The shifting of the center of cotton production farther westward enabled New
Orleans to make up for its losses, but the South Atlantic ports easily maintained and increased
their trade. They also competed with New Orleans and the cities on the Ohio River for the merchandise
trade of Alabama, Mississippi and Tennessee, and the provisions for Georgia and South Carolina
began to enter the states overland from the West, the coasting trade on the Atlantic seaboard
both gaining and losing by the changes.

2. TRADE BETWEEN THE NORTH AND SOUTH

The general character of the internal commerce between the North and South, between 1830 and
1860, differed but little from what it had been before the former year. There were no through
rail connections between the two sections until near the close of the period, and consequently
almost the entire commerce, aside from that in slaves and live stock, consisted of the trade
on the waters of the Mississippi River system.

This was the golden age of the river trade. Each year it grew steadily in volume, reaching
a point of prosperity in 1860 never equalled before or since. Until the railroads began to
divert the traffic in flour and provisions after 1850, the cities on the Ohio River sent most
of the produce collected at their markets to New Orleans to be shipped to Europe and the Eastern
States or to be sold to the planters of the cotton belt. After 1850, as the surplus agricultural
produce of the Ohio Valley was diverted from the river, its place was taken by that coming
from the fertile region around St. Louis, where thousands of immigrants were settling in new
homes. Moreover, the loss of traffic in agricultural produce from Pennsylvania, Ohio and Kentucky
was compensated for by the increasing volume of manufactured goods and coal coming down from
Cincinnati, Louisville and Pittsburgh. Thus the downstream traffic from the Northern States,
though suffering a heavy relative loss, made an absolute gain, and with the enormous amounts
of cotton shipped down the river added to this traffic, the Mississippi carried considerably
more produce to the sea than either the Hudson River or the eastern roads. As before 1830,
the trade up the river failed to keep pace with the movement downstream. Of the shipments upstream,
75 per cent consisted of articles previously sent down and resold to planters of Mississippi,
Louisiana and Arkansas. The district north of these states bought some sugar and coffee of
New Orleans, but drew practically all its manufactures and other imported goods from the East.

The value of the receipts of produce at New Orleans advanced from $22,000,000 in 1830 to $185,000,000
in 1860. The largest part of the increase resulted from the growth of the cotton trade. The
receipts of "Western produce," which in 1820 formed 58 per cent of the commodities entering
New Orleans, constituted only 23 per cent of the total receipts in 1860. But though showing
a relative decline, the receipts of foodstuffs and merchandise had a steady aggregate increase.
As a cotton market, New Orleans had no close rival. Its receipts of this great staple in 1860
amounted to $109,000,000.

St. Louis was the city of next importance on the Mississippi. Until after 1855, St. Louis remained
strictly a river city, almost entirely dependent upon the Mississippi and its tributaries for
both the importation and exportation of the flour, grain, meat, tobacco, lead and other goods
that entered and left its busy markets. After the city secured railway connection with the
East in 1855 a large part of the traffic entering from that direction was transferred to the
railroads, and some of the traffic leaving the city was diverted from the southern river route
to the eastern railway route. However, the volume of trade taken from the Mississippi was not
large at first and the movement of commodities southward showed no marked decline until the
outbreak of the Civil War.

Next to the river trade, the trade in live stock and slaves was the most important element
in the internal commerce between the North and the South. Each year large droves of horses,
mules, cattle and hogs were driven into the South from the Northern and "border" states, the
farmers all over the corn-raising section finding an unfailing source of gain in the demand
for live stock in the southern cotton fields. The domestic slave trade commenced to be of importance
after 1820, when cotton culture spread among the Gulf States. Though no statistics of the volume
of the internal slave trade exist, evidence from contemporary accounts indicates that it was
unquestionably extensive, probably reaching a value of $30,000,000 a year in the late fifties.

3. TRADE OF THE FAR WEST

Long before Texas and the California territory became a part of the United States, enterprising
merchants on the western frontier began a merchandise trade with the Mexican settlements in
what is now New Mexico. By 1843 this trade reached an annual value of $500,000. After the occupation
of the territory by the United States troops it became much larger, reaching a total value
in 1860 of $3,800,000. The chief shipping points were Independence and Kansas City, Missouri.
Transportation was supplied by regular freighters who employed a large number of men to conduct
the white-topped prairie schooners across the unsettled plains between the Missouri River and
the mountains. New Mexico paid for its imports with bullion and wool produced in the territory,
or with money secured by the sale of sheep driven to California, or by the sale of a scanty
agricultural produce to government military posts and Indian agencies.

In addition to the wagon trade with New Mexico, the Missouri River cities carried on a similar
trade with Utah after its occupation by the Mormons in 1848. When gold was discovered in Colorado
in 1859 there was an immediate rush of settlers to that territory, which was accompanied by
the rise of a large trade in tools and provisions. There was no regular overland freight traffic
to the Pacific coast, the commerce of California with the rest of the country, aside from the
sheep trade with New Mexico, being carried on around Cape Horn or across Central America. Within
California itself there was an extensive trade between San Francisco and the agricultural,
lumbering and mining districts of the surrounding regions.

4. CONCLUSION

The expansion of the volume of the internal trade of the United States during this epoch more
than justified the expectations existing at 1830. The improvement of the facilities for communication
and transportation, permitted a continually increasing accentuation of a territorial division
of labor which fostered the growth of mutual dependence between regions where geographic, social
or other conditions led naturally to the predominance of a special type of industry. The manufacturing
and commercial population of the Northeast was fed by the farm products of the Central States
and the inhabitants of the Central States drew their imported supplies, their clothing, shoes
and large quantities of other manufactured goods and general merchandise from the Eastern markets.
The South relied upon the North for food, manufactures and imports. The North in turn bought
from the South raw materials for its cotton and sugar industries, and the Northern shipping
interests carried to European markets the heavy exports of Southern cotton, the proceeds from
which paid the Southern debts in Northern States and settled the large unfavorable balance
of the Northern foreign trade.

The multiplication of factories in the North together with the spread of cotton culture in
the South and the opening of foreign markets to American grain brought about the demand for
cereal products, which the agricultural interests had been so anxious to create. When the market
problem was solved, the tariff duties were reduced to a revenue basis.

