a. Unity. The poem has one idea running through it from beginning to end, an idea that is nowhere
lacking, though at first it is not seen. What is the one idea? Grief, but not bitterness nor
anger. Each succeeding stanza is seen to add something to this idea, till all our sympathies
are enlisted for the forsaken children, more than for the father who does all the talking.

b. Meter and Rhyme. Both meter and rhyme are irregular, but that fact gives a pleasing variety
to the poem and corresponds to the somewhat abrupt changes in the line of thought that at first
make the poem rather hard to read. The children will be interested in comparing the lengths
of lines in different stanzas and sometimes in different parts of the same stanza. It is easy
to pick out the rhymes, to see how often rhymes are repeated in a stanza, and whether the lines
are in couples or alternate.

c. Phrases. The following lines are quoted as those perhaps best worth study and remembrance.

    "The far-off sound of a silver bell."

    "Where the sea snakes toil and twine,
     Dry their mail and bask in the brine."

    "A long, long sigh
     For the cold, strange eyes of a little Mermaiden."

    "A ceiling of amber,
     A pavement of pearl."

    "Heaths starr'd with broom."

The Cloud

(Volume VII, page 257)

This lyric has wonderful beauty. It is one of the most musical of poems, the ideas are fine
and the pictures of surpassing charm. If it lacks the high message it is still an inspiration,
for beauty is always ennobling to the appreciative.

The charm of The Cloud will appeal to children but it may be intensified by judicious questioning
and comment. As always in trying to give appreciation of real literature, the teacher in the
home or at the school must be certain of his purpose and must never carry the instruction too
far. He must understand the nature of the reader and shape his questions accordingly. It is
impossible to print anything that will be helpful equally to all or that can be used in its
entirety in any instance. Do not talk too much about what is evident, and stop at the first
signs of a dawning distaste.

First Stanza. It is the cloud that is speaking, and as every cloud is ever changing, the song
of the cloud varies with its condition. It is now the cloud of the warm summer shower that
piles up in snowy billows on the horizon and rolls over the laughing face of flowering nature.

How do the flowers show that they are thirsting? Will they look different when their thirst
is satisfied? Do leaves dream? Leaves, you know, are the lungs of plants. May they do more
work in the morning, the evening and the night, than at midday? May they be said to be sleeping
at times? Is the shade of the cloud a help to the leaves? Did you ever see the leaves of trees
turn their glazed upper surfaces toward the ground and twist up their under sides toward the
sky, begging for moisture? Did you ever notice that the buds of most flowers open in the night
or toward morning? Do the "dews awaken" these? Do clouds cause dews?

Strictly speaking, no "dews" fall from clouds; but light mist may do so. Who is the mother
of the buds? In what way are they "rocked to rest"? How does the mother "dance about the sun"?
Do you like the sound of the line, "I wield the flail of the lashing hail"? There are five
"l's" in the line and they give it that liquid sound which you like. Did you ever see a farmer
standing in the midst of a floor covered with stalks of grain, beating out the kernels with
a flail? What does the word "under" mean here? (An adverb, and means down or into subjection.)
What does "it" refer to, in the next to the last line?

Second stanza. Who is the pilot of the cloud? Where does he sit? What lures the pilot? Who
are the "genii"? (A genius--plural, genii--is a good or evil spirit which was supposed by the
ancients to guard a man and control his destinies. In a sense the spirit of the waters may
be said to control the lightning.) Who move "in the depths of the purple sea"? (The word "dream"
would be written "dreams" in prose. The two lines mean: "Wherever the lightning thinks the
spirit he loves is to be found.") Who is dissolving in rains? Is there much lightning while
the rain is falling or does it usually precede or follow the heaviest part of the shower?

Third Stanza. "Sanguine" means "blood red"; "rack" or "wrack" is broken or floating cloud.
What is the "morning star"? What is meant by its "shining dead"? What are the "burning plumes"
and what the "meteor eyes" of the sunrise? What becomes of broken clouds when the sun strikes
them? What is likened to an eagle that is "alit" on a crag? What is the "airy nest" of the
cloud? What is a "brooding" dove? Is a dove more quiet than other birds? Did you ever see a
cloud high in the sky at early dawn, at sunset, in the night? Does this stanza make you think
of what you have seen, make you see it again more vividly?

Fourth Stanza. "Orbed" means "round" like the moon. The woof is the thread that in weaving
is carried by the shuttle through the threads of the "warp"--here it means the "filling." The
ancients considered Diana, goddess of the moon and of hunting, to be a beautiful girl, haughty
and modest. In pictures she was clothed as a huntress, carried a bow and arrows and wore a
crescent in her hair. Is the moon's light white? Is that phrase a beautiful one which speaks
of the moon as "with white fire laden"? What is the position of the cloud in this stanza? Is
it between the moon and the earth? Is the cloud the "fleece-like floor" of the sky? If so,
when the cloud speaks of its "tent's thin roof," what is meant? (Perhaps when the moon looks
down the cloud looks like a floor and when the earth looks up it sees the cloud like a tent.)
Whose are the "unseen feet"? At what do the stars "peer"? What do they see first? Why do they
"turn and flee like a swarm of golden bees"? What do the stars see when the rent is widened?
With what are the rivers, lakes and seas paved? How can they be paved with moon and stars?
Did you ever see the moon and stars reflected in a lake, the former perhaps making a broad
glittering pavement across the waters? To what does "these" in the last line refer? Why did
not Shelley write "stars" instead of "these"? Can you see the exquisite night pictures described
in these lines?

Fifth Stanza. This stanza is characterized by force and intensity of action; the words and
phrases are as apt and beautiful as can be written.

Have you not seen the west when the clouds appeared a fiery red around the setting sun? Have
you not seen the moon surrounded by bright pearly clouds? When the winds blow strong and whirl
the fleecy clouds through the sky do not the latter make the mountain tops dim and do not the
stars seem to dash across the heavens in a maddening race? Ever changing, the clouds constantly
rearrange themselves, sometimes bridging the entire heavens, resting at the horizon upon the
mountains as upon columns.

What is the "triumphal arch"? What are the powers of the air? What is meant by saying they
are "chained to the chair" of the cloud? Is the "triumphal arch" the "million-colored bow"?
What is the "bow" that is said to be "million-colored"? What wove the soft colors of the million-colored
bow? What is the "sphere fire"? What did it do? Whose soft colors did it weave? What was the
earth doing while the colors were being woven? Why should the earth be laughing? Why is it
spoken of as the moist earth?

Sixth Stanza. A cenotaph in an empty ornamental tomb. The body of the person to whom the monument
has been erected is buried elsewhere.

In what way is a cloud the daughter of the earth and water? In what way is it the nurseling
of the sky? How can a cloud pass through the pores of the ocean and shores? What are the pores
of the ocean and shores? Is it true that a cloud cannot die?

What is the "cenotaph" of the cloud? Out of what does the cloud rise again? What is there appropriate
in saying that the cloud rises like a ghost? What is it the cloud builds up again?

Note the following particularly beautiful phrases:

                            "Leaves when laid
     In their noonday dreams."

    "Great pines groan aghast."

    "The sanguine sunrise, with his meteor eyes."

    "The crimson pall of eve."

    "The woof of my tent's thin roof."

    "My wind-built tent."

    "The million-colored bow."

    "Nurseling of the sky."

        "With never a stain
     The pavilion of heaven is bare."

Read aloud the entire lyric till its sweet music is yours. Note the smooth rhythm, the peculiar
adaptation of sound to sense, the flowing cadences in the lines.

Ode to a Skylark

(Volume VII, page 275)

There are three classes of lyrics that are to a greater or less degree in the nature of an
address to some person, place or thing. The elegy is a lyric address praising the dead, the
ode and the sonnet may praise living or dead. The elegy in its measures partakes of the solemnity
of the grave, the ode is hampered by no such restrictions. Neither is the sonnet, although
by its strict requirements of form it is set off in a class by itself. In the ode the poet
enjoys his greatest freedom, for he may use any meter, may write at any length and in any manner,
grave, gay or grotesque. Accordingly the odes of our language are most spontaneous, musical,
inspiring and beautiful.

The Skylark is a perfect example of an ode at its best. It is full of life and joy. It sparkles
in every line and vies in music with the song of the lark himself.

    "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!--
       Bird thou never wert."--

Those two lines are to be taken as the key note of the whole lyric. It is the spirit of free
and perfect melody that Shelley is addressing, melody that comes from heaven or near it, that
bubbles from the full heart, that is free from rules and conventions, unpremeditated, yet all
art. It is "Like an unbodied joy whose race is just begun." "What thou art we know not," yet
thou art like a poet hidden singing hymns unbidden; like a high-born maiden soothing her love-laden
soul in secret; like a hidden glowworm scattering its hues unbeholden; like a rose embowered
in its leaves making faint the thieving winds with its heavy scent. Its music surpasses the
delicate sounds of vernal showers on the twinkling grass, the beauty of the rain-awakened flowers,
and all that ever was clear and fresh and joyous. Such is the song.

"What are the thoughts that inspire such heavenly melody?" the poet cries. "Teach us, teach
us thy sweet thoughts. I have never heard such a flood of rapture so divine. Matched with thy
music the noblest marriage hymn, the grandest Te Deum would be but an empty boast. From what
fountains springs thy happy strain? Is it from fields, or waves or mountains, from strange
shapes of the sky and plain? Is it from ignorance of pain, from love of thine own kind that
the joyous music comes? Certainly thou lovest, but there can be no weariness in thy keen joy,
no shadow of annoyance. How different we!

"To me, the poet, thy skill would be better than all the measures of delightful sound, than
all the treasures found in books and if I could sing one half as well as thou, the world would
listen to me entranced as I am listening to thee."

If the song of the lark is beautiful, the song of the poet is not surpassed. The riotous spirit
of music sings in every line, beauty is seen in every stanza, is lavished upon every phrase,
upon every melodious verse. The prodigality of beautiful phrases is marvelous. The phrases
descriptive of the bird alone are strikingly apt and numerous:

"Blithe spirit"; "bird thou never wert"; "like a cloud of fire"; "like an unbodied joy"; "like
a star of heaven"; "like a poet hidden in the light of thought"; "like a highborn maiden in
a palace tower"; "like a glowworm golden"; "like a rose embowered"; "sprite and bird"; "thou
scorner of the ground."

To characterize the song properly, the poet finds it necessary to use these phrases: "Profuse
strains of unpremeditated art"; "shrill delight"; "keen as are the arrows of that silver sphere";
"all the earth and air with thy voice is loud"; "a rain of melody"; surpassing the "sound of
vernal showers" and of "rain-awakened flowers" and "all that ever was joyous, clear and fresh";
"a flood of rapture so divine"; beside it a "hymenæal chorus" or a "triumphal chaunt" is "but
an empty vaunt"; "clear, keen joyance," "notes flow in such a crystal stream."

Various interpretations and helpful comments of other kinds may be found on the following pages:

  Volume I,     page 95.   The Rock-a-By Lady.
  Volume I,     page 204.  Old Gaelic Lullaby.
  Volume I,     page 350.  Keepsake Mill.
  Volume I,     page 406.  The Fairies.
  Volume II,    page 482.  In Time's Swing.
  Volume IV,    page 86.   The Village Blacksmith.
  Volume V,     page 335.  How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to
                            Aix.
  Volume V,     page 396.  The American Flag.
  Volume VII,   page 345.  The Reaper's Dream.
  Volume VIII,  page 60.   America.

CHAPTER XII

READING ALOUD

Silent reading is selfish, while oral reading is for the benefit and pleasure of others. The
ordinary individual in daily life reads but little aloud, and probably makes no attempt whatever
to improve his style after he leaves the schoolroom. But parents and teacher are incessantly
called upon to read--to read intelligently and effectively. To some this power appears to come
naturally, but most people acquire it only by serious study and continuous practice, and will
find their greatest assistance in a thorough knowledge of those things which are essential
to pleasing oral expression.

1. ARTICULATION AND ENUNCIATION. Articulation is one thing; enunciation is another. A person
articulates the sounds of a language; he enunciates the syllables and words. A clear and distinct
enunciation is as necessary as the perfect articulation on which it is based. Indistinct enunciation
comes from a natural slovenliness of mind, from nervousness, haste or over-excitement.

Any one who can articulate correctly can acquire a perfect enunciation. Knowing this fact,
and knowing the causes which lead to poor enunciation, it is comparatively easy to correct
the faults and give drill which will overcome the carelessness or remove the difficulty.

2. EMPHASIS AND INFLECTION. The primary facts upon which rests intelligibility in reading are
emphasis and inflection. Let it be said at the start that no one can read well who has not
thoroughly mastered the thought in the selection he is rendering. If he is compelled to search
his mind for the meanings of words or to grasp the complete idea of a sentence, he unwittingly
pauses and hesitates and confuses the ideas of his hearers. But if the thought of a selection
is thoroughly mastered, he places the emphasis almost unerringly and by so doing raises no
conflicting ideas in the mind of the listener. Moreover, if the meaning of a sentence is clear
to a reader his inflections are ordinarily correct.

3. EMOTIONAL STATES. A person may read with perfect inflection and the most correct emphasis,
yet fail altogether to convey the real feeling of the author. Not only must a reader master
the thought, but it is essential that he be able to feel the emotions that possessed the author
or manifested themselves in the characters he describes. If anyone is thoroughly possessed
by the sentiment of any given poem, the quality of his voice will modify itself and respond
to the behests laid upon it. He will unconsciously pitch his voice at the proper key, will
use the right amount of force, and speak at the rate which most suitably expresses his feelings.
When this is done, we have perfectly natural reading, the highest art.

Pitch, rate, quality and force are the particular characteristics of good reading which depend
almost entirely upon the mental state of the reader.

a. Pitch. Much depends upon the proper pitch of the voice. The key upon which one reads may
be medium, or low, or high, and what it is depends upon certain physiological conditions. If
the vocal chords are tense, the pitch is high. Accordingly, any state of mind that produces
tense vocal chords produces high pitch in the voice. A person can forcibly tighten his vocal
chords and utter sounds at high pitch, but they are strained, artificial and unnatural. If
a certain amount of feeling goes with the effort, the tones become more agreeable.

If a person's voice is pitched too high, is harsh and unmelodious, the remedy is by way of
a process of forgetting. He must forget that he is reading and feel that he is talking. If
his conversation is marked by the same faults as his reading, he may gain something by imitation
in the way of raising his standards of expression. In general, he reads harshly because he
thinks he must read. The nervous tension which this feeling produces has affected his vocal
chords without any intention on his part. He cannot read more expressively while he feels as
he does. Harshness and unnatural pitch will disappear from his voice when he can forget that
he is reading from compulsion.

For practice the following selections are excellent:

  Gettysburg Address, IX, 321.
  Boat Song, VII, 17.
  Battle of Waterloo, VIII, 176.

b. Rate or Time. The rate at which a person reads, or the time consumed in any one selection,
is regulated by the extent or breadth of thought and by the rapidity of action. There is a
certain medium or ordinary time in which those selections that are in no way emotional are
read. Commonplace selections, not calculated to stir the feelings, are of this character, as
are simple narratives where the incidents are unexciting. This medium or standard time may
be varied in two ways: first, by the quantity of time taken in the utterance of certain words
or syllables, and second, by pauses between sentences or groups of words. Rate, however, usually
depends more upon the grouping of words and the length of the pauses between groups than upon
the utterance of syllables. The rate of syllabic utterance is usually a personal characteristic.
Some of us articulate rapidly, while others of more phlegmatic temperament speak slowly.

In conversation or in perfectly natural reading, we usually utter with one impulse of the voice
those words which are closely related in meaning. These words so uttered form groups that are
usually quite independent of punctuation. Punctuation marks are for the eye and are intended
to make clear the meaning. They do not separate the sentence into units of expression. Only
the terminal marks are of any great importance either in suggesting the inflection or indicating
the length of the pause. A good reader notices the marks insomuch as they make clear the thought,
but largely disregards them in his reading.

The person who reads too rapidly has a mind that is very quick in its action or one that is
not fully occupied with the thought of his selection; he may have a vague understanding, but
does not realize the full extent and import of the idea. If he reads too slowly, he is naturally
slow in thought, or the words come to him slowly through his eyes, his organs of speech are
not sufficiently under control, or he does not appreciate the difference between the principal
ideas and those of minor importance. Find the central idea, group others about it in proper
degrees of subordination, feel the sentiment in what is being read, and the time usually will
be correct. There are worse faults in reading than undue rapidity or slowness, for we can make
our minds keep pace with the reader, if in other respects his expression is good.

The following selections afford considerable variety in rate:

  Exciting Canoe Race, VII, 79.
  Those Evening Bells, VII, 340.
  Charge of the Light Brigade, VII, 147.
  Marco Bozzaris, VIII, 90.

c. Quality. The quality of the voice is almost entirely dependent upon the emotions. Tenderness,
love, joy, awe, fear, all produce their effect upon the voice. In an unemotional state the
person speaks in normal quality and in the tone that is natural to himself. If the same person
is frightened or if his animosity is aroused, he speaks in an aspirated tone; if he feels harshly
toward anyone or is angry, his voice possesses that guttural quality which indicates the severer
and harsher emotion; when he is moved by grandeur and sublimity, his voice naturally takes
a full, round quality.

d. Force. The quantity of mental energy the person possesses usually regulates the force of
his utterance, and that mental energy is stimulated by his emotions. If he feels thoroughly
in earnest in what he is trying to accomplish, his voice becomes loud and full of force. It
is then a natural force and is usually agreeable, unless the emotion which causes it is of
an unpleasant type.

But it is often true, particularly of teachers who have been long in service and those persons
who have talked under unfavorable conditions to large numbers of people, that their voices
have become too loud and too much strained to be pleasant to the ear. A soft, pleasing voice,
loud enough to be distinctly audible, is always better than a strident, forcible utterance
that compels attention whether one will or not.

Extremes of force may be found in the following selections:

  Sweet and Low, VI, 122.
  To a Waterfowl, VII, 395.
  The Destruction of Sennacherib, VI, 141.
  Little Red Riding Hood, I, 79.

CHAPTER XIII

LITERATURE AND ITS FORMS

It is not everyone who can tell readily what is meant by literature, nor can anyone in a few
words define it. What the study of "literature" Reading at home and in the public schools as
well as in the high school and colleges helps to accomplish these ends to a great extent.

Many persons fail to understand what literature is, and if they do realize its importance they
do not comprehend the great variety of its forms nor the significance of each. To help such
persons to a more comprehensive knowledge and a deeper insight into the functions of literature
this chapter is written.

In its widest sense the word literature covers nearly every kind of printed matter, but it
is in its more restricted meaning that the term is used here. Only that which is beautiful
in form and expression, inspiring and helpful in spirit, noble and righteous in sentiment can
be called literature as we are considering it. There may be weak and frivolous books, well-meaning
but inept books, and really bad books, but none of them can be classed as literature.

Literary masterpieces are either prose or poetry, and in print the two are easily recognizable
by their difference in form. Coleridge once said that prose consisted of words in their best
order, while poetry was the best words in their best order, a poetic definition that does not
convey a very accurate knowledge of the distinction. Poetry differs from prose not only in
the choice and arrangement of words, but also to a lesser degree in sentiment and feeling.
However, much verse, though faultless in form, can never be considered real poetry, while much
prose has real poetic beauty.

Prose

The great bulk of the writings of the world is in prose. It is the medium of hard sense, of
practical knowledge, of argument and of dialogue. Yet often it appeals to the imagination,
charms with its beauty and inspires to heroic deeds.

It seems to be generally accepted that four methods of expression are to be found in prose:
narration, description, exposition and argumentation. Narration deals with things in action,
description with the appearance of things, exposition explains the relations ideas bear to
one another, and argumentation not only does this, but tries at the same time to convince.
Theoretically, this distinction is very easy to make, for action is the life of narration,
appearance the theme of description, explanation and exposition are synonymous, and no one
argues but with the hope of convincing. What can man do more than to tell what has been done,
tell how a thing looks, show how one thing follows from another or is related to it, and endeavor
to bring another person to the same state of mind?

The accuracy and completeness of the classification is most evident until one attempts to apply
it practically to existing literature, and then he finds that no literary masterpiece belongs
entirely to any one of the classes, but that these mingle and unite, one or the other usually
predominating. This ruling element, the one which is proportionately greater, will govern the
classification of a selection. In any story, narration and description meet at every turn,
and not infrequently exposition is found freely intermingled; while novels have been written
with the avowed sole purpose of changing the beliefs of a people. Uncle Tom's Cabin is a story
of intense dramatic activity, and abounds in vivid descriptions of places and persons. It is
generally dealing with incidents relating to the characters of the story, yet it really makes
an exposition of the evils of slavery, and certainly was no small factor in stirring the American
people into vigorous action against the slave dealers. Yet no one would classify the book otherwise
than among the narratives. Although into Burke's Conciliation other elements enter, yet everyone
will admit it to be argumentative in the highest degree. So while it is well to classify the
selections read, yet fine theoretical distinctions should be abandoned. It is not so necessary
to classify and name as it is to compare and distinguish.

Narratives have been classified variously, but not more satisfactorily than have other forms
of literature. A narrative is true or fictitious, and there appears the first principle of
classification. Truthful narratives are personal when they are the simple account of the deeds
of some person or thing, biographical when they show a clear and evident purpose to detail
the events in the life of the person, historical when they deal with larger and more complicated
questions and when the actors are as numerous as the actions are various. Fictitious narratives
comprise short stories and novels. One prominent writer notes the following types: (1) The
realistic novel that is true to actual life and often enters into the discussion of important
questions of record. (2) The novel of life and manners which is largely descriptive and in
which the exigencies of the plot give way to the study of customs. (3) The novel of incident
in which the plot is everything and description and character study are avoided or subordinated
to action. (4) The romance which usually deals with things as they were in days long past and
with actions that little concern the present. Marvelous and even supernatural incidents crowd
its pages. (5) The idealistic novel which paints the world as it should be and makes its actors
more nearly perfect than the world accepts as typical. (6) The novel with a purpose which seeks
to convert its readers by the vividness of its portraits rather than by argument, though by
means of many detailed conversations its theories are often freely discussed and fully substantiated.
Many great reforms have been brought about by novels of this character.

Description deals with the individual and not with the class. A fine description is a work
of art in its highest sense and is closely allied to painting, than which it is even more delicate
and refined; for while the painter lays his color on the canvas and our eyes see the entire
picture in all its minutest detail, the writer can only suggest the idea and stimulate the
imagination to create for itself the picture in the mind of the artist. Yet such is the marvelous
power of words when handled by a master that one can see by them almost as vividly as by the
sense of sight. The reader is transported to far-away lands, strange men and animals surround
him, the skies glare above him, silver lakes sparkle in the sun, brooks murmur against their
fern-covered sides, and birds move the soul with their sweet music. Evening draws on, and the
landscape glimmering fades away; the stars come out one by one and by and by the moon steals
slowly up the sky. Peace and quiet reign over the darkened world. Neither sculpture nor painting
can depict these changes; it rests with the magic of words. But the reader must do his share.
He must give time to his reading, must yield himself gently to its influence, must not force
himself into the writer's mood but must receive and accept. Then descriptive literature will
yield its keenest pleasures.

Exposition deals with the class, and is abstract. So the demands made upon the reader are infinitely
greater. It assumes that the concrete examples and specific instances necessary to interpret
the abstract are already in mind and that the barest allusion to them will be sufficient. So
exposition naturally follows narrative and description.

Successful argumentation depends upon proof and persuasion. It is addressed to the reason or
to the emotions. Burke and Webster endeavor to establish their respective positions by irrefutable
arguments. When Beecher addressed the people on the slavery question he appealed strongly to
their emotions and sought to make them act because of their intense feeling. One characteristic
of all literary masterpieces is unity, but in none is this of more importance than in the expository
and argumentative types.

As we study it, literary material may be grouped as fiction, essays, speeches (orations), and
dialogue (drama). No classification can be rigid or exact, for one may blend into the other.
At the same time in any one may be found the four forms, description, narration, exposition
and argument. For our purposes, however, the following definitions will answer: Fiction is
a term covering those narratives which are either wholly or in part events that never happened
and acts of individuals that never lived. Fiction is the work of the imagination, based upon
the facts of life and observation. It appears as stories, in narrative poems or epics, and
in novels.

Essays deal with all subjects and in such a variety of ways that any attempt to classify them
meets with difficulty. Originally an essay was an attempt, a mere outline or plan intended
to be filled out at greater length or to be used in different form. It is in this sense that
Bacon uses the word and his essays are condensed to the highest degree. In later years essays
have come to be of the most highly finished type of literature and some of the most beautiful
passages, the noblest thoughts, the most inspiring utterances, are to be found in them. Almost
every conceivable topic is treated: there are biographical essays which do little more than
narrate the facts of a man's life; there are descriptive essays whose only function is to make
their readers see something as the author saw it; there are argumentative and didactic essays
and essays on science, art, religion, and literary criticism. Some writers have given their
whole time and attention to this form of composition, and the modern magazine has become their
distributing agency. Much of the deepest, of the brightest, of the best of recent work has
come to its readers through this medium.

The essay shows more of the author's self than any other form of literature. It is apt to be
sincere, to be the deliberate expression of the writer's own views formulated with the desire
to convince another. In the purely literary type this last characteristic is not so strikingly
prominent, though it appears rather under the surface. In no form of literature is the artistic
element more manifest. The prose writer makes of his essay what the poet does of his lyric--the
most finished and beautiful expression of his thought. The thought is the writer's chief concern,
but upon his manner of expressing it depend the force and value of his work. Accordingly he
gives to his style his most careful attention and fits and polishes it with all his skill.
The result is that in the essay are to be found the best examples of prose style. While the
essay frequently appeals to our humorous sense and sometimes arouses our sympathy by its pathetic
touches, yet no such opportunity is offered for emotional effect as that given by the novel
or the drama.

The essay is written to be read, the oration to be heard; the essay is to please, to entertain,
perhaps to instruct, sometimes to convince; the oration is to arouse the feelings, to carry
conviction, to stir the public to action. It is a formal production, addressed directly to
its hearers; it is in form or meaning in the second person. Even when descriptive or eulogistic,
it is a direct address. The orator says, "These are my opinions and my reasons for so thinking.
Will you not accept my view and act accordingly?"

The oration naturally divides itself into three sections. There is an introduction, in which
the speaker clears the way, opens the question and lays down the principles he proposes to
advocate, or indicates the course of his argument. The body follows. Here the principles are
elucidated, the arguments advanced and properly established or the descriptions elaborated
and finished. The last section is the conclusion, which may consist of a brief review or summary
of the inferences drawn, or of a plea for belief and for action in accordance with the principles
of the speaker.

Before the art of printing was invented, public opinion was molded almost entirely by public
speaking, and for a great many years afterward the orator was the greatest of leaders. By the
magic of his eloquence he changed the views of men and inspired them to deeds of valor. The
fiery orations of a Demosthenes, of a Cicero; the thrilling words of a Peter the Hermit or
a Savonarola; the unanswerable arguments of a Burke or a Webster, have more than once turned
the course of history.

But when the newspaper first found its way into the hands of thinking men the power of the
orator felt the influence of its silent opponent and began to wane. Today, it is not often
that multitudes are swayed by a single voice. The debates and stump-speeches of a political
campaign change but few votes. The preacher no longer depends wholly upon the convincing power
of his rhetoric to make his converts. The representatives of a people in a parliament or a
congress speak that their words may be heard through the newspapers by their constituents more
than with the expectation that their speech will carry a measure through the House they are
addressing.

Yet we will listen with pleasure to a fervid speaker whose earnestness of manner carries the
conviction of his sincerity, and even against our will we are moved by elegant sentences and
pleasing tones. The orator will continue to be a power, though in a different way. Conditions
have changed, and the ponderous periods and elaborate figures that characterized the orators
of classic epochs are giving place to the plain, lucid diction and the simple, true-hearted
tones of the modern speaker.

The drama is objective, the author keeping himself out of sight as much as possible. His characters
appear, speak their parts and vanish with no explanatory words from him except the occasional
stage direction limited to the fewest possible words. There is no description, except when
the actors give an account of something that does not occur upon the stage. There is little
of narration, except to explain what does not appear upon the scene or to give clearness to
the action. Argument is not infrequent, though it is usually in the form of a moving appeal
to the emotions rather than to the reason. The play often leads to exposition, and many dramas
are written with the evident intent of teaching a deep and forceful lesson.

The drama shows man in action and develops his character before the reader, but it is by acts
and speech and not by direct description from the author. It deals with all human interests
and frequently supernatural manifestations are introduced and become important factors in the
plot, particularly when they are believed in by the people who appear in the drama. But in
general it is a study of life and character.

Primarily the drama is to be heard, not read, and consequently its style is usually clear and
its meaning easily apprehended, but the complexity of its incidents and the intricacies of
its plot make it difficult to follow. The rapidity of its action, the necessity of gathering
the meaning from a single hearing, and the intensity of feeling aroused would all unite to
confuse the hearer were it not for the skill of the actor and the appropriateness of the stage
settings. By the aid of these, understanding is in most cases not difficult. The changing scenery,
the dress of the actors, their movements, the tones of their voices, and the expression of
their faces all aid the hearer. But the interpretation then becomes that of the actor, so that
the listener is once removed from the author. Moreover, to the actor everything is subservient
to dramatic effect, and the study of an Othello descends into an effort to excite an audience
rather than to portray correctly the shifting passions of the jealous Moor. The poet's creation
is adapted to the actor's use by the omission of scenes, changes of scenes, and additions of
scenes, by such verbal alterations and phrasal transpositions that one does not see Shakespeare's
Shylock demanding his pound of flesh but watches Irving's Shylock whetting his savage knife;
Hamlet is lost in Booth, and Juliet weeps in the tears of Mary Anderson.

But the pleasure a person derives from listening to their thrilling utterances is as distinct
from that which comes to the appreciative reader as the pleasures of the palate differ from
those of the eye. To the reader everything is his own. He carries his own theater with him.
The scenery he must himself construct and he may alter it at will; the costumes and personal
appearance of the characters are the creations of his own mind; his thunder has no metallic
sound and his lightning always flashes. He may bring his favorites back with many an encore
and may show his disapproval with hisses that would drown the gallery. He may linger over the
passages he loves and find new encouragement in his defeats and ever fresh joys for his hours
of gloom. He is never hurried: the lights never go out, the curtain is never rung down.

Poetry

The reality of poetry is its beauty, its power of inspiration, its truth. Its beauty lies in
its choice of words, in its figures of speech, in its music and in its sentiment. Any definition
that is not purely formal is hard to give. Professor Shairp defined the soul of poetry when
he wrote: "Whenever the soul comes vividly in contact with any fact, truth, or existence, which
it realizes and takes home to itself with more than common intensity, out of that meeting of
the soul and its object there arises a thrill of joy, a glow of emotion; and the expression
of that glow, that thrill, is poetry."

The Structure of Poetry

The form and structure of poetry should be studied, but not to so great an extent as to blind
the eye or deaden the appreciation of its beauty and sentiment. Brown, who wrote the beautiful
story Rab and His Friends, has said, "It is with poetry as with flowers and fruits. We would
all rather have them and taste them than talk about them. It is a good thing to know about
a lily, its scientific ins and outs, its botany, its archæology, even its anatomy and organic
radicals; but it is a better thing to look at the flowers themselves and to consider how they
grow."

If one reads poetry aloud he soon becomes sensible of a certain rhythm or regular recurrence
of accented syllables that gives a measured movement to the lines. It is a recognition of this
rhythm that makes a child read in a "sing-song" tone, as natural a thing as it is to sing.
If we hear constantly repeated at frequent and regular intervals any noise, there is a tendency
to group these separate sounds and measure them off regularly. The clock ticks with always
the same force and with the same space of time between the ticks, yet we hear tick-tack, tick-tack;
we can prove the difference to be in our ear, for it requires but little effort to hear tick-tack
or tack-tick, tack-tick. The ticking has not varied in the least.

The poet takes advantage of this rhythmical tendency of nature and by using accented syllables
at regular intervals compels us to recognize the swing of his lines. When he reduces this to
a system he has established the meter of his production. The poetical accents sometimes fall
on unaccented syllables and sometimes on monosyllabic words that are not emphatic, but usually
the metrical accent of any given word corresponds to its logical accent. The accentuation of
a syllable tends to lengthen the time used in the pronunciation of that syllable, and so we
call it long, although the sound of its vowel may be short. Short syllables are those which
are unaccented, even though the vowel has the long sound.

Verse appeals to the ear by its melodious combinations of sounds and also by the regular recurrence
of similar sounds in rhymes. These usually occur at the ends of verses. In order that a rhyme
may be perfect the two rhyming syllables must both be accented, the vowel sound and the consonants
following must be identical, and the sounds preceding the vowel must be different. For example,
fate and late rhyme; fat and late do not; fate and lame do not; debate rhymes with relate,
but not with prelate. Double rhymes occur frequently, as in the words bowlders, shoulders.

Here the first and third lines are unrhymed, the second and fourth, the fifth and seventh,
and the sixth and eighth lines rhyme alternately in couplets. If the beginnings of the verses
are noticed it will be seen that the indentations of the lines correspond with the rhymes.

Rhymes are not always used in poetry. Most of Shakespeare's plays are written in blank verse,
which is unrhymed iambic pentameter, called heroic verse. Hiawatha and Evangeline are not rhymed,
the former being trochaic tetrameter and the latter largely dactylic hexameter.

Frequently appeal is made to the ear by a similarity of sound at the beginning of words. This
is known as alliteration. In early English poems this was of prime importance and subject to
rigid rules, but more recently it has been used without rule, subject merely to the author's
will. This is seen to a marked degree in many writers. Here are several lines taken from Poe's
The Bells:

    What a world of merriment their melody foretells,
    What a tale of terror now their turbulency tells.
    In a mad expostulation with the deaf and frantic fire.

In many cases alliteration is very skilfully handled, as where Whittier uses the liquid consonants
to make more smooth and harmonious to the ear the line that tells the friendliness of the brooklet
whose murmurings could not be heard in winter, but--

    "The music of whose liquid lip
     Had been to us companionship"

during the long summer days.

The number of verses in a stanza varies from two to an indefinite number. When there are two
verses the stanza is called a couplet; a three line stanza is called a tercet; a four line
stanza, a quatrain. The five line stanza is not common, but six is a frequent number.

Kinds of Poetry

Poems may be classified as epic, lyric and dramatic.

The word epic is by some writers restricted in its application, but it is preferred here to
use it in a broad sense to include various forms of narrative poetry, and to use the term greater,
or heroic, epic to designate the smaller class of narratives which the older writers knew as
epics. Thomas Arnold's definition of the greater epic is: "The subject of the Epic Poem must
be some one, great, complex action. The principal personages must belong to the high places
of the world, and must be grand and elevated in their ideas and in their bearing. The measure
must be of sonorous dignity, befitting the subject. The action is carried on by a mixture of
narrative, dialogue, and soliloquy. Briefly to express its main characteristics, the epic treats
of one great complex action, in grand style, and with fullness of detail."

Under such a definition there can be but few really great epics in any language. Comparatively
few poets have cared to undertake so great a task and many of those who have been willing to
make the attempt have failed conspicuously in the execution. But most of the great languages
of the world have each one surpassing epic which has held the interest of its readers and established
an immortality for itself. Homer gave the Greeks the grandeur of his Iliad; Virgil charms the
Latin race and every cultivated people since with the elegance of his Aeneid; Dante with Virgil
for his model and Beatrice as an inspiration wrote in Italian the Divina Commedia, in which
he described with all-powerful pen the condition of the dead in the Inferno, Purgatory, and
Paradise; and our Milton after years of preparation, from the dark realm of his own blindness,
produced the sublime measures of Paradise Lost. These are the Greater Epics, greater by far
than anything else written by man. With them this course does not concern itself to any great
extent.

The term lesser epic includes the numerous forms of narrative poems from the old-time ballad
to the modern story-telling poem. The epic is essentially different from the lyric. While in
the latter the personality of the author is always apparent, and properly so, in the epic the
intrusion of the poet's self is usually a defect. The lyric is subjective, the epic objective.
To tell a story effectively and well is the prime motive, to tell it beautifully and in a way
to excite the imagination and move the feelings of the reader is the contributory poetic impulse.
Of the lesser epics groups might be set apart. The ballad is the oldest form. It was originally
the production of wandering minstrels or glee-men and was not reduced to writing and kept in
permanent form. Being passed from mouth to mouth there naturally came to be great variations
in its form, and even the incidents were modified to suit the taste of the singer. After poetry
came to be a study of the cultured and refined, the minstrel's power declined, though he was
a welcome guest at the feasts of the wealthy, where his song added to the gayety of the occasion
or gave dignity to the host as his deeds were sung by the hireling bard. In the sixteenth century
these singers disappeared from view in the blaze of the Elizabethan Age.

The highest type of literary expression is poetry, and the most perfect creation of poetic
imagination is the lyric. Technically a lyric is a song, a short poem that can be set to music.
But this must be interpreted in a wide sense, for though all the songs that are sung are lyrics,
the greater number of lyrics were never intended to be fitted to the closer requirements of
vocal harmony. They deal with all subjects and have few requirements of form, though form is
an essential element and a matter of great importance, for to the perfection of form much of
the intense effect of the lyric is due. Like the essay the lyric is a subjective composition;
it is confessedly the expression of the poet's personal emotion and his own experiences. His
mind, his soul, speak to us; he does not interpret the thoughts and feelings of another. The
lyric is usually contemplative and full of the choicest results of the poet's meditations.
It influences action indirectly through direct appeals to the emotions.

Songs form a class of lyrics as varied in content as the possible subjects in life. One might
consider them as sacred and secular and under the former recognize the psalms, which our poets
have many times rendered into metrical form, not infrequently detracting from the sublimity
of the originals. "The Lord is my Shepherd" needs no change, no remodeling from the biblical
version to make it a true lyric, but that it may be sung to the tunes of our churches it has
more than once been paraphrased.

Hymns are religious songs expressing devout reverence for the deity, displaying confidence
and faith in the goodness of God, breathing a prayer for help in hours of difficulty and distress,
or for consolation in the hour of affliction. Our literature is full of these noble poems,
and their lofty sentiments, clothed in beautiful words sung to the thrilling music of other
inspired composers, have been potent factors in culture and refinement.

Secular songs are written upon nearly every conceivable topic of human interest and are more
numerous than any other form of literature, but so many of them are inferior in composition
and so dependent upon the jingle of the tunes to which they are sung that their life is little
longer than the time consumed in their production. But a large number are conceived in the
true spirit of art and are as worthy of immortality as anything we read.

There are comic songs that sparkle with wit and whose music laughs with the hearer; sentimental
and love songs whose sensuous cadences intensify the passion of their words; convivial songs
where toasts are drunk to the accompaniment of the clinking glasses; and patriotic songs that
roll with the ringing cheers of thousands and the tramp of armed men.

There are still three large classes of lyrics each distinct in itself, though, as we see if
we try to draw the lines closely, shading off into one another. Usually these are in the nature
of a direct address to some person, place, or thing, and are distinguished one from another
by the nature of the subject or the rules of form. All are in a greater or less degree complimentary
to the thing addressed and show interest, respect, admiration or love. The ode and elegy have
most in common, although the latter is a tribute to the dead. The sonnet partakes deeply of
the nature of the others, but is set off by very arbitrary limitations of form.

There are no rules governing the form of the ode; the poet is at liberty to select whatever
form seems best adapted to his purpose. The length of the stanza, the meter, the rhyme, may
be as varied as his fancy dictates, but the ode is an address direct and personal, an address
with praise for its object. The subject may be a flower, a piece of pottery, a person, a bird
or a nation, but some definite inciting object is necessary. The ode is subjective in that
the poet expresses his own feeling of admiration or reverence. Often there is an acknowledgment
of a benefit conferred, a lesson learned, or affection returned. From these conditions, namely,
the liberty of form, the direct and powerful inspiration, the sincere desire to return a favor,
a poet might naturally be expected to produce his choicest work, and so he has done.

A mournful song, in stately measure, praising the dead for his virtues, full of the grief that
remains with the living, believing in the happiness of the departed and hoping for a blessed
reunion in the hereafter: this is the typical elegy. On the one side it shades off into the
ode, some poems being susceptible of classification in both groups; on the other it may take
the form of sonnets, many of which answer every requirement of the dirge. Many poems are therefore
elegiacal that are not strictly elegies. A rigid classification is never necessary, but an
association of these beautiful pieces, all thoroughly impregnated with the personal grief of
the author, gives to each a greater power, a more thrilling significance. They arise from the
deepest emotion and so are the offspring of divinest inspiration; love is in the heart of the
writer and so the flight of song is best sustained; they are intended to show to the world
respect and admiration for the one whose virtues they celebrate and so they are refined and
polished to the last degree. Where grief, love and a hope to give earthly immortality to the
object of his affection move the poet, we expect the finest efforts of his genius. These elegies
include some of the grandest, the most perfect productions of poetic skill.

When man sees his loved one laid away forever, he naturally longs to preserve the memory of
the departed to succeeding generations, to erect some permanent memorial. Funereal monuments
are characteristic of every race and have proved the most enduring records of the past. The
inscriptions upon these tombs are early records of the elegiac spirit.

The epitaph is elegy in miniature. "To define an epitaph is useless; everyone knows it is an
inscription on a tomb. An epitaph is indeed commonly panegyrical, because we are seldom distinguished
by a stone but by our friends," says Dr. Johnson.

This epitaph was written by Robert Wilde in the seventeenth century:

    Here lies a piece of Christ; a star in dust;
    A vein of gold; a china dish that must
    Be used in heaven, when God shall feast the just.

The sonnet may be addressed to any person or thing and is the direct personal expression of
the author's feeling. It is like the ode, and also partakes of the general nature of the elegy,
but it differs from both in the rigidity of the rules of form that govern it. Sonnets originated
in Italy, and the genuine Italian sonnet is very exacting in form. It must consist of exactly
fourteen lines of iambic pentameter. These lines are divided into two groups, one of which
consists of eight lines or two quatrains, the whole known as the octave. The remaining six
lines constitute the sestet. The first and last line of each quatrain rhyme together, while
the middle lines of each form the second rhyme. In the sestet usually the first line rhymes
with the fourth, the second with the fifth and the third with the sixth. As a whole the sonnet
contains one idea, which in the octave is general, in the sestet specific, for the sestet expresses
the conclusion of the octave.

