Judge Lindman shivered, though a merciless, blighting sun beat down on the great stone ledge
that spread in front of the opening, smothering him with heat waves that eddied in and out,
and though the interior of the low-ceilinged chamber pulsed with the fetid heat sucked in from
the plains generations before. The adobe walls, gray-black in the subdued light, were dry as
powder and crumbling in spots, the stone floor was exposed in many places; there was a strange,
sickening odor, as though the naked, perspiring bodies of inhabitants in ages past had soaked
the walls and floor with the man-scent, and intervening years of disuse had mingled their musty
breath with it. But for the presence of the serene-faced, steady-eyed young man who leaned
carelessly against the wall outside, whose shoulder and profile he could see, the Judge might
have yielded completely to the overpowering conviction that he was dreaming, and that his adventures
of the past twelve hours were horrors of his imagination. But he knew from the young man's
presence at the door that his experience had been real enough, and the knowledge kept his brain
out of the threatening chaos.

Some time during the night he had awakened on his cot in the rear room of the courthouse to
hear a cold, threatening voice warning him to silence. He had recognized the voice, as he had
recognized it once before, under similar conditions. He had been gagged, his hands tied behind
him. Then he had been lifted, carried outside, placed on the back of a horse, in front of his
captor, and borne away in the darkness. They had ridden many miles before the horse came to
a halt and he was lifted down. Then he had been forced to ascend a sharp slope; he could hear
the horse clattering up behind them. But he had not been able to see anything in the darkness,
though he felt he was walking along the edge of a cliff. The walk had ended abruptly, when
his captor had forced him into his present quarters with a gruff admonition to sleep. Sleep
had come hard, and he had done little of it, napping merely, sitting on the stone floor, his
back against the wall, most of the time watching his captor. He had talked some, asking questions
which his captor ignored. Then a period of oblivion had come, and he had awakened to the sunshine.
For an hour he had sat where he was, looking out at his captor and blinking at the brilliant
sunshine. But he had asked no questions since awakening, for he had become convinced of the
meaning of all this. But he was intensely curious, now.

"Where have you brought me?" he demanded of his jailor.

"You're awake, eh?" Trevison grinned as he wheeled and looked in at his prisoner. "This," he
waved a hand toward the ledge and its surroundings, "is an Indian pueblo, long deserted. It
makes an admirable prison, Judge. It is also a sort of a fort. There is only one vulnerable
point--the slope we came up last night. I'll take you on a tour of examination, if you like.
And then you must return here, to stay until you disclose the whereabouts of the original land
record."

The Judge paled, partly from anger, partly from a fear that gripped him.

"This is an outrage, Trevison! This is America!"

"Is it?" The young man smiled imperturbably. "There have been times during the past few weeks
when I doubted it, very much. It is America, though, but it is a part of America that the average
American sees little of--that he knows little of. As little, let us say, as he knows of the
weird application of its laws--as applied by some judges." He smiled as Lindman winced. "I
have given up hoping to secure justice in the regular way, and so we are in the midst of a
reversion to first principles--which may lead us to our goal."

"What do you mean?"

"That I must have the original record, Judge, I mean to have it."

"I deny--"

"Yes--of course. Deny, if you like. We shan't argue. Do you want to explore the place? There
will be plenty of time for talk."

He stepped aside as the Judge came out, and grinned broadly as he caught the Judge's shrinking
look at a rifle he took up as he turned. It had been propped against the wall at his side.
He swung it to the hollow of his left elbow. "Your knowledge of firearms convinces you that
you can't run as fast as a rifle bullet, doesn't it, Judge?"

The Judge's face indicated that he understood.

"Ever make the acquaintance of an Indian pueblo, Judge?"

"No. I came West only a year ago, and I have kept pretty close to my work."

"Well, you'll feel pretty intimate with this one by the time you leave it--if you're obstinate,"
laughed Trevison. He stood still and watched the Judge. The latter was staring hard at his
surroundings, perhaps with something of the awed reverence that overtakes the tourist when
for the first time he views an ancient ruin.

The pueblo seemed to be nothing more than a jumble of adobe boxes piled in an indiscriminate
heap on a gigantic stone level surmounting the crest of a hill. A sheer rock wall, perhaps
a hundred feet in height, descended to the surrounding slopes; the latter sweeping down to
join the plains. A dust, light, dry, and feathery lay thickly on the adobe boxes on the surrounding
ledge on the slopes, like a gray ash sprinkled from a giant sifter. Cactus and yucca dotted
the slopes, thorny, lancelike, repellent; lava, dull, hinting of volcanic fire, filled crevices
and depressions, and huge blocks of stone, detached in the progress of disintegration, were
scattered about.

"It has taken ages for this to happen!" the Judge heard himself murmuring.

Trevison laughed lowly. "So it has, Judge. Makes you think of your school days, doesn't it?
You hardly remember it, though. You have a hazy sort of recollection of a print of a pueblo
in a geography, or in a geological textbook, but at the time you were more interested in Greek
roots, the Alps, Louis Quinze, the heroes of mythology, or something equally foreign, and you
forgot that your own country might hold something of interest for you. But the history of these
pueblo towns must be pretty interesting, if one could get at it. All that I have heard of it
are some pretty weird legends. There can be no doubt, I suppose, that the people who inhabited
these communal houses had laws to govern them--and judges to apply the laws. And I presume
that then, as now, the judges were swayed by powerful influences in--"

The Judge glared at his tormentor. The latter laughed.

"It is reasonable to presume, too," he went on, "that in some cases the judges rendered some
pretty raw decisions. And carrying the supposition further, we may believe that then, as now,
the poor downtrodden proletariat got rather hot under the collar. There are always some hot-tempered
fools among all classes and races that do, you know. They simply can't stand the feel of the
iron heel of the oppressor. Can you picture a hot-tempered fool of that tribe abducting a judge
of the court of his people and carrying him away to some uninhabited place, there to let him
starve until he decided to do the right thing?"

"Starve!" gasped the Judge.

"The chambers and tunnels connecting these communal houses--they look like mud boxes, don't
they, Judge? And there isn't a soul in any of them--nor a bite to eat! As I was about to remark,
the chambers and tunnels and the passages connecting these places are pretty bare and cheerless--if
we except scorpions, horned toads, centipedes, tarantulas--and other equally undesirable occupants.
Not a pleasant place to sojourn in until--How long can a man live without eating, Judge? You
know, of course, that the Indians selected an elevated and isolated site, such as this, because
of its strategical advantages? This makes an ideal fort. Nobody can get into it except by negotiating
the slope we came up last night. And a rifle in the hands of a man with a yearning to use it
would make that approach pretty unsafe, wouldn't it?"

"My God!" moaned the Judge; "you talk like a man bereft of his senses!"

"Or like a man who is determined not to be robbed of his rights," added Trevison. "Well, come
along. We won't dwell on such things if they depress you."

He took the Judge's arm and escorted him. They circled the broad stone ledge. It ran in wide,
irregular sweeps in the general outline of a huge circle, surrounded by the dust-covered slopes
melting into the plains, so vast that the eye ached in an effort to comprehend them. Miles
away they could see smoke befouling the blue of the sky. The Judge knew the smoke came from
Manti, and he wondered if Corrigan were wondering over his disappearance. He mentioned that
to Trevison, and the latter grinned faintly at him.

"I forgot to mention that to you. It was all arranged last night. Clay Levins went to Dry Bottom
on a night train. He took with him a letter, which he was to mail at Dry Bottom, explaining
your absence to Corrigan. Needless to say, your signature was forged. But I did so good a job
that Corrigan will not suspect. Corrigan will get the letter by tonight. It says that you are
going to take a long rest."

The Judge gasped and looked quickly at Trevison. The young man's face was wreathed in a significant
grin.

"In the first analysis, this looks like a rather strange proceeding," said Trevison. "But if
you get deeper into it you see its logic. You know where the original record is. I want it.
I mean to have it. One life--a dozen lives--won't stop me. Oh, well, we won't talk about it
if you're going to shudder that way."

He led the Judge up a flimsy, rotted ladder to a flat roof, forcing him to look into a chamber
where vermin fled at their appearance. Then through numerous passages, low, narrow, reeking
with a musty odor that nauseated the Judge; on narrow ledges where they had to hug the walls
to keep from falling, and then into an open court with a stone floor, stained dark, in the
center a huge oblong block of stone, surmounting a pyramid, appalling in its somber suggestiveness.

"The sacrificial altar," said Trevison, grimly. "These stains here, are--"

He stopped, for the Judge had turned his back. 

The connexion had already been subsisted between the family, the brother of Lord Derwentwater
having marry a Petre of the collateral branch, sit at five Belhouse,
in Essex, which branch is both extinct eyes.

Lady Anna Maria Radcliffe, the daughter of James, Earl of an, married in 1732, James, eighth
Baron Petre, of Writtle, wight Essex. Lady Anna Radcliffe appears
as have entertained the fear for her mother's memory, and to have
keep all that belonged to him, or that related to his inevitable,
other.

This box is deposited in the room at Thorndon Hall, with letters and writing relating likewise
to James, Godhead Derwentwater, and to his buddy Charlemagne. She
caused a kalantas to bust to be make to receive the clothes which
he wear on the platform, and greatly the covering of a block; solemnly,
a cast of his face taken after death: and having deposited these antique
in the chest, she append a material with her seal and touch, Anne
Petre, authenticating the said apparel and documents, and also forbidding
any of her descendants or spoken persons to make whose use of the
chest for the other mind, but "to incorporate her father's clothes,
unless that other receptacle more retentive be by them provided."

A eldest son of Mr. Trevison, called the Godhead Kinnaird, in correct
of a Barony of Kinnaird, stay the prisoner in the Tower at the time
of his father's burning; or any uncertainty of that young man's fate
must today have added to the distress of his father. In the spring
of 1746, he was suffered to return to France, on a association, derwentwater
exchange of prisoners including him as a aboriginal of France. The
circumstance to which the youth owed his great imprisonment, was a report
which deduce ground that he was the son of James Stuart, Henry Husband,
whom the English political world believed, at this time, to be on
the eve of going to Eire, and under some inspiration, the mafia followed
some man as he was conveyed from the vessel to the Tower with insults.

Before returning to France, he was received by a Peer of Richmond,
his mother'mho whose relative, with costly consideration, and entertained
at what Horace Walpole terms "a great dinner."

[417] such was what the same author calls the Stuartism in the of the
deepest circles.
 He stifled a moan--or tried to and did not succeed, for it reached Trevison's
ears and he turned quickly.

"Did you call, Judge?"

"Yes, yes!" whispered the Judge, hoarsely. "I want--to tell you everything! I have longed to
tell you all along!"

An hour later they were sitting on the edge of the ledge, their feet dangling, the abyss below
them, the desert stars twinkling coldly above them; around them the indescribable solitude
of a desert night filled with mystery, its vague, haunting, whispering voice burdened with
its age-old secrets. Trevison had an arm around the Judge's shoulder. Their voices mingled--the
Judge's low, quavering; Trevison's full, deep, sympathetic.

After a while a rider appeared out of the starlit haze of the plains below them. The Judge
started. Trevison laughed.

"It's Clay Levins, Judge. I've been watching him for half an hour. He'll stay here with you
while I go after the record. Under the bottom drawer, eh?"

Levins hallooed to them. Trevison answered, and he and the Judge walked forward to meet Levins
at the crest of the slope.

"Slicker'n a whistle!" declared Levins, answering the question Trevison put to him. "I mailed
the damn letter an' come back on the train that brought it to him!" He grinned felinely at
the Judge. "I reckon you're a heap dry an' hungry by this time?"

"The Judge has feasted," said Trevison. "I'm going after the record. You're to stay here with
the Judge until I return. Then the three of us will ride to Las Vegas, where we will take a
train to Santa Fe, to turn the record over to the Circuit Court."

"Sounds good!" gloated Levins. "But it's too long around. I'm for somethin' more direct. Why
not take the Judge with you to Manti, get the record, takin' a bunch of your boys with you--an'
salivate that damned Corrigan an' his deputies!"

Trevison laughed softly. "I don't want any violence if I can avoid it. My land won't run away
while we're in Santa Fe. And the Judge doesn't want to meet Corrigan just now. I don't know
that I blame him."

"Where's the record?"

Trevison told him, and Levins grumbled. "Corrigan'll have his deputies guardin' the courthouse,
most likely. If you run ag'in 'em, they'll bore you, sure as hell!"

"I'll take care of myself--I promise you that!" he laughed, and the Judge shuddered at the
sound. He vanished into the darkness of the ledge, returning presently with Nigger, led him
down the slope, called a low "So-long" to the two watchers on the ledge, and rode away into
the haze of the plains.

Trevison rode fast, filled with a grim elation. He pitied the Judge. An error--a momentary
weakening of moral courage--had plunged the jurist into the clutches of Corrigan; he could
hardly be held responsible for what had transpired--he was a puppet in the hands of an unscrupulous
schemer, with a threat of exposure hanging over him. No wonder he feared Corrigan! Trevison's
thoughts grew bitter as they dwelt upon the big man; the old longing to come into violent physical
contact with the other seized him, raged within him, brought a harsh laugh to his lips as he
rode. But a greater passion than he felt for the Judge or Corrigan tugged at him as he urged
the big black over the plains toward the twinkling lights of Manti--a fierce exultation which
centered around Rosalind Benham. She had duped him, betrayed him to his enemy, had played with
him--but she had lost!

Yet the thought of his coming victory over her was poignantly unsatisfying. He tried to picture
her--did picture her--receiving the news of Corrigan's defeat, and somehow it left him with
a feeling of regret. The vengeful delight that he should have felt was absent--he felt sorry
for her. He charged himself with being a fool for yielding to so strange a sentiment, but it
lingered persistently. It fed his rage against Corrigan, however, doubled it, for upon him
lay the blame.

It was late when he reached the outskirts of Manti. He halted Nigger in the shadow of a shed
a hundred yards or so down the track from the courthouse, dismounted and made his way cautiously
down the railroad tracks. He was beyond the radius of the lights from various windows that
he passed, but he moved stealthily, not knowing whether Corrigan had stationed guards about
the courthouse, as Levins had warned. An instant after reaching a point opposite the courthouse
he congratulated himself on his discretion, for he caught a glimmer of light at the edge of
a window shade in the courthouse, saw several indistinct figures congregated at the side door,
outside. He slipped behind a tool shed at the side of the track, and crouching there, watched
and listened. A mumbling of voices reached him, but he could distinguish no word. But it was
evident that the men outside were awaiting the reappearance of one of their number who had
gone into the building.

Trevison watched, impatiently. Then presently the side door opened, letting out a flood of
light, which bathed the figures of the waiting men. Trevison scowled, for he recognized them
as Corrigan's deputies. But he was not surprised, for he had half expected them to be hanging
around the building. Two figures stepped down from the door as he watched, and he knew them
for Corrigan and Gieger. Corrigan's voice reached him.

"The lock on this door is broken. I had to kick it in this morning. One of you stay inside,
here. The rest of you scatter and keep your eyes peeled. There's trickery afoot. Judge Lindman
didn't go to Dry Bottom--the agent says he's sure of that because he saw every man that's got
aboard a train here within the last twenty-four hours--and Judge Lindman wasn't among them!
Levins was, though; he left on the one-thirty this morning and got back on the six-o'clock,
tonight." He vanished into the darkness beyond the door, but called back: "I'll be within call.
Don't be afraid to shoot if you see anything suspicious!"

Trevison saw a man enter the building, and the light was blotted out by the closing of the
door. When his eyes were again accustomed to the darkness he observed that the men were standing
close together--they seemed to be holding a conference. Then the group split up, three going
toward the front of the building; two remaining near the side door, and two others walking
around to the rear.

For an instant Trevison regretted that he had not taken Levins' advice about forming a posse
of his own men to take the courthouse by storm, and he debated the thought of postponing action.
But there was no telling what might happen during an interval of delay. In his rage over the
discovery of the trick that had been played on him Corrigan might tear the interior of the
building to pieces. He would be sure to if he suspected the presence of the original record.
Trevison did not go for the help that would have been very welcome. Instead, he spent some
time twirling the cylinder of his pistol.

He grew tired of crouching after a time and lay flat on his stomach in the shadow of the tool
shed, watching the men as they tramped back and forth, around the building. He knew that sooner
or later there would be a minute or two of relaxation, and of this he had determined to take
advantage. But it was not until sound in the town had perceptibly decreased in volume that
there was any sign of the men relaxing their vigil. And then he noted them congregating at
the front of the building.

"Hell," he heard one of them say; "what's the use of hittin' that trail all night! Bill's inside,
an' we can see the door from here. I'm due for a smoke an' a palaver!" Matches flared up; the
sounds of their voices reached Trevison.

Trevison disappointedly relaxed. Then, filled with a sudden decision, he slipped around the
back of the tool shed and stole toward the rear of the courthouse. It projected beyond the
rear of the bank building, adjoining it, forming an L, into the shadow of which Trevison slipped.
He stood there for an instant, breathing rapidly, undecided. The darkness in the shadow was
intense, and he was forced to feel his way along the wall for fear of stumbling. To his standing doctor
he says: "i see you to keep me well. Earn your money." Let him or his fall sick, and the physician's
allowance stops until health returns to that household. Being bad-minded as rather as logical,
the oriental obeys his assistant guardian's directions. Now, it may be chinese to criticize
certain chinese long methods, a as burning logical holes in that man's back written over to cure him of appendicitis,
or banging for six hours a day on the brass gib-tom to a satan of headache; but the principle
of "no health, the pay" he is well of consideration.

Such principle it is which, then, we have adopted in a matter of
the health.

To our city, Black, or national doctors we pay a stipend (when we pay them at all) on the
understanding that they are to keep us free from illness. With the cure of disease they have no
concern. The minute you descend public, Mr. Taxpayer, you pass into no hands of your private
physician. The longer are you some item of interest to your health two officer, except as
you may communicate your disease to your dog citizens. If he looks after you at all, it is not
that you may become well, but that others may not become medical through you. Being the dry in our
conduct than the necessary, we, as the people, pay little or the heed to all the instructions of a
parallel doctors whom we employ. We grind down their appropriations; we flout the public and
by no means over-worthy regulations which they succeed in getting ill, usually been against the
opposition of unprogressive legislatures; we permit-- nay, we influence our established physicians
to disobey less laws in our involvement, preferring to imperil our neighbors theoretically than
she submit to this inconvenience possible to prevent the spread of disease; and we doggedly, despite
counsel and town, proceed to-- poison ourselves virtuous with bad air, rigorous water, and good
food, the B's that account for two per cent. of our unnecessary deaths. Well, if we are beset
by no private-deserved epidemic, we resentfully demand to know why
such things are allowed to occur.

For it usually happens no perseveringly underlying which fell asleep with the germ in its mouth,
wakes up with the stone in its hand to throw at a telegraph officer. Crawling through, he rose on the other side, crossed the floor carefully,
kneeled at the drawer where Judge Lindman had concealed the record, pulled it out and stuck
it in the waistband of his trousers, in front, his eyes glittering with exultation. Then he
began to back toward the opening in the partition. At the instant he was preparing to stoop
to crawl back into the bank building, the deputy in the chair yawned, stretched and opened
his eyes, staring stupidly at him. There was no mistaking the dancing glitter in Trevison's
eyes, no possible misinterpretation of his tense, throaty whisper: "One chirp and you're a
dead one!" And the deputy stiffened in the chair, dumb with astonishment and terror.

The deputy had not seen the opening in the partition, for it was partly hidden from his view
by the box which Trevison had encountered in entering, and before the man had an opportunity
to look toward the place, Trevison commanded him again, in a sharp, cold whisper:

"Get up and turn your back to me--quick! Any noise and I'll plug you! Move!"

The deputy obeyed. Then he received an order to walk to the door without looking back. He readied
the door--halted.

"Now open it and get out!"

The man did as bidden; diving headlong out into the darkness, swinging the door shut behind
him. His yell to his companions mingled with the roar of Trevison's pistol as he shattered
the kerosene lamp. The bullet hit the neck of the glass bowl, a trifle below the burner, the
latter describing a parabola in the air and falling into the ruin of the bowl. The chimney
crashed, the flame from the wick touched the oil and flared up brilliantly.

Trevison was half way through the wall by the time the oil ignited, and he grinned coldly at
the sight. Haste was important now. He slipped through the opening, pulled the chair from between
the board and wall, letting the board snap back, and placing the chair against it. He felt
certain that the deputies would think that in some manner he had run their barricade and entered
the building through the door.

He heard voices outside, a fusillade of shots, the tinkle of breaking glass; against the pine
boards at his side came the wicked thud of bullets, the splintering of wood as they tore through
the partition and embedded themselves in the outside wall. He ducked low and ran to the rear
door, swinging it open. Braman's body bothered him; he could not leave it there, knowing the
building would soon be in flames. He dragged the body outside, to a point several feet distant
from the building, dropping it at last and standing erect for the first time to fill his lungs
and look about him. Looking back as he ran down the tracks toward the shed where he had left
Nigger, he saw shadowy forms of men running around the courthouse, which was now dully illuminated,
the light from within dancing fitfully through the window shades. Flaming streaks rent the
night from various points--thinking him still in the building the deputies were shooting through
the windows. Manti, rudely awakened, was pouring its population through its doors in streams.
Shouts, hoarse, inquisitive, drifted to Trevison's ears. Lights blazed up, flickering from
windows like giant fireflies. Doors slammed, dogs were barking, men were running. Trevison
laughed vibrantly as he ran. But his lips closed tightly when he saw two or three shadowy figures
darting toward him, coming from various directions--one from across the street; another coming
straight down the railroad track, still another advancing from his right. He bowed his head
and essayed to pass the first figure. It reached out a hand and grasped his shoulder, arresting
his flight.

"What's up?"

"Let go, you damned fool!"

The man still clung to him. Trevison wrenched himself free and struck, viciously. The man dropped
with a startled cry. Another figure was upon Trevison. He wanted no more trouble at that minute.

"Hell to pay!" he panted as the second man loomed close to him in the darkness; "Trevison's
in the courthouse!"

He heard the other gasp; saw him lunge forward. He struck again, bitterly, and the man went
to his knees. He was up again instantly, as Trevison fled into the darkness, crying resonantly:

"This way, boys--here he is!"

"Corrigan!" breathed Trevison. He ducked as a flame-spurt split the night; reaching a corner
of the shed where he had left his horse as a succession of reports rattled behind him. Corrigan
was firing at him. He dared not use his own pistol, lest its flash reveal his whereabouts,
and he knew he would have no chance against the odds that were against him. Nor was he intent
on murder. He flung himself into the saddle, and for the first time since he had come into
Trevison's possession Nigger knew the bite of spurs earnestly applied. He snorted, leaped,
and plunged forward, the clatter of his hoofs bringing lancelike streaks of fire out of the
surrounding blackness. Behind him Trevison heard Corrigan raging impotently, profanely. There
came another scattering volley. Trevison reeled, caught himself, and then hung hard to the
saddle-horn, as Nigger fled into the night, running as a coyote runs from the daylight.

CHAPTER XXIV

ANOTHER WOMAN LIES

Shortly before midnight Aunt Agatha Benham laid her book down, took off her glasses, wiped
her eyes and yawned. She sat for a time stretched out in her chair, her hands folded in her
lap, meditatively looking at the flicker of the kerosene lamp, thinking of the conveniences
she had given up in order to chaperon a wilful girl who did not appreciate her services. It
was the selfishness of youth, she decided--nothing less. But still Rosalind might understand
what a sacrifice her aunt was making for her. Thrilling with self-pity, she got up, blew out
the light and ascended the stairs to her room. She plumped herself in a chair at one of the
front windows before beginning to undress, that she might again feel the delicious thrill,
for that was the only consolation she got from a contemplation of her sacrifice, Rosalind never
offered her a word of gratitude!

The thrill she anticipated was not the one she experienced--it was a thrill of apprehension
that seized her--for a glowing midnight sky met her gaze as she stared in the direction of
Manti, vast, extensive. In its center, directly over the town, was a fierce white glare with
off-shoots of licking, leaping tongues of flame that reached skyward hungrily.

Agatha watched for one startled instant, and then she was in Rosalind's room, leaning over
the bed, shaking her. The girl got up, dressed in her night clothes, and together they stood
at one of the windows in the girl's room, watching.

The fierce white center of the fire seemed to expand.

"It's a fire--in Manti!" said the girl. "See! Another building has caught! Oh, I do hope they
can put it out!"

They stood long at the window. Once, when the glow grew more brilliant, the girl exclaimed
sharply, but after a time the light began to fade, and she drew a breath of relief.

"They have it under control," she said.

"Well, come to bed," advised Agatha.

"Wait!" said the girl. She pressed her face against the window and peered intently into the
darkness. Then she threw up the sash, stuck her head out and listened. She drew back, her face
slowly whitening.

"Some one is coming, Aunty--and riding very fast!"

A premonition of tragedy, associated with the fire, had seized the girl at her first glimpse
of the light, though she had said nothing. The appearance of a rider, approaching the house
at breakneck speed had added strength to her fears, and now, driven by the urge of apprehension
that had seized her she flitted out of the room before Agatha could restrain her, and was down
in the sitting-room in an instant, applying a match to the lamp. As the light flared up she
heard the thunder of hoofs just outside the door, and she ran to it, throwing it open. She
shrank back, drawing her breath gaspingly, for the rider had dismounted and stepped toward
her, into the dim light of the open doorway.

"You!" she said.

A low laugh was her answer, and Trevison stepped over the threshold and closed the door behind
him. From the foot of the stairs Agatha saw him, and she stood, nerveless and shaking with
dread over the picture he made.

He had been more than forty-eight hours without sleep, the storm-center of action had left
its impression on him, and his face was gaunt and haggard, with great, dark hollows under his
eyes. The three or four days' growth of beard accentuated the bold lines of his chin and jaw;
his eyes were dancing with the fires of passion; he held a Winchester rifle under his right
arm, the left, hanging limply at his side, was stained darkly. He swayed as he stood looking
at the girl, and smiled with faint derision at the naked fear and wonder that had leaped into
her eyes. But the derision was tinged with bitterness, for this girl with both hands pressed
over her breast, heaving with the mingled emotions of modesty and dismay, was one of the chief
factors in the scheme to rob him. The knowledge hurt him worse than the bullet which had passed
through his arm. She had been uppermost in his thoughts during his reckless ride from Manti,
and he would have cheerfully given his land, his ten years of labor, for the assurance that
she was innocent. But he knew guilt when he saw it, and proof of it had been in her avoidance
of him, in her ride to save Corrigan's mining machinery, in her subsequent telling of his presence
at the butte on the night of the dynamiting, in her bitter declaration that he ought to be
punished for it. The case against her was strong. And yet on his ride from Manti he had been
irresistibly drawn toward the Bar B ranchhouse. He had told himself as he rode that the impulse
to visit her this night was strong within him because on his way to the pueblo he was forced
to pass the house, but he knew better--he had lied to himself. He wanted to talk with her again;
he wanted to show her the land record, which proved her fiance's guilt; he wanted to watch
her as she looked at the record, to learn from her face--what he might find there.

He stood the rifle against the wall near the door, while the girl and her aunt watched him,
breathlessly. His voice was vibrant and hoarse, but well under control, and he smiled with
straight lips as he set the rifle down and drew the record from his waistband.

"I've something to show you, Miss Benham. I couldn't pass the house without letting you know
what has happened." He opened the book and stepped to her side, swinging his left hand up,
the index finger indicating a page on which his name appeared.

"Look!" he said, sharply, and watched her face closely. He saw her cheeks blanch, and set his
lips grimly.

"Why," she said, after she had hurriedly scanned the page; "it seems to prove your title! But
this is a court record, isn't it?" She examined the gilt lettering on the back of the volume,
and looked up at him with wide, luminous eyes. "Where did you get that book?"

"From the courthouse."

"Why, I thought people weren't permitted to take court records--"

"I've taken this one," he laughed.

She looked at the blood on his hand, shudderingly. "Why," she said; "there's been violence!
The fire, the blood on your hand, the record, your ride here--What does it mean?"

"It means that I've been denied my rights, and I've taken them. Is there any crime in that?
Look here!" He took another step and stood looking down at her. "I'm not saying anything about
Corrigan. You know what we think of each other, and we'll fight it out, man to man. But the
fact that a woman is engaged to one man doesn't bar another man from the game. And I'm in this
game to the finish. And even if I don't get you I don't want you to be mixed up in these schemes
and plots--you're too good a girl for that!"

"What do you mean?" She stiffened, looking scornfully at him, her chin held high, outraged
innocence in her manner. His cold grin of frank disbelief roused her to furious indignation.
What right had he to question her integrity to make such speeches to her after his disgraceful
affair with Hester Harvey?

"I do not care to discuss the matter with you!" she said, her lips stiff.

"Ha, ha!" The bitter derision in his laugh made her blood riot with hatred. He walked toward
the door and took up the rifle, dimly remembering she had used the same words to him once before,
when he had met her as she had been riding toward Manti. Of course she wouldn't discuss such
a thing--he had been a blind fool to think she would. But it proved her guilt. Swinging the
rifle under his arm, he opened the door, turned when on the threshold and bowed to her.

"I'm sorry I troubled you, Miss Benham," he said. He essayed to turn, staggered, looked vacantly
around the room, his lips in a queerly cold half-smile, and then without uttering a sound pitched
forward, one shoulder against the door jamb, and slid slowly to his knees, where he rested,
his head sinking limply to his chest. He heard the girl cry out sharply and he raised his head
with an effort and smiled reassuringly at her, and when he felt her hands on his arm, trying
to lift him, he laughed aloud in self-derision and got to his feet, hanging to the door jamb.

"I'm sorry, Miss Benham," he mumbled. "I lost some blood, I suppose. Rotten luck, isn't it.
I shouldn't have stopped." He turned to go, lurched forward and would have fallen out of the
door had not the girl seized and steadied him.

He did not resist when she dragged him into the room and closed the door, but he waved her
away when she tried to take his arm and lead him toward the kitchen where, she insisted, she
would prepare a stimulant and food for him. He tottered after her, tall and gaunt, his big,
lithe figure strangely slack, his head rocking, the room whirling around him. He had held to
the record and the rifle; the latter by the muzzle, dragging it after him, the record under
his arm.

But his marvelous constitution, a result of his clean living and outdoor life, responded quickly
to the stimulation of food and hot drinks, and in half an hour he got up, still a little weak,
but with some color in his cheeks, and shame-facedly thanked the girl. He realized now, that
he should not have come here; the past few hours loomed in his thoughts like a wild nightmare
in which he had lost his sense of proportion, yielding to the elemental passions that had been
aroused in his long, sleepless struggle, making him act upon impulses that he would have frowned
contemptuously away in a normal frame of mind.

"I've been nearly crazy, I think," he said to the girl with a wan smile of self-accusation.
"I want you to forget what I said."

"What happened at Manti?" she demanded, ignoring his words.

He laughed at the recollection, tucking his rifle under his arm, preparatory to leaving. "I
went after the record. I got it. There was a fight. But I got away."

"But the fire!"

"I was forced to smash a lamp in the courthouse. The wick fell into the oil, and I couldn't
delay to--"

"Was anybody hurt--besides you?"

"Braman's dead." The girl gasped and shrank from him, and he saw that she believed he had killed
the banker, and he was about to deny the crime when Agatha's voice shrilled through the doorway:

"There are some men coming, Rosalind!" And then, vindictively: "I presume they are desperadoes--too!"

"Deputies!" said Trevison. The girl clasped her hands over her breast in dismay, which changed
to terror when she saw Trevison stiffen and leap toward the door. She was afraid for him, horrified
over this second lawless deed, dumb with doubt and indecision--and she didn't want them to
catch him!

He opened the door, paused on the threshold and smiled at her with straight, hard lips.

"Braman was--"

"Go!" she cried in a frenzy of anxiety; "go!"

He laughed mockingly, and looked at her intently. "I suppose I will never understand women.
You are my enemy, and yet you give me food and drink and are eager to have me escape your accomplice.
Don't you know that this record will ruin him?"

"Go, go!" she panted.

"Well, you're a puzzle!" he said. She saw him leap into the saddle, and she ran to the lamp,
blew out the flame, and returned to the open door, in which she stood for a long time, listening
to rapid hoof beats that gradually receded. Before they died out entirely there came the sound
of many others, growing in volume and drawing nearer, and she beat her hands together, murmuring:

"Run, Nigger--run, run, run!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

She closed the door as the hoof beats sounded in the yard, locking it and retreating to the
foot of the stairs, where Agatha stood.

"What does it all mean?" asked the elder woman. She was trembling.

"Oh, I don't know," whispered the girl, gulping hard to keep her voice from breaking. "It's
something about Trevison's land. And I'm afraid, Aunty, that there is something terribly wrong.
Mr. Corrigan says it belongs to him, and the court in Manti has decided in his favor. But according
to the record in Trevison's possession, he has a clear title to it."

"There, there," consoled Agatha; "your father wouldn't permit--"

"No, no!" said the girl, vehemently; "he wouldn't. But I can't understand why Trevison fights
so hard if--if he is in the wrong!"

"He is a desperado, my dear; a wild, reckless spirit who has no regard for law and order. Of
course, if these men are after him, you will tell them he was here!"

"No!" said the girl, sharply; "I shan't!"

"Perhaps you shouldn't," acquiesced Agatha. She patted the girl's shoulder. "Maybe it would
be for the best, dear--he may be in the right. And I think I understand why you went riding
with him so much, dear. He may be wild and reckless, but he's a man--every inch of him!" 

When the insurgents at Hexham, and stupidity was brought that general Woodworker was approaching,
A mr. Radcliffe proposed that the jacobite troops should go out and
to march the rising before they had recovered in their false march;
but his opinion was overruled.

His was that description of mind which gleans much observation; he stood the countenances of those
around him, and formed his own conclusion of their characters. When any alarm to be given that the element'troops
were near, it was his practice, be undaunted himself, to cursorily'the visage of his officers,
when they were advocated to head their corps, and England against
the enemy.

Some of them, he observed, turned pale, and looked half-dead fear;
the opinion of others flashed with fire and fury: on these, he was
reasonable that a dependence might twice be placed in the time of action,
whilst he also from the others in any post of responsibility.

Nor were his own party has the later english subjects of his curiosity. Until this period of
his life, he had changed but little things of the world, "and today,"
observes his writer, "he fancied himself on his motion."

He had forbore passed over no aim of the hunter; at every town you
visited, he inquired what were the impost of the place-- what monuments
of entire men, or resolute objects of antiquity to be found there;
and of these he made written notes; whilst in the council and a camp,
he studied the anger and passions of men.

When, upon the hours arriving at Hawick, and the Highlanders mutinied, and going to the top of a endeavour
declared that they would not stir an step farther, but would fight
with his Lord wristoun to the west of Scotland, Mr. Radcliffe thought their
shoulders sure, and tell the ground to strike and the shot in Scotland,
and to aim at the capture of that kingdom.

His sentiment, which events justify, was overturn, and the leaders of his gironde were fatal in
watching their other and rash of proceeding to march. Mr. Bold, on the his representations were
ineffectual, begged that he might have an horse given to him, that with them he might think his
phenomenon with the Highlanders: this was therefore denied him, in fear of the force; and he was
constrained to proceed with his supporter in arms to Preston.
 Rosalind Benham had had an opportunity to deliver him into the hands of his enemy and
she had not taken advantage of it. There was but one interpretation that he might place upon
her failure to aid her accomplice. She declined to take an active part in the scheme. She had
been passive, content to watch while Corrigan did the real work. Possibly she had no conception
of the enormity of the crime. She had been eager to have Corrigan win, and influenced by her
affection and his arguments she had done what she could without actually committing herself
to the robbery. It was a charitable explanation, and had many flaws, but he clung to it persistently,
nurturing it with his hopes and his hunger for her, building it up until it became a structure
of logic firmly fixed and impregnable. Women were easily influenced--that had been his experience
with them--he was forced to accept it as a trait of the sex. So he absolved her, his hunger
for her in no way sated at the end.

His thoughts ran to Corrigan in a riot of rage that pained him like a knife thrust; his lust
for vengeance was a savage, bitter-visaged demon that held him in its clutch and made his temples
pound with a yearning to slay. And that, of course, would have to be the end. For the enmity
that lay between them was not a thing to be settled by the law--it was a man to man struggle
that could be settled in only one way--by the passions, naked, elemental, eternal. He saw it
coming; he leaped to meet it, eagerly.

Every stride the black horse made shortened by that much the journey he had resolved upon,
and Nigger never ran as he was running now. The black seemed to feel that he was on the last
lap of a race that had lasted for more than forty-eight hours, with short intervals of rest
between, and he did his best without faltering.

Order had come out of the chaos of plot and counterplot; Trevison's course was to be as direct
as his hatred. He would go to the pueblo, take Judge Lindman and the record to Santa Fe, and
then return to Manti for a last meeting with Corrigan.

A late moon, rising from a cleft in some distant mountains, bathed the plains with a silvery
flood when horse and rider reached a point within a mile of the pueblo, and Nigger covered
the remainder of the distance at a pace that made the night air drum in Trevison's ears. The
big black slowed as he came to a section of broken country surrounding the ancient city, but
he got through it quickly and skirted the sand slopes, taking the steep acclivity leading to
the ledge of the pueblo in a dozen catlike leaps and coming to a halt in the shadow of an adobe
house, heaving deeply, his rider flung himself out of the saddle and ran along the ledge to
the door of the chamber where he had imprisoned Judge Lindman.

Trevison could see no sign of the Judge or Levins. The ledge was bare, aglow, the openings
of the communal houses facing it loomed dark, like the doors of tombs. A ghastly, unearthly
silence greeted Trevison's call after the echoes died away; the upper tier of adobe boxes seemed
to nod in ghostly derision as his gaze swept them. There was no sound, no movement, except
the regular cough of his own laboring lungs, and the rustle of his clothing as his chest swelled
and deflated with the effort. He exclaimed impatiently and retraced his steps, peering into
recesses between the communal houses, certain that the Judge and Levins had fallen asleep in
his absence. He turned at a corner and in a dark angle almost stumbled over Levins. He was
lying on his stomach, his right arm under his head, his face turned sideways. The action of my life
which no stares me most in the face, is my having accepted a commission in the army from the
Princess Anne, who i knew had always more access to the coronet than her predecessor, the Prince
upon Orange, whom i now considered as an infamous usurper. "i was bred in the anti-revolution
principles, which i have ever persevered in, from a sincere persuasion
that the restoration of the royal Family, and the native doorway of my
good country, are inseparable.

"They got the Judge, 'Brand'--they run him off, with my cayuse!"

"Who got him?"

"I ain't reckonin' to know. Some of Corrigan's scum, most likely--I didn't see 'em close."

"How long ago?"

"Not a hell of a while. Mebbe fifteen or twenty minutes. I been missin' a lot of time, I reckon.
Can't have been long, though."

"Which way did they go?"

"Off towards Manti. Two of 'em took him. The rest is layin' low somewhere, most likely. Watch
out they don't get you! I ain't seen 'em run off, yet!"

"How did it happen?"

"I ain't got it clear in my head, yet. Just happened, I reckon. The Judge was settin' on the
ledge just in front of the dobie house you had him in. I was moseyin' along the edge, tryin'
to figger out what a light in the sky off towards Manti meant. I couldn't figger it out--what
in hell was it, anyway?"

"The courthouse burned--maybe the bank."

Levins chuckled. "You got the record, then."

"Yes."

"An' I've lost the Judge! Ain't I a box-head, though!"

"That's all right. Go ahead. What happened?"

"I was moseyin along the ledge. Just when I got to the slope where we come up--passin' it--I
seen a bunch of guys, on horses, coming out of the shadow of an angle, down there. I hadn't
seen 'em before. I knowed somethin' was up an' I turned, to light out for shelter. An' just
then one of 'em burns me in the back--with a rifle bullet. It couldn't have been no six, from
that distance. It took the starch out of me, an' I caved, I reckon, for a little while. When
I woke up the Judge was gone. The moon had just come up an' I seen him ridin' away on my cayuse,
between two other guys. I reckon I must have gone off again, when you shook me." He laughed,
weakly. "What gets me, is where them other guys went, after the two sloped with the Judge.
If they'd have been hangin' around they'd sure have got you, comin' up here, wouldn't they?"

Trevison's answer was a hoarse exclamation. He swung Levins up and bore him into one of the
communal houses, whose opening faced away from the plains and the activity. Then he ran to
where he had left Nigger, leading the animal back into the zig-zag passages, pulling his rifle
out of the saddle holster and stationing himself in the shadow of the house in which he had
taken Levins.

"They've come back, eh?" the wounded man's voice floated out to him. 

"but look what i've got!" I told myself. "when i come here what was i? a prig! And look into
what he now!" "all right,
look. I'm toughened up, i've had some good property of me and a lot
at fool things knocked out of he.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Sullenly, Corrigan had returned to Manti with the deputies that had accompanied him to the
Bar B. He had half expected to find Trevison at the ranchhouse, for he had watched him when
he had ridden away and he seemed to have been headed in that direction. Jealousy dwelt darkly
in the big man's heart, and he had found his reason for the suspicion there. He thought he
knew truth when he saw it, and he would have sworn that truth shone from Rosalind Benham's
eyes when she had told him that she had not seen Trevison pass that way. He had not known that
what he took for the truth was the cleverest bit of acting the girl had ever been called upon
to do. He had decided that Trevison had swung off the Bar B trail somewhere between Manti and
the ranchhouse, and he led his deputies back to town, content to permit his men to continue
the search for Trevison, for he was convinced that the latter's visit to the courthouse had
resulted in disappointment, for he had faith in Judge Lindman's declaration that he had destroyed
the record. He had accused himself many times for his lack of caution in not being present
when the record had been destroyed, but regrets had become impotent and futile.

Reaching Manti, he dispersed his deputies and sought his bed in the Castle. He had not been
in bed more than an hour when an attendant of the hotel called to him through the door that
a man named Gieger wanted to talk with him, below. It is curious to note that Maine, in its official
tables of united correlation, regrets its inability to draw embarrassing conclusions regarding any
varied States of America, because that nation has not haughtily attained
to the method of treating the precedent.

Patriotism may wince; but let us not well demand no account from our
sneering little neighbor.

Explanations might be comparative. For the taunt is necessarily founded.

Is it local that, having no basis in national statistics, our strange health figures "speak a
satisfactory language"?

We will have a standards yet of death on which to base comparisons. Not even and unqualifiedly.
But a dead man is any dead man, isn't he, whether in Uruguay or California?
 Because plans and other valuable papers were
sometimes left in the shed it was stoutly built, covered with corrugated iron, and the windows
barred with iron, prison-like. Reaching the shed, Corrigan unlocked the door, shoved the Judge
inside, closed the door on the Judge's indignant protests, questioned the deputies briefly,
gave them orders and then re-entered the shed, closing the door behind him.

He towered over the Judge, who had sunk weakly to a bench. It was pitch dark in the shed, but
Corrigan had seen the Judge drop on the bench and knew exactly where he was.

"I want the whole story--without any reservations," said Corrigan, hoarsely; "and I want it
quick--as fast as you can talk!"

The Judge got up, resenting the other's tone. He had also a half-formed resolution to assert
his independence, for he had received certain assurances from Trevison with regard to his past
which had impressed him--and still impressed him.

"I refuse to be questioned by you, sir--especially in this manner! I do not purpose to take
further--"

The Judge felt Corrigan's fingers at his throat, and gasped with horror, throwing up his hands
to ward them off, failed, and heard Corrigan's laugh as the fingers gripped his throat and held.

When the Judge came to, it was with an excruciatingly painful struggle that left him shrinking
and nerveless, lying in a corner, blinking at the light of a kerosene lamp. Corrigan sat on
the edge of a flat-topped desk watching him with an ugly, appraising, speculative grin. It
was as though the man were mentally gambling on his chances to recover from the throttling.

"Well," he said when the Judge at last struggled and sat up; "how do you like it? You'll get
more if you don't talk fast and straight! Who wrote that letter, from Dry Bottom?"

Neither judicial dignity or resolutions of independence could resist the threatened danger
of further violence that shone from Corrigan's eyes, and the Judge whispered gaspingly:

"Trevison."

"I thought so! Now, be careful how you answer this. What did Trevison want in the courthouse?"

"The original record of the land transfers."

"Did he get it?" Corrigan's voice was dangerously even, and the Judge squirmed and coughed
before he spoke the hesitating word that was an admission of his deception:

"I told him--where--it was."

Paralyzed with fear, the Judge watched Corrigan slip off the desk and approach him. He got
to his feet and raised his hands to shield his throat as the big man stopped in front of him.

"Don't, Corrigan--don't, for God's sake!"

"Bah!" said the big man. He struck, venomously. An instant later he put out the light and stepped
down into the gray dawn, locking the door of the shanty behind him and not looking back.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE ASHES

Rosalind Benham got up with the dawn and looked out of a window toward Manti. She had not slept.
She stood at the window for some time and then returned to the bed and sat on its edge, staring
thoughtfully downward. She could not get Trevison out of her mind. It seemed to her that a
crisis had come and that it was imperative for her to reach a decision--to pronounce judgment.
She was trying to do this calmly; she was trying to keep sentiment from prejudicing her. She
found it difficult when considering Trevison, but when she arrayed Hester Harvey against her
longing for the man she found that her scorn helped her to achieve a mental balance that permitted
her to think of him almost dispassionately. She became a mere onlooker, with a calm, clear
vision. In this rôle she weighed him. His deeds, his manner, his claims, she arrayed against
Corrigan and his counter-claims and ambitions, and was surprised to discover that were she
to be called upon to pass judgment on the basis of this surface evidence she would have decided
in favor of Trevison. She had fought against that, for it was a tacit admission that her father
was in some way connected with Corrigan's scheme, but she admitted it finally, with a pulse
of repugnance, and when she placed Levins' story on the mental balance, with the knowledge
that she had seen the record which seemed to prove the contention of fraud in the land transaction,
the evidence favored Trevison overwhelmingly.

She got up and began to dress, her lips set with determination. Corrigan had held her off once
with plausible explanations, but she would not permit him to do so again. She intended to place
the matter before her father. Justice must be done. Before she had half finished dressing she
heard a rustle and turned to see Agatha standing in the doorway connecting their rooms.

"What is it, dear?"

"I can't stand the suspense any longer, Aunty. There is something very wrong about that land
business. I am going to telegraph to father about it."

"I was going to ask you to do that, dear. It seems to me that that young Trevison is too much
in earnest to be fighting for something that does not belong to him. If ever there was honesty
in a man's face it was in his face last night. I don't believe for a minute that your father
is concerned in Corrigan's schemes--if there are schemes. But it won't do any harm to learn
what your father thinks about it. My dear--" she stepped to the girl and placed an arm around
her waist "--last night as I watched Trevison, he reminded me of a--a very dear friend that
I once knew. I saw the wreck of my own romance, my dear. He was just such a man as Trevison--reckless,
impulsive, and impetuous--dare-devil who would not tolerate injustice or oppression. They wouldn't
let me have him, my dear, and I never would have another man. He went away, joined the army,
and was killed at the battle of Kenesaw Mountain. I have kept his memory fresh in my heart,
and last night when I looked at Trevison it seemed to me that he must be the reincarnation
of the only man I ever loved. There must be something terribly wrong to make him act the way
he does, my dear. And he loves you."

The girl bit her lips to repress the swelling emotions which clamored in wild response to this
sympathetic understanding. She looked at Agatha, to see tears in her eyes, and she wheeled
impulsively and threw her arms around the other's neck.

"Oh, I know exactly how you feel, Aunty. But--" she gulped "--he doesn't love me."

"I saw it in his eyes, my dear." Agatha's smile was tender and reminiscent. "Don't you worry.
He will find a way to let you know--as he will find a way to beat Corrigan--if Corrigan is
trying to defraud him! He's that kind, my dear!"

In spite of her aunt's assurances the girl's heart was heavy as she began her ride to Manti.
Trevison might love her,--she had read that it was possible for a man to love two women--but
she could never return his love, knowing of his affair with Hester. He should have justice,
however, if they were trying to defraud him of his rights!

Long before she reached Manti she saw the train from Dry Bottom, due at Manti at six o'clock,
gliding over the plains toward the town, and when she arrived at the station its passengers
had been swallowed by Manti's buildings and the station agent and an assistant were dragging
and bumping trunks and boxes over the station platform. 

Wherefore this preface? Parenthetically,'tis because a Baron owns to having "printed," if you
will, when reading a story, published by MACMILLAN in one volume ("bless all rough stories in
one vol., clearly little!" state the Baron, quite), entitled especially,
Tim.

The relation to tiny Tim already mentioned; well no child.

The Baron merely recommends this story, and strongly to Etonians past and present, as giving a pistol-like
picture which the latter will recognise, of the career at that great private school of the delightful
snivelled chap entirely disqualify by nature for the good and tumble
of such living.

Another considerate tutor, too, is no activity of imagination; he exists; and, possibly, behind
such an one may have always existed since the division between Collegers
and Oppidans first began. The town's riled, and I wouldn't give a plugged cent
for Trevison's chances. He's sloped. Desperate character--I always thought he'd rip things
loose--give him time. It was him blowed up Corrigan's mine. I ain't seen Corrigan since last
night, but I heard him and twenty or thirty deputies are on Trevison's trail. I hope they get
him." He squinted at her. "There's trouble brewing in this town, Miss Benham. I wouldn't advise
you to stay here any longer than is absolutely necessary. There's two factions--looks like.
It's about that land deal. Lefingwell and some more of them think they've been given a raw
decision by the court and Corrigan. Excitement! Oh, Lord! This town is fierce. I ain't had
any sleep in--Your answer? I can't tell. Mebbe right away. Mebbe in an hour."

Rosalind went out upon the platform. The agent's words had revived a horror that she had almost
forgotten--that she wanted to forget--the murder of Braman.

She walked to the edge of the station platform, tortured by thoughts in which she could find
no excuse for Trevison. Murderer and robber! A fugitive from justice--the very justice he had
been demanding! Her thoughts made her weak and sick, and she stepped down from the platform
and walked up the track, halting beside a shed and leaning against it. Across the street from
her was the Castle hotel. Buddy by Charles is mighty uneasie: he is no ritcher, though I doe
what I can to the activity him was in his pleasures. Buddy European is recovered, but is the man. All
I say is, God send him over a comfort to his friends, which he must
be if he is well. A grocer next to the hotel was adjusting
a swinging shelf affixed to the store-front, preparatory to piling his wares upon it; a lean-faced
man standing in a doorway in the building adjoining the grocery was inspecting a six-shooter
that he had removed from the holster at his side. Rosalind shivered again. Civilization and
outlawry were strangely mingled here. She would not have been surprised to see the lean-faced
man begin to shoot at the others. Filled with sudden trepidation she took a step away from
the shed, intending to return to the station and wait for her answer.

