300. Within the Editor's memory, polished writers hesitated to name our incomparable allegorist,
on account of his humble name and education. Thus Cowper sang--

'I name thee not, lest so despised a name Should move a sneer at thy deserved fame.'

Now nearly all men find it difficult to do that name sufficient honour. One of the most splendid
steam-ships in America is called after his name. A magnificent ship, for the China trade, was
built at Aberdeen by Walter Hood & Co., which so swiftly traversed the ocean as to have made
the voyage from Canton to London in ninety-nine days, without any aid from steam. This beautiful
and grand specimen of the perfection of naval architecture is named The John Bunyan. Roman
Catholics have printed large editions of the Pilgrim, with slight omissions, for circulation
among the young under the care of the nuns. Our English fanatics have committed a crime that
would make a papist blush. A Rev. E. Neale has clumsily altered the Pilgrim's Progress, that
Bunyan might appear to teach the things which Bunyan's righteous heaven-born soul abhorred.
It is a piece of matchless self-conceit to think of mending that which has been admired by
the wisest of the human race in all nations, and which has obtained an unbounded popularity.
Such an attempt to alter it is an acknowledgment that all the boasted power of Oxford, Exeter,
and Rome, are unable to invent a tale to supersede the matchless beauties of the work of our
spiritually-minded, heavenly-assisted brazier. If Mr. Neale should, at any time, alter a deed
and the punishment for that felony is transportation for life. A similar forgery was committed
in a recent London edition of Dr. Cheever's Hill Difficulty. The Tractarians, doubtless, commit
these scandalous outrages upon the Fathers, and all other writers, and deserve the contempt
of every honest, upright mind.

301. Vol. i., p. 473.

302. Vol. i., p. 480.

303. Two views of this meeting-house, an exterior and interior, after its conversion into a
workshop, are given in the Plate facing page i. of this Memoir. In the interior, part of the
beams and pillars that supported the gallery still remain.

304. Toplady's Works, vol. iv., p. 463.

305. Vol. iii., p. 637.

306. One of his anecdotes is remarkable, as exhibiting the state of medical knowledge in his
neighbourhood. A poor wretch, who had taught his son to blaspheme, was affected with a nervous
twisting of the muscles of his chest. This was supposed to arise from a Satanic possession.
One Freeman, a more than ordinary doctor, attempted the cure. There they kept the man till
he was almost smothered, but no devil came out of him [Vol. iii., p. 605]. The death-bed scene
of the broken-hearted Mrs. Badman, is delicately and beautifully drawn.

307. Sutcliff's History of Bunyan's Church.

308. Vol. iii., p. 245.

309. A beautiful satire is contained in the account of the traitors--tradition, human wisdom,
and man's invention. This picture is drawn by an inimitable artist. Nor have we seen anything
more admirably adapted to the present state of our Tractarian times. Vol. iii. 277.

310. Vol. i., p. 22, No. 128.

311. Vol. ii., p. 574.

312. Life, 1692.

313. Grace Abounding (continued), vol. i., p. 63, and Life, 1692.

314. Vol. i., p. 505.

315. Vol. i., p. 719.

316. Vol. i., p. 753.

317. Some of the wax remains, but the coin is lost.

318. Vol. iii., p. 763.

319. Vol. i., p. 81.

320. Mr. Philip, Critique on Bunyan, p. vi. and xvi.

321. Vol. ii., p. 425.

322. Vol. iii., p. 766.

323. Grace Abounding, 1692.

324. No. 25, E.; 26, W.; 26, N.; 27, S.

325. As matters of curious interest to all lovers of Bunyan, we insert, in the accompanying
page, engravings of these relics, from drawings by Mr. Edward Offor.

326. The chair is engraved above, and it will be seen that it has suffered some little dilapidation
since the last published engraving of it. The legs have been cut down to suit the height of
one of his successors in the ministry!! With regard to the pulpit, an old resident in Bedford
says--The celebrated John Howard presented a new pulpit in the room of the old one, which was
cut up. Of part of the wood a table was made, which now belongs to Mrs. Hillyerd.

327. Vol. iii., p. 297.

328. Vol. i., p. 714.

329. Vol. i., p. 686.

330. Vol. i., pp. 690, 691.

331. Vol. ii., p. 261.

332. Vol. iii., p. 748.

333. It is noticed, in a letter to the Secretary for Ireland, dated September 6, 1688--'On
teusday last died the Lord Mayor Sir J. Shorter. A few days before died Bunnian his lordship's
teacher or chaplain a man said to be gifted that way though once a cobler' [Ellis's Cor., vol.
ii., p. 161]. We can excuse the sarcasm of a Roman Catholic, and with equal good nature, and
more truth, remark, that the great and eminent pope, Sixtus V., was once a swineherd--not a
bad school in which to study how to keep up a despotic sway over the Papacy.

334. Vol. iii., p. 308.

335. Law and Grace, marg., vol. i., p. 524.

336. Vol. ii., p. 651.

337. Vol. i., pp. 634, 635.

338. Vol. ii., p. 653.

339. Vol. i., p. 647.

340. Vol. ii., p. 15.

341. Vol. ii., p. 497.

342. Vol. iii., p. 251.

343. Emblem xiv., vol. iii., p. 751.

344. Christ is made known by the sufferings of his saints, vol. ii., p. 701, and note.

345. Vol. iii., p. 751, and note.

346. Vol. iii., p. 595.

347. Vol. ii., p. 22.

348. Vol. ii., p. 257.

349. Works, folio, 1693.

Whereunto is added a brief relation of his call to the work of the ministry, of his temptations
therein, as also what he hath met with in prison. All which was written by his own hand there,
and now published for the support of the weak and tempted people of God.

"Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul."--Psalm
66:16.

London: Printed by George Larkin, 1666. Here is also particularly showed, what sight of, and
what trouble he had for sin; and also what various temptations he hath met with, and how God
hath carried him through them.

Corrected and much enlarged now by the Author, for the benefit of the tempted and dejected
Christian.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

The great utility of remarkable accounts of the ways of God in bringing his sheep into the
fold, must be admitted by all. The Bible abounds with these manifestations of Divine grace
from the gentle voice that called Samuel, even unto the thunder which penetrated the soul of
one, who followed the church with continued malignity, calling unto him, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest
thou me?"--a voice so terrible, and accompanied by such a flood of light, as to strike the
persecutor to the earth, and for a season to deprive him of sight.

The 'Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners' is doubly interesting, as it unfolds to us not
only the return of a notorious prodigal, but a wondrous system of education, by which a chosen
man was fitted for a wondrous work; heavenly and spiritual learning, which could not have been
obtained in all the schools and universities in the world. It enabled a poor, vile, unlettered
rebel--a blasphemous travelling tinker, to become a most eminent preacher; one whose native
powers, sanctified by harrowing but hallowing feelings, attracted the deep attention of the
most learned and pious of his contemporaries, while it carried conviction to the most impious
and profane. Even beyond all this, his spiritual acquirements fitted him, without scholastic
learning, to become the most popular, the most attractive, the most useful of English authors.
His works increase remarkably in popularity. As time rolls on, they are still read with deeper
and deeper interest, while his bodily presence and labours mingle in the records of the events
of bygone ages.

Bunyan's account of his singular trials and temptations may have excited alarm in the minds
of some young Christians lest they should be in an unconverted state, because they have not
been called to pass through a similar mode of training. Pray recollect, my dear young Christian,
that all are not called to such important public labours as Bunyan, or Whitfield, or Wesley.
All the members of the Christian family are trained to fit them for their respective positions
in the church of Christ. It is a pleasant and profitable exercise to look back to the day of
our espousals, and trace the operations of Divine grace in digging us from the hole of the
pit; but the important question with us all should be, not so much HOW we became enlightened,
but NOW do we love Christ? Now do we regret our want of greater conformity to his image? If
we can honestly answer these questions in the affirmative, we are believers, and can claim
our part in that precious promise, "Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die."
Spiritual life is ours, and eternal life is essentially connected with it, and must be our
portion, without an inquiry into the means by which we were called, whether by the thunders
and lighting of Sinai, as Paul was smitten, or by the "still small voice" (Acts 9:3,4; 1 Kings
19:12; Job 4:16,17).

The value of such a narrative to a terror-stricken prodigal is vividly shown by Bunyan, in
his 'Jerusalem Sinner Saved,' in one of those colloquial pieces of composition in which he
eminently shone. O blessed be God for grace, says the other, for then I hope there is favour
for me.'

The 'Grace Abounding' is a part of Bunyan's prison meditations, and strongly reminds us of
the conversation between Christian and Hopeful on the enchanted ground.

'Christian. Now then, to prevent drowsiness in this place, let us fall into good discourse.

'Hopeful. With all my heart.

'Christian. Where shall we begin?

'Hopeful. Where God began with us.'

To prevent drowsiness, to beguile the time, he looks back to his past experience, and the prison
became his Patmos--the gate of heaven--a Bethel, in which his time was occupied in writing
for the benefit of his fellow-Christians. He looks back upon all the wondrous way through which
the Lord had led him from the City of Destruction to Mount Zion. While writing his own spiritual
pilgrimage, his great work broke upon his imagination. It is as if you stood beside some great
sculptor, and watched every movement of his chisel, having seen his design; so that at every
blow some new trait of beauty in the future statue comes clearly into view.'[1]

A great difference of opinion has been expressed by learned men as to whether Bunyan's account
of himself is to be understood literally, as it respects his bad conduct before his conversion,
or whether he views himself through a glass, by which his evil habits are magnified. No one
can doubt his perfect honesty. He plainly narrates his bad, as well as his redeeming qualities;
nor does his narrative appear to be exaggerated. He was the son of a travelling tinker, probably
a gipsy, 'the meanest and most despised rank in the land'; when, alarmed at his sins, recollection
that the Israelites were once the chosen people of God, he asked his father, whether he was
of that race; as if he thought that his family were of some peculiar people, and it was easy
for such a lad to blend the Egyptians with the Israelitish race. When he was defamed, his slanderers
called him a witch, or fortune teller, a Jesuit, a highwayman, or the like. Brought up to his
father's trade, with his evil habits unchecked, he became a very depraved lad; and when he
states his sad character, it is with a solemn pledge that his account is strictly true. Probably,
with a view to the full gratification of his sinful propensities, he entered the army, and
served among the profligate soldiers of Charles I at the siege of Leicester.[2]

During this time, he was ill at ease; he felt convinced of sin, or righteousness, and of judgment,
without a hope of mercy. Hence his misery and internal conflicts, perhaps the most remarkable
of any upon record. His own Giant Despair seized him with an iron grasp. He felt himself surrounded
by invisible beings, and in the immediate presence of a holy God. By day, he was bewildered
with tormenting visions, and by night alarming dreams presented themselves to him upon his
bed. The fictitious appeared to his terrified imagination realities. His excited spirit became
familiar with shapeless forms and fearful powers. The sorrows of death, and the pains of hell,
got hold upon him. His internal conflict was truly horrible, as one who thought himself under
the power of demons; they whispered in his ears--pulled his clothes; he madly fought, striking
at imaginary shades with his hands, and stamping with his feet at the destroyer. Thoughts of
the unpardonable sin beset him, his powerful bodily frame became convulsed with agony, as if
his breast bone would split, and he burst asunder like Judas. He possessed a most prolific
mind, affording constant nourishment to this excited state of his feelings. He thought that
he should be bereft of his wits; than a voice rushed in at the window like the noise of wind,
very pleasant, and produced a great calm in his soul. His intervals of ease, however, were
short; the recollection of his sins, and a fear that he had sold his Saviour, haunted his affrighted
spirit. His soul became so tormented, as to suggest to his ideas the suffering of a malefactor
broken upon the wheel. The climax of these terrors is narrated at paragraph No. 187. 'Thus
was I always sinking, whatever I did think or do.

Young Christians, you must not imagine that all these terrors are absolute prerequisites to
faith in the Saviour. God, as a sovereign, calls his children to himself by various ways. Bunyan's
was a very extraordinary case, partly from his early habits--his excitable mind, at a period
so calculated to fan a spark of such feelings into a flame. His extraordinary inventive faculties,
softened down and hallowed by this fearful experience, became fitted for most extensive usefulness.

To eulogize this narrative, would be like 'gilding refined gold'; but I cannot help remarking,
among a multitude of deeply interesting passages, his observations upon that honest open avowal
of Christian principles, which brought down severe persecution upon him. They excite our tenderest
sympathy; his being dragged from his home and wife and children, he says, 'hath oft been to
me, as the pulling my flesh from my bones; my poor blind child, what sorrow art thou like to
have for thy portion in this world! thou must be beaten, must beg, suffer hunger, cold, nakedness,
and a thousand calamities, though I cannot now endure the wind should blow upon thee. O, I
saw I was as a man who was pulling down his house upon the head of his wife and children; yet,
recollecting myself, thought I, I must venture you all with God.' How awful must be the state
of the wretched persecutor, who occasions such sufferings to the children of the most high God!

In this edition, the greatest care has been taken to preserve the exact words of the author,
as he first published them; where he altered or added to the text in subsequent editions, it
is marked with an inverted comma, or inserted in the notes. Obsolete words and customs are
explained; the numbering of his sections is continued, in addition to which, it is divided
into chapters for family reading, upon the plan of the late Rev. J. Ivimey; double inverted
commas denote quotations of Scripture.

The reader is strongly pressed to keep in his recollection the peculiar use made of the word
should, by the author in this narrative. It is from the Saxon scealan, to be obliged. Thus,
in the Saxon gospels (Matt 27:15), "the governor should release unto the people a prisoner";
in our version it is, "was wont to release," meaning that custom compelled him so to do. In
Bunyan's phraseology, the word should is used in the same sense, that is, to show that, under
peculiar circumstances, his feelings or position involuntarily produced a certain result. Thus,
in No. 6, Troubled with the thoughts of judgment and condemnation I should tremble; and in
No. 15, The father of his wife having left her two books, in these I should sometimes read;
probably the only books he then had. It is remarkable, that although the Saxon language had
not been spoken in Bedfordshire for many centuries, still many valuable words remained in use.

The order in which this thrilling narrative of Bunyan's religious feelings and experience is
now for the first time published, is, I. Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners--his call
to the ministry, and his imprisonment for refusing to attend the Church of England service.
II. His Relation of the Circumstances attending his incarceration in Bedford Jail. III. The
continuation of his Life to his decease, written by one of his friends, and always printed
with Grace Abounding. IV. His Dying Thoughts. V. His Prison Meditations--verses which were
probably sold on a broadside or sheet of paper by his children, to procure necessaries for
his family.

The length of the notes may need some apology; the only one the editor can make is his veneration
for John Bunyan, and his earnest desire to render this inestimable book more deeply interesting,
by explaining manners, customs, and words not now in use; the note on No. 232, occupied the
time of one whole day.

The errors, omissions, and additions, which existed to a most extraordinary extent through
the book, have been corrected, and the text restored to its primitive beauty; among many hundred
of these errors, one may suffice as a specimen; it is in Bunyan's preface, 'God did not play
in convincing of me, the devil did not play in tempting of me,' this is altered in many editions
to 'God did not play in tempting of me.'

Most earnestly do I hope that this republication, now for the first time, for nearly two hundred
years, given in its native excellence and purity, may be attended with the Divine blessing,
to the comfort of many despairing Jerusalem sinners; to the building up of the church of Christ
on earth; to the extension of pure, heart-felt, genuine Christianity; and to the confusion
of the persecutors. They intended, by shutting the pious pilgrim up in a dungeon, to prevent
his voice from being heard to the comfort of his poor neighbours, and by which violence, his
persecutors have caused his voice to burst the prison doors and walls, and to be heard over
the whole world. His 'Pilgrim's Progress,' which was written in prison, has been, and now is,
a guide to Christian pilgrims of all nations, kindreds, tribes, and people, teaching them not
to rest content in any national religion, but personally to search the Scriptures, with earnest
supplications to the God of mercy and truth, that they may be guided to Christ, as the Alpha
and Omega of their salvation.

GEORGE OFFOR.

A PREFACE, OR BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE PUBLISHING OF THIS WORK, WRITTEN BY THE AUTHOR THEREOF,
AND DEDICATED TO THOSE WHOM GOD HATH COUNTED HIM WORTHY TO BEGET TO FAITH, BY HIS MINISTRY
IN THE WORD.

Children, grace be with you, Amen. I being taken from you in presence, and so tied up, that
I cannot perform that duty that from God doth lie upon me to youward, for your further edifying
and building up in faith and holiness, &c., yet that you may see my soul hath fatherly care
and desire after your spiritual and everlasting welfare; I now once again, as before, from
the top of Shenir and Hermon, so 'now' from the lions' dens, from the mountains of the leopards
(Song 4:8), do look yet after you all, greatly longing to see your safe arrival into the desired
haven.[3]

I thank God upon every remembrance of you; and rejoice, even while I stick between the teeth
of the lions in the wilderness, at the grace, and mercy, and knowledge of Christ our saviour,
which God hath bestowed upon you, with abundance of faith and love. Your hungerings and thirstings
also after further acquaintance with the Father, in his Son; your tenderness of heart, your
trembling at sin, your sober and holy deportment also, before both God and men, is great refreshment
to me; "For ye are my glory and joy" (1 Thess 2:20).

I have sent you here enclosed, a drop of that honey, that I have taken out of the carcase of
a lion (Judg 14:5-9). I have eaten thereof myself also, and am much refreshed thereby. (Temptations,
when we meet them at first, are as the lion that roared upon Samson; but if we overcome them,
the next time we see them, we shall find a nest of honey within them.) The Philistines understand
me not. It is 'something of' a relation of the work of God upon my own soul, even from the
very first, till now; wherein you may perceive my castings down, and raisings up; for he woundeth,
and his hands make whole. It is written in the Scripture (Isa 38:19), "The father to the children
shall make known the truth of God." Yea, it was for this reason I lay so long at Sinai (Deut
4:10,11), to see the fire, and the cloud, and the darkness, that I might fear the Lord all
the days of my life upon earth, and tell of his wondrous works to my children (Psa 78:3-5).

Moses (Num 33:1,2) writ of the journeyings of the children of Israel, from Egypt to the land
of Canaan; and commanded also, that they did remember their forty years' travel in the wilderness.
"Thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness,
to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep
his commandments, or no" (Deut 8:2). Wherefore this I have endeavoured to do; and not only
so, but to publish it also; that, if God will, others may be put in remembrance of what he
hath done for their souls, by reading his work upon me.

It is profitable for Christians to be often calling to mind the very beginnings of grace with
their souls. "It is a night to be much observed unto the Lord for bringing them out from the
land of Egypt: this is that night of the Lord to be observed of all the children of Israel
in their generations" (Exo 12:42). "O my God," saith David (Psa 42:6), "my soul is cast down
within me; therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from
the hill Mizar." He remembered also the lion and the bear, when he went to fight with the giant
of Gath (1 Sam 17:36,37).

It was Paul's accustomed manner (Acts 22), and that when tried for his life (Acts 24), even
to open, before his judges, the manner of his conversion: he would think of that day, and that
hour, in the which he first did meet with grace;[4] for he found it support unto him. When
God had brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea, far into the wilderness, yet they
must turn quite about thither again, to remember the drowning of their enemies there (Num 14:25).
For though they sang his praise before, yet "they soon forgat his works" (Psa 106:11-13).

In this discourse of mine you may see much; much, I say, of the grace of God towards me. I
thank God I can count it much, for it was above my sins and Satan's temptations too. I can
remember my fears, and doubts, and sad months with comfort; they are as the head of Goliah
in my hand. There was nothing to David like Goliah's sword, even that sword that should have
been sheathed in his bowels; for the very sight and remembrance of that did preach forth God's
deliverance to him. Oh, the remembrance of my great sins, of my great temptations, and of my
great fears of perishing for ever! They bring afresh into my mind the remembrance of my great
help, my great support from heaven, and that the great grace that God extended to such a wretch
as I.

My dear children, call to mind the former days, "and the years of ancient times: remember also
your songs in the night; and commune with your own heart" (Psa 73:5-12). Yea, look diligently,
and leave no corner therein unsearched, for there is treasure hid, even the treasure of your
first and second experience of the grace of God toward you. Remember, I say, the word that
first laid hold upon you; remember your terrors of conscience, and fear of death and hell;
remember also your tears and prayers to God; yea, how you sighed under every hedge for mercy.
Have you never a hill Mizar to remember? Have you forgot the close, the milk house, the stable,
the barn, and the like, where God did visit your soul?[5] Remember also the Word--the Word,
I say, upon which the Lord hath caused you to hope. If you have sinned against light; if you
are tempted to blaspheme; if you are down in despair; if you think God fights against you;
or if heaven is hid from your eyes, remember it was thus with your father, but out of them
all the Lord delivered me.

I could have enlarged much in this my discourse, of my temptations and troubles for sin; as
also of the merciful kindness and working of God with my soul. I could also have stepped into
a style much higher than this in which I have here discoursed, and could have adorned all things
more than here I have seemed to do, but I dare not. God did not play in convincing of me, the
devil did not play in tempting of me, neither did I play when I sunk as into a bottomless pit,
when the pangs of hell caught hold upon me; wherefore I may not play in my relating of them,
but be plain and simple, and lay down the thing as it was. He that liketh it, let him receive
it; and he that does not, let him produce a better. Farewell.

My dear children, the milk and honey is beyond this wilderness. God be merciful to you, and
grant 'that' you be not slothful to go in to possess the land.

JOHN BUNYAN.

[BUNYAN'S ACCOUNT OF HIMSELF PREVIOUS TO HIS CONVERSION.]

1. In this my relation of the merciful working of God upon my soul, it will not be amiss, if,
in the first place, I do, in a few words, give you a hint of my pedigree, and manner of bringing
up; that thereby the goodness and bounty of God towards me, may be the more advanced and magnified
before the sons of men.

2.

3.

4. (Eph 2:2,3). It was my delight to be "taken captive by the devil at his will" (2 Tim 2:26).
Being filled with all unrighteousness: the which did also so strongly work and put forth itself,
both in my heart and life, and that from a child, that I had but few equals, especially considering
my years, which were tender, being few, both for cursing, swearing, lying, and blaspheming
the holy name of God.

5.

6. Also I should, at these years, be greatly afflicted and troubled with the thoughts of the
day of judgment, and that both night and day, and should tremble at the thoughts of the fearful
torments of hell fire; still fearing that it would be my lot to be found at last amongst those
devils and hellish fiends, who are there bound down with the chains and bonds of eternal darkness,
"unto the judgment of the great day."

7. These things, I say, when I was but a child, 'but nine or ten years old,' did so distress
my soul, that when in the midst of my many sports and childish vanities, amidst my vain companions,
I was often much cast down and afflicted in my mind therewith, yet could I not let go my sins.
Yea, I was 'also then' so overcome with despair of life and heaven, that I should often wish
either that there had been no hell, or that I had been a devil--supposing they were only tormentors;
that if it must needs be that I went thither, I might be rather a tormentor, than 'be' tormented
myself.

8. A while after, these terrible dreams did leave me, which also I soon forgot; for my pleasures
did quickly cut off the remembrance of them, as if they had never been: wherefore, with more
greediness, according to the strength of nature, I did still let loose the reins to my lusts,
and delighted in all transgression against the law of God: so that, until I came to the state
of marriage, I was the very ringleader of all the youth that kept me company, into all manner
of vice and ungodliness.[8]

9. Yea, such prevalency had the lusts and fruits of the flesh in this poor soul of mine, that
had not a miracle of precious grace prevented, I had not only perished by the stroke of eternal
justice, but had also laid myself open, even to the stroke of those laws, which bring some
to disgrace and open shame before the face of the world.

10. In these days, the thoughts of religion were very grievous to me; I could neither endure
it myself, nor that any other should; so that, when I have seen some read in those books that
concerned Christian piety, it would be as it were a prison to me. I was now void of all good
consideration, heaven and hell were both out of sight and mind; and as for saving and damning,
they were least in my thoughts.[9] O Lord, thou knowest my life, and my ways were not hid from
thee.

11. Yet this I well remember, that though I could myself sin with the greatest delight and
ease, and also take pleasure in the vileness of my companions; yet, even then, if I have at
any time seen wicked things, by those who professed goodness, it would make my spirit tremble.
As once, above all the rest, when I was in my height of vanity, yet hearing one to swear that
was reckoned for a religious man, it had so great a stroke upon my spirit, that it made my
heart to ache.

12. In these two books I should sometimes read with her, wherein I also found some things that
were somewhat pleasing to me; but all this while I met with no conviction. She also would be
often telling of me, what a godly man her father was, and how he would reprove and correct
vice, both in his house, and amongst his neighbours; what a strict and holy life he lived in
his day, both in word and deed.

16.

17.

18. After I had been thus for some considerable time, another thought came into my mind; and
that was, whether we were of the Israelites, or no? For finding in the Scriptures that they
were once the peculiar people of God, thought I, if I were one of this race, my soul must needs
be happy.[12] Now again, I found within me a great longing to be resolved about this question,
but could not tell how I should. At last I asked my father of it; who told me--No, we were
not. Wherefore then I fell in my spirit as to the hopes of that, and so remained.

19. But all this while, I was not sensible of the danger and evil of sin; I was kept from considering
that sin would damn me, what religion soever I followed, unless I was found in Christ. Nay,
I never thought of him, nor whether there was one, or no. Thus man, while blind, doth wander,
but wearieth himself with vanity, for he knoweth not the way to the city of God (Eccl 10:15).

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25. And I am very confident, that this temptation of the devil is more usual amongst poor creatures
than many are aware of, even to overrun their spirits with a scurvy and seared frame of heart,
and benumbing of conscience; which frame, he stilly and slyly supplieth with such despair,
that though not much guilt attendeth the soul, yet they continually have a secret conclusion
within them, that there is no hopes for them; for they have loved sins, "therefore after them
they will go" (Jer 2:25, 18:12).

26. Now therefore I went on in sin with great greediness of mind, still grudging that I could
not be so satisfied with it as I would.

27.

28. But how it came to pass, I know not; I did from this time forward so leave my swearing,
that it was a great wonder to myself to observe it; and whereas before, I knew not how to speak
unless I put an oath before, and another behind, to make my words have authority; now, I could,
'without it,' speak better, and with more pleasantness, than ever I could before. All this
while I knew not Jesus Christ, neither did I leave my sports and plays.

29. But quickly after this, I fell in company with one poor man that made profession of religion;
who, as I then thought, did talk pleasantly of the Scriptures, and of the matters of religion;
wherefore, falling into some love and liking to what he said, I betook me to my Bible, and
began to take great pleasure in reading, but especially with the historical part thereof; for,
as for Paul's epistles, and Scriptures of that nature, I could not away with them, being as
yet but ignorant, either of the corruptions of my nature, or of the want and worth of Jesus
Christ to save me.

30. Wherefore I fell to some outward reformation, both in my words and life, and did set the
commandments before me for my way to heaven; which commandments I also did strive to keep,
and, as I thought, did keep them pretty well sometimes, and then I should have comfort; yet
now and then should break one, and so afflict my conscience; but then I should repent, and
say I was sorry for it, and promise God to do better next time, and there get help again, 'for
then I thought I pleased God as well as any man in England.'

31. Thus I continued about a year; all which time our neighbours did take me to be a very godly
man, a new and religious man, and did marvel much to see such a great and famous alteration
in my life and manners; and, indeed, so it was, though yet I knew not Christ, nor grace, nor
faith, nor hope; and, truly, as I have well seen since, had then died, my state had been most
fearful; well, this, I say, continued about a twelvemonth or more.

32. 'But, I say, my neighbours were amazed at this my great conversion, from prodigious profaneness,
to something like a moral life; and, truly, so they well might; for this my conversion was
as great, as for Tom of Bedlam to become a sober man.[17] Now, therefore, they began to praise,
to commend, and to speak well of me, both to my face, and behind my back. Now, I was, as they
said, become godly; now, I was become a right honest man. But, oh! When I understood that these
were their words and opinions of men, it pleased me mighty well. For though, as yet, I was
nothing but a poor painted hypocrite, yet I loved to be talked of as one that was truly godly.
I was proud of my godliness, and, indeed, I did all I did, either to be seen of, or to be well
spoken of, by man. And thus I continued for about a twelvemonth or more.'

33. 'Now, you must know, that before this I had taken much delight in ringing, but my conscience
beginning to be tender, I thought such practice was but vain, and therefore forced myself to
leave it, yet my mind hankered; wherefore I should go to the steeple house, and look on it,
though I durst not ring. But I thought this did not become religion neither, yet I forced myself,
and would look on still; but quickly after, I began to think, How, if one of the bells should
fall? Then I chose to stand under a main beam, that lay overthwart the steeple, from side to
side, thinking there I might stand sure, but then I should think again, should the bell fall
with a swing, it might first hit the wall, and then rebounding upon me, might kill me for all
this beam. This made me stand in the steeple door; and now, thought I, I am safe enough; for,
if a bell should then fall, I can slip out behind these thick walls, and so be preserved notwithstanding.'

34. 'So, after this, I would yet go to see them ring, but would not go further than the steeple
door; but then it came into my head, How, if the steeple itself should fall? And this thought,
it may fall for ought I know, when I stood and looked on, did continually so shake my mind,
that I durst not stand at the steeple door any longer, but was forced to flee, for fear the
steeple should fall upon my head.'

35. 'Another thing was my dancing; I was a full year before I could quite leave that; but all
this while, when I thought I kept this or that commandment, or did, by word or deed, anything
that I thought was good, I had great peace in my conscience; and should think with myself,
God cannot choose but be now pleased with me; yea, to relate it in mine own way, I thought
no man in England could please God better than I.'

36. 'But poor wretch as I was, I was all this while ignorant of Jesus Christ, and going about
to establish my own righteousness; and had perished therein, had not God, in mercy, showed
me more of my state of nature.'

[HIS CONVERSION AND PAINFUL EXERCISES OF MIND, PREVIOUS TO HIS JOINING THE CHURCH AT BEDFORD.]

37.

38.

39. Therefore I should often make it my business to be going again and again into the company
of these poor people, for I could not stay away; and the more I went amongst them, the more
did question my condition; and as I still do remember, presently I found two things within
me, at which I did sometimes marvel, especially considering what a blind, ignorant, sordid,
and ungodly wretch but just before I was; the one was a very great softness and tenderness
of heart, which caused me to fall under the conviction of what by Scripture they asserted;
and the other was a great bending in my mind to a continual meditating on it, and on all other
good things which at any time I heard or read of.

42. 'By these things' my mind was now so turned, that it lay like a horse leech at the vein,
still crying out, Give, give (Prov 30:15); yea, it was so fixed on eternity, and on the things
about the kingdom of heaven, that is, so far as I knew, though as yet, God knows, I knew but
little; that neither pleasures, nor profits, nor persuasions, nor threats, could loosen it,
or make it let go his hold; and though I may speak it with shame, yet it is in very deed a
certain truth, it would then have been as difficult for me to have taken my mind from heaven
to earth, as I have found it often since to get it again from earth to heaven.'

43. 'One thing I may not omit: There was a young man in our town, to whom my heart before was
knit more than to any other, but he being a most wicked creature for cursing, and swearing,
and whoring, I now shook him off, and forsook his company; but about a quarter of a year after
I had left him, I met him in a certain lane, and asked him how he did; he, after his old swearing
and mad way, answered, He was well. But, Harry, said I, why do you swear and curse thus? What
will become of you, if you die in this condition? He answered me in a great chafe, What would
the devil do for company, if it were not for such as I am?'

44. 'About this time I met with some Ranters' books, that were put forth by some of our countrymen,
which books were also highly in esteem by several old professors; some of these I read, but
was not able to make a judgment about them; wherefore as I read in them, and thought upon them,
feeling myself unable to judge, I should betake myself to hearty prayer in this manner: O Lord,
I am a fool, and not able to know the truth from error: Lord, leave me not to my own blindness,
either to approve of, or condemn this doctrine; if it be of God, let me not despise it; if
it be of the devil, let me not embrace it. Lord, I lay my soul, in this matter, only at thy
foot; let me not be deceived, I humbly beseech thee. I had one religious intimate companion
all this while, and that was the poor man that I spoke of before; but about this time he also
turned a most devilish Ranter,[20] and gave himself up to all manner of filthiness, especially
uncleanness: he would also deny that there was a God, angel, or spirit; and would laugh at
all exhortations to sobriety. When I laboured to rebuke his wickedness, he would laugh the
more, and pretend that he had gone through all religions, and could never light on the right
till now. He told me also, that in a little time I should see all professors turn to the ways
of the Ranters. Wherefore, abominating those cursed principles, I left his company forthwith,
and became to him as great a stranger, as I had been before a familiar.'

45. 'Neither was this man only a temptation to me; but my calling lying in the country, I happened
to light into several people's company, who, though strict in religion formerly, yet were also
swept away by these Ranters. These would also talk with me of their ways, and condemn me as
legal and dark; pretending that they only had attained to perfection that could do what they
would, and not sin. And blessed be God, who put it into my heart to cry to him to be kept and
directed, still distrusting mine own wisdom; for I have since seen even the effect of that
prayer, in his preserving me not only from ranting errors, but from those also that have sprung
up since. The Bible was precious to me in those days.'

46. And now, methought, I began to look into the Bible with new eyes, and read as I never did
before; and especially the epistles of the apostle Paul were sweet and pleasant to me; and,
indeed, I was then never out of the Bible, either by reading or meditation; still crying out
to God, that I might know the truth, and way to heaven and glory.

47. And though, as I have since seen, that by this Scripture the Holy Ghost intends, in special,
things extraordinary, yet on me it did then fasten with conviction, that I did want things
ordinary, even that understanding and wisdom that other Christians had. On this word I mused,
and could not tell what to do, 'especially this word faith put me to it, for I could not help
it, but sometimes must question, whether I had any faith or no'; for I feared that it shut
me out of all the blessings that other good people had give them of God;[21] but I was loath
to conclude I had no faith in my soul; for if I do so, thought I, then I shall count myself
a very cast-away indeed.

48. No, said I with myself, though I am convinced that I am an ignorant sot, and that I want
those blessed gifts of knowledge and understanding that other good people have; yet, at a venture,
I will conclude I am not altogether faithless, though I know not what faith is. For it was
showed me, and that too, as I have since seen, by Satan, that those who conclude themselves
in a faithless state, have neither rest nor quiet in their souls; and I was loath to fall quite
into despair.

49. Wherefore, by this suggestion, I was for a while made afraid to see my want of faith; but
God would not suffer me thus to undo and destroy my soul, but did continually, against this
my blind and sad conclusion, create still within me such suppositions, 'insomuch' that I might
in this deceive myself, that I could not rest content, until I did now come to some certain
knowledge, whether I had faith or no; this always running in my mind, But how if you want faith
indeed? But how can you tell you have faith? 'and, besides, I saw for certain, if I had not,
I was sure to perish for ever.'

50. So that though I endeavoured at the first, to look over the business of faith, yet in a
little time, I better considering the matter, was willing to put myself upon the trial, whether
I had faith or no. But, alas, poor wretch, so ignorant and brutish was I, that I knew to this
day no more how to do it, than I know how to begin and accomplish that rare and curious piece
of art, which I never yet saw not considered.

51. Wherefore, while I was thus considering, and being put to my plunge about it, for you must
know, that as yet I had in this matter broken my mind to no man, only did hear and consider,
the tempter came in with his delusion, That there was no way for me to know I had faith, but
by trying to work some miracle; urging those Scriptures that seem to look that way, for the
enforcing and strengthening his temptation. Nay, one day as I was betwixt Elstow and Bedford,
the temptation was hot upon me, to try if I had faith, by doing of some miracle: which miracle
at that time was this, I must say to the puddles that were in the horse pads, Be dry; and to
the dry places, Be you the puddles. And truly, one time I was agoing to say so indeed; but
just as I was about to speak, this thought came into my mind, But go under yonder hedge and
pray first, that God would make you able. But when I had concluded to pray, this came hot upon
me, That if I prayed, and came again and tried to do it, and yet did nothing notwithstanding,
then be sure I had no faith, but was a cast-away and lost. Nay, thought I, if it be so, I will
never try yet, but will stay a little longer.

52. So I continued at a great loss; for I thought, if they only had faith, which could do so
wonderful things, then I concluded, that, for the present, I neither had it, nor yet, for time
to come, were ever like to have it. Thus I was tossed betwixt the devil and my own ignorance,
and so perplexed, especially at some times, that I could not tell what to do.

53.

54.

55.

57. Neither as yet could I attain to any comfortable persuasion that I had faith in Christ;
but instead of having satisfaction, here I began to find my soul to be assaulted with fresh
doubts about my future happiness; especially with such as these, Whether I was elected? But
how, if the day of grace should now be past and gone?

58. By these two temptations I was very much afflicted and disquieted; sometimes by one, and
sometimes by the other of them. And first, to speak of that about my questioning my election,
I found at this time, that though I was in a flame to find the way to heaven and glory, and
though nothing could beat me off from this, yet this question did so offend and discourage
me, that I was, especially at some times, as if the very strength of my body also had been
taken away by the force and power thereof. This scripture did also seem to me to trample upon
all my desires, "It is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth
mercy" (Rom 9:16).

59. With this scripture I could not tell what to do; for I evidently saw, that unless the great
God, of his infinite grace and bounty, had voluntarily chosen me to be a vessel of mercy, though
I should desire, and long and labour until my heart did break, no good could come of it. Therefore,
this would still stick with me, How can you tell that you are elected? And what if you should
not? How then?

60. O Lord, thought I, what if I should not, indeed?

61.

62.

63. At which I was greatly lightened and encouraged in my soul; for thus, at that very instant,
it was expounded to me, Begin at the beginning of Genesis, and read to the end of the Revelation,
and see if you can find that there was ever any that trusted in the Lord, and was confounded.
So, coming home, I presently went to my Bible to see if I could find that saying, not doubting
but to find it presently; for it was so fresh, and with such strength and comfort on my spirit,
that I was as if it talked with me.

64. Well, I looked, but I found it not; only it abode upon me; then I did ask first this good
man, and then another, if they knew where it was, but they knew no such place. At this I wondered,
that such a sentence should so suddenly, and with such comfort and strength, seize and abide
upon my heart, and yet that none could find it, for I doubted not but it was in holy Scripture.

65. Thus I continued above a year, and could not find the place; but at last, casting my eye
into the Apocrypha books, I found it in Ecclesiasticus 2:10. This, at the first, did somewhat
daunt me; but because, by this time, I had got more experience of the love and kindness of
God, it troubled me the less; especially when I considered, that though it was not in those
texts that we call holy and canonical, yet forasmuch as this sentence was the sum and substance
of many of the promises, it was my duty to take the comfort of it; and I bless God for that
word, for it was of God to me: that word doth still, at times, shine before my face.

66. After this, that other doubt did come with strength upon me, But how if the day of grace
should be past and gone? How if you have over-stood the time of mercy? Now, I remember that
one day, as I was walking into the country, I was much in the thoughts of this, But how if
the day of grace be past? And to aggravate my trouble, the tempter presented to my mind those
good people of Bedford, and suggested thus unto me, That these being converted already, they
were all that God would save in those parts; and that I came too late, for these had got the
blessing before I came.

67. Now was I in great distress, thinking in very deed that this might well be so; wherefore
I went up and down bemoaning my sad condition, counting myself far worse than a thousand fools,
for standing off thus long, and spending so many years in sin as I had done; still crying out,
Oh, that I had turned sooner; Oh, that I had turned seven years ago! It made me also angry
with myself, to think that I should have no more wit, but to trifle away my time till my soul
and heaven were lost.

68. But when I had been long vexed with this fear, and was scarce able to take one step more,
just about the same place where I received my other encouragement, these words broke in upon
my mind, "Compel them to come in, that my house may be filled"; "and yet there is room" (Luke
14:22,23). These words, but especially them, "And yet there is room" were sweet words to me;
for, truly, I thought that by them I saw there was place enough in heaven for me; and, moreover,
that when the Lord Jesus did speak these words, he then did think of me; and that he knowing
that the time would come that I should be afflicted with fear that there was no place left
for me in his bosom, did before speak this word, and leave it upon record, that I might find
help thereby against this vile temptations. 'This, I then verily believed.'

69. In the light and encouragement of this word, I went a pretty while; and the comfort was
the more, when I thought that the Lord Jesus should think on me so long ago, and that he should
speak them words on purpose for my sake; for I did then think, verily, that he did on purpose
speak them, to encourage me withal.

70. 'But I was not without my temptations to go back again; temptations, I say, both from Satan,
mine own heart, and carnal acquaintance; but I thank God these were outweighed by that sound
sense of death and of the day of judgment, which abode, as it were, continually in my view;
I should often also think on Nebuchadnezzar, of whom it is said, He had given him all the kingdoms
of the earth (Dan 5:19). Yet, thought I, if this great man had all his portion in this world,
one hour in hell fire would make him forget all. And also, in further reading about them I
found, that though we did chew the cud as the hare, yet if we walked with claws like a dog,
or if we did part the hoof like the swine, yet if we did not chew the cud as the sheep, we
were still, for all that, but unclean; for I thought the here to be a type of those that talk
of the Word, yet walk in the ways of sin; and that the swine was like him that parteth with
his outward pollutions, but still wanteth the Word of faith, without which there could be no
way of salvation, let a man be never so devout (Deut 14).' After this I found, by reading the
Word, that those that must be glorified with Christ in another world must be called by him
here; called to the partaking of a share in his Word and righteousness, and to the comforts
and first fruits of his spirit, and to a peculiar interest in all those heavenly things which
do indeed fore fit the soul for that rest and house of glory which is in heaven above.

72. Here, again, I was at a very great stand, not knowing what to do, fearing I was not called;
for, thought I, if I be not called, what then can do me good? 'None but those who are effectually
called, inherit the kingdom of heaven.' But oh! how I now loved those words that spake of a
Christian's calling! as when the Lord said to one, "Follow me," and to another, "Come after
me." And oh! thought I, that he would say so to me too, how gladly would I run after him!

73. I cannot now express with what longings and breakings in my soul I cried to Christ to call
me. Thus I continued for a time, all on a flame to be converted to Jesus Christ; and did also
see at that day, such glory in a converted state, that I could not be contented without a share
therein. Gold! could it have been gotten for gold, what could I have given for it! had I had
a whole world it had all gone ten thousand times over for this, that my soul might have been
in a converted state.

74. How lovely now was every one in my eyes that I thought to be converted men and women! they
shone, they walked like a people that carried the broad seal of heaven about them. Oh! I saw
the lot was fallen to them in pleasant places, and they had a goodly heritage (Psa 16:6). But
that which made me sick was that of Christ, in Mark, He went up into a mountain and called
to him whom he would, and they came unto him (Mark 3:13).

75. This scripture made me faint and fear, yet it kindled fire in my soul. That which made
me fear was this, lest Christ should have no liking to me, for he called "whom he would." But
oh! the glory that I saw in that condition did still so engage my heart that I could seldom
read of any that Christ did call but I presently wished, Would I had been in their clothes;
would I had been born Peter; would I had been born John; or would I had been by and had heard
him when he called them, how would I have cried, O Lord, call me also. But oh! I feared he
would not call me.

76. And truly the Lord let me go thus many months together and showed me nothing; either that
I was already, or should be called hereafter. These words I thought were sent to encourage
me to wait still upon God, and signified unto me, that if I were not already, yet time might
come I might be in truth converted unto Christ.[24]

77. About this time I began to break my mind to those poor people in Bedford, and to tell them
my condition, which, when they had heard, they told Mr. Gifford of me, who himself also took
occasion to talk with me, and was willing to be 'well' persuaded of me, though I think but
from little grounds: but he invited me to his house, where I should hear him confer with others,
about the dealings of God with the soul; from all which I still received more conviction, and
from that time began to see something of the vanity and inward wretchedness of my wicked heart,
for as yet I knew no great matter therein; but now it began to be discovered unto me, and also
to work at that rate for wickedness as it never did before. Now I evidently found that lusts
and corruptions would strongly put forth themselves within me, in wicked thoughts and desires,
which I did not regard before; my desires also for heaven and life began to fail. I found also,
that whereas before my soul was full of longing after God, now my heart began to hanker after
every foolish vanity; yea, my heart would not be moved to mind that that was good; it began
to be careless, both of my soul and heaven; it would now continually hang back, both to, and
in every duty; and was as a clog on the leg of a bird to hinder her from flying.

78. Nay, thought I, now I grow worse and worse; now am I further from conversion than ever
I was before. Wherefore I began to sink greatly in my soul, and began to entertain such discouragement
in my heart as laid me low as hell. If now I should have burned at a stake, I could not believe
that Christ had love for me; alas, I could neither hear him, nor see him, nor feel him, nor
savour any of his things; I was driven as with a tempest, my heart would be unclean, the Canaanites
would dwell in the land.

79. Sometimes I would tell my condition to the people of God, which, when they heard, they
would pity me, and would tell me of the promises; but they had as good have told me that I
must reach the sun with my finger as have bidden me receive or rely upon the promise; and as
soon as I should have done it, all my sense and feeling was against me; and I saw I had a heart
that would sin, and 'that' lay under a law that would condemn.

80.

81. Further, in these days I should find my heart to shut itself up against the Lord, and against
his holy Word. Yet that word would sometimes create in my heart a peaceable pause, "I girded
thee, though thou hast not known me" (Isa 45:5).

82. But all this while as to the act of sinning, I never was more tender than now; I durst
not take a pin or a stick, though but so big as a straw, for my conscience now was sore, and
would smart at every touch; I could not now tell how to speak my words, for fear I should misplace
them. Oh, how gingerly[25] did I then go in all I did or said! I found myself as on a miry
bog that shook if I did but stir; and 'was' there left both of God and Christ, and the Spirit,
and all good things.

83. 'But, I observe, though I was such a great sinner before conversion, yet God never much
charged the guilt of the sins of my ignorance upon me; only he showed me I was lost if I had
not Christ, because I had been a sinner; I saw that I wanted a perfect righteousness to present
me without fault before God, and this righteousness was nowhere to be found, but in the person
of Jesus Christ.'

84. 'But my original and inward pollution, that, that was my plague and my affliction; that,
I say, at a dreadful rate, always putting forth itself within me; that I had the guilt of,
to amazement; by reason of that, I was more loathsome in my own eyes than was a toad; and I
thought I was so in God's eyes too; sin and corruption, I said, would as naturally bubble out
of my heart, as water would bubble out of a fountain. I thought now that every one had a better
heart than I had; I could have changed heart with any body; I thought none but the devil himself
could equalize me for inward wickedness and pollution of mind. I fell, therefore, at the sight
of my own vileness, deeply into despair; for I concluded that this condition that I was in
could not stand with a state of grace. Sure, thought I, I am forsaken of God; sure I am given
up to the devil, and to a reprobate mind; and thus I continued a long while, even for some
years together.'

85. 'While I was thus afflicted with the fears of my own damnation, there were two things would
make me wonder; the one was, when I saw old people hunting after the things of this life, as
if they should live here always; the other was, when I found professors much distressed and
cast down, when they met with outward losses; as of husband, wife, child, &c. Lord, thought
I, what ado is here about such little things as these! What seeking after carnal things by
some, and what grief in others for the loss of them! if they so much labour after, and spend
so many tears for the things of this present life, how am I to be bemoaned, pitied, and prayed
for! My soul is dying, my soul is damning. Were my soul but in a good condition, and were I
but sure of it, ah! how rich should I esteem myself, though blessed but with bread and water;
I should count those but small afflictions, and should bear them as little burdens. "A wounded
spirit who can bear?"'

86. And though I was thus troubled, and tossed, and afflicted, with the sight and sense and
terror of my own wickedness, yet I was afraid to let this sight and sense go quite off my mind;
for I found, that unless guilt of conscience was taken off the right way, that is, by the blood
of Christ, a man grew rather worse for the loss of his trouble of mind, than better. Wherefore,
if my guilt lay hard upon me, then I should cry that the blood of Christ might take it off;
and if it was going off without it (for the sense of sin would be sometimes as if it would
die, and go quite away), then I would also strive to fetch it upon my heart again, by bringing
the punishment for sin in hell fire upon my spirits; and should cry, Lord, let it not go off
my heart, but the right way, but by the blood of Christ, and by the application of thy mercy,
through him, to my soul; for that Scripture lay much upon me, "without shedding of blood is
no remission" (Heb 9:22). And that which made me the more afraid of this was, because I had
seen some, who, though when they were under wounds of conscience, then they would cry and pray;
but they seeking rather present ease from their trouble, than pardon for their sin, cared not
how they lost their guilt, so they got it out of their mind; and, therefore, having got it
off the wrong way, it was not sanctified unto them; but they grew harder and blinder, and more
wicked after their trouble. This made me afraid, and made me cry to God 'the more,' that it
might not be so with me.

87. And now was I sorry that God had made me a man, for I feared I was a reprobate; I counted
man as unconverted, the most doleful of all the creatures. Thus being afflicted and tossed
about my sad condition, I counted myself alone, and above the most of men unblessed.

88. 'Yea, I thought it impossible that ever I should attain to so much goodness of heart, as
to thank God that he had made me a man. Man indeed is the most noble by creation, of all creatures
in the visible world; but by sin he had made himself the most ignoble. The beasts, birds, fishes,
&c., I blessed their condition, for they had not a sinful nature, they were not obnoxious to
the wrath of God; they were not to go to hell fire after death; I could therefore have rejoiced,
had my condition been as any of theirs.'

89. In this condition I went a great while; but when comforting time was come, I heard one
preach a sermon upon those words in the Song (4:1), "Behold thou art fair, my love; behold,
thou art fair."

90. But I got nothing by what he said at present, only when he came to the application of the
fourth particular, this was the word he said; If it be so, that the saved soul is Christ's
love when under temptation and desertion; then poor tempted soul, when thou art assaulted and
afflicted with temptation, and the hidings of God's face, yet think on these two words, "My
love," still.

91. So as I was a going home, these words came again into my thoughts; and I well remember,
as they came in, I said thus in my heart, What shall I get by thinking on these two words?
This thought had no sooner passed through my heart, but the words began thus to kindle in my
spirit, "Thou art my love, thou art my love," twenty times together; and still as they ran
thus in my mind, they waxed stronger and warmer, and began to make me look up; but being as
yet between hope and fear, I still replied in my heart, But is it true, but is it true? At
which, that sentence fell in upon me, He "wist not that it was true which was done by the angel"
(Acts 12:9).

92. Yet still at times, I was helped to believe that it was a true manifestation of grace unto
my soul, though I had lost much of the life and savour of it. Now about a week or fortnight
after this, I was much followed by this scripture, "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired
to have you" (Luke 22:31). And sometimes it would sound so loud within me, yea, and as it were
call so strongly after me, that once above all the rest, I turned my head over my shoulder,
thinking verily that some man had, behind me, called to me; being at a great distance, 'methought
he called so loud; it came, as I have thought since, to have stirred me up to prayer, and to
watchfulness; it came to acquaint me that a cloud and a storm was coming down upon me, but
I understood it not.'[26]

94. 'Also, as I remember, that time that it called to me so loud, was the last time that it
sounded in mine ear; but methinks I hear still with what a loud voice these words, Simon, Simon,
sounded in mine ears. I thought verily, as I have told you, that somebody had called after
me, that was half a mile behind me; and although that was not my name, yet it made me suddenly
look behind me, believing that he that called so loud meant me.'

95. But so foolish was I, and ignorant, that I knew not the reason of this sound; which, as
I did both see and feel soon after, was sent from heaven as an alarm, to awaken me to provide
for what was coming; only it would make me muse and wonder in my mind, to think what should
be the reason that this scripture, and that at this rate, so often and so loud, should still
be sounding and rattling in mine ears; but, as I said before, I soon after perceived the end
of God therein.

96.

97. The tempter would also much assault me with this, how can you tell but that the Turks had
as good Scriptures to prove their Mahomet the Saviour, as we have to prove our Jesus is? And,
could I think, that so many ten thousands, in so many countries and kingdoms, should be without
the knowledge of the right way to heaven; if there were indeed a heaven, and that we only,
who live in a corner of the earth, should alone be blessed therewith? Every one doth think
his own religion rightest, both Jews and Moors, and Pagans! and how if all our faith, and Christ,
and Scriptures, should be but a think-so too?

98. Sometimes I have endeavoured to argue against these suggestions, and to set some of the
sentences of blessed Paul against them; but, alas! I quickly felt, when I thus did, such arguings
as these would return again upon me, Though we made so great a matter of Paul, and of his words,
yet how could I tell, but that in very deed, he being a subtle and cunning man, might give
himself up to deceive with strong delusions; and also take both that pains and travel, to undo
and destroy his fellows.

99.

100. Only by the distaste that they gave unto my spirit, I felt there was something in me,
that refused to embrace them. But this consideration I then only had, when God gave me leave
to swallow my spittle, otherwise the noise, and strength, and force of these temptations, would
drown and overflow; and as it were, bury all such thoughts or the remembrance of any such thing.
While I was in this temptation, I should often find my mind suddenly put upon it, to curse
and swear, or to speak some grievous thing against God, or Christ his Son, and of the Scriptures.[27]

101. Now I thought, surely I am possessed of the devil; at other times again, I thought I should
be bereft of my wits; for instead of lauding and magnifying God the Lord with others, if I
have but heard him spoken of, presently some most horrible blasphemous thought or other, would
bolt out of my heart against him; so that whether I did think that God was, or again did think
there were no such thing; no love, nor peace, nor gracious disposition could I feel within me.

102. These things did sink me into very deep despair; for I concluded, that such things could
not possibly be found amongst them that loved God. I often, when these temptations have been
with force upon me, did compare myself in the case of such a child, whom some gipsy hath by
force took up under her apron,[28] and is carrying from friend and country; kick sometimes
I did, and also scream and cry; but yet I was as bound in the wings of the temptation, and
the wind would carry me away. I thought also of Saul, and of the evil spirit that did possess
him; and did greatly fear that my condition was the same with that of his (1 Sam 16:14).

103. In these days, when I have heard others talk of what was the sin against the Holy Ghost,
then would the tempter so provoke me to desire to sin that sin, that I was as if I could not,
must not, neither should be quiet until I had committed that; now, no sin would serve but that;
if it were to be committed by speaking of such a word, then I have been as if my mouth would
have spoken that word, whether I would or no; and in so strong a measure was this temptation
upon me, that often I have been ready to clap my hand under my chin, to hold my mouth from
opening; and to that end also I have had thoughts at other times, to leap with my head downward,
into some muck hill hole or other, to keep my mouth from speaking.

104. Now I blessed the condition of the dog and toad, and counted the estate of everything
that God had made far better than this dreadful state of mine, and such as my companions was;
yea, gladly would I have been in the condition of dog or horse, for I knew they had no soul
to perish under the everlasting weights of hell for sin, as mine was like to do. Nay, and though
I saw this, felt this, and was broken to pieces with it, yet that which added to my sorrow
was, that I could not find that with all my soul I did desire deliverance. (Isa 57:20,21).

105. 'And now my heart was, at times, exceeding hard; if I would have given a thousand pounds
for a tear, I could not shed one; no, nor sometimes scarce desire to shed one. I was much dejected
to think that this should be my lot. I saw some could mourn and lament their sin; and others,
again, could rejoice, and bless God for Christ; and others, again, could quietly talk of, and
with gladness remember, the Word of God; while I only was in the storm or tempest. This much
sunk me; I thought my condition was alone. I should, therefore, much bewail my hard hap; but
get out of, or get rid of, these things, I could not.'

106. While this temptation lasted, which was about a year, I could attend upon none of the
ordinances of God but with sore and great affliction. Yea, then was I most distressed with
blasphemies; if I have been hearing the Word, then uncleanness, blasphemies, and despair would
hold me as captive there; if I have been reading, then, sometimes, I had sudden thoughts to
question all I read; sometimes, again, my mind would be so strangely snatched away, and possessed
with other things, that I have neither known, nor regarded, nor remembered so much as the sentence
that but now I have read.

107. In prayer, also, I have been greatly troubled at this time; sometimes I have thought I
should see the devil, nay, thought I have felt him, behind me, pull my clothes; he would be,
also, continually at me in the time of prayer to have done; break off, make haste, you have
prayed enough, and stay no longer, still drawing my mind away. Sometimes, also, he would cast
in such wicked thoughts as these: that I must pray to him, or for him. I have thought sometimes
of that--Fall down, or, "if thou wilt fall down and worship me" (Matt 4:9).

108. Also, when, because I have had wandering thoughts in the time of this duty, I have laboured
to compose my mind and fix it upon God, then, with great force, hath the tempter laboured to
distract me, and confound me, and to turn away my mind, by presenting to my heart and fancy
the form of a bush, a bull, a besom, or the like, as if I should pray to those; to these he
would, also, at some times especially, so hold my mind that I was as if I could think of nothing
else, or pray to nothing else but to these, or such as they.

109. Yet, at times I should have some strong and heart-affecting apprehensions of God, and
the reality of the truth of his gospel; but, oh! how would my heart, at such times, put forth
itself with inexpressible groanings. My whole soul was then in every word; I should cry with
pangs after God that he would be merciful unto me; but then I should be daunted again with
such conceits as these; I should think that God did mock at these, my prayers, saying, and
that in the audience of the holy angels, This poor simple wretch doth hanker after me as if
I had nothing to do with my mercy but to bestow it on such as he. Alas, poor fool![29] how
art thou deceived! It is not for such as thee to have a favour with the Highest.

110. Then hath the tempter come upon me, also, with such discouragements as these--You are
very hot for mercy, but I will cool you; this frame shall not last always; many have been as
hot as you for a spirit, but I have quenched their zeal. And with this, such and such who were
fallen off would be set before mine eyes. Then I should be afraid that I should do so too;
but, thought I, I am glad this comes into my mind. Well, I will watch, and take what heed I
can. Though you do, said Satan, I shall be too hard for you; I will cool you insensibly, by
degrees, by little and little. What care I, saith he, though I be seven years in chilling your
heart if I can do it at last? Continual rocking will lull a crying child asleep. I will ply
it close, but I will have my end accomplished. Though you be burning hot at present, yet, if
I can pull you from this fire, I shall have you cold before it be long.

111. These things brought me into great straits; for as I at present could not find myself
fit for present death, so I thought to live long would make me yet more unfit; for time would
make me forget all, and wear even the remembrance of the evil of sin, the worth of heaven,
and the need I had of the blood of Christ to wash me, both out of mind and thought; but I thank
Christ Jesus these things did not at present make me slack my crying, but rather did put me
more upon it, like her who met with the adulterer (Deut 22:27); in which days that was a good
word to me after I had suffered these things a while: "I am persuaded that neither-height,
nor depth, nor life," &c., "shall--separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus"
(Rom 8:38). And now I hoped long life should not destroy me, nor make me miss of heaven.

112. Yet I had some supports in this temptation, though they were then all questioned by me;
that in the third of Jeremiah, at the first, was something to me, and so was the consideration
of the fifth verse of that chapter; that though we have spoken and done as evil things as we
could, yet we should cry unto God, "My Father, thou art the guide of my youth"; and should
return unto him.

113. I had, also, once a sweet glance from that in 2 Corinthians 5:21: "For he hath made him
to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him."
I remember, also, that one day as I was sitting in a neighbour's house, and there very sad
at the consideration of my many blasphemies, and as I was saying in my mind, What ground have
I to think that I, who have been so vile and abominable, should ever inherit eternal life?
that word came suddenly upon me, "What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us,
who can be against us?" (Rom 8:31). That, also, was an help unto me, "Because I live, ye shall
live also" (John 14:19). But these were but hints, touches, and short visits, though very sweet
when present; only they lasted not; but, like to Peter's sheet, of a sudden were caught up
from me to heaven again (Acts 10:16).

114. But afterwards the Lord did more fully and graciously discover himself unto me; and, indeed,
did quite, not only deliver me from the guilt that, by these things, was laid upon my conscience,
but also from the very filth thereof; for the temptation was removed, and I was put into my
right mind again, as other Christians were.

115. I remember that one day, as I was traveling into the country and musing on the wickedness
and blasphemy of my heart, and considering of the enmity that was in me to God, that scripture
came in my mind, He hath "made peace through the blood of his cross" (Col 1:20). This was a
good day to me; I hope I shall not forget it.

116. (Heb 2:14,15).

[BUNYAN ATTENDS THE MINISTRY OF MR. GIFFORD, AND BECOMES INTENSELY EARNEST TO UNDERSTAND THE
DOCTRINES OF THE GOSPEL.]

117. He pressed us to take special heed that we took not up any truth upon trust--as from this,
or that, or any other man or men--but to cry mightily to God that he would convince us of the
reality thereof, and set us down therein, by his own Spirit, in the holy Word; for, said he,
if you do otherwise when temptations come, if strongly, you, not having received them with
evidence from heaven, will find you want that help and strength now to resist as once you thought
you had.

118. This was as seasonable to my soul as the former and latter rain in their season; for I
had found, and that by sad experience, the truth of these his words; for I had felt [what]
no man can say, especially when tempted by the devil, that Jesus Christ is Lord but by the
Holy Ghost. Wherefore I found my soul, through grace, very apt to drink in this doctrine, and
to incline to pray to God that, in nothing that pertained to God's glory and my own eternal
happiness, he would suffer me to be without the confirmation thereof from heaven; for now I
saw clearly there was an exceeding different betwixt the notions of flesh and blood, and the
revelations of God in heaven; also, a great difference between that faith that is feigned,
and according to man's wisdom, and of that which comes by a man's being born thereto of God
(Matt 16:15-17; 1 John 5:1).

119. But, oh! now, how was my soul led from truth to truth by God! even from the birth and
cradle of the Son of God to his ascension and second coming from heaven to judge the world.

120. Truly, I then found, upon this account, the great God was very good unto me; for, to my
remembrance, there was not anything that I then cried unto God to make known and reveal unto
me but he was pleased to do it for me; I mean not one part of the gospel of the Lord Jesus,
but I was orderly led into it. Methought I saw with great evidence, from the relation of the
four evangelists, the wonderful work of God, in giving Jesus Christ to save us, from his conception
and birth even to his second coming to judgment, Methought I was as if I had seen him born,
as if I had seen him grow up, as if I had seen him walk through this world, from the cradle
to his cross; to which, also, when he came, I saw how gently he gave himself to be hanged and
nailed on it for my sins and wicked doings. Also, as I was musing on this, his progress, that
dropped on my spirit, He was ordained for the slaughter (1 Peter 1:19,20).

121. When I have considered also the truth of his resurrection, and have remembered that word,
"Touch me not, Mary," &c., I have seen as if he leaped at the grave's mouth for joy that he
was risen again, and had got the conquest over our dreadful foes (John 20:17). I have also,
in the spirit, seen him a man on the right hand of God the Father for me, and have seen the
manner of his coming from heaven to judge the world with glory, and have been confirmed in
these things by these scriptures following, Acts 1:9, 10, 7:56, 10:42; Hebrews 7:24, 8:3; Revelation
1:18; 1 Thessalonians 4:17, 18.

122. Once I was much troubled to know whether the Lord Jesus was both man as well as God, and
God as well as man; and truly, in those days, let men say what they would, unless I had it
with evidence from heaven, all was as nothing to me, I counted not myself set down in any truth
of God. In the midst of the throne, 'thought I,' there is his Godhead; in the midst of the
elders, there is his manhood; but oh! methought this did glister! it was a goodly touch, and
gave me sweet satisfaction.

123. Also, besides these teachings of God in his Word, the Lord made use of two things to confirm
me in these things; the one was the errors of the Quakers, and the other was the guilt of sin;
for as the Quakers did oppose his truth, so God did the more confirm me in it, by leading me
into the scriptures that did wonderfully maintain it.[31]

124. 'The errors that this people then maintained were, 1. That the holy Scriptures were not
the Word of God. 2. That every man in the world had the spirit of Christ, grace, faith, &c.
3. That Christ Jesus, as crucified, and dying 1600 years ago, did not satisfy divine justice
for the sins of the people. 4. That Christ's flesh and blood was within the saints. 5. That
the bodies of the good and bad that are buried in the churchyard shall not arise again. 6.
That the resurrection is past with good men already. 7. That that man Jesus, that was crucified
between two thieves on Mount Calvary, in the land of Canaan, by Jerusalem, was not ascended
up above the starry heavens. 8. That he should not, even the same Jesus that died by the hands
of the Jews, come again at the last day, and as man judge all nations, &c.'

125. 'Many more vile and abominable things were in those days fomented by them, by which I
was driven to a more narrow search of the Scriptures, and was, through their light and testimony,
not only enlightened, but greatly confirmed and comforted in the truth'; and, as I said, the
guilt of sin did help me much, for still as that would come upon me, the blood of Christ did
take it off again, and again, and again, and that too, sweetly, according to the Scriptures.
O friends! cry to God to reveal Jesus Christ unto you; there is none teacheth like him.

126. It would be too long for me here to stay, to tell you in particular how God did set me
down in all the things of Christ, and how he did, that he might so do, lead me into his words;
yea, and also how he did open them unto me, make them shine before me, and cause them to dwell
with me, talk with me, and comfort me over and over, both of his own being, and the being of
his Son, and Spirit, and Word, and gospel.

127. Only this, as I said before I will say unto you again, that in general he was pleased
to take this course with me; first, to suffer me to be afflicted with temptation concerning
them, and then reveal them to me: as sometimes I should lie under great guilt for sin, even
crushed to the ground therewith, and then the Lord would show me the death of Christ; yea,
and so sprinkle my conscience with his blood, that I should find, and that before I was aware,
that in that conscience where but just now did reign and rage the law, even there would rest
and abide the peace and love of God through Christ.

128. 'But before I had got thus far out of these my temptations, I did greatly long to see
some ancient godly man's experience, who had writ some hundreds of years before I was born;
for those who had writ in our days, I thought, but I desire them now to pardon me, that they
had writ only that which others felt, or else had, through the strength of their wits and parts,
studied to answer such objections as they perceived others were perplexed with, without going
down themselves into the deep. Well, after many such longings in my mind, the God in whose
hands are all our days and ways, did cast into my hand, one day, a book of Martin Luther; it
was his comment on the Galatians--it also was so old that it was ready to fall piece from piece
if I did but turn it over. This made me marvel; for thus thought I, This man could not know
anything of the state of Christians now, but must needs write and speak the experience of former
days.'

130. 'Besides, he doth most gravely, also, in that book, debate of the rise of these temptations,
namely, blasphemy, desperation, and the like; showing that the law of Moses as well as the
devil, death, and hell hath a very great hand therein, the which, at first, was very strange
to me; but considering and watching, I found it so indeed. But of particulars here I intend
nothing; only this, methinks, I must let fall before all men, I do prefer this book of Martin
Luther upon the Galatians, excepting the Holy Bible, before all the books that ever I have
seen, as most fit for a wounded conscience.'

131. 'And now I found, as I thought, that I loved Christ dearly; oh! methought my soul cleaved
unto him, my affections cleaved unto him. I felt love to him as hot as fire; and now, as Job
said, I thought I should die in my nest; but I did quickly find that my great love was but
little, and that I, who had, as I thought, such burning love to Jesus Christ, could let him
go again for a very trifle; God can tell how to abase us, and can hide pride from man. Quickly
after this my love was tried to purpose.'

132. For after the Lord had, in this manner, thus graciously delivered me from this great and
sore temptation, and had set me down so sweetly in the faith of his holy gospel, and had given
me such strong consolation and blessed evidence from heaven touching my interest in his love
through Christ; the tempter came upon me again, and that with a more grievous and dreadful
temptation than before.

133. And that was, To sell and part with this most blessed Christ, to exchange him for the
things of this life, for anything. The temptation lay upon me for the space of a year, and
did follow me so continually that I was not rid of it one day in a month, no, not sometimes
one hour in many days together, unless 'when' I was asleep.

134. And though, in my judgment, I was persuaded that those who were once effectually in Christ,
as I hoped, through his grace, I had seen myself, could never lose him for ever--for "the land
shall not be sold for ever, for the land is mine," saith God (Lev 25:23)[33]--yet it was a
continual vexation to me to think that I should have so much as one such thought within me
against a Christ, a Jesus, that had done for me as he had done; 'and yet then I had almost
none others, but such blasphemous ones.'

135. But it was neither my dislike of the thought, nor yet any desire and endeavour to resist
it that in the least did shake or abate the continuation, or force and strength thereof; for
it did always, in almost whatever I thought, intermix itself therewith in such sort that I
could neither eat my food, stoop for a pin, chop a stick, or cast mine eye to look on this
or that, but still the temptation would come, Sell Christ for this, or sell Christ for that;
'sell him, sell him.'

136. Sometimes it would run in my thoughts, not so little as a hundred times together, Sell
him, sell him, sell him; against which I may say, for whole hours together, I have been forced
to stand as continually leaning and forcing my spirit against it, least haply, before I were
aware, some wicked thought might arise in my heart that might consent thereto; and sometimes
also the tempter would make me believe I had consented to it, then should I be as tortured
upon a rack for whole days together.

137. This temptation did put me to such scares, lest I should and some times, I say, consent
thereto, and be overcome therewith, that by the very force of my mind, in labouring to gainsay
and resist this wickedness, my very body also would be put into action or motion by way of
pushing or thrusting 'with my hands or elbows,' still answering as fast as the destroyer said,
Sell him; I will not, I will not, I will not, I will not; no, not for thousands, thousands,
thousands of worlds. Thus reckoning lest I should in the midst of these assaults, set too low
a value of him, even until I scarce well knew where I was, or how to be composed began.

138. 'At these seasons he would not let me eat my food at quiet; but, forsooth, when I was
set at table at my meat, I must go hence to pray; I must leave my food now, and just now, so
counterfeit holy also would this devil be. When I was thus tempted, I should say in myself,
Now I am at my meat, let me make an end. No, said he, you must do it now, or you will displease
God, and despised Christ. Wherefore I was much afflicted with these things; and because of
the sinfulness of my nature, imagining that these things were impulses from God, I should deny
to do it, as if I denied God; and then should I be as guilty, because I did not obey a temptation
of the devil, as if I had broken the law of God indeed.'

139. But to be brief, one morning, as I did lie in my bed, I was, as at other times, most fiercely
assaulted with this temptation, to sell and part with Christ; the wicked suggestion still running
in my mind, sell him, sell him, sell him, sell him, 'sell him,' as fast as a man could speak;
against which also, in my mind, as and other times, I answered, No, no, not for thousands,
thousands, thousands, at least twenty times together. But at last, after much striving, even
until I was almost out of breath, I felt this thought pass through my heart, Let him go, if
he will! and I thought also, that I felt my heart 'freely' consent thereto. 'Oh, the diligence
of Satan! [34] Oh, the desperateness of man's heart!'

140. Now was the battle won, and down fell I, as a bird that is shot from the top of a tree,
into great guilt, and fearful despair. Thus getting out of my bed, I went moping into the field;
but God knows, with as heavy a heart as mortal man, I think, could bear; where, for the space
of two hours, I was like a man bereft of life, and as now past all recovery, and bound over
to eternal punishment.

141.

142. 'Now was I as one bound, I felt myself shut out unto the judgment to come; nothing now
for two years together would abide with me, but damnation, and an expectation of damnation;
I say, nothing now would abide with me but this, save some few moments for relief, as in the
sequel you will see.'

143. These words were to my soul like fetters of brass to my legs, in the continual sound of
which I went for several months together. But about ten or eleven o'clock one day, as I was
walking under a hedge, full of sorrow in guilt, God knows, and bemoaning myself for this hard
hap, that such a thought should arise within me; suddenly this sentence bolted in upon me,
The blood of Christ remits all guilt. At this I made a stand in my spirit; with that, this
word took hold upon me, begin, "The blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin"
(1 John 1:7).

144. Now I began to conceive peace in my soul, in methought I saw as if the tempter did leer[35]
and steal away from me, as being ashamed of what he had done. At the same time also I had my
sin, and the blood of Christ thus represented to me, that my sin, when compared to the blood
of Christ, was no more to it, then this little clot or stone before me, is to this vast and
wide field that here I see. This gave me good encouragement for the space of two or three hours;
in which time also, methought I saw, by faith, the Son of God, as suffering for my sins; but
because it tarried not, I therefore sunk in my spirit, under exceeding guilt again.

145. Sometimes also, [36] I should have a touch from that in Luke 22:32, "I have prayed for
the, that thy faith fail not"; but it would not abide upon me; neither could I indeed, when
I considered my state, find ground to conceive in the least, that there should be the root
of that grace within me, having sinned as I had done. Now was I tore and rent in heavy case,
for many days together.

147. Then began I with sad and careful heart, to consider of the nature and largeness of my
sin, and to search in the Word of God, if I could in any place espy a word of promise, or any
encouraging sentence by which I might take relief. Wherefore I began to consider that third
of Mark, All manner of sins and blasphemies shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, wherewith
soever they shall blaspheme. Which place, methought, at a blush, did contain a large and glorious
promise, for the pardon of high offences; but considering the place more fully, I thought it
was rather to be understood as relating more chiefly to those who had, while in a natural estate,
committed such things as there are mentioned; but not to me, who had not only received light
and mercy, but that had, both after, and also contrary to that, so slighted Christ as I had done.

148. I feared therefore that this wicked sin of mine, might be that sin unpardonable, of which
he there thus speaketh. "But he they shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness,
but is in danger of eternal damnation" (Mark 3:29). 'And this stuck always with me.'

149. 'And now was I both the burden and a terror to myself, nor did I ever so know, as now,
what it was to be weary of my life, and yet afraid to die. Oh, how gladly now would I have
been anybody but myself! Anything but a man! and in any condition but mine own! for there was
nothing did pass more frequently over my mind, than that it was impossible for me to be forgiven
my transgression, and to be saved from wrath to come.'

150. And now began I to labour to call again time that was past; wishing a thousand times twice
told, that the day was yet to come, when I should be tempted to such a sin! concluding with
great indignation, both against my heart, and all assaults, how I would rather have been torn
in pieces, than found a consenter thereto. But, alas! these thoughts, and wishings, and resolvings,
were now too late to help me; the thought had passed my heart, God hath let me go, and I am
fallen. Oh! thought I, "that it was with me as in months past, as in the days when God preserved
me!" [Job 29:2]

151. Then again, being loath and unwilling to perish, I began to compare my sin with others,
to see if I could find that any of those that were saved had done as I had done. So I considered
David's adultery and murder, and found them most heinous crimes; and those too committed after
light and grace received; but yet but considering, I perceived that his transgressions were
only such as were against the law of Moses; from which the Lord Christ could, with the consent
of his Word, deliver him: but mine was against the gospel; yea, against the Mediator thereof;
'I had sold my Saviour.'

152. Now again should I be as if racked upon the wheel,[37] when I considered, that, besides
the guilt that possessed me, I should be so void of grace, so bewitched. What, thought I, must
it be no sin but this? Must it needs be the great transgression? (Psa 19:13) Must that wicked
one touch my soul? (1 John 5:18) Oh, what stings did I find in all these sentences!

153. 'What, thought I, is there but one sin that is unpardonable? But one sin that layeth the
soul without the reach of God's mercy; and must I be guilty of that? Must it needs be that?
Is there but one sin among so many millions of sins, for which there is no forgiveness; and
must I commit this? Oh, unhappy sin! Oh, unhappy man! These things would so break and confound
my spirit, that I could not tell what to do; I thought, at times, they would have broke my
wits; and still, to aggravate my misery, that would run in my mind, "Ye know how that afterward,
when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected." Oh! none knows the terrors of
those days but myself.'

154. After this I came to consider of Peter's sin, which he committed in denying his master;
and indeed, this came nighest to mine, of any that I could find; for he had denied his Saviour,
as I, and that after light and mercy received; yea, and that too, after warning given him.
I also considered, that he did both once and twice; and that, after time to consider betwixt.
But though I put all these circumstances together, that, if possible, I might find help, yet
I considered again, that his was but a denial of his master, but mine was a selling of my Saviour.
Wherefore I thought with myself, that I came nearer to Judas, than either to David or Peter.

155. Here again my torment would flame out and afflicte me; yea, it would grind me, as it were,
to powder, to discern the preservation of God towards others, while I fell into the snare;
for in my thus considering of other men's sins, and comparing of them with my own, I could
evidently see how God preserved them, notwithstanding their wickedness, and would not let them,
as he had let me, to become a son of perdition.

156. But oh, how did my soul, at this time, prize the preservation that God did set about his
people! Ah, how safely did I see them walk, whom God had hedge in! They were within his care,
protection, and special providence; though they were full as bad as I by nature; yet because
he loved them, he would not suffer them to fall without the range of mercy; but as for me,
I was gone, I had done it; he would not preserve me, nor keep me; but suffered me, because
I was a reprobate, to fall as I had done. Now, did those blessed places, that spake of God's
keeping his people, shine like the sun before me, though not to comfort me, but to show me
the blessed state and heritage of those whom the Lord had blessed.

157. 'Now I saw, that as God had his hand in all providences and dispensations that overtook
his elect, so he had his hand in all the temptations that they had to sin against him, not
to animate them unto wickedness, but to choose their temptations and troubles for them; and
also to leave them, for a time, to such sins only as might not destroy, but humble them; as
might not put them beyond, but lay them in the way off the renewing of his mercy. He would
let David, Hezekiah, Solomon, Peter, and others fall, but he would not let them fall into sin
unpardonable, nor into hell for sin. Oh! thought I, these be the men that God hath loved; these
be the men that God, though he chastiseth them, keeps them in safety by him, and them whom
he makes to abide under the shadow of the Almighty. But all these thoughts added sorrow, grief,
and horror to me, as whatever I now thought on, it was killing to me. If I thought how God
kept his own, that was killing to me. If I thought of how I was falling myself, that was killing
to me. As all things wrought together for the best, and to do good to them that were the called,
according to his purpose; so I thought that all things wrought for my damage, and for my eternal
overthrow.'

158. Then, again, I began to compare my sin with the sin of Judas, that, if possible, I might
find that mine differed from that which, in truth, is unpardonable. And, oh! thought I, if
it 'should differ from it,' though but the breadth of an hair, what a happy condition is my
soul in! And, by considering, I found that Judas did his intentionally, but mine was against
my 'prayer and' strivings; besides, his was committed with much deliberation, but mine in a
fearful hurry, on a sudden; 'all this while' I was tossed to and fro, like the locusts, and
driven from trouble to sorrow; hearing always the sound of Esau's fall in mine ears, and of
the dreadful consequences thereof.

159. Yet this consideration about Judas, his sin was, for a while, some little relief unto
me; for I saw I had not, as to the circumstances, transgressed so foully as he. But this was
quickly gone again, for, I thought with myself, there might be more ways than one to commit
the unpardonable sin; 'also I thought' that there might be degrees of that, as well as of other
transgressions; wherefore, for ought I yet could perceive, this iniquity of mine might be such,
as might never be passed by.

160. 'I was often now ashamed, that I should be like such an ugly man as Judas; I thought,
also, how loathsome I should be unto all the saints at the day of judgment; insomuch, that
now I could scarce see a good man, that I believed had a good conscience, but I should feel
my heart tremble at him, while I was in his presence. Oh! now I saw a glory in walking with
God, and what a mercy it was to have a good conscience before him.'

161. 'I was much about this time tempted to content myself, by receiving some false opinion;
as that there should be no such thing as a day of judgment, that we should not rise again,
and that sin was no such grievous thing; the tempter suggesting thus, For if these things should
indeed be true, yet to believe otherwise, would yield you ease for the present. If you must
perish, never torment yourself so much before hand; drive the thoughts of damning out of your
mind, by possessing your mind with some such conclusions that Atheists and Ranters do use to
help themselves withal.'

162. 'But, oh! when such thoughts have led through my heart, how, as it were, within a step,
hath death and judgment been in my view! Methought the judge stood at the door, I was as if
it was come already; so that such things could have no entertainment. But, methinks, I see
by this, that Satan will use any means to keep the soul from Christ; he loveth not an awakened
frame of spirit; security, blindness, darkness, and error is the very kingdom and habitation
of the wicked one.'

163. 'I found it hard work now to pray to God, because despair was swallowing me up; I thought
I was, as with a tempest, driven away from God, for always when I cried to God for mercy, this
would come in, It is too late, I am lost, God hath let me fall; not to my correction, but condemnation;
my sin is unpardonable; and I know, concerning Esau, how that, after he had sold his birthright,
he would have received the blessing, but was rejected. About this time, I did light on that
dreadful story of that miserable mortal, Francis Spira;[38] a book that was to my troubled
spirit as salt, when rubbed into a fresh wound; every sentence in that book, every groan of
that man, with all the rest of his actions in his dolours, as his tears, his prayers, his gnashing
of teeth, his wringing of hands, his twining and twisting, languishing and pining away under
that mighty hand of God that was upon him, was as knives and daggers in my soul; especially
that sentence of his was frightful to me, Man knows the beginning of sin, but who bounds the
issues thereof? Then was I struck into a very great trembling, insomuch that at sometimes I
could, for whole days together, feel my very body, as well as my mind, to shake and totter
under the sense of the dreadful judgment of God, that should fall on those that have sinned
that most fearful and unpardonable sin. I felt also such a clogging and heat at my stomach,
by reason of this my terror, that I was, especially at some times, as if my breast bone would
have split in sunder; then I thought of that concerning Judas, who, by his falling headlong,
burst asunder, and all his bowels gushed out (Acts 1:18).

165. I feared also that this was the mark that the Lord did set on Cain, even continual fear
and trembling, under the heavy load of guilt that he had charged on him for the blood of his
brother Abel. Thus did I wind, and twine, and shrink, under the burden that was upon me; which
burden also did so oppress me, that I could neither stand, nor go, nor lie, either at rest
or quiet.

166. Yet that saying would sometimes come to my mind, He hath received gifts for the rebellious
(Psa 68:18). "The rebellious," thought I; why, surely they are such as once were under subjection
to their prince, even those who, after they have sworn subjection to his government, have taken
up arms against him; 'and this, thought I, is my very condition; once I loved him, feared him,
served him; but now I am a rebel; I have sold him, I have said, Let him go if he will; but
yet he has gifts for rebels, and then why not for me?'

167. This sometimes I thought on, and should labour to take hold thereof, that some, though
small, refreshment might have been conceived by me; but in this also I missed of my desire,
I was driven with force beyond it, 'I was' like a man that is going to the place of execution,
even by that place where he would fain creep in and hide himself, but may not.

168. Again, after I had thus considered the sins of the saints in particular, and found mine
went beyond them, then I began to think thus with myself: Set the case I should put all theirs
together, and mine alone against them, might I not then find some encouragement? For if mine,
though bigger than any one, yet should but be equal to all, then there is hopes; for that blood
that hath virtue enough 'in it' to wash away all theirs, hath also virtue enough in it to do
away mine, though this one be full as big, if no bigger, than all theirs. Here, again, I should
consider the sin of David, of Solomon, of Manasseh, of Peter, and the rest of the great offenders;
and should also labour, what I might with fairness, to aggravate and heighten their sins by
several circumstances: but, alas! It was all in vain.[39]

169. 'I should think with myself that David shed blood to cover his adultery, and that by the
sword of the children of Ammon; a work that could not be done but by continuance and deliberate
contrivance, which was a great aggravation to his sin. But then this would turn upon me: Ah!
but these were but sins against the law, from which there was a Jesus sent to save them; but
yours is a sin against the Saviour, and who shall save you from that?'

170. 'Then I thought on Solomon, and how he sinned in loving strange women, in falling away
to their idols, in building them temples, in doing this after light, in his old age, after
great mercy received; but the same conclusion that cut me off in the former consideration,
cut me off as to this; namely, that all those were but sins against the law, for which God
had provided a remedy; but I had sold my Saviour, and there now remained no more sacrifice
for sin.'

171. 'I would then add to those men's sins, the sins of Manasseh, how that he built altars
for idols in the house of the Lord; he also observed times, used enchantment, had to do with
wizards, was a wizard, had his familiar spirits, burned his children in the fire in sacrifice
to devils, and made the streets of Jerusalem run down with the blood of innocents. These, thought
I, are great sins, sins of a bloody colour; yea, it would turn again upon me: They are none
of them of the nature of yours; you have parted with Jesus, you have sold your Saviour.'

172. This one consideration would always kill my heart, My sin was point blank against my Saviour;
and that too, at that height, that I had in my heart said of him, Let him go if he will. Oh!
methought, this sin was bigger than the sins of a country, of a kingdom, or of the whole world,
no one pardonable, nor all of them together, was able to equal mine; mine outwent them every one.

173. (Heb 10:31). This, I say, would come in upon my mind, when I was fleeing from the face
of God; for I did flee from his face, that is, my mind and spirit fled before him; by reason
of his highness, I could not endure; then would the text cry, "Return unto me"; it would cry
aloud with a very great voice, "Return unto me, for I have redeemed thee." Wherefore I could
not return, but fled, though at sometimes it cried, "Return, return," as if it did holloa after
me. But I feared to close in therewith, lest it should not come from God; for that other, as
I said, was still sounding in my conscience, "For you know how that afterwards, when he would
have inherited the blessing, he was rejected," &c.

174. 'Once as I was walking to and fro in a good man's shop, bemoaning of myself in my sad
and doleful state, afflicting myself with self-abhorrence for this wicked and ungodly thought;
lamenting, also, this hard hap of mine, for that I should commit so great a sin, greatly fearing
I should not be pardoned; praying, also, in my heart, that if this sin of mine did differ from
that against the Holy Ghost, the Lord would show it me. And being now ready to sink with fear,
suddenly there was, as if there had rushed in at the window, the noise of wind upon me, but
very pleasant, and as if I heard a voice speaking, Didst ever refuse to be justified by the
blood of Christ? And, withal my whole life and profession past was, in a moment, opened to
me, wherein I was made to see that designedly I had not; so my heart answered groaningly, No.
then fell, with power, that word of God upon me, "See that ye refuse not him that speaketh"
(Heb 12:25). This made a strange seizure upon my spirit; it brought light with it, and commanded
a silence in my heart of all those tumultuous thoughts that before did use, like masterless
hell-hounds, to roar and bellow, and make a hideous noise within me. It showed me, also, that
Jesus Christ had yet a word of grace and mercy for me, that he had not, as I had feared, quite
forsaken and cast off my soul; yea, this was a kind of a chide for my proneness to desperation;
a kind of a threatening me if I did not, notwithstanding my sins and the heinousness of them,
venture my salvation upon the Son of God. But as to my determining about this strange dispensation,
what it was I knew not; or from whence it came I know not. I have not yet, in twenty years'
time, been able to make a judgment of it; I thought then what here I shall be loath to speak.
But verily, that sudden rushing wind was as if an angel had come upon me; but both it and the
salvation I will leave until the day of judgment; only this I say, it commanded a great calm
in my soul, it persuaded me there might be hope; it showed me, as I thought, what the sin unpardonable
was, and that my soul had yet the blessed privilege to flee to Jesus Christ for mercy. But,
I say, concerning this dispensation, I know not what yet to say unto it; which was, also, in
truth, the cause that, at first, I did not speak of it in the book; I do now, also, leave it
to be thought on by men of sound judgment. I lay not the stress of my salvation thereupon,
but upon the Lord Jesus, in the promise; yet, seeing I am here unfolding of my secret things,
I thought it might not be altogether inexpedient to let this also show itself, though I cannot
now relate the matter as there I did experience it. This lasted, in the savour of it, for about
three or four days, and the I began to mistrust and to despair again.'[41]

175. 'Wherefore, still my life hung in doubt before me, not knowing which way I should tip;
only this I found my soul desire, even to cast itself at the foot of grace, by prayer and supplication.
But, oh! it was hard for me now to bear the face to pray to this Christ for mercy, against
whom I had thus most vilely sinned; it was hard work, I say, to offer to look him in the face
against whom I had so vilely sinned; and, indeed, I have found it as difficult to come to God
by prayer, after backsliding from him, as to do any other thing. Oh, the shame that did now
attend me! especially when I thought I am now a-going to pray to him for mercy that I had so
lightly esteemed but a while before! I was ashamed, yea, even confounded, because this villany
had been committed by me; but I saw there was but one way with me, I must go to him and humble
myself unto him, and beg that he, of his wonderful mercy, would show pity to me, and have mercy
upon my wretched sinful soul.'

176. 'Which, when the tempter perceived, he strongly suggested to me, That I ought not to pray
to God; for prayer was not for any in my case, neither could it do me good, because I had rejected
the Mediator, by whom all prayer came with acceptance to God the Father, and without whom no
prayer could come into his presence. Wherefore, now to pray is but to add sin to sin; yea,
now to pray, seeing God has cast you off, is the next way to anger and offend him more than
you ever did before.'

177. 'For God, saith he, hath been weary of you for these several years already, because you
are none of his; your bawlings in his ears hath been no pleasant voice to him; and, therefore,
he let you sin this sin, that you might be quite cut off; and will you pray still? This the
devil urged, and set forth that, in Numbers, when Moses said to the children of Israel, That
because they would not go up to posses the land when God would have them, therefore, for ever
after, God did bar them out from thence, though they prayed they might, with tears (Num 14:36,37),
&c.'

178. 'As it is said in another place (Exo 21:14), the man that sins presumptuously shall be
taken from God's altar, that he may die; even as Joab was by King Solomon, when he thought
to find shelter there (1 Kings 2:28), &c. These places did pinch me very sore; yet, my case
being desperate, I thought with myself I can but die; and if it must be so, it shall once be
said, that such an one died at the foot of Christ in prayer.[42] This I did, but with great
difficulty, God doth know; and that because, together with this, still that saying about Esau
would be set at my heart, even like a flaming sword, to keep the way of the tree of life, lest
I should taste thereof and live. Oh! who knows how hard a thing I found it to come to God in
prayer.'

179. 'I did also desire the prayers of the people of God for me, but I feared that God would
give them no heart to do it; yea, I trembled in my soul to think that some or other of them
would shortly tell me, that God had said those words to them that he once did say to the prophet
concerning the children of Israel, "Pray not thou for this people," for I have rejected them
(Jer 11:14). So, pray not for him, for I have rejected him. Yea, I thought that he had whispered
this to some of them already, only they durst not tell me so, neither durst I ask them of it,
for fear, if it should be so, it would make me quite besides myself. Man knows the beginning
of sin, said Spira, but who bounds the issues thereof?'

180. About this time I took an opportunity to break my mind to an ancient Christian, and told
him all my case; I told him, also, that I was afraid that I had sinned the sin against the
Holy Ghost; and he told me he thought so too. Here, therefore, I had but cold comfort; but,
talking a little more with him, I found him, though a good man, a stranger to much combat with
the devil. Wherefore, I went to God again, as well as I could, for mercy still.

181. Now, also, did the tempter begin to mock me in my misery, saying, that, seeing I had thus
parted with the Lord Jesus, and provoked him to displeasure, who would have stood between my
soul and the flame of devouring fire, there was now but one way, and that was, to pray that
God the Father would be the Mediator betwixt his Son and me, that we might be reconciled again,
and that I might have that blessed benefit in him that his blessed saints enjoyed.

182. Then did that scripture seize upon my soul, He is of one mind, and who can turn him? Oh!
I saw it was as easy to persuade him to make a new world, a new covenant, or new Bible, besides
that we have already, as to pray for such a thing. This was to persuade him that what he had
done already was mere folly, and persuade with him to alter, yea, to disannul, the whole way
of salvation; and then would that saying rend my soul asunder, "Neither is there salvation
in any other: for there is none other name under heaven, given among men, whereby we must be
saved" (Acts 4:12).

183. 'Now, the most free, and full, and gracious words of the gospel were the greatest torment
to me; yea, nothing so afflicted me as the thoughts of Jesus Christ, the remembrance of a Saviour;
because I had cast him off, brought forth the villany of my sin, and my loss by it to mind;
nothing did twinge my conscience like this. Every time that I thought of the Lord Jesus, of
his grace, love, goodness, kindness, gentleness, meekness, death, blood, promises and blessed
exhortations, comforts and consolations, it went to my soul like a sword; for still, unto these
my considerations of the Lord Jesus, these thoughts would make place for themselves in my heart;
aye, this is the Jesus, the loving Saviour, the Son of God, whom thou hast parted with, whom
you slighted, despised, and abused. This is the only Saviour, the only Redeemer, the only one
that could so love sinners as to wash them from their sins in his own most precious blood;
but you have no part nor lot in this Jesus, you have put him from you, you have said in your
heart, Let him go if he will. Now, therefore, you are severed from him; you have severed yourself
from him. Behold, then, his goodness, but yourself to be no partaker of it. Oh, thought I,
what have I lost! What have I parted with! What have I disinherited my poor soul of! Oh! it
is sad to be destroyed by the grace and mercy of God; to have the Lamb, the Saviour, turn lion
and destroyer (Rev 6).[43] I also trembled, as I have said, at the sight of the saints of God,
especially at those that greatly loved him, and that made it their business to walk continually
with him in this world; for they did, both in their words, their carriages, and all their expressions
of tenderness and fear to sin against their precious Saviour, condemn, lay guilt upon, and
also add continual affliction and shame unto my soul. The dread of them was upon me, and I
trembled at God's Samuels (1 Sam 16:4).'

184. Now, also, the tempter began afresh to mock my soul another way, saying that Christ, indeed,
did pity my case, and was sorry for my loss; but forasmuch as I had sinned and transgressed,
as I had done, he could by no means help me, nor save me from what I feared; for my sin was
not of the nature of theirs for whom he bled and died, neither was it counted with those that
were laid to his charge when he hanged on the tree. Therefore, unless he should come down from
heaven and die anew for this sin, though, indeed, he did greatly pity me, yet I could have
no benefit of him. These things may seem ridiculous to others, even as ridiculous as they were
in themselves, but to me they were most tormenting cogitations; every of them augmented my
misery, that Jesus Christ should have so much love as to pity me when he could not help me;
nor did I think that the reason why he could not help me was because his merits were weak,
or his grace and salvation spent on them already, but because his faithfulness to his threatening
would not let him extend his mercy to me. Besides, I thought, as I have already hinted, that
my sin was not within the bounds of that pardon that was wrapped up in a promise; and if not,
then I knew assuredly, that it was more easy for heaven and earth to pass away than for me
to have eternal life. So that the ground of all these fears of mine did arise from a steadfast
belief that I had of the stability of the holy Word of God, and also, from my being misinformed
of the nature of my sin.

185. But, oh! how this would add to my affliction, to conceit that I should be guilty of such
a sin for which he did not die. These thoughts would so confound me, and imprison me, and tie
me up from faith, that I knew not what to do; but, oh! thought I, that he would come down again!
Oh! that the work of man's redemption was yet to be done by Christ! How would I pray him and
entreat him to count and reckon this sin amongst the rest for which he died! But this scripture
would strike me down as dead, "Christ being raised from the death dieth no more; death hath
no more dominion over him" (Rom 6:9).[44]

186. Thus, by the strange and unusual assaults of the tempter, was my soul, like a broken vessel,
driven as with the winds, and tossed sometimes headlong into despair, sometimes upon the covenant
of works, and sometimes to wish that the new covenant, and the conditions thereof, might, so
far forth as I thought myself concerned, be turned another way and changed. But in all these
I was but as those that justle against the rocks; more broken, scattered, and rent. But I say,
all in vain; desperation will not comfort him, the old covenant will not save him; nay, heaven
and earth shall pass away before one jot or tittle of the Word and law of grace shall fall
or be removed. This I saw, this I felt, and under this I groaned; yet this advantage I got
thereby, namely, a farther confirmation of the certainty of the way of salvation, and that
the Scriptures were the Word of God! Oh! I cannot now express what then I saw and felt of the
steadiness of Jesus Christ, the rock of man's salvation; what was done could not be undone,
added to, nor altered. I saw, indeed, that sin might drive the soul beyond Christ, even the
sin which is unpardonable; but woe to him that was so driven, for the Word would shut him out.

187. Thus was I always sinking, whatever I did think or do.

188. Then breaking out in the bitterness of my soul, I said 'to myself,' with a grievous sigh,
How can God comfort such a wretch as I? I had no sooner said it but this returned upon me,
as an echo doth answer a voice, This sin is not unto death. At which I was as if I had been
raised out of a grave, and cried out again, Lord, how couldest thou find out such a word as
this? for I was filled with admiration at the fitness, and, also, at the unexpectedness of
the sentence, 'the fitness of the Word, the rightness of the timing of it, the power, and sweetness,
and light, and glory that came with it, also, was marvelous to me to find. I was now, for the
time, out of doubt as to that about which I so much was in doubt before; my fears before were,
that my sin was not pardonable, and so that I had no right to pray, to repent, &c., or that
if I did, it would be of no advantage or profit to me. But now, thought I, if this sin is not
unto death, then it is pardonable; therefore, from this I have encouragement to come to God,
by Christ, for mercy, to consider the promise of forgiveness as that which stands with open
arms to receive me, as well as others. This, therefore, was a great easement to my mind; to
wit, that my sin was pardonable, that it was not the sin unto death (1 John 5:16,17). None
but those that know what my trouble, by their own experience, was, can tell what relief came
to my soul by this consideration; it was a release to me from my former bonds, and a shelter
from my former storm. I seemed now to stand upon the same ground with other sinners, and to
have as good right to the Word and prayer as any of them.'[45]

189. Now, 'I say,' I was in hopes that my sin was not unpardonable, but that there might be
hopes for me to obtain forgiveness. But, oh, how Satan did now lay about him for to bring me
down again! But he could by no means do it, neither this day nor the most part of the next,
for this sentence stood like a mill post at my back; yet, towards the evening of the next day,
I felt this word begin to leave me and to withdraw its supportation from me, and so I returned
to my old fears again, but with a great deal of grudging and peevishness, for I feared the
sorrow of despair; 'nor could my faith now longer retain this word.'

190. But the next day, at evening, being under many fears, I went to seek the Lord; and as
I prayed, I cried, 'and my soul cried' to him in these words, with strong cries:--O Lord, I
beseech thee, show me that thou hast loved me with everlasting love (Jer 31:3). I had no sooner
said it but, with sweetness, this returned upon me, as an echo or sounding again, "I have loved
thee with an everlasting love." Now I went to bed at quiet; also, when I awaked the next morning,
it was fresh upon my soul--'and I believed it.'

191. But yet the tempter left me not; for it could not be so little as an hundred times that
he that day did labour to break my peace. Oh! the combats and conflicts that I did then meet
with as I strove to hold by this word; that of Esau would fly in my face like to lightning.
I should be sometimes up and down twenty times in an hour, yet God did bear me up and keep
my heart upon this word, from which I had also, for several days together, very much sweetness
and comfortable hopes of pardon; for thus it was made out to me, I loved thee whilst thou wast
committing this sin, I loved thee before, I love thee still, and I will love thee for ever.

192. Yet I saw my sin most barbarous, and a filthy crime, and could not but conclude, and that
with great shame and astonishment, that I had horribly abused the holy Son of God; wherefore
I felt my soul greatly to love and pity him, and my bowels to yearn towards him; for I saw
he was still my Friend, and did reward me good for evil; yea, the love and affection that then
did burn within to my Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ did work, at this time, such a strong and
hot desire of revengement upon myself for the abuse I had done unto him, that, to speak as
then I thought, had I had a thousand gallons of blood within my veins, I could freely 'then'
have spilt it all at the command and feet of this my Lord and Saviour.

193. And as I was thus in musing and in my studies, 'considering' how to love the Lord and
to express my love to him, that saying came in upon me, "If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities,
O Lord, who shall stand? But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared" (Psa
130:3,4). These were good words to me,[46] especially the latter part thereof; to wit, that
there is forgiveness with the Lord, that he might be feared; that is, as then I understood
it, that he might be loved and had in reverence; for it was thus made out to me, that the great
God did set so high an esteem upon the love of his poor creatures, that rather than he would
go without their love he would pardon their transgressions.

194. And now was that word fulfilled on me, and I was also refreshed by it, Then shall they
be ashamed and confounded, "and never open their mouth any more because of their shame, when
I am pacified toward them for all that they have done, saith the Lord God" (Eze 16:63). Thus
was my soul at this time, and, as I then did think, for ever, set at liberty from being again
afflicted with my former guilt and amazement.

195. But before many weeks were over I began to despond again, fearing lest, notwithstanding
all that I had enjoyed, that yet I might be deceived and destroyed at the last; for this consideration
came strong into my mind, that whatever comfort and peace I thought I might have from the Word
of the promise of life, yet unless there could be found in my refreshment a concurrence and
agreement in the Scriptures, let me think what I will thereof, and hold it never so fast, I
should find no such thing at the end; "for the Scripture cannot be broken" (John 10:35).

196. Now began my heart again to ache and fear I might meet with disappointment at the last;
wherefore I began, with all seriousness, to examine my former comfort, and to consider whether
one that had sinned as I have done, might with confidence trust upon the faithfulness of God,
laid down in those words by which I had been comforted and on which I had leaned myself. (Heb
6:4-6).

197. Now was the word of the gospel forced from my soul, so that no promise or encouragement
was to be found in the Bible for me; and now would that saying work upon my spirit to afflict
me, "Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy as other people" (Hosea 9:1). For I saw indeed there was
cause of rejoicing for those that held to Jesus; but as for me, I had cut myself off by my
transgressions, and left myself neither foot-hold, nor hand-hold, amongst all the stays and
props in the precious word of life.

198. And truly I did now feel myself to sink into a gulf, as an house whose foundation is destroyed;
I did liken myself, in this condition, unto the case of a child that was fallen into a mill-pit,
who, though it could make some shift to scrabble and spraul in the water, yet because it could
find neither hold for hand nor foot, therefore at last it must die in that condition. So soon
as this fresh assault had fastened on my soul, that scripture came into my heart, "This is
for many days" (Dan 10:14). And indeed I found it was so; for I could not be delivered, nor
brought to peace again, until well nigh two years and an half were completely finished. Wherefore
these words, though in themselves they tended to discouragement, yet to me, who feared this
condition would be eternal, they were at sometimes as an help and refreshment to me.

199. For, thought I, many days are not, not for ever, many days will have an end, therefore
seeing I was to be afflicted, not a few, but many days, yet I was glad it was but for many
days. Thus, I say, I could recall myself sometimes, and give myself a help, for as soon as
ever the words came 'into my mind' at first, I knew my trouble would be long; yet this would
be but sometimes, for I could not always think on this, nor ever be helped 'by it,' though I did.

200. Now, while these Scriptures lay before me, and laid sin 'anew' at my door, that saying
in the 18th of Luke, with others, did encourage me to prayer. Then the tempter again laid at
me very sore, suggesting, That neither the mercy of God, nor yet the blood of Christ, did at
all concern me, nor could they help me for my sin; 'therefore it was in vain to pray.' Yet,
thought I, I will pray. But, said the tempter, your sin is unpardonable. 'Well, said I, I will
pray. It is to no boot, said he.' Yet, said I, I will pray. So I went to prayer to God; and
while I was at prayer, I uttered words to this effect, Lord, Satan tells me that neither thy
mercy, nor Christ's blood, is sufficient to save my soul; Lord, shall I honour thee most, by
believing thou wilt and canst? or 'him,' by believing thou neither wilt nor canst? Lord, I
would fain honour thee, by believing thou wilt and canst.

201. And as I was thus before the Lord, that scripture fastened on my heart, "O [wo]man, great
is thy faith" (Matt 15:28), even as if one had clapped me on the back, as I was on my knees
before God. Yet I was not able to believe this, 'that this was a prayer of faith,' till almost
six months after; for I could not think that I had faith, or that there should be a word for
me to act faith on; therefore I should still be as sticking in the jaws of desperation, and
went mourning up and down 'in a sad condition,' crying, Is his mercy clean gone? Is his mercy
clean gone for ever? And I thought sometimes, even when I was groaning in these expressions,
they did seem to make a question whether it was or no; yet I greatly feared it was.

202. 'There was nothing now that I longed for more than to be put out of doubt, as to this
thing in question; and, as I was vehemently desiring to know if there was indeed hopes for
me, these words came rolling into my mind, "Will the Lord cast off for ever? And will he be
a favourable no more? Is his mercy clean gone for ever? Doth his promise fail for evermore?
Hath God forgotten to be gracious? Hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies?" (Psa 77:7-9).
And all the while they run in my mind, methought I had this still as the answer, It is a question
whether he had or no; it may be he hath not. Yea, the interrogatory seemed to me to carry in
it a sure affirmation that indeed he had not, nor would so cast off, but would be favourable;
that his promise doth not fail, and that he had not forgotten to be gracious, nor would in
anger shut up his tender mercy. Something, also, there was upon my heart at the same time,
which I now cannot call to mind; which, with this text, did sweeten my heart, and made me conclude
that his mercy might not be quite gone, nor clean gone for ever.'[47]

203. At another time, I remember I was again much under the question, Whether the blood of
Christ was sufficient to save my soul? In which doubt I continued from morning till about seven
or eight at night; and at last, when I was, as it were, quite worn out with fear, lest it should
not lay hold on me, these words did sound suddenly within my heart, He is able.

204. But one morning, when I was again at prayer, and trembling under the fear of this, that
no word of God could help me, that piece of a sentence darted in upon me, "My grace is sufficient."
At this methought I felt some stay, as if there might be hopes. But, oh how good a thing it
is for God to send his Word! For about a fortnight before I was looking on this very place,
and then I thought it could not come near my soul with comfort, 'therefore' I threw down my
book in a pet. 'Then I thought it was not large enough for me; no, not large enough'; but now,
it was as if it had arms of grace so wide that it could not only enclose me, but many more besides.

205. By these words I was sustained, yet not without exceeding conflicts, for the space of
seven or eight weeks; for my peace would be in and out, sometimes twenty times a day; comfort
now, and trouble presently; peace now, and before I could go a furlong as full of fear and
guilt as ever heart could hold; and this was not only now and then, but my whole seven weeks'
experience; for this about the sufficiency of grace, and that of Esau's parting with his birthright,
would be like a pair of scales within my mind, sometimes one end would be uppermost, and sometimes
again the other; according to which would be my peace or trouble.

206. Therefore I still did pray to God, that he would come in with this Scripture more fully
on my heart; to wit, that he would help me to apply the whole sentence, 'for as yet I could
not: that he gave, I gathered; but further I could not go,' for as yet it only helped me to
hope 'there might be mercy for me,' "My grace is sufficient"; and though it came no farther,
it answered my former question; to wit, that there was hope; yet, because "for thee" was left
out, I was not contented, but prayed to God for that also.

207. At which time my understanding was so enlightened, that I was as though I had seen the
Lord Jesus look down from heaven through the tiles upon me, and direct these words unto me.
This sent me mourning home, it broke my heart, and filled me full of joy, and laid me low as
the dust; only it stayed not long with me, I mean in this glory and refreshing comfort, yet
it continued with me for several weeks, and did encourage me to hope. But so soon as that powerful
operation of it was taken off my heart, that other about Esau returned upon me as before; so
my soul did hang as in a pair of scales again, sometimes up and sometimes down, now in peace,
and anon again in terror.

208. Thus I went on for many weeks, sometimes comforted, and sometimes tormented; and, especially
at some times, my torment would be very sore, for all those scriptures forenamed in the Hebrews,
would be set before me, as the only sentences that would keep me out of heaven. Then, again,
I should begin to repent that ever that thought went through me, I should also think thus with
myself, Why, how many scriptures are there against me? There are but three or four: and cannot
God miss them, and save me for all them? Sometimes, again, I should think, Oh! if it were not
for these three or four words, now how might I be comforted? And I could hardly forbear, at
some times, but to wish them out of the book.

209. Then methought I should see as if both Peter, and Paul, and John, and all the writers,
did look with scorn upon me, and hold me in derision; and as if they said unto me, All our
words are truth, one of as much force as another. It is not we that have cut you off, but you
have cast away yourself; there is none of our sentences that you must take hold upon but these,
and such as these: "It is impossible; there remains no more sacrifice for sin" (Heb 6). And
"it had been better for them not to have known" the will of God, "than after they have known
it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them" (2 Peter 2:21). "For the Scriptures
cannot be broken."[48]

210. 'These, as the elders of the city of refuge, I saw were to be the judges both of my case
and me, while I stood, with the avenger of blood at my heels, trembling at their gate for deliverance,
also with a thousand fears and mistrusts, I doubted that they would shut me out for ever (Josh
20:3,4).'

211. Thus was I confounded, not knowing what to do, nor how to be satisfied in this question,
Whether the scriptures could agree in the salvation of my soul? I quaked at the apostles, I
knew their words were true, and that they must stand for ever.

212. And I remember one day, as I was in diverse frames of spirit, and considering that these
frames were still according to the nature of the several scriptures that came in upon my mind;
if this of grace, then was I quiet; but if that of Esau, then tormented; Lord, thought I, if
both these scriptures would meet in my heart at once, I wonder which of them would get the
better of me. So methought I had a longing mind that they might come both together upon me;
yea, I desired of God they might.

213. Well, about two or three days after, so they did indeed; they bolted both upon me at a
time, and did work and struggle strangely in me for a while; at last, that about Esau's birthright
began to wax weak, and withdraw, and vanish; and this about the sufficiency of grace prevailed
with peace and joy. And as I was in a muse about this thing, that scripture came home upon
me, "Mercy rejoiceth against judgment" (James 2:13).

214. This was a wonderment to me; yet truly I am apt to think it was of God; for the word of
the law and wrath must give place to the word of life and grace; because, though the word of
condemnation be glorious, yet the word of life and salvation doth far exceed in glory (2 Cor
3:8-12; Mark 9:5-7). Also, that Moses and Elias must both vanish, and leave Christ and his
saints alone.

215. This scripture did also most sweetly visit my soul, "And him that cometh to me I will
in no wise cast out" (John 6:37). Oh, the comfort that I have had from this world, "in no wise"!
as who should say, by no means, for no thing, whatever he hath done. But Satan would greatly
labour to pull this promise from me, telling of me that Christ did not mean me, and such as
I, but sinners of a lower rank, that had not done as I had done. But I should answer him again,
Satan, here is in this word no such exception; but "him that comes," HIM, any him; "him that
cometh to me I will in no wise cast out." And this I well remember still, that of all the sleights
that Satan used to take this scripture from me, yet he never did so much as put this question,
But do you come aright? And I have thought the reason was, because he thought I knew full well
what coming aright was; for I saw that to come aright was to come as I was, a vile and ungodly
sinner, and to cast myself at the feet of mercy, condemning myself for sin. If ever Satan and
I did strive for any word 'of God in all my life, it was for this good word of Christ; he at
one end and I at the other. Oh, what work did we make!' It was for this in John, 'I say, that
we did so tug and strive'; he pulled and I pulled; but, God be praised, 'I got the better of
him,' I got some sweetness from it.

216. But, notwithstanding all these helps and blessed words of grace, yet that of Esau's selling
of his birthright would still at times distress my conscience; for though I had been most sweetly
comforted, and that but just before, yet when that came into 'my' mind, it would make me fear
again, I could not be quite rid thereof, it would every day be with me: wherefore now I went
another way to work, even to consider the nature of this blasphemous thought; I mean, if I
should take the words at the largest, and give them their own natural force and scope, even
every word therein. So when I had thus considered, I found, that if they were fairly taken,
they would amount to this, that I had freely left the Lord Jesus Christ to his choice, whether
he would be my Saviour or no; for the wicked words were these, Let him go if he will. Then
that scripture gave me hope, "I will never leave thee nor forsake thee" (Heb 13:5). O Lord,
said I, but I have left thee. Then it answered again, "But I will not leave thee." For this
I thank God also.

217. Yet I was grievously afraid he should, and found it exceeding hard to trust him, seeing
I had so offended him. I could have been exceeding glad that this thought had never befallen,
for then I thought I could, with more ease and freedom abundance, have leaned upon his grace.
I see it was with me, as it was with Joseph's brethren; the guilt of their own wickedness did
often fill them with fears that their brother would at last despise them (Gen 50:15-17).

218. But above all the scriptures that I yet did meet with, that in the twentieth of Joshua
was the greatest comfort to me, which speaks of the slayer that was to flee for refuge. And
if the avenger of blood pursue the slayer, then, saith Moses, they that are the elders of the
city of refuge shall not deliver him into his hand, because he smote his neighbour unwittingly,
and hated him not aforetime. Oh, blessed be God for this word; I was convinced that I was the
slayer; and that the avenger of blood pursued me, that I felt with great terror; only now it
remained that I inquire whether I have right to enter the city of refuge.[49] So I found that
he must not, who lay in wait to shed blood: 'it was not the willful murderer,' but he who unwittingly
did it, he who did unawares shed blood; 'not of spite, or grudge, or malice, he that shed it
unwittingly,' even he who did not hate his neighbour before. Wherefore,

219. I thought verily I was the man that must enter, because I had smitten my neighbour unwittingly,
and hated him not aforetime. I hated him not aforetime; no, I prayed unto him, was tender of
sinning against him; yea, and against this wicked temptation I had strove for a twelvemonth
before; yea, and also when it did pass through my heart, it did it in spite of my teeth: wherefore
I thought I had right to enter this city, and the elders, which are the apostles, were not
to deliver me up. This, therefore, was great comfort to me; and did give me much ground of hope.

220. Yet being very critical, for my smart had made me that I knew not what ground was sure
enough to bear me, I had one question that my soul did much desire to be resolved about; and
that was, Whether it be possible for any soul that hath indeed sinned the unpardonable sin,
yet after that to receive though but the least true spiritual comfort from God through Christ?
The which, after I had much considered, I found the answer was, No, they could not; and that
for these reasons:--

221. First, Because those that have sinned that sin, they are debarred a share in the blood
of Christ, and being shut out of that, they must needs be void of the least ground of hope,
and so of spiritual comfort; for to such "there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins" (Heb
10:26). Secondly, Because they are denied a share in the promise of life; they shall never
be forgiven, "neither in this world, neither in that which is to come" (Matt 12:32). Thirdly,
The Son of God excludes them also from a share in his blessed intercession, being for ever
ashamed to own them both before his holy Father, and the blessed angels in heaven (Mark 8:38).

222. When I had, with much deliberation, considered of this matter, and could not but conclude
that the Lord had comforted me, and that too after this my wicked sin; then, methought, I durst
venture to come nigh unto those most fearful and terrible scriptures, with which all this while
I had been so greatly affrighted, and on which, indeed, before I durst scarce cast mine eye,
yea, had much ado an hundred times to forbear wishing of them out of the Bible; for I thought
they would destroy me; but now, I say, I began to take some measure of encouragement to come
close to them, to read them, and consider them, and to weigh their scope and tendency.

223. The which, when I began to do, I found their visage changed; for they looked not so grimly
on me as before I thought they did. And, first, I came to the sixth of the Hebrews, yet trembling
for fear it should strike me; which when I had considered, I found that the falling there intended
was a falling quite away; that is, as I conceived, a falling from, and an absolute denial of
the gospel of remission of sins by Christ; for from them the apostle begins his argument (vv
1-3). Secondly, I found that this falling away must be openly, even in the view of the world,
even so as "to put Christ to an open shame." Thirdly, I found that those he there intended
were for ever shut up of God, both in blindness, hardness, and impenitency: it is impossible
they should be renewed again unto repentance. By all these particulars, I found, to God's everlasting
praise, my sin was not the sin in this place intended.

'First, I confessed I was fallen, but not fallen away, that is, from the profession of faith
in Jesus unto eternal life. Secondly, I confessed that I had put Jesus Christ to shame by my
sin, but not to open shame; I did not deny him before men, nor condemn him as a fruitless one
before the world. Thirdly, Nor did I find that God had shut me up, or denied me to come, though
I found it hard work indeed to come to him by sorrow and repentance. Blessed be God for unsearchable
grace.'

224. Then I considered that in the tenth of the Hebrews, and found that the willful sin there
mentioned is not every willful sin, but that which doth throw off Christ, and then his commandments
too. Secondly, That must also be done openly, before two or three witnesses, to answer that
of the law (v 28). Thirdly, This sin cannot be committed, but with great despite done to the
Spirit of grace; despising both the dissuasions from that sin, and the persuasions to the contrary.
But the Lord knows, though this my sin was devilish, yet it did not amount to these.

225. And as touching that in the twelfth of the Hebrews, about Esau's selling his birthright,
though this was that which killed me, and stood like a spear against me; yet now I did consider,
First, That his was not a hasty thought against the continual labour of his mind, but a thought
consented to and put in practice likewise, and that too after some deliberation (Gen 25). Secondly,
It was a public and open action, even before his brother, if not before many more; this made
his sin of a far more heinous nature than otherwise it would have been. Thirdly, He continued
to slight his birthright: "He did eat and drink, and went his way; thus Esau despised his birthright"
(v 34). Yea, twenty years after, he was found to despise it still. "And Esau said, I have enough,
my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself" (Gen 33:9).

226. Now as touching this, that Esau sought a place of repentance; thus I thought, first, This
was not for the birthright, but for the blessing; this is clear from the apostle, and is distinguished
by Esau himself; "he took away my birthright [that is, formerly]; and, behold, now he hath
taken away my blessing" (Gen 27:36). Secondly, Now, this being thus considered, I came again
to the apostle, to see what might be the mind of God, in a New Testament style and sense, concerning
Esau's sin; and so far as I could conceive, this was the mind of God, That the birthright signified
regeneration, and the blessing the eternal inheritance; for so the apostle seems to hint, "Lest
there be any profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright"; as if
he should say, Lest there be any person amongst you, that shall cast off all those blessed
beginnings of God that at present are upon him, in order to a new birth, lest they become as
Esau, even be rejected afterwards, when they would inherit the blessing.

227. For many there are who, in the day of grace and mercy, despise those things which are
indeed the birthright to heaven, who yet, when the deciding day appears, will cry as loud as
Esau, "Lord, Lord, open to us"; but then, as Isaac would not repent, no more will God the Father,
but will say, I have blessed these, yea, and they shall be blessed; but as for you, depart
from me, all ye workers of iniquity (Gen 27:33; Luke 13:25-27).

228. When I had thus considered these scriptures, and found that thus to understand them was
not against, but according to other scriptures; this still added further to my encouragement
and comfort, and also gave a great blow to that objection, to wit, that the scripture could
not agree in the salvation of my soul. And now remained only the hinder part of the tempest,
for the thunder was gone beyond me, only some drops did still remain, that now and then would
fall upon me; but because my former frights and anguish were very sore and deep, therefore
it did oft befall me still, as it befalleth those that have been scared with fire, I thought
every voice was Fire, fire; every little touch would hurt my tender conscience.[50]

229. But one day, as I was passing in the field, and that too with some dashes on my conscience,
fearing lest yet all was not right, suddenly this sentence fell upon my soul, Thy righteousness
is in heaven; and methought withal, I saw, with the eyes of my soul, Jesus Christ at God's
right hand; there, I say, as my righteousness; so that wherever I was, or whatever I was adoing,
God could not say of me, He wants my righteousness, for that was just before him.

230. Now did my chains fall off my legs indeed, I was loosed from my affliction and irons,
my temptations also fled away; so that, from that time, those dreadful scriptures of God left
off to trouble me; now went I also home rejoicing, for the grace and love of God. So when I
came home, I looked to see if I could find that sentence, Thy righteousness is in heaven; but
could not find such a saying, wherefore my heart began to sink again, only that was brought
to my remembrance, he "of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification,
and redemption"; by this word I saw the other sentence true (1 Cor 1:30).

231. For by this scripture, I saw that the man Christ Jesus, as he is distinct from us, as
touching his bodily presence, so he is our righteousness and sanctification before God. Here,
therefore, I lived for some time, very sweetly at peace with God through Christ; Oh methought,
Christ! Christ! there was nothing but Christ that was before my eyes, I was not now only for
looking upon this and the other benefits of Christ apart, as of his blood, burial, or resurrection,
but considered him as a whole Christ! As he in whom all these, and all other his virtues, relations,
offices, and operations met together, and that 'as he sat' on the right hand of God in heaven.

232.

233. Further, the Lord did also lead me into the mystery of union with the Son of God, that
I was joined to him, that I was flesh of his flesh, and bone of his bone, and now was that
a sweet word to me in Ephesians 5:30. By this also was my faith in him, as my righteousness,
the more confirmed to me; for if he and I were one, then his righteousness was mine, his merits
mine, his victory also mine. Now could I see myself in heaven and earth at once; in heaven
by my Christ, by my head, by my righteousness and life, though on earth by my body or person.

234. Now I saw Christ Jesus was looked on of God, and should also be looked upon by us, as
that common or public person, [52] in whom all the whole body of his elect are always to be
considered and reckoned; that we fulfilled the law by him, died by him, rose from the dead
by him, got the victory over sin, death, the devil, and hell, by him; when he died, we died;
and so of his resurrection. "Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they
arise," saith he (Isa 26:19). And again, "After two days will he revive us: in the third day
he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight" (Eph 2:6).

235. Ah, these blessed considerations and scriptures, with many other of a like nature, were
in those days made to spangle in mine eyes, 'so that I have cause to say,' "Praise ye the Lord.
(Psa 150:1,2).

236. Having thus, in few words, given you a taste of the sorrow and affliction that my soul
went under, by the guilt and terror that this my wicked thought did lay me under! and having
given you also a touch of my deliverance therefrom, and of the sweet and blessed comfort that
I met with afterwards, which comfort dwelt about a twelve-month with my heart, to my unspeakable
admiration; I will now, God willing, before I proceed any further, give you in a word or two,
what, as I conceive, was the cause of this temptation; and also after that, what advantage,
at the last, it became unto my soul.

237. For the causes, I conceived they were principally two: of which two also I was deeply
convinced all the time this trouble lay upon me. The first was, for that I did not, when I
was delivered from the temptation that went before, still pray to God to keep me from temptations
that were to come; for though, as I can say in truth, my soul was much in prayer before this
trial seized me, yet then I prayed only, or at the most, principally for the removal of present
troubles, and for fresh discoveries of 'his' love in Christ! which I saw afterwards was not
enough to do; I also should have prayed that the great God would keep me from the evil that
was to come.

238. Of this I was made deeply sensible by the prayer of holy David, who, when he was under
present mercy, yet prayed that God would hold him back from sin and temptation to come; "Then,"
saith he, "shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the GREAT transgression" (Psa 19:13).
By this very word was I galled and condemned, quite through this long temptation.

239. That also was another word that did much condemn me for my folly, in the neglect of this
duty (Heb 4:16), "Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain
mercy, and find grace to help in time of need." This I had not done, and therefore was suffered
thus to sin and fall, according to what is written, "Pray that ye enter not into temptation."
And truly this very thing is to this day of such weight and awe upon me, that I dare not, when
I come before the Lord, go off my knees, until I entreat him for help and mercy against the
temptations that are to come; and I do beseech thee, reader, that thou learn to beware of my
negligence, by the affliction that for this thing I did for days, and months, and years, with
sorrow undergo.

240. Another cause of this temptation was, that I had tempted God; and on this manner did I
do it. Upon a time my wife was great with child, and before her full time was come, her pangs,
as of a woman in travail, were fierce and strong upon her, even as if she would have immediately
fallen in labour, and been delivered of an untimely birth. Now, at this very time it was, that
I had been so strongly tempted to question the being of God; wherefore, as my wife lay crying
by me, I said, but with all secrecy imaginable, even thinking in my heart, Lord, if thou wilt
now remove this sad affliction from my wife, and cause that she be troubled no more therewith
this night, and now were her pangs just upon her, then I shall know that thou canst discern
the most secret thoughts of the heart.

241. I had no sooner said it in my heart, but her pangs were taken from her, and she was cast
into a deep sleep, and so she continued till morning; at this I greatly marveled, not knowing
what to think; but after I had been awake a good while, and heard her cry no more, I fell to
sleeping also. So when I waked in the morning, it came upon me again, even what I had said
in my heart the last night, and how the Lord had showed me that he knew my secret thoughts,
which was a great astonishment unto me for several weeks after.

242. Well, about a year and a half afterwards, that wicked sinful thought, of which I have
spoken before, went through my wicked heart, even this thought, Let Christ go if he will; so
when I was fallen under guilt for this, the remembrance of my other thought, and of the effect
thereof, would also come upon me with this retort, which also carried rebuke along with it,
Now you may see that God doth know the most secret thoughts of the heart.[53]

243. And with this, that of the passages that were betwixt the Lord and his servant Gideon
fell upon my spirit; how because that Gideon tempted God with his fleece, both wet and dry,
when he should have believed and ventured upon his word, therefore the Lord did afterwards
so try him, as to send him against an innumerable company of enemies; and that too, as to outward
appearance, without any strength or help (Judg 6, 7). Thus he served me, and that justly, for
I should have believed his word, and not have put an IF upon the all-seeingness of God.

244. And now to show you something of the advantages that I also gained by this temptation;
and first, By this I was made continually to possess in my soul a very wonderful sense both
of the being and glory of God, and of his beloved Son; in the temptation 'that went' before,
my soul was perplexed with 'unbelief, blasphemy, hardness of heart, questions about the being
of God, Christ, the truth of the Word, and certainty of the world to come; I say, then I was
greatly assaulted and tormented with' atheism; but now the case was otherwise, now was God
and Christ continually before my face, though not in a way of comfort, but in a way of exceeding
dread and terror. The glory of the holiness of God did at this time break me to pieces; and
the bowels and compassion of Christ did break me as on the wheel;[54] for I could not consider
him but as a lost and rejected Christ, the remembrance of which was as the continual breaking
of my bones.

245. The Scriptures now also were wonderful things unto me; I saw that the truth and verity
of them were the keys of the kingdom of heaven; those 'that' the Scriptures favour they must
inherit bliss, but those 'that' they oppose and condemn must perish evermore. Oh this word,
"For the Scripture cannot be broken": would rend the caul of my heart; and so would that other,
"Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain,
they are retained." Now I saw the apostles to be the elders of the city of refuge (Josh 20:4),
those 'that' they were to receive in, were received to life; but those that they shut out were
to be slain by the avenger of blood.[55]

246. Oh! one sentence of the Scripture did more afflict and terrify my mind, I mean those sentences
that stood against me, as sometimes I thought they every one did, more I say, than an army
of forty thousand men that might have come against me. Woe be to him against whom the Scriptures
bend themselves.

247. By this temptation I was made 'to' see more into the nature of the promises than ever
I was before; for I lying now trembling under the mighty hand of God, continually torn and
rent by the thunderings of his justice; this made me, with careful heart and watchful eye,
with great seriousness, to turn over every leaf, and with much diligence, mixed with trembling,
to consider every sentence, together with its natural force and latitude.

248. By this temptation, also, I was greatly beaten off my former foolish practice, of putting
by the word of promise when it came into my mind; for now, though I could not suck that comfort
and sweetness from the promise as I had done at other times, yea, like to a man a-sinking,
I should catch at all I saw; formerly I thought I might not meddle with the promise unless
I felt its comfort, but now it was no time thus to do, the avenger of blood too hardly did
pursue me.

249. Now therefore I was glad to catch at that word, which yet I feared I had no ground or
right to own; and even to leap into the bosom of that promise, that yet I feared did shut its
heart against me. Now also I should labour to take the Word as God had laid it down, without
restraining the natural force of one syllable thereof. O what did I now see in that blessed
sixth of John, "And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out" (v 37). Now I began
to consider with myself, that God had a bigger mouth to speak with than I had heart to conceive
with. I thought also with myself that he spake not his words in haste, or in unadvised heat,
but with infinite wisdom and judgment, and in very truth and faithfulness (2 Sam 3:18).

250. I should in these days, often in my greatest agonies, even flounce towards the promise,
as the horses do towards sound ground that yet stick in the mire, concluding, though as one
almost bereft of his wits through fear, on this I will rest and stay, and leave the fulfilling
of it to the God of heaven that made it. Oh! many a pull hath my heart had with Satan for that
blessed sixth of John. I did not now, as at other times, look principally for comfort, though,
O how welcome would it have been unto me! But now a word, a word to lean a weary soul upon,
that I might not sink for ever! 'it was that I hunted for.'

251. Yea, often when I have been making to the promise, I have seen as if the Lord would refuse
my soul for ever. I was often as if I had run upon the pikes, and as if the Lord had thrust
at me to keep me from him as with a flaming sword. Then I should think of Esther, who went
to petition the king contrary to the law (Esth 4:16). I thought also of Benhadad's servants,
who went with ropes upon their heads to their enemies for mercy (1 Kings 20:31). The woman
of Canaan also, that would not be daunted, though called dog by Christ (Matt 15:20-28). And
the man that went to borrow bread at midnight (Luke 11:5-8), were great encouragements unto me.

251. I never saw those heights and depths in grace, and love, and mercy, as I saw after this
temptation. Great sins do draw out great grace; and where guilt is most terrible and fierce
there the mercy of God in Christ, when showed to the soul, appears most high and mighty. When
Job had passed through his captivity, he had "twice as much as he had before" (Job 42:10).
Blessed be God for Jesus Christ our Lord. Many other things I might here make observation of,
but I would be brief, and therefore shall at this time omit them, and do pray God that my harms
may make others fear to offend, lest they also be made to bear the iron yoke as I 'did.'

'I had two or three times, at or about my deliverance from this temptation, such strange apprehensions
of the grace of God, that I could hardly bear up under it, it was so out of measure amazing,
when I thought it could reach me, that I do think, if that sense of it had abode long upon
me, it would have made me incapable for business.'

[ENTERS INTO FELLOWSHIP WITH THE CHURCH OF CHRIST AT BEDFORD, IN WHICH HE AFTERWARDS BECAME
A MINISTERING ELDER.]

253. Now I shall go forward to give you a relation of other of the Lord's dealings with me,
of his dealings with me at sundry other seasons, and of the temptations I then did meet withal.
But, behold, I had not been long a partaker at that ordinance, but such fierce and sad temptations
did attend me at all times therein, both to blaspheme the ordinance, and to wish some deadly
thing to those that then did eat thereof; that, lest I should at any time be guilty of consenting
to these wicked and fearful thoughts, I was forced to bend myself all the while to pray to
God to keep me from such blasphemies; and also to cry to God to bless the bread and cup to
them as it went from mouth to mouth. The reason of this temptation I have thought since was,
because I did not, with that reverence 'as became me,' at first approach to partake thereof.

254.

255.

256.

257. (Rom 3:24). 'But oh what a turn it made upon me!'

258.

259. And as I was thus in a muse that scripture also came with great power upon my spirit,
Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, &c.
(Titus 3:5; 2 Tim 1:9). Oh, methought this life is but a slumber in comparison of that above;
at this time also I saw more in those words, "Heirs of God" (Rom 8:17), than ever I shall be
able to express while I live in this world. "Heirs of God!" God himself is the portion of the
saints. This I saw and wondered at, but cannot tell you what I saw.[57]

260. (1 Cor 15:55). At another time, though just before I was pretty well and savoury in my
spirit, yet suddenly there fell upon me a great cloud of darkness, which did so hide from me
the things of God and Christ, that I was as if I had never seen or known them in my life; I
was also so overrun in my soul, with a senseless, heartless frame of spirit, that I could not
feel my soul to move or stir after grace and life by Christ; I was as if my loins were broken,
or as if my hands and feet had been tied or bound with chains. At this time also I felt some
weakness to seize 'upon' my outward man, which made still the other affliction the more heavy
and uncomfortable 'to me.'

262. After I had been in this condition some three or four days, as I was sitting by the fire,
I suddenly felt this word to sound in my heart, I must go to Jesus; at this my former darkness
and atheism fled away, and the blessed things of heaven were set within my view. While I was
on this sudden thus overtaken with surprise, Wife, said I, is there ever such a scripture,
I must go to Jesus? she said she could not tell, therefore I sat musing still to see if I could
remember such a place; I had not sat above two or three minutes but that came bolting in upon
me, "And to an innumerable company of angels," and withal, Hebrews the twelfth, about the mount
Sion was set before mine eyes (vv 22-24).

263. Then with joy I told my wife, O now I know, I know! But that night was a good night to
me, I never had but few better; I longed for the company of some of God's people that I might
have imparted unto them what God had showed me. Christ was a precious Christ to my soul that
night; I could scarce lie in my bed for joy, and peace, and triumph, through Christ; this great
glory did not continue upon me until morning, yet that twelfth of the author to the Hebrews
(Heb 12:22,23) was a blessed scripture to me for many days together after this.

264. Through this blessed sentence the Lord led me over and over, first to this word, and then
to that, and showed me wonderful glory in every one of them. These words also have oft since
this time been great refreshment to my spirit. Blessed be God for having mercy on me.

[A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE AUTHOR'S CALL TO THE WORK OF THE MINISTRY.]

265. And now I am speaking my experience, I will in this place thrust in a word or two concerning
my preaching the Word, and of God's dealing with me in that particular also.

267.

268.

269.

270. This scripture, in these days, did continually run in my mind, to encourage me and strengthen
me in this my work for God; I have also been encouraged from several other scriptures and examples
of the godly, both specified in the Word and other ancient histories (Acts 8:4, 18:24,25; 1
Peter 4:10; Rom 12:6; Foxe's Acts and Monuments).

271.

272.

273.

274. (Job 29:13).

275.

276.

277.

278. Thus I went for the space of two years, crying out against men's sins, and their fearful
state because of them. After which the Lord came in upon my own soul with some staid peace
and comfort through Christ; for he did give me many sweet discoveries of his blessed grace
through him. Wherefore now I altered in my preaching, for still I preached what I saw and felt;
now therefore I did much labour to hold forth Jesus Christ in all his offices, relations, and
benefits unto the world; and did strive also to discover, to condemn, and remove those false
supports and props on which the world doth both lean, and by them fall and perish. On these
things also I staid as long as on the other.

279. After this, God led me into something of the mystery of union with Christ; wherefore that
I discovered and showed to them also. And when I had traveled through these three chief points
of the Word of God, about the space of five years or more, I was caught in my present practice
and cast into prison, where I have lain[60] above as long again, to confirm the truth by way
of suffering, as I was before in testifying of it according to the Scriptures in a way of preaching.

280. Wherefore I did labour so to speak the Word, as that thereby, if it were possible, the
sins and person guilty might be particularized by it.

281. And, indeed, I did often say in my heart before the Lord, That if to be hanged up presently
before their eyes would be a means to awaken them, and confirm them in the truth, I gladly
should be contented.

282. Oh, it hath been with such power and heavenly evidence upon my own soul, while I have
been labouring to unfold it, to demonstrate it, and to fasten it upon the consciences of others,
that I could not be contented with saying, I believe, and am sure; methought I was more than
sure, if it be lawful so to express myself, that those things which then I asserted were true.

283. When I went first to preach the Word abroad, the doctors and priests of the country did
open wide against me.[61] But I was persuaded of this, not to render railing for railing, but
to see how many of their carnal professors I could convince of their miserable state by the
law, and of the want and worth of Christ; for, thought I, This shall answer for me in time
to come, when they shall be for my hire before their faces (Gen 30:33).

284. I never cared to meddle with things that were controverted, and in dispute amongst the
saints, especially things of the lowest nature; yet it pleased me much to contend with great
earnestness for the word of faith and the remission of sins by the death and sufferings of
Jesus; but I say, as to other things, I should let them alone, because I saw they engendered
strife, and because that they neither, in doing nor in leaving undone, did commend us to God
to be his. Besides, I saw my work before me did run in another channel, even to carry an awakening
word; to that therefore did I stick and adhere.[62]

285. I never endeavoured to, nor durst make use of other men's lines (Rom 15:18)[63], though
I condemn not all that do, for I verily thought, and found by experience, that what was taught
me by the Word and Spirit of Christ, could be spoken, maintained, and stood to by the soundest
and best established conscience; and though I will not now speak all that I know in this matter,
yet my experience hath more interest in that text of Scripture than many amongst men are aware
(Gal 1:11,12).

286. If any of those who were awakened by my ministry did after that fall back, as sometimes
too many did, I can truly say their loss hath been more to me than if one of my own children,
begotten of my body, had been going to its grave; I think, verily, I may speak it without an
offence to the Lord, nothing hath gone so near me as that, unless it was the fear of the loss
of the salvation of my own soul. I have counted as if I had goodly buildings and lordships
in those places where my children were born; my heart hath been so wrapped up in the glory
of this excellent work, that I counted myself more blessed and honoured of God by this than
if he had made me the emperor of the Christian world, or the lord of all the glory of 'the'
earth without it! O these words, "He which converteth the sinner from the error of his way
shall save a soul from death" (James 5:20). '"The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life;
and he that winneth souls is wise" (Prov 11:30). "They that be wise shall shine as the brightness
of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever"
(Dan 12:3). These, I say, with many others of a like nature, have been great refreshments to me.'

287. I have observed, that where I have had a work to do for God, I have had first, as it were,
the going of God upon my spirit to desire I might preach there. I have also observed that such
and such souls in particular have been strongly set upon my heart, and I stirred up to wish
for their salvation; and that these very souls have, after this, been given in as the fruits
of my ministry. I have also observed, that a word cast in by the by hath done more execution
in a sermon than all that was spoken besides; sometimes also when I have thought I did no good,
then I did the most of all; and at other times when I thought I should catch them I have fished
for nothing.

288. 'I have also observed, that where there hath been a work to do upon sinners, there the
devil hath begun to roar in the hearts, and by the mouths of his servants. Yea, oftentimes
when the wicked world hath raged most, there hath been souls awaked by the Word. I could instance
particulars, but I forbear.'

289. My great desire in my fulfilling my ministry was to get into the darkest places of the
country, even amongst those people that were furthest off of profession; yet not because I
could not endure the light, for I feared not to show my gospel to any, but because I found
my spirit leaned most after awakening and converting work, and the Word that I carried did
lead itself most that way 'also'; "yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ
was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation" (Rom 15:20).

290. In my preaching I have really been in pain, and have, as it were, travailed to bring forth
children to God; neither could I be satisfied unless some fruits did appear in my work. If
I were fruitless it mattered not who commended me; but if I were fruitful, I cared not who
did condemn. I have thought of that, "He that winneth souls is wise" (Psa 127:3-5).

291. 'It pleased me nothing to see people drink in opinions if they seemed ignorant of Jesus
Christ, and the worth of their own salvation, sound conviction for sin, especially for unbelief,
and an heart set on fire to be saved by Christ, with strong breathing after a truly sanctified
soul; that it was that delighted me; those were the souls I counted blessed.'

292. But in this work, as in all other, I had my temptations attending me, and that of diverse
kinds, as sometimes I should be assaulted with great discouragement therein, fearing that I
should not be able to speak the word at all to edification; nay, that I should not be able
to speak sense unto the people; at which times I should have such a strange faintness and strengthlessness
seize upon my body that my legs have scarce been able to carry me to the place of exercise.

293. Sometimes, again, when I have been preaching, I have been violently assaulted with thoughts
of blasphemy, and strongly tempted to speak the words with my mouth before the congregation.
I have also at some times, even when I have begun to speak the Word with much clearness, evidence,
and liberty of speech, yet been before the ending of that opportunity so blinded, and so estranged
from the things I have been speaking, and have also been so straitened in my speech, as to
utterance before the people, that I have been as if I had not known or remembered what I have
been about, or as if my head had been in a bag all the time of the exercise.

294. Again, when as sometimes I have been about to preach upon some smart and scorching[64]
portion of the Word, I have found the tempter suggest, What, will you preach this? this condemns
yourself; of this your own soul is guilty; wherefore preach not of it at all; or if you do,
yet so mince it as to make way for your own escape; lest instead of awakening others, you lay
that guilt upon your own soul, as you will never get from under.

295. 'But, I thank the Lord, I have been kept from consenting to these so horrid suggestions,
and have rather, as Samson, bowed myself with all my might, to condemn sin and transgression
wherever I found it, yea, though therein also I did bring guilt upon my own conscience! "Let
me die," thought I, "with the Philistines" (Judg 16:29,30), rather than deal corruptly with
the blessed Word of God, "Thou that teachest another, teachest not thou thyself?" It is far
better that thou do judge thyself, even by preaching plainly to others, than that thou, to
save thyself, imprison the truth in unrighteousness; blessed be God for his help also in this.'

296. I have also, while found in this blessed work of Christ, been often tempted to pride and
liftings up of heart; and though I dare not say I have not been infected with this, yet truly
the Lord, of his precious mercy, hath so carried it towards me, that, for the most part, I
have had but small joy to give way to such a thing; for it hath been my every day's portion
to be let into the evil of my own heart, and still made to see such a multitude of corruptions
and infirmities therein, that it hath caused hanging down of the head under all my gifts and
attainments; I have felt this thorn in the flesh, the very mercy of God to me (2 Cor 12:7-9).

297.

298. A tinkling cymbal is an instrument of music, with which a skillful player can make such
melodious and heart-inflaming music, that all who hear him play can scarcely hold from dancing;
and yet behold the cymbal hath not life, neither comes the music from it, but because of the
art of him that plays therewith; so then the instrument at last may come to nought and perish,
though, in times past, such music hath been made upon it.

299. Just thus I saw it was and will be with them who have gifts, but want saving grace, they
are in the hand of Christ, as the cymbal in the hand of David; and as David could, with the
cymbal, make that mirth in the service of God, as to elevate the hearts of the worshippers,
so Christ can use these gifted men, as with them to affect the souls of his people in his church;
yet when he hath done all, hang them by as lifeless, though sounding cymbals.[65]

300. Besides, I knew it was love should never die, but these must cease and vanish; so I concluded,
a little grace, a little love, a little of the true fear of God, is better than all these gifts;
yea, and I am fully convinced of it, that it is possible for a soul that can scarce give a
man an answer, but with great confusion as to method, I say it is possible for them to have
a thousand times more grace, and so to be more in the love and favour of the Lord than some
who, by virtue of the gift of knowledge, can deliver themselves like angels.[66]

301. 'Thus, therefore, I came to perceive, that though gifts in themselves were good to the
thing for which they are designed, to wit, the edification of others; yet empty and without
power to save the soul of him that hath them, if they be alone; neither are they, as so, any
sign of a man's state to be happy, being only a dispensation of God to some, of whose improvement,
or non-improvement, they must, when a little love more is over, give an account to him that
is ready to judge the quick and the dead.'

302. 'This showed me too, that gifts being alone, were dangerous, not in themselves, but because
of those evils that attend them that have them, to wit, pride, desire of vain glory, self-conceit,
&c., all which were easily blown up at the applause and commendation of every unadvised Christian,
to the endangering of a poor creature to fall into the condemnation of the devil.'

303. 'I saw therefore that he that hath gifts had need be let into a sight of the nature of
them, to wit, that they come short of making of him to be in a truly saved condition, lest
he rest in them, and so fall short of the grace of God.'

304. 'He hath also cause to walk humbly with God, and be little in his own eyes, and to remember
withal, that his gifts are not his own, but the church's; and that by them he is made a servant
to the church; and he must give at last an account of his stewardship unto the Lord Jesus;
and to give a good account, will be a blessed thing.'

305. 'Let all men therefore prize a little with the fear of the Lord; gifts indeed are desirable,
but yet great grace and small gifts are better than great gifts and no grace. It doth not say,
the Lord gives gifts and glory, but the Lord gives grace and glory; and blessed is such an
one, to whom the Lord gives grace, true grace, for that is a certain forerunner of glory.'

306. 'It began therefore to be rumoured up and down among the people, that I was a witch, a
Jesuit, a highwayman, and the like.'

308. (Matt 4:11).'

310. 'So then, what shall I say to those that have thus bespattered me? shall I threaten them?
Shall I chide them? Shall I flatter them? Shall I intreat them to hold their tongues? No, not
I, were it not for that these things make them ripe for damnation, that are the authors and
abettors, I would say unto them, Report it, because it will increase my glory.'

312. 'I also calling all those fools, or knaves, that have thus made it anything of their business,
to affirm any of the things afore-named of me, namely, that I have been naught with other women,
or the like. When they have used to the utmost of their endeavours, and made the fullest inquiry
that they can, to prove against me truly, that there is any woman in heaven, or earth, or hell,
that can say, I have at any time, in any place, by day or night, so much as attempted to be
naught with them; and speak I thus, to beg mine enemies into a good esteem of me; no, not I:
I will in this beg relief of no man; believe or disbelieve me in this, all is a case to me.[68]'

314. 'My foes have missed their mark in this their shooting at me. I am not the man. I wish
that they themselves be guiltless. 'And in this I admire the wisdom of God, that he made me
shy of women from my first conversion until now. Those know, and can also bear me witness,
with whom I have been most intimately concerned, that it is a rare thing to see me carry it
pleasant towards a woman; the common salutation of a woman I abhor, it is odious to me in whomsoever
I see it. Their company alone, I cannot away with. I seldom so much as touch a woman's hand,
for I think these things are not so becoming me. 'And now for a wind up in this matter, I calling
not only men, but angels, to prove me guilty of having carnally to do with any woman save my
wife, nor am I afraid to do it a second time, knowing that I cannot offend the Lord in such
a case, to call God for a record upon my soul, that in these things I am innocent. Having made
profession of the glorious gospel of Christ a long time, and preached the same about five years,
I was apprehended at a meeting of good people in the country, among whom, had they let me alone,
I should have preached that day, but they took me away from amongst them, and had me before
a justice; who, after I had offered security for my appearing at the next sessions, yet committed
me, because my sureties would not consent to be bound that I should preach no more to the people.

319. At the sessions after, I was indicted for an upholder and maintainer of unlawful assemblies
and conventicles, and for not conforming to the national worship of the Church of England;
and after some conference there with the justices, 'they taking my plain dealing with them
for a confession, as they termed it, of the indictment,' did sentence me to perpetual banishment,
because I refused to conform. So being again delivered up to the jailer's hands, I was had
home to prison again, and there have lain now[70] 'complete twelve years,' waiting to see what
God would suffer these men to do with me.

320. In which condition I have continued with much content, through grace, but have met with
many turnings and goings upon my heart, both from the Lord, Satan, and my own corruptions;
by all which, glory be to Jesus Christ, I have also received among many things, much conviction,
instruction, and understanding, of which at large I shall not here discourse; only give you
in a hint or two, a word that may stir up the godly to bless God, and to pray for me; and also
to take encouragement, should the case be their own, not to fear what man can do unto them.

321.

322. These three or four scriptures also have been great refreshment in this condition to me
(John 14:1-4, 16:33; Col 3:3,4; Heb 12:22-24). So that sometimes when I have been in the savour
of them, I have been able to laugh at destruction, and to fear neither the horse nor his rider
(Job 39:18). I never knew what it was for God to stand by me at all turns, and at every offer
of Satan 'to afflict me,' &c., as I have found him since I came in hither; for look how fears
have presented themselves, so have supports and encouragements, yea, when I have started, even
as it were at nothing else but my shadow, yet God, as being very tender of me, hath not suffered
me to be molested, but would with one scripture and another strengthen me against all; insomuch
that I have often said, Were it lawful, I could pray for greater trouble, for the greater comfort's
sake (Eccl 7:14; 2 Cor 1:5).

324. Before I came to prison, I saw what was a-coming, and had especially two considerations
warm upon my heart; the first was how to be able to endure, should my imprisonment be long
and tedious; the second was how to be able to encounter death, should that be here my portion;
for the first of these, that scripture (Col 1:11) was great information to me, namely, to pray
to God to be "strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience
and long-suffering with joyfulness." I could seldom go to prayer before I was imprisoned, but
not for so little as a year together, this sentence, or sweet petition, would, as it were,
thrust itself into my mind, and persuade me, that if ever I would go through long-suffering,
I must have all patience, especially if I would endure it joyfully.

325. As to the second consideration, that saying (2 Cor 1:9), was of great use to me, But we
had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which
raiseth the dead. By this scripture I was made to see, that if ever I would suffer rightly,
I must first pass a sentence of death upon everything that can properly be called a thing of
this life, even to reckon myself, my wife, my children, my health, my enjoyments, and all,
as dead to me, and myself as dead to them. "He that loveth father or mother, son or daughter,
more than me, is not worthy of me" (Matt 10:37).

326. (2 Cor 4:18). And thus I reasoned with myself; if I provide only for a prison, then the
whip comes at unawares; and so does also the pillory; again, if I provide only for these, then
I am not fit for banishment; further, if I conclude that banishment is the worst, then if death
come I am surprised. That is, to familiarize these things to me.[72]

327. But notwithstanding these helps, I found myself a man, and compassed with infirmities;
the parting with my wife and poor children hath oft been to me in this place as the pulling
the flesh from my bones, and that not only because I am somewhat too too fond of those great
mercies, but also because I should have often brought to my mind the many hardships, miseries
and wants that my poor family was like to meet with, should I be taken from them, especially
my poor blind child, who lay nearer my heart than all I had besides; O the thoughts of the
hardship I thought my blind one might go under, would break my heart to pieces.

328. But yet recalling myself, thought I, I must venture you all with God, though it goeth
to the quick to leave you. O, I saw in this condition I was as a man who was pulling down his
house upon the head of his wife and children; yet thought I, I must do it, I must do it. And
now I thought on those two milch kine that were to carry the ark of God into another country,
and to leave their calves behind them (1 Sam 6:10-12).

329. And again, "The Lord said, Verily it shall be well with thy remnant; verily I will cause
the enemy to entreat thee well in the time of evil," &c. (Jer 49:11, 15:11).

330. I had also this consideration, that if I should now venture all for God, I engaged God
to take care of my concernments; but if I forsook him and his ways, for fear of any trouble
that should come to me or mine, then I should not only falsify my profession, but should count
also that my concernments were not so sure, if left at God's feet, while I stood to and for
his name, as they would be, if they were under my own tuition,[73] though with the denial of
the way of God. This was a smarting consideration, and was as spurs unto my flesh. That scripture
also greatly helped it to fasten the more upon me, where Christ prays against Judas, that God
would disappoint him in all his selfish thoughts, which moved him to sell his master: pray
read it soberly (Psa 109:6-20).

331. I had also another consideration, and that was, the dread of the torments of hell, which
I was sure they must partake of, that for fear of the cross, do shrink from their profession
of Christ, his words, and laws, before the sons of men; I thought also of the glory that he
had prepared for those that, in faith, and love, and patience, stood to his ways before them.
These things, I say, have helped me, when the thoughts of the misery that both myself and mine,
might for the sake of my profession be exposed to, hath lain pinching on my mine.

332. (Heb 11:37), for all they thought they were too bad to dwell and abide amongst them. I
have also thought of that saying, "The Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, that bonds and
afflictions abide me." I have verily thought that my soul and it[74] have sometimes reasoned
about the sore and sad estate of a banished and exiled condition, how they are exposed to hunger,
to cold, to perils, to nakedness, to enemies, and a thousand calamities; and at last, it may
be, to die in a ditch, like a poor forlorn and desolate sheep. But I thank God, hitherto I
have not been moved by these most delicate reasonings, but have rather, by them, more approved
my heart to God.

333. I will tell you a pretty business; I was once above all the rest in a very sad and low
condition for many weeks; at which time also I being but a young prisoner, and not acquainted
with the laws, had this lay much upon my spirit, That my imprisonment might end at the gallows
for aught that I could tell. Now, therefore, Satan laid hard at me to beat me out of heart,
by suggesting thus unto me, But how if when you come indeed to die, you should be in this condition;
that is, as not to savour the things of God, nor to have any evidence upon your soul for a
better state hereafter? For indeed at that time all the things of God were hid from my soul.

334. Wherefore, when I at first began to think of this, it was a great trouble to me; for I
thought with myself, that in the condition I now was in, I was not fit to die, neither indeed
did think I could, if I should be called to it: besides, I thought with myself, if I should
make a scrabbling[75] shift to clamber up the ladder, yet I should either with quaking, or
other symptoms of faintings, give occasion to the enemy to reproach the way of God and his
people, for their timorousness. This therefore lay with great trouble upon me, for methought
I was ashamed to die with a pale face, and tottering knees, for such a cause as this.

335. Wherefore, I prayed to God that he would comfort me, and give me strength to do and suffer
what he should call me to; yet no comfort appeared, but all continued hid: I was also at this
time so really possessed with the thought of death, that oft I was as if I was on the ladder
with a rope about my neck; only this was some encouragement to me, I thought I might now have
an opportunity to speak my last words to a multitude, which I thought would come to see me
die; and, thought I, if it must be so, if God will but convert one soul by my very last words,
I shall not count my life thrown away, nor lost.

336. But yet all the things of God were kept out of my sight, and still the tempter followed
me with, But whither must you go when you die? What will become of you? Where will you be found
in another world? What evidence have you for heaven and glory, and an inheritance among them
that are sanctified? Thus was I tossed for many weeks, and knew not what to do; at last this
consideration fell with weight upon me, That it was for the Word and way of God, that I was
in this condition, wherefore I was engaged not to flinch a hair's breadth from it.

337.

338. I was no sooner fixed upon this resolution, but that word dropped upon me, "Doth Job serve
God for nought?" As if the accuser had said, Lord, Job is no upright man, he serves thee for
by-respects: hast thou not made a hedge about him, &c. "But put forth thine hand now, and touch
all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face." How now, thought I, is this the sign
of an upright soul, to desire to serve God, when all is taken from him? Is he a godly man,
that will serve God for nothing rather than give out? blessed be God, then, I hope I have an
upright heart, for I am resolved, God giving me strength, never to deny my profession, though
I have nothing at all for my pains; and as I was thus considering, that scripture was set before
me (Psa 44:12-26).[76]

339. Now was my heart full of comfort, for I hoped it was sincere: I would not have been without
this trial for much; I am comforted every time I think of it, and I hope I shall bless God
for ever for the teaching I have had by it. Many more of the dealings of God towards me I might
relate, but these, "Out of the spoils won in battles have I dedicated to maintain the house
of the LORD" (1 Chron 26:27).

THE CONCLUSION.

1. Of all the temptations that ever I met with in my life, to question the being 'of God,'
and truth of his gospel, is the worst, and the worst to be borne; when this temptation comes,
it takes away my girdle from me, and removeth the foundation from under me: O, I have often
thought of that word, "have your loins girt about with truth"; and of that, "When the foundations
are destroyed, what can the righteous do?"

2. 'Sometimes, when, after sin committed, I have looked for sore chastisement from the hand
of God, the very next that I have had from him hath been the discovery of his grace. Sometimes,
when I have been comforted, I have called myself a fool for my so sinking under trouble. And
then, again, when I have been cast down, I thought I was not wise, to give such way to comfort.
With such strength and weight have both these been upon me.'

3. I have wondered much at this one thing, that though God doth visit my soul with never so
blessed a discovery of himself, yet I have found again, that such hours have attended me afterwards,
that I have been in my spirits so filled with darkness, that I could not so much as once conceive
what that God and that comfort was with which I have been refreshed.

4. I have sometimes seen more in a line of the Bible than I could well tell how to stand under,
and yet at another time the whole Bible hath been to me as dry as a stick; or rather, my heart
hath been so dead and dry unto it, that I could not conceive the least drachm of refreshment,
though I have looked it 'all' over.

5. Of all tears, they are the best that are made by the blood of Christ; and of all joy, that
is the sweetest that is mixed with mourning over Christ. Oh! it is a goodly thing to be on
our knees, with Christ in our arms, before God. I hope I know something of these things.

6. I find to this day seven abominations in my heart: 1. Inclinings to unbelief. 2. Suddenly
to forget the love and mercy that Christ manifesteth. 3. A leaning to the works of the law.
4. Wanderings and coldness in prayer. 5. To forget to watch for that I pray for. 6. Apt to
murmur because I have no more, and yet ready to abuse what I have. 7. I can do none of those
things which God commands me, but my corruptions will thrust in themselves, "when I would do
good, evil is present with me."

7. These things I continually see and feel, and am afflicted and oppressed with; yet the wisdom
of God doth order them for my good. 1. They make me abhor myself. 2. They keep me from trusting
my heart. 3. They convince me of the insufficiency of all inherent righteousness. 4. They show
me the necessity of flying to Jesus. 5. They press me to pray unto God. 6. They show me the
need I have to watch and be sober. 7. And provoke me to look to God, through Christ, to help
me, and carry me through this world. Amen.

FOOTNOTES:

1. Dr. Cheever.

2. Leicester was only besieged by the royal army, who took it, and cruelly treated the inhabitants;
upon the republicans appearing before it, the city surrendered at once without a siege.--Ed.

3. This should be the prayer and effort of every Christian for his brethren and sisters in
Christ, and more especially of those who are called to the public ministry.--Ed.

4. The people of God look back on the day of their espousals with holy joy and thanksgiving
to the God of their mercies; and they delight in telling his goodness to others. "Come and
hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul" (Psa 66:16).--Mason.

5. How unspeakable the mercy that our omnipresent God will hear the prayer of the heart under
all circumstances, at all times, in all places. Had he limited it to certain forms, in certain
buildings, read by certain men, what fearful merchandise of souls they would have made.--Ed.

6. Bunyan says very little about his parents in his treatise on 'Christian Behaviour'; he concludes
his observations on the duties of a pious son to ungodly parents with this remarkable prayer,
'The Lord, if it be his will, convert OUR poor parents, that they, with us, may be the children
of God.' Although this does not demonstrate that his own parents were ungodly, yet his silence
as to their piety upon all occasions when speaking of them, and the fervent feeling expressed
in this short prayer, inclines me to conclude that they were not pious persons in his judgment.--Ed.

7. Mr. Bunyan alludes to the poverty of his education in several of his works.

8. 'I have been vile myself, but have obtained mercy; and I would have my companions in sin
partake of mercy too.'--Preface to Jerusalem Sinner Saved.--Ed.

9. Every careless sinner, or wicked professor, carries upon his forehead the name of Infidel
and Atheist, a practical unbeliever in the Bible, in the day of judgment, and in the existence
of a holy God.--Ed.

10. Bunyan served in the wars between Charles I and his country, but it is not known on which
side. Judging from his 'delight in all transgressions against the law of God,' as he describes
his conduct to have been at that time, he must have served on the king's side, as one of his
drunken cavaliers. Probably this event took place when Leicester was besieged by the king's
troops.--Ed.

11. The notice of his wife's father being a godly man, and not mentioning anything of the kind
with regard to his own parents, strengthens my conclusion that they were not professors of
religion. This very copy of the Pathway to Heaven here noticed, with the name of Bunyan on
the title, is in the Editor's possession.--Ed.

12. Asking his father this question, looks a little as if the family had been connected with
the gipsy tribe.--Ed.

13. 'The king (James, 1618) put forth an order to permit everybody, as he had before given
leave in the county of Lancaster, who should go to evening prayer on the Lord's day, to divertise
themselves with lawful exercises, with leaping, dancing, playing at bowls, shooting with bows
and arrows, as likewise to rear May poles, and to use May games and Morris dancing; but those
who refused coming to prayers were forbidden to use these sports.'--(Camden's Annals). The
head of the Church of England had wondrous power thus to dispense with God's laws.--Ed.

14. 'Did cut the sinews,' first edition; properly altered by Bunyan afterwards to 'did benumb.'

15. Tip cat, or cat, is an ancient English game, thus described in Strutt's Sports and Pastimes:--The
game of cat is played with a cudgel. Its denomination is derived from a piece of wood, about
six inches long and two thick, diminished from the middle to form a double cone. When the cat
is placed on the ground, the player strikes it smartly--it matters not at which end--and it
will rise with a rotatory motion high enough for him to strike it; if he misses, another player
takes his place; if he hits, he calls for a number to be scored to his game; if that number
is more than as many lengths of his cudgel, he is out; if not, they are scored, and he plays
again.--Ed.

16. This wish looks as if Bunyan's father had not checked him for this wicked propensity; if
so, he could not have pretended to piety or religion.--Ed.

17. 'Tom of Bedlam'; a byword for an inveterate drunkard, alluding to an old interesting song
describing the feelings of a poor maniac whose frenzy had been induced by intoxication, and
who escaped from Bedlam.

   'Poore naked Tom is very drye
    A little drinke for charitye!'

It ends with this verse--

   'The man in the moone drinkes claret,
    Eates powder'd beef, turnip, and carret,
    But a cup of old Malaga sacke
    Will fire the bushe at his backe.'

Probably the tale is connected with the drummer's tune, 'Drunk or sober, go to bed Tom.'--Ed.

18. When the Lord, in his blessed work upon the soul, illuminated the mind, he opens to it
a new world; he leads the blind by a way that they know not, crooked things become straight,
rough places plain, and he never forsakes his charge.--Mason.

19. 'Their talk went with me; my heart would tarry with them'; nothing is so powerfully attractive
as a community of feeling under the teaching of the Holy Spirit. Bunyan's wish to be 'tried
and searched,' reminds me of one who, when alarmed for his soul's safety, earnestly prayed
that he might be made increasingly wretched, until he had found safety in Jesus, and knew him,
whom to know is joy unspeakable in this life, and felicity in the eternal world.--Ed.

20. That bitter fanatic, Ross, calls the ranters 'a sort of beasts,' who practiced sin that
grace might abound. Many under that name were openly profligate; they denied the sacraments,
but were disowned by the Quakers. It seems, from Bunyan, that they were infatuated with some
idea that the grossest sins of the flesh did not injure the sanctity of the spirit!--Ed.

21. Faith comes by venturing wholly on Christ, as he is freely offered in the Word--mercy to
the miserable--salvation to the lost and self-condemned. If we honour God's veracity by giving
credit to his Word, he will honour that faith by giving us joy and peace in believing.--Mason.

22. 'In downright earnest'; as one who is in imminent danger of drowning, or in a house on
fire, eager to escape. Reader, have you ever felt thus 'in downright earnest' for salvation?
Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they SHALL be filled.--Ed.

23. This is an interesting view of church fellowship; and the admission of a convert to Christian
communion. See also Christiana at the Interpreter's House, and the preface to Bunyan's 'Christian
Behaviour.'--Ed.

24. The Christian who is found waiting upon God, is the thriving one; the best way to be assured
of our election is to examine our state with the touchstone of truth, the Scriptures. The elect
of God know Christ savingly, esteem him precious, and obey him cheerfully from love and gratitude.--Mason.

25. 'Gingerly'; cautiously.

'Has it a corn? or do's it walk on conscience, It treads so gingerly.' Love's Cure, Act ii.,
Scene 1.--Ed.

26. Manifestations of love and grace are not to be rested in, or made a saviour of; they are
given to strengthen and prepare us for future trials.--Mason.

27. Here we have Christian in the valley of the shadow of death.

28. 'Under her apron,' was altered in subsequent editions to 'in her arms.'--Ed.

29. 'Poor fool'; altered, in later editions, to 'poor soul.'--Ed.

30. John Gifford, Bunyan's pastor, was a Kentish man, and had been a major in the King's army,
a roistering cavalier. For some crimes, he, with eleven others, was condemned to be hung, but
made his escape to London, and thence to Bedford, where, being unknown, he practiced physic.
Addicted to swearing, drinking, and gambling, he, in distress at a serious loss, vowed repentance;
he became greatly distressed under conviction of sin; at length his mind was enlightened, the
Holy Spirit led him to forgiveness by the atonement of Christ, and his heart was filled with
a hitherto unknown source of blessedness. This he imparted to others, and at length, in 1650,
formed a church, with which the soul-harassed pilgrim Bunyan cast in his lot as a member in
1653. There appears to have been a strong mutual affection between him and his pastor. He uses
the same fervid striking language. Thus, on the value of the soul: 'Consider what an ill bargain
thou will make to sell thy precious soul for a short continuance in sin and pleasure. What
meanest thou, O man! to truck+ with the devil?'--See Sighs, 1st Edition, and Brooks' Puritans.--Ed.

+ 'To truck'; to barter or exchange.

31. That persons called Quakers held these heresies, there can be no doubt; but they were never
held by that respectable and useful body of Christians, the Society of Friends, is equally
clear. In all important doctrines, the difference between the Quakers and evangelical professors
is in terms and not in things. Their distinguishing difference relates to the work of the ministry.--Ed.

32. How natural is it for man to build up vain hopes of long life! Bunyan's vigorous constitution,
had he enjoyed the free air of liberty, might have prolonged his pilgrimage to extreme old
age. But his long imprisonment shortened his valuable life: it almost amounted to legal murder.--Ed.

33. Bunyan, in his treatise on 'Jesus Christ the Advocate,' admirably shows the analogy between
the year of jubilee and the Christian's reversion to his inheritance, although deprived for
a time of the comfort of it during his pilgrimage, by reason of sin.--Ed.

34. He is a restless, powerful, and malicious enemy; ever striving to drive the sinner to desperation.
Let the tempted look to Jesus the serpent-bruiser to shield him, so that the fiery darts of
the wicked one may be quenched.--Mason.

35. Printed 'did hear' in first edition.--Ed.

36. Altered to 'indeed' in later editions.--Ed.

37. 'Racked or broken upon the wheel,' was a horrid mode of torturing a criminal to death,
formerly used in France. The sufferer was stretched and made fast upon a large wheel, when
the executioner, with a heavy iron bar, proceeded to break every bone in his body; beginning
with the toes and fingers, and proceeding to crush those bones that the least affected life,
and ending by crushing the skull into the brains. How piercing must have been the convictions
of sin upon Bunyan's soul, to have led him to such a simile!--Ed.

38. 'A Relation of the Fearful Estate of Francis Spira.'

   'Here see a soul that's all despair; a man
    All hell; a spirit all wounds. Spira was filled with remorse and
despair for having been induced, by improper motives, to become a
papist.--Ed.

39. No Christian minister ever dwelt more richly on the 'Saint's Knowledge of Christ's Love'
than Bunyan. See vol. ii. p. 1. It was the result of this soul-harrowing experience. He there
shows its heights exceeding the highest heavens, depths below the deepest hell, lengths and
breadths beyond comprehension. That treatise ought to be read and cherished by every trembling
believer.--Ed.

40. Alter, in later editions, to 'flying fits.'--Ed.

41. Internal conflicts, dreams, or visions ought not to be the source of peace or of bitterness
to the soul. If they drive us to Christ, we may hope that they are from heaven for our relief;
but if their tendency is to despair, by undervaluing the blood of atonement, or to lasciviousness,
they are from Satan. Our real dependence must be upon 'a more sure word of prophecy': if we
are well-grounded in the promises, it will save us from many harassing doubts and fears which
arise from a reliance upon our feelings.--Ed.

42. That a poor penitent should perish at the feet of Jesus is an utter impossibility. God,
when manifest in the flesh, decreed, that 'Whosoever cometh unto me, I will in no wise cast
out.' 'I will give him rest.' His Word must stand fast for ever.--Ed.

43. How soul-rending a thought! but it can only be the case with those who continue to their
death despising the Saviour. Those who love him are kept by almighty power, everlasting love,
and irresistible grace.--Ed.

44. Happy would it be for tempted souls, in their distress, to look simply to the declarations
and promises of God in the Word; we there find salvation completed by Christ. Our duty is to
look in faith and prayer to the Spirit of God for the application and comfort of it.--Mason.

45. However humbling, this is a truth not to be disputed. The wisest philosopher and most illiterate
peasant are upon a level, fallen from God. None will be excluded who come to Christ, whose
gracious invitation is general, 'Whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely' (Rev
22:17).--Mason.

46. This is the proper source of comfort--the records of infallible truth. There is found mercy
for the miserable, redemption for the captive, salvation for the lost, heaven for the hell-deserving
sinner.--Mason.

47. Though we may wait long for mercy, yet the hand of faith never knocked in vain at the door
of heaven. Mercy is as surely ours as if we had it, if it be given us in faith and patience
to wait for it.--Mason.

48. To sin against light and knowledge, received in and by the gospel, is a very heinous aggravation
of sin. The condition of persons simply ignorant is not so sad by far, as theirs who have been
enlightened and yet afterwards apostatized. Let the formalist and lukewarm professors read
this and tremble.--Mason.

49. The Holy Spirit is the candle of the Lord, by whose light the awakened conscience is brought
to see something of the mystery of iniquity lurking in the heart. He first convinces of sin,
righteousness, and judgment; and then points to Jesus as the only security: 'Behold the Lamb
of God.'--Mason.

50. This is very beautifully expressed; nothing can be more descriptive of a poor pilgrim who
has been toiling through the valley of the shadow of death, and upon whose soul the day-spring
from on high has arisen.--Ed.

51. 'Cracked groats and fourpence-halfpennies.' The humility of our author is here most unobtrusively
apparent. He had some treasure in his 'earthen vessel'; but, in comparison with his store in
Christ, it was like a few cracked groats by the side of massive pure gold. What he meant by
'fourpence-halfpennies' somewhat puzzled me, there never having been any piece of English money
coined of that value. I found that a proclamation was issued shortly before Mr. Bunyan's time
(April 8, 1603), to save the people from being deceived with the silver harp money of Ireland,
purporting to be twelve and sixpenny pieces. It fixed the value of the Irish twelvepence to
be ninepence English; so that the Irish sixpence was to pass current for fourpence-halfpenny
in England. That accomplished antiquary, Mr. Hawkins, the curator of the coins in the British
Museum, shewed me this Irish silver money; and agreed with me in believing that Bunyan alludes
to these Irish sixpences, placing them in company with cracked groats, depreciated in value.
Mr. Hawkins was not aware that they had been in common circulation in England.--Ed.

52. 'Common or public,' belonging equally to many. Christ is the federal or covenant head of
his church, each member claiming an equal or common right to all his merits as a Saviour, Mediator,
and Advocate.--Ed.

53. This retort, or rebuke, is inserted twice in the first edition, probably a typographical
error.--Ed.

54. See note on No. 152. The feelings of Bunyan must have been exceedingly pungent.--Ed.

55. This is a view of the power given to the apostles to forgive or retain sins worthy of our
serious consideration. That mysterious power, under the pretence of possessing which merchandise
is made of souls, if it was not limited to the apostles personally, was intended to be used
by all those whom God sends to preach the gospel; an authority to proclaim salvation or condemnation
to those who receive or reject the Saviour. Bunyan considers it a similar power to that given
to the governors of the city of refuge; to admit the terror-stricken soul that 'shall declare
his cause'--or confess his guilt--into the city, there to abide the judgment upon him, as in
Christ the Refuge. This is very different to turning God out of his judgment-seat; as is the
case when a poor worm says to his fellow-worm, 'I absolve thee from all thy sins.' See the
visitation of the sick, in the Book of Common Prayer.--Ed.

56. The mode of admitting members into the church, among the Baptists, appears to have been
the same in Bunyan's days as it is now practiced. It is, first to be introduced to the minister,
who endeavours to ascertain whether there is an earnest desire to flee from the wrath to come,
sincere repentance, and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. If so, he mentions it to the church;
and visitors are appointed, to encourage the young convert, and to scrutinize into moral character.
If they are satisfied, he is invited to attend a private church meeting; and if the members
have a good hope that he is a decided believer in Jesus, they receive him into their fellowship;
and if he requests it, he is publicly baptized in water, and communicates with the church at
the Lord's table. This appears to have been the mode in which Bunyan was admitted into the
church at Bedford. Most of the Baptist churches now agree with Bunyan, that the baptism of
the Holy Ghost, or inward spiritual regeneration, is, alone, the essential pre-requisite to
the Lord's table; and they leave members to their own conclusions as to the validity of their
having been sprinkled in infancy, or the necessity of immersion in water upon a profession
of faith.--Ed.

57. Many will be surprised that Bunyan, who was so ready a writer, should be unable to tell
what he saw and felt when in these holy enjoyments; but all who have had similar feelings will
unite with him in saying, they are inexpressible, great, and full of glory.--Ed.

58. This is a very correct view of the excellent mode in which dissenting ministers are generally
called to their important work. First, their gifts in prayer and conversation upon Divine things,
and aptness in illustrating and confirming what they advance from the Scriptures, is noticed;
and, secondly, they are encouraged to pray with and address the poor children in a Sunday school.
If they manifest an aptness to teach, they are, thirdly, invited to give an exhortation to
the church privately; and then, fourthly, they are encouraged to pray and preach among the
poor in country villages and in work-houses. The God who gave the wish and the talent, soon
opens a way to still more public usefulness. In most cases, they enter upon a course of study,
to fit them for their momentous labours; but many of our most valuable ministers have, like
Bunyan, relied entirely upon their prayerful investigation of the Scriptures. his college was
a dungeon, his library the Bible; and he came forth with gigantic power to grapple with the
prince of darkness. No human learning could have so fitted him for this terrible and mysterious
warfare.--Ed.

59. 'With great sense,' means with great feeling, arising from his own acute experience.--Ed.

60. In the first edition Bunyan says, 'I have lain as long,' (five years). This was in 1666.--Ed.

61. When God sends forth a zealous ambassador to publish the glad tidings of salvation to perishing
sinners, he will be sure to meet with the fiercest opposition from proud pharisaical professors:
so it was from the beginning, and will be to the end of time; but the Lord will work, and none
shall hinder. Experimental preaching will always be offensive to the carnal and profane.--Mason.

62. It is impossible to identify the sect to which Bunyan belonged by reading his works. He
rises above all sectarian bias in his earnest efforts to win souls to Christ, and to keep them
in a heavenly frame of mine.--Ed.

63. 'Other men's lines,' other men's compositions. Bunyan went himself to the fountain head
of Divine truth, and was not taught by the wisdom of his fellow-men in the things that pertained
to salvation. He spoke as he felt; and, while he copied no sentence from others, no man that
ever wrote has been so copied from by others. Application was once made to the Editor, to publish
an admirable sermon which had been taken in short hand from the lips of a D.D.; when, to the
surprise of the applicant, he was shown the whole sermon in Bunyan's Heavenly Footman.--Ed.

64. Altered, in later editions, to 'searching.'--Ed.

65. Gifts are no evidence of God's favour; they are like the gold which adorned the temple,
but grace, the saving grace of the Spirit, is like the altar which sanctifies the gold.--Mason..

66. In this paragraph is displayed that modest genuine humility which shone so conspicuously
in Bunyan. He possessed that popular natural eloquence, by which he could deliver himself like
an angel; but when pride began to rise, he knocked it on the head with that severe maul, 'Is
it so much to be a fiddle' that Satan once so played upon?--Ed.

67. One circumstance from which these vile slanders were raised, is narrated in the thrilling
narrative of God's gracious dealings with Mrs. Agnes Beaumont. She was waiting in hopes of
attending a meeting, when 'at last, quite unexpectedly, came Mr. Bunyan. The sight of him caused
a mixture of joy and grief. I was glad to see him, but afraid he would not be willing to take
me up behind him, and how to ask him I knew not. At length my brother did; but Mr. Bunyan answered,
with some degree of roughness, "No, I will not carry her." These words were cutting indeed,
and made me weep bitterly. My brother, perceiving my trouble, said, "Sir, if you do not carry
her, you will break her heart"; but he made the same reply, adding, "Your father would be grievously
angry if I should." "I will venture that," said I. And thus, with much entreaty, he was prevailed
on; and O how glad was I to think I was going. Soon after we set out, my father came to my
brother's, and asked his men whom his daughter rode behind? They said, Mr. Bunyan. Upon hearing
this, his anger was greatly inflamed; he ran down the close, thinking to overtake me, and pull
me off the horse, but we were gone out of his reach.

'I had not ridden far, before my heart began to be lifted up with pride at the thoughts of
riding behind this servant of the Lord; and was pleased if any looked after us, as we rode
along. Indeed, I thought myself very happy that day: first, that it pleased God to make way
for my going; and then, that I should have the honour to ride behind Mr. Bunyan, who would
sometimes be speaking to me about the things of God. My pride soon had a fall; for, in entering
Gam'gay, we were met by one Mr. Lane, a clergyman who lived at Bedford, and knew us both, and
spoke to us, but looked very hard at us as we rode along; and soon after raised a vile scandal
upon us, though, blessed be God, it was false.'

No Christian should be without that deeply interesting volume of Christian experience, James'
Abstract of the Gracious Dealings of God with several Eminent Christians. The persecutions
that Mrs. Beaumont went through were like a dreadful tempest, yet was she joyfully delivered
out of them all.--Ed.

68. 'All is a case,' all the same. A case--that which falls, comes, or happens; an event. See
Blackie's Imperial Dictionary.--Ed.

69. 'Baulks,' missing, omitting, leaving untouched. 'This was looked for at your hand, and
this was baulked; the double gill of this opportunity you let time wash off, and you are now
sailed into the north of my lady's opinion; where you will hang like an icicle on a Dutchman's
beard.'--Twelfth Night, Act iii. Scene 2; and Imperial Dictionary.--Ed.

70. 'Above five year and a quarter' are the words in the first edition, 1666. His imprisonment
commenced November 1660; the order for his release bears date September 13, 1672, but it was
some months before he was discharged.--Ed.

71. Angel visits may be expected when Antichrist persecutes the Christian to bonds and imprisonment.
An angel released Peter from prison; angels revealed to John, when exiled to Patmos, the wonders
of his book of Revelation. The Lord of angels, the angel of the covenant, communes with Bunyan
in his dungeon, and converts it into a Bethel to his soul; and this, for refusing obedience
to the laws of his country, because those laws violated God's prerogative, and impiously dared
to assume authority which belongs exclusively to the Almighty. They remain to this day a disgrace
to our statutes, but are never enforced.--Ed.

72. Bunyan did well to prepare for the worst. He must have been familiar with the horrid cruelties
practiced upon Dr. Leighton by that fiend in human shape, Archbishop Laud. The pious and learned
doctor was caught in Bedfordshire; and the story of his unparalleled sufferings strengthened
the Roundheads to deeds of valour, in putting an end to such diabolical cruelties. The spirit
of the charges against him were his saying that no king may make laws in the house of God;
and that the bishops were ravens and magpies that prey upon the state. His sufferings are narrated
in Brooke's Puritans, vol. ii. p. 478.--Ed.

73. 'Tuition' was altered to 'care' in later editions.--Ed.

74. i.e., My profession--the soul, shrinking from pain, moving him one way, and his profession
another.--Ed.

75. 'To scrabble,' to go on all fours--'to move along on the hands and knees, by clawing with
the hands.'--Blackie's Imperial Dictionary.--Ed.

76. This is the language of a heaven-born soul, which sees such beauty and excellency in Christ,
that it would not part with him for a thousand worlds; if there were no heaven hereafter, his
delight in the ways of God renders his service preferable to all the wealth, grandeur, and
vain pleasures of the ungodly.--Mason.

***

A RELATON OF THE IMPRISONMENT OF MR. JOHN BUNYAN, MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL AT BEDFORD, IN NOVEMBER
1660. HIS EXAMINATION BEFORE THE JUSTICES; HIS CONFERENCE WITH THE CLERK OF THE PEACE; WHAT
PASSED BETWEEN THE JUDGES AND HIS WIFE WHEN SHE PRESENTED A PETITION FOR HIS DELIVERANCE, ETC.

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF, AND NEVER BEFORE PUBLISHED. Matthew 5:10-12

London: Printed for James Buckland, at the Buck, in Paternoster Row, MDCCLXV.

The relation of my imprisonment in the month of November 1660.

When, by the good hand of my God, I had for five or six years together, without any interruption,
freely preached the blessed gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ; and had also, through his blessed
grace, some encouragement by his blessing thereupon; the devil, that old enemy of man's salvation,
took his opportunity to inflame the hearts of his vassals against me, insomuch that at the
last I was laid out for by the warrant of a justice, and was taken and committed to prison.
The relation thereof is as followeth:

Upon the 12th of this instant November 1660, I was desired by some of the friends in the country
to come to teach at Samsell, by Harlington, in Bedfordshire. To whom I made a promise, if the
Lord permitted, to be with them on the time aforesaid. The justice hearing thereof, whose name
is Mr. Francis Wingate, forthwith issued out his warrant to take me, and bring me before him,
and in the meantime to keep a very strong watch about the house where the meeting should be
kept, as if we that were to meet together in that place did intend to do some fearful business,
to the destruction of the country; when, alas, the constable, when he came in, found us only
with our Bibles in our hands, ready to speak and hear the Word of God; for we were just about
to begin our exercise. Nay, we had begun in prayer for the blessing of God upon our opportunity,
intending to have preached the Word of the Lord unto them there present;[1] but the constable
coming in prevented us; so that I was taken and forced to depart the room. But had I been minded
to have played the coward, I could have escaped, and kept out of his hands. These things with
others considered by me, I came in again to the house, with a full resolution to keep the meeting,
and not to go away, though I could have been gone about an hour before the officer apprehended
me; but I would not; for I was resolved to see the utmost of what they could say or do unto
me. For blessed be the Lord, I knew of no evil that I had said or done. And so, as aforesaid,
I began the meeting. But being prevented by the constable's coming in with his warrant to take
me, I could not proceed. But before I went away, I spake some few words of counsel and encouragement
to the people, declaring to them, that they saw we were prevented of our opportunity to speak
and hear the Word of God, and were like to suffer for the same: desiring them that they should
not be discouraged, for it was a mercy to suffer upon so good account. For we might have been
apprehended as thieves or murderers, or for other wickedness; but blessed be God it was not
so, but we suffer as Christians for well doing: and we had better be the persecuted than the
persecutors, &c. But the constable and the justice's man waiting on us, would not be at quiet
till they had me away, and that we departed the house. But because the justice was not at home
that day, there was a friend of mine engaged for me to bring me to the constable on the morrow
morning. Otherwise the constable must have charged a watch with me, or have secured me some
other ways, my crime was so great. So on the next morning we went to the constable, and so
the justice.[2] He asked the constable what we did, where we were met together, and what we
had with us? I trow, he meant whether we had armour or not; but when the constable told him,
that there were only met a few of us together to preach and hear the Word, and no sign of anything
else, he could not well tell what to say: yet because he had sent for me, he did adventure
to put out a few proposals to me, which were to this effect, namely, What I did there? and
why I did not content myself with following my calling? for it was against the law, that such
as I should be admitted to do as I did.

John Bunyan. To which I answered, that the intent of my coming thither, and to other places,
was to instruct, and counsel people to forsake their sins, and close in with Christ, lest they
did miserably perish; and that I could do both these without confusion, to wit, follow my calling,
and preach the Word also. At which words, he was in a chafe,[3] as it appeared; for he said
that he would break the neck of our meetings.

Bun. I said, it may be so. Then he wished me to get sureties to be bound for me, or else he
would send me to the jail.

My sureties being ready, I called them in, and when the bond for my appearance was made, he
told them, that they were bound to keep me from preaching; and that if I did preach, their
bonds would be forfeited. To which I answered, that then I should break them; for I should
not leave speaking the Word of God: even to counsel, comfort, exhort, and teach the people
among whom I came; and I thought this to be a work that had no hurt in it: but was rather worthy
of commendation than blame.

Wingate. Whereat he told me, that if they would not be so bound, my mittimus must be made,
and I sent to the jail, there to lie to the quarter-sessions.

Now while my mittimus was making, the justice was withdrawn; and in comes an old enemy to the
truth, Dr. Lindale, who, when he was come in, fell to taunting at me with many reviling terms.

Bun. To whom I answered, that I did not come thither to talk with him, but with the justice.
Whereat he supposed that I had nothing to say for myself, and triumphed as if he had got the
victory; charging and condemning me for meddling with that for which I could show no warrant;
and asked me, if I had taken the oaths? and if I had not, it was pity but that I should be
sent to prison, &c.

I told him, that if I was minded, I could answer to any sober question that he should put to
me. He then urged me again, how I could prove it lawful for me to preach, with a great deal
of confidence of the victory.

But at last, because he should see that I could answer him if I listed, I cited to him that
verse in Peter, which saith, "As every man hath received the gift, even so let him minister
the same," &c.

Lind. Aye, saith he, to whom is that spoken?

Bun. To whom, said I, why, to every man that hath received a gift from God. Mark, saith the
apostle, "As every man that hath received a gift from God," &c. And again, "You may all prophesy
one by one." Whereat the man was a little stopt, and went a softlier pace: but not being willing
to lose the day, he began again, and said:

Lind. Indeed I do remember that I have read of one Alexander a coppersmith, who did much oppose
and disturb the apostles;--aiming, it is like, at me, because I was a tinker.

Bun. To which I answered, that I also had read of very many priests and Pharisees that had
their hands in the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Lind. Aye, saith he, and you are one of those scribes and Pharisees: for you, with a pretence,
make long prayers to devour widows' houses.

Bun. I answered, that if he had got no more by preaching and praying than I had done, he would
not be so rich as he now was. But that scripture coming into my mind, "Answer not a fool according
to his folly," I was as sparing of my speech as I could, without prejudice to truth.

Now by this time my mittimus was made, and I committed to the constable to be sent to the jail
in Bedford, &c.

But as I was going, two of my brethren met with me by the way, and desired the constable to
stay, supposing that they should prevail with the justice, through the favour of a pretended
friend, to let me go at liberty. So we did stay, while they went to the justice; and after
much discourse with him, it came to this; that if I would come to him again, and say some certain
words to him, I should be released. Which when they told me, I said if the words were such
that might be said with a good conscience, I should, or, else, I should not. So through their
importunity I went back again, but not believing that I should be delivered: for I feared their
spirit was too full of opposition to the truth to let me go, unless I should in something or
other dishonour my God, and wound my conscience. Wherefore, as I went, I lifted up my heart
to God for light and strength to be kept, that I might not do anything that might either dishonour
him, or wrong my own soul, or be a grief or discouragement to any that was inclining after
the Lord Jseus Christ.

Well, when I came to the justice again, there was Mr. Foster of Bedford, who coming out of
another room, and seeing of me by the light of the candle, for it was dark night when I came
thither, he said unto me, Who is there? John Bunyan? with such seeming affection, as if he
would have leaped in my neck and kissed[4] me, which made me somewhat wonder, that such a man
as he, with whom I had so little acquaintance, and, besides, that had ever been a close opposer
of the ways of God, should carry himself so full of love to me; but, afterwards, when I saw
what he did, it caused me to remember those sayings, "Their tongues are smoother than oil,
but their words are drawn swords." And again, "Beware of men," &c. when I had answered him,
that blessed be God I was well, he said, What is the occasion of your being here? or to that
purpose. To whom I answered, that I was at a meeting of people a little way off, intending
to speak a word of exhortation to them; but the justice hearing thereof, said I, was pleased
to send his warrant to fetch me before him, &c.

Foster. So, said he, I understand; but well, if you will promise to call the people no more
together, you shall have your liberty to go home; for my brother is very loath to send you
to prison, if you will be but ruled.

Bun. Sir, said I, pray what do you mean by calling the people together? My business is not
anything among them, when they are come together, but to exhort them to look after the salvation
of their souls, that they may be saved, &c.

Fost. Saith he, We must not enter into explication or dispute now; but if you will say you
will call the people no more together, you may have your liberty; if not, you must be sent
away to prison.

Bun. Sir, said I, I shall not force or compel any man to hear me; but yet, if I come into any
place where there is a people met together, I should, according to the best of my skill and
wisdom, exhort and counsel them to seek out after the Lord Jesus Christ, for the salvation
of their souls.

Fost. He said, that was none of my work; I must follow my calling; and if I would but leave
off preaching, and follow my calling, I should have the justice's favour, and be acquitted
presently.

Bun. To whom I said, that I could follow my calling and that too, namely, preaching the Word;
and I did look upon it as my duty to do them both, as I had an opportunity.

Fost. He said, to have any such meetings was against the law; and, therefore, he would have
me leave off, and say I would call the people no more together.

Bun. To whom I said, that I durst not make any further promise; for my conscience would not
suffer me to do it. And again, I did look upon it as my duty to do as much good as I could,
not only in my trade, but also in communicating to all people, wheresoever I came, the best
knowledge I had in the Word.

Fost. He told me that I was the nearest the Papists of any, and that he would convince me of
immediately.

Bun. I asked him wherein?

Fost. He said, in that we understood the Scriptures literally.

Bun. I told him that those that were to be understood literally, we understood them so; but
for those that were to be understood otherwise, we endeavoured so to understand them.

Fost. He said, which of the Scriptures do you understand literally?

Bun. I said this, "he that believeth shall be saved." This was to be understood just as it
is spoken; that whosoever believeth in Christ shall, according to the plain and simple words
of the text, be saved.

Fost. He said that I was ignorant, and did not understand the Scriptures; for how, said he,
can you understand them when you know not the original Greek? &c.

Bun. To whom I said, that if that was his opinion, that none could understand the Scriptures
but those that had the original Greek, &c., then but a very few of the poorest sort should
be saved; this is harsh; yet the Scripture saith, "That God hides these things from the wise
and prudent," that is, from the learned of the world, "and reveals them to babes and sucklings."

Fost. He said there were none that heard me but a company of foolish people.

Bun. I told him that there were the wise as well as the foolish that do hear me; and again,
those that are most commonly counted foolish by the world are the wisest before God; also,
that God had rejected the wise, and mighty, and noble, and chosen the foolish and the base.

Fost. He told me that I made people neglect their calling; and that God had commanded people
to work six days, and serve him on the seventh.

Bun. I told him that it was the duty of people, both rich and poor, to look out for their souls
on those days as well as for their bodies; and that God would have his people "exhort one another
daily, while it is called to-day."

Fost. He said again that there was none but a company of poor, simple, ignorant people that
came to hear me.

Bun. I told him that the foolish and ignorant had most need of teaching and information; and,
therefore, it would be profitable for me to go on in that work.

Fost. Well, said he, to conclude, but will you promise that you will not call the people together
any more? and then you may be released and go home.

Bun. I told him that I durst say no more than I had said; for I durst not leave off that work
which God had called me to.

So he withdrew from me, and then came several of the justice's servants to me, and told me
that I stood so much upon a nicety. Their master, they said, was willing to let me go; and
if I would but say I would call the people no more together, I might have my liberty, &c.

Bun. I told them there were more ways than one in which a man might be said to call the people
together. As, for instance, if a man get upon the market place, and there read a book, or the
like, though he do not say to the people, Sirs, come hither and hear; yet if they come to him
because he reads, he, by his very reading, may be said to call them together; because they
would not have been there to hear if he had not been there to read. And seeing this might be
termed a calling the people together, I durst not say I would not call them together; for then,
by the same argument, my preaching might be said to call them together.

Wing. and Fost. Then came the justice and Mr. Foster to me again; we had a little more discourse
about preaching, but because the method of it is out of my mind, I pass it; and when they saw
that I was at a point, and would not be moved nor persuaded,

Mr. Foster, the man that did at the first express so much love to me, told the justice that
then he must send me away to prison. And that he would do well, also, if he would present all
those that were the cause of my coming among them to meetings. Thus we parted.

And, verily, as I was going forth of the doors, I had much ado to forbear saying to them that
I carried the peace of God along with me; but I held my peace, and, blessed be the Lord, went
away to prison, with God's comfort in my poor soul.

After I had lain in the jail five or six days, the brethren sought means, again, to get me
out by bondsmen; for so ran my mittimus, that I should lie there till I could find sureties.
They went to a justice at Elstow, one Mr. Crumpton, to desire him to take bond for my appearing
at the quarter-sessions. At the first he told them he would; but afterwards he made a demur
at the business, and desired first to see my mittimus, which run to this purpose: That I went
about to several conventicles in this county, to the great disparagement of the government
of the church of England, &c. When he had seen it, he said that there might be something more
against me than was expressed in my mittimus; and that he was but a young man, and, therefore,
he durst not do it. This my jailer told me; whereat I was not at all daunted, but rather glad,
and saw evidently that the Lord had heard me; for before I went down to the justice, I begged
of God that if I might do more good by being at liberty than in prison, that then I might be
set at liberty; but if not, his will be done; for I was not altogether without hopes but that
my imprisonment might be an awakening to the saints in the country, therefore I could not tell
well which to choose; only I, in that manner, did commit the thing to God. And verily, at my
return, I did meet my God sweetly in the prison again, comforting of me and satisfying of me
that it was his will and mind that I should be there.[5]

When I came back again to prison, as I was musing at the slender answer of the justice, this
word dropt in upon my heart with some life, "For he knew that for envy they had delivered him."
Farewell.

Here is the sum of my Examination before Justice Keelin, Justice Chester, Justice Blundale,
Justice Beecher, and Justice Snagg, &c.

After I had lain in prison above seven weeks, the quarter-sessions was to be kept in Bedford,
for the county thereof, unto which I was to be brought; and when my jailer had set me before
those justices, there was a bill of indictment preferred against me. When this was read, the
clerk of the sessions said unto me, What say you to this?

Bun. I said, that as to the first part of it, I was a common frequenter of the church of God.
And was also, by grace, a member with the people over whom Christ is the Head.

Keelin. But, saith Justice Keelin, who was the judge in that court? Do you come to church,
you know what I mean; to the parish church, to hear Divine service?

Bun. I answered, No, I did not.

Keel. He asked me why?

Bun. I said, Because I did not find it commanded in the Word of God.

Keel. He said, We were commanded to pray.

Bun. I said, But not by the Common Prayer Book.

Keel. He said, How then?

Bun. I said, With the Spirit. As the apostle saith, "I will pray with the Spirit, and--with
the understanding" (1 Cor 14:15).

Keel. He said, We might pray with the Spirit, and with the understanding, and with the Common
Prayer Book also.

Bun. I said that the prayers in the Common Prayer Book were such as were made by other men,
and not by the motions of the Holy Ghost, within our hearts; and as I said, the apostle saith,
he will pray with the Spirit, and with the understanding; not with the Spirit and the Common
Prayer Book.

Another Justice. What do you count prayer? Do you think it is to say a few words over before
or among a people?

Bun. I said, No, not so; for men might have many elegant, or excellent words, and yet not pray
at all; but when a man prayeth, he doth, through a sense of those things which he wants, which
sense is begotten by the Spirit, pour out his heart before God through Christ; though his words
be not so many and so excellent as others are.

Justices. They said, That was true.

Bun. I said, This might be done without the Common Prayer Book.

Another. One of them said (I think it was Justice Blundale, or Justice Snagg), How should we
know that you do not write out your prayers first, and then read them afterwards to the people?
This he spake in a laughing way.

Bun. I said, It is not our use, to take a pen and paper, and write a few words thereon, and
then go and read it over to a company of people.

But how should we know it, said he?

Bun. Sir, it is none of our custom, said I.

Keel. But, said Justice Keelin, it is lawful to use Common Prayer, and such like forms: for
Christ taught his disciples to pray, as John also taught his disciples. And further, said he,
cannot one man teach another to pray? "Faith comes by hearing"; and one man may convince another
of sin, and therefore prayers made by men, and read over, are good to teach, and help men to pray.

While he was speaking these words, God brought that word into my mind, in the eighth of the
Romans, at the 26th verse. I say, God brought it, for I thought not on it before: but as he
was speaking, it came so fresh into my mind, and was set so evidently before me, as if the
scripture had said, Take me, take me; so when he had done speaking,

Bun. I said, Sir, the Scripture saith, that it is the Spirit that helpeth our infirmities;
for we know not what we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh intercession
for us, with [sighs and] groanings which cannot be uttered. Mark, said I, it doth not say the
Common Prayer Book teacheth us how to pray, but the Spirit. And it is "the Spirit that helpeth
our infirmities," saith the apostle; he doth not say it is the Common Prayer Book.

And as to the Lord's prayer, although it be an easy thing to say, "Our Father," &c., with the
mouth; yet there are very few that can, in the Spirit, say the two first words in that prayer;
that is, that can call God their Father, as knowing what it is to be born again, and a having
experience, that they are begotten of the Spirit of God; which if they do not, all is but babbling,
&c.[6]

Keel. Justice Keelin said, that that was a truth.

Bun. And I say further, as to your saying that one man may convince another of sin, and that
faith comes by hearing, and that one man may tell another how he should pray, &c., I say men
may tell each other of their sins, but it is the Spirit that must convince them.

And though it be said that "faith comes by hearing," yet it is the Spirit that worketh faith
in the heart through hearing, or else they are not profited by hearing (Heb 4:12).

And that though one man may tell another how he should pray; yet, as I said before, he cannot
pray, nor make his condition known to God, except the Spirit help. It is not the Common Prayer
Book that can do this. It is the Spirit that showeth us our sins, and the Spirit that showeth
us a Saviour (John 16:16); and the Spirit that stirreth up in our hearts desires to come to
God, for such things as we stand in need of (Matt 11:27), even sighing out our souls unto him
for them with "groans which cannot be uttered." With other words to the same purpose. At this
they were set.

Keel. But, says Justice Keelin, what have you against the Common Prayer Book?

Bun. I said, Sir, if you will hear me, I shall lay down my reasons against it.

Keel. He said, I should have liberty; but first, said he, let me give you one caution; take
heed of speaking irreverently of the Common Prayer Book; for if you do so, you will bring great
damage upon yourself.

Bun. So I proceeded, and said, My first reason was, because it was not commanded in the Word
of God, and therefore I could not use it.

Another. One of them said, Where do you find it commanded in the Scripture, that you should
go to Elstow, or Bedford, and yet it is lawful to go to either of them, is it not?

Bun. I said, To go to Elstow, or Bedford, was a civil thing, and not material, though not commanded,
and yet God's Word allowed me to go about my calling, and therefore if it lay there, then to
go thither, &c. But to pray, was a great part of the Divine worship of God, and therefore it
ought to be done according to the rule of God's Word.

Another. One of them said, He will do harm; let him speak no further.

Keel.

Bun. I said, Show me the place in the epistles where the Common Prayer Book is written, or
one text of Scripture that commands me to read it, and I will use it. But yet, notwithstanding,
said I, they that have a mind to use it, they have their liberty;[7] that is, I would not keep
them from it; but for our parts, we can pray to God without it. Blessed be his name.

With that, one of them said, Who is your God? Beelzebub? Moreover, they often said that I was
possessed with the spirit of delusion, and of the devil. All which sayings I passed over; the
Lord forgive them! And further, I said, blessed be the Lord for it, we are encouraged to meet
together, and to pray, and exhort one another; for we have had the comfortable presence of
God among us. For ever blessed be his holy name!

Keel. Justice Keelin called this pedlar's French, saying, that I must leave off my canting.
The Lord open his eyes!

Bun. I said, that we ought to "exhort one another daily, while it is called to-day," &c. (Heb
3:13).

Keel. Justice Keelin said, that I ought not to preach; and asked me where I had my authority?
with other such like words.

Bun. I said, that I would prove that it was lawful for me, and such as I am, to preach the
Word of God.

Keel. He said unto me, By what scripture?

I said, By that in the first epistle of Peter, chapter 4, the 10th verse, and Acts 18 with
other scriptures, which he would not suffer me to mention. But said, Hold; not so many, which
is the first?

Bun. I said, this: "As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another,
as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles
of God," &c.

Keel. He said, Let me a little open that scripture to you: 'As every man hath received the
gift'; that is, said he, as every one hath received a trade, so let him follow it. If any man
have received a gift of tinkering, as thou hast done, let him follow his tinkering. And so
other men their trades; and the divine his calling, &c.

Bun. Nay, Sir, said I, but it is most clear, that the apostle speaks here of preaching the
Word; if you do but compare both the verses together, the next verse explains this gift what
it is, saying, 'If any man speak let him speak as the oracles of God.' So that it is plain,
that the Holy Ghost doth not so much in this place exhort to civil callings, as to the exercising
of those gifts that we have received from God. I would have gone on, but he would not give
me leave.

Keel. He said, We might do it in our families, but not otherwise.

Bun. I said, If it was lawful to do good to some, it was lawful to do good to more. If it was
a good duty to exhort our families, it is good to exhort others; but if they held it a sin
to meet together to seek the face of God, and exhort one another to follow Christ, I should
sin still; for so we should do.

Keel. He said he was not so well versed in Scripture as to dispute, or words to that purpose.
And said, moreover, that they could not wait upon me any longer; but said to me, Then you confess
the indictment, do you not? Now, and not till now, I saw I was indicted.

Bun. I confessed myself guilty no otherwise.

Keel. Then, said he, hear your judgment.

Bun. I told him, as to this matter, I was at a point with him; for if I was out of prison to-day
I would preach the gospel again to-morrow, by the help of God.

Another. To which one made me some answer; but my jailer pulling me away to be gone, I could
not tell what he said.

Thus I departed from them; and I can truly say, I bless the Lord Jesus Christ for it, that
my heart was sweetly refreshed in the time of my examination; and also afterwards, at my returning
to the prison. So that I found Christ's words more than bare trifles, where he saith, "I will
give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist"
(Luke 21:15). And that his peace no man can take from us.

Thus have I given you the substance of my examination. The Lord make these profitable to all
that shall read or hear them. Farewell.

The Substance of some Discourse had between the Clerk of the Peace and myself, when he came
to admonish me, according to the tenor of that Law by which I was in Prison.

When I had lain in prison other twelve weeks, and now not knowing what they intended to do
with me, upon the 3rd of April 1661, comes Mr. Cobb unto me, as he told me, being sent by the
justices to admonish me; and demanded of me submittance to the Church of England, &c. The extent
of our discourse was as followeth:--

Cobb. When he was come into the house he sent for me out of my chamber; who, when I was come
unto him, he said, Neighbour Bunyan, how do you do?

Bun. I thank you, Sir, said I, very well, blessed be the Lord.

Cobb. Saith he, I come to tell you that it is desired you would submit yourself to the laws
of the land, or else at the next sessions it will go worse with you, even to be sent away out
of the nation, or else worse than that.

Bun. I said that I did desire to demean myself in the world, both as becometh a man and a Christian.

Cobb. But, saith he, you must submit to the laws of the land, and leave off those meetings
which you was wont to have; for the statute law is directly against it; and I am sent to you
by the justices to tell you that they do intend to prosecute the law against you if you submit not.

Bun. I said, Sir, I conceive that that law by which I am in prison at this time doth not reach
or condemn either me or the meetings which I do frequent; that law was made against those that,
being designed to do evil in their meetings, making the exercise of religion their pretence,
to cover their wickedness. It doth not forbid the private meetings of those that plainly and
simply make it their only end to worship the Lord, and to exhort one another to edification.
My end in meeting with others is simply to do as much good as I can, by exhortation and counsel,
according to that small measure of light which God hath given me, and not to disturb the peace
of the nation.

Cobb. Every one will say the same, said he; you see the late insurrection at London, under
what glorious pretences they went; and yet, indeed, they intended no less than the ruin of
the kingdom and commonwealth.[9]

Bun. That practice of theirs I abhor, said I; yet it doth not follow that, because they did
so, therefore all others will do so. I look upon it as my duty to behave myself under the King's
government, both as becomes a man and a Christian, and if an occasion were offered me, I should
willingly manifest my loyalty to my Prince, both by word and deed.

Cobb. Well, said he, I do not profess myself to be a man that can dispute; but this I say,
truly, neighbour Bunyan, I would have you consider this matter seriously, and submit yourself;
you may have your liberty to exhort your neighbour in private discourse, so be you do not call
together an assembly of people; and, truly, you may do much good to the church of Christ, if
you would go this way; and this you may do, and the law not abridge you of it. It is your private
meetings that the law is against.

Bun. Sir, said I, if I may do good to one by my discourse, why may I not do good to two? and
if to two, why not to four, and so to eight? &c.

Cobb. Ay, saith he, and to a hundred, I warrant you.

Bun. Yes, Sir, said I, I think I should not be forbid to do as much good as I can.

Cobb. But, saith he, you may but pretend to do good, and indeed, notwithstanding, do harm,
by seducing the people; you are, therefore, denied your meeting so many together, lest you
should do harm.

Bun. And yet, said I, you say the law tolerates me to discourse with my neighbour; surely there
is no law tolerates me to seduce any one; therefore, if I may, by the law, discourse with one,
surely it is to do him good; and if I, by discoursing, may do good to one, surely, by the same
law, I may do good to many.

Cobb. The law, saith he, doth expressly forbid your private meetings; therefore they are not
to be tolerated.

Bun. I told him that I would not entertain so much uncharitableness of that Parliament in the
35th of Elizabeth, or of the Queen herself, as to think they did, by that law, intend the oppressing
of any of God's ordinances, or the interrupting any in the way of God; but men may, in the
wresting of it, turn it against the way of God; but take the law in itself, and it only fighteth
against those that drive at mischief in their hearts and meetings, making religion only their
cloak, colour, or pretence; for so are the words of the statute: 'If any meetings, under colour
or pretence of religion,' &c.[10]

Cobb. Very good; therefore the king, seeing that pretences are usually in and among people,
as to make religion their pretence only, therefore he, and the law before him, doth forbid
such private meetings, and tolerates only public; you may meet in public.

Bun. Sir, said I, let me answer you in a similitude: Set the case that, at such a wood corner,
there did usually come forth thieves, to do mischief; must there therefore a law be made that
every one that cometh out there shall be killed? May there not come out true men as well as
thieves out from thence? Just thus it is in this case; I do think there may be many that may
design the destruction of the commonwealth; but it does not follow therefore that all private
meetings are unlawful; those that transgress, let them be punished. And if at any time I myself
should do any act in my conversation as doth not become a man and Christian, let me bear the
punishment. And as for your saying I may meet in public, if I may be suffered, I would gladly
do it. Let me have but meeting enough in public, and I shall care the less to have them in
private. I do not meet in private because I am afraid to have meetings in public. I bless the
Lord that my heart is at that point, that if any man can lay anything to my charge, either
in doctrine or practice, in this particular, that can be proved error or heresy, I am willing
to disown it, even in the very market place; but if it be truth, then to stand to it to the
last drop of my blood. And, Sir, said I, you ought to commend me for so doing. To err and to
be a heretic are two things; I am no heretic, because I will not stand refractorily to defend
any one thing that is contrary to the Word. Prove anything which I hold to be an error, and
I will recant it.

Cobb. But, Goodman Bunyan, said he, methinks you need not stand so strictly upon this one thing,
as to have meetings of such public assemblies. Cannot you submit, and, notwithstanding, do
as much good as you can, in a neighbourly way, without having such meetings?

Bun. Truly, Sir, said I, I do not desire to commend myself, but to think meanly of myself;
yet when I do most despise myself, taking notice of that small measure of light which God hath
given me, also that the people of the Lord, by their own saying, are edified thereby. Besides,
when I see that the Lord, through grace, hath in some measure blessed my labour, I dare not
but exercise that gift which God hath given me for the good of the people. And I said further,
that I would willingly speak in public, if I might.

Cobb. He said, that I might come to the public assemblies and hear. What though you do not
preach? you may hear. Do not think yourself so well enlightened, and that you have received
a gift so far above others, but that you may hear other men preach. Or to that purpose.

Bun. I told him, I was as willing to be taught as to give instruction, and looked upon it as
my duty to do both; for, saith I, a man that is a teacher, he himself may learn also from another
that teacheth, as the apostle saith: "Ye may all prophesy, one by one, that all may learn"
(1 Cor 14:31). That is, every man that hath received a gift from God, he may dispense it, that
others may be comforted; and when he hath done, he may hear and learn, and be comforted himself
of others.

Cobb. But, said he, what if you should forbear awhile, and sit still, till you see further
how things will go?

Bun. Sir, said I, Wicliffe saith, that he which leaveth off preaching and hearing of the Word
of God for fear of excommunication of men, he is already excommunicated of God, and shall in
the day of judgment be counted a traitor to Christ.[11]

Cobb. Ay, saith he, they that do not hear shall be so counted indeed; do you, therefore, hear.

Bun. But, Sir, said I, he saith, he that shall leave off either preaching or hearing, &c. That
is, if he hath received a gift for edification, it is his sin, if he doth not lay it out in
a way of exhortation and counsel, according to the proportion of his gift; as well as to spend
his time altogether in hearing others preach.

Cobb. But, said he, how shall we know that you have received a gift?

Bun. Said I, Let any man hear and search, and prove the doctrine by the Bible.

Cobb. But will you be willing, said he, that two indifferent persons shall determine the case,
and will you stand by their judgment?

Bun. I said, Are they infallible?

Cobb. He said, No.

Bun. Then, said I, it is possible my judgment may be as good as theirs. But yet I will pass
by either, and in this matter be judged by the Scriptures; I am sure that is infallible, and
cannot err.

Cobb. But, said he, who shall be judge between you, for you take the Scriptures one way, and
they another?

Bun. I said, The Scripture should, and that by comparing one scripture with another; for that
will open itself, if it be rightly compared. (Gal 3:20; 1 Tim 2:5). So likewise the Scripture
calleth Christ a complete, or perfect, or able high priest. That is opened in that he is called
man, and also God. His blood also is discovered to be effectually efficacious by the same things.
So the Scripture, as touching the matter of meeting together, &c., doth likewise sufficiently
open itself and discover its meaning.

Cobb. But are you willing, said he, to stand to the judgment of the church?

Bun. Yes, Sir, said I, to the approbation of the church of God; the church's judgment is best
expressed in Scripture. We had much other discourse which I cannot well remember, about the
laws of the nation, and submission to government; to which I did tell him, that I did look
upon myself as bound in conscience to walk according to all righteous laws, and that whether
there was a king or no; and if I did anything that was contrary, I did hold it my duty to bear
patiently the penalty of the law, that was provided against such offenders; with many more
words to the like effect.

Cobb. Well, neighbour Bunyan, said he, but indeed I would wish you seriously to consider of
these things, between this and the quarter-sessions, and to submit yourself. You may do much
good if you continue still in the land; but alas, what benefit will it be to your friends,
or what good can you do to them, if you should be sent away beyond the seas into Spain, or
Constantinople, or some other remote part of the world? Pray be ruled.

Jailer. Indeed, Sir, I hope he will be ruled.

Bun. I shall desire, said I, in all godliness and honesty to behave myself in the nation, whilst
I am in it. And if I must be so dealt withal, as you say, I hope God will help me to bear what
they shall lay upon me. I know no evil that I have done in this matter, to be so used. I speak
as in the presence of God.

Cobb. You know, saith he, that the Scripture saith, "the powers that be are ordained of God."

Bun. I said, yes, and that I was to submit to the king as supreme, also to the governors, as
to them that are sent by him.

Cobb. Well then, said he, the King then commands you, that you should not have any private
meetings; because it is against his law, and he is ordained of God, therefore you should not
have any.

Bun. I told him that Paul did own the powers that were in his day, as to be of God; and yet
he was often in prison under them for all that. And also, though Jesus Christ told Pilate,
that he had no power against him, but of God, yet he died under the same Pilate; and yet, said
I, I hope you will not say that either Paul, or Christ, were such as did deny magistracy, and
so sinned against God in slighting the ordinance. Sir, said I, the law hath provided two ways
of obeying: The one to do that which I, in my conscience, do believe that I am bound to do,
actively; and where I cannot obey actively, there I am willing to lie down, and to suffer what
they shall do unto me. At this he sat still, and said no more; which, when he had done, I did
thank him for his civil and meek discoursing with me; and so we parted.

O that we might meet in heaven!

Farewell. J.B.

Here followeth a discourse between my Wife and the Judges, with others, touching my Deliverance
at the Assizes following; the which I took from her own Mouth.

After that I had received this sentence of banishing, or hanging, from them, and after the
former admonition, touching the determination of the justices, if I did not recant; just when
the time drew nigh, in which I should have abjured, or have done worse, as Mr. Cobb told me,
came the time in which the King was to be crowned.[12] Now, at the coronation of kings, there
is usually a releasement of divers prisoners, by virtue of his coronation; in which privilege
also I should have had my share; but that they took me for a convicted person, and therefore,
unless I sued out a pardon, as they called it, I could have no benefit thereby; notwithstanding,
yet, forasmuch as the coronation proclamation did give liberty, from the day the king was crowned
to that day twelvemonth, to sue them out; therefore, though they would not let me out of prison,
as they let out thousands, yet they could not meddle with me, as touching the execution of
their sentence; because of the liberty offered for the suing out of pardons. Whereupon I continued
in prison till the next assizes, which are called Midsummer assizes, being then kept in August
1661.

Now, at that assizes, because I would not leave any possible means unattempted that might be
lawful, I did, by my wife, present a petition to the judges three times, that I might be heard,
and that they would impartially take my case into consideration.

The first time my wife went, she presented it to Judge Hale, who very mildly received it at
her hand, telling her that he would do her and me the best good he could; but he feared, he
said, he could do none. The next day, again, lest they should, through the multitude of business,
forget me, we did throw another petition into the coach to Judge Twisdon; who, when he had
seen it, snapt her up, and angrily told her that I was a convicted person, and could not be
released, unless I would promise to preach no more, &c.

Well, after this, she yet again presented another to Judge Hale, as he sat on the bench, who,
as it seemed, was willing to give her audience. Only Justice Chester being present, stept up
and said, that I was convicted in the court and that I was a hot-spirited fellow, or words
to that purpose, whereat he waived it, and did not meddle therewith. But yet, my wife being
encouraged by the high sheriff, did venture once more into their presence, as the poor widow
did to the unjust judge, to try what she could do with them for my liberty, before they went
forth of the town. The place where she went to them was to the Swan Chamber, where the two
judges, and many justices and gentry of the country, were in company together. She then, coming
into the chamber with abashed face, and a trembling heart, began her errand to them in this
manner:--

Woman. My Lord (directing herself to Judge Hale), I make bold to come once again to your Lordship,
to know what may be done with my husband.

Judge Hale. To whom he said, Woman, I told thee before, I could do thee no good; because they
have taken that for a conviction which thy husband spoke at the sessions; and unless there
be something done to undo that, I can do thee no good.

Wom. My Lord, said she, he is kept unlawfully in prison; they clapped him up before there was
any proclamation against the meetings; the indictment also is false. Besides, they never asked
him whether he was guilty or no; neither did he confess the indictment.

One of the Justices. Then one of the justices that stood by, whom she knew not, said, My Lord,
he was lawfully convicted.

Wom. It is false, said she; for when they said to him, Do you confess the indictment? he said
only this, that he had been at several meetings, both where there was preaching the Word, and
prayer, and that they had God's presence among them.

Judge Twisdon. Whereat Judge Twisdon answered very angrily, saying, 'What! you think we can
do what we list; your husband is a breaker of the peace, and is convicted by the law,' &c.
Whereupon Judge Hale called for the Statute Book.

Wom. But, said she, my Lord, he was not lawfully convicted.

Chester. Then Justice Chester said, 'My Lord, he was lawfully convicted.'

Wom. It is false, said she; it was but a word of discourse that they took for a conviction,
as you heard before.

Chest. 'But it is recorded, woman, it is recorded,' said Justice Chester; as if it must be
of necessity true, because it was recorded. With which words he often endeavoured to stop her
mouth, having no other argument to convince her, but 'it is recorded, it is recorded.'[13]

Wom. My Lord, said she, I was a while since at London, to see if I could get my husband's liberty;
and there I spoke with my Lord Barkwood, one of the House of Lords, to whom I delivered a petition,
who took it of me and presented it to some of the rest of the House of Lords, for my husband's
releasement: who, when they had seen it, they said that they could not release him, but had
committed his releasement to the judges, at the next assizes. This he told me; and now I come
to you to see if anything may be done in this business, and you give neither releasement nor
relief. To which they gave her no answer, but made as if they heard her not.[14]

Chest. Only Justice Chester was often up with this, 'He is convicted,' and 'It is recorded.'

Wom. If it be, it is false, said she.

Chest. My Lord, said Justice Chester, he is a pestilent fellow, there is not such a fellow
in the country again.

Twis. What, will your husband leave preaching? If he will do so, then send for him.

Wom. My Lord, said she, he dares not leave preaching, as long as he can speak.

Twis. See here, what should we talk any more about such a fellow? Must he do what he lists?
He is a breaker of the peace.

Wom.

Hale. Hast thou four children? said Judge Hale; thou art but a young woman to have four children.

Wom. My Lord, said she, I am but mother-in-law to them, having not been married to him yet
full two years. Indeed, I was with child when my husband was first apprehended; but being young,
and unaccustomed to such things, said she, I being smayed[15] at the news, fell into labour,
and so continued for eight days, and then was delivered, but my child died.[16]

Hale. Whereat, he looking very soberly on the matter, said, 'Alas, poor woman!'

Twis. But Judge Twisdon told her, that she made poverty her cloak; and said, moreover, that
he understood I was maintained better by running up and down a preaching, than by following
my calling.

Hale. What is his calling? said Judge Hale.

Answer. Then some of the company that stood by said, 'A tinker, my Lord.'

Wom. Yes, said she, and because he is a tinker, and a poor man, therefore he is despised, and
cannot have justice.

Hale. Then Judge Hale answered, very mildly, saying, 'I tell thee, woman, seeing it is so,
that they have taken what thy husband spake for a conviction; thou must either apply thyself
to the King, or sue out his pardon, or get a writ of error.'

Chest. But when Justice Chester heard him give her this counsel; and especially, as she supposed,
because he spoke of a writ of error, he chafed,[17] and seemed to be very much offended; saying,
'My Lord, he will preach and do what he lists.'

Wom. He preacheth nothing but the Word of God, said she.

Twis. He preach the Word of God! said Twisdon; and withal she thought he would have struck
her; he runneth up and down, and doth harm.

Wom. No, my Lord, said she, it is not so; God hath owned him, and done much good by him.

Twis. God! said he; his doctrine is the doctrine of the devil.

Wom. My Lord, said she, when the righteous Judge shall appear, it will be known that his doctrine
is not the doctrine of the devil.

Twis. My Lord, said he, to Judge Hale, do not mind her, but send her away.

Hale. Then said Judge Hale, 'I am sorry, woman, that I can do thee no good; thou must do one
of those three things aforesaid; namely, either to apply thyself to the King, or sue out his
pardon, or get a writ of error; but a writ of error will be cheapest.'

Wom. At which Chester again seemed to be in a chafe, and put off his hat, and as she thought,
scratched his head for anger: but when I saw, said she, that there was no prevailing to have
my husband sent for, though I often desired them that they would send for him, that he might
speak for himself, telling them, that he could give them better satisfaction than I could in
what they demanded of him, with several other things, which now I forget; only this I remember,
that though I was somewhat timorous at my first entrance into the chamber, yet before I went
out, I could not but break forth into tears, not so much because they were so hard-hearted
against me and my husband, but to think what a sad account such poor creatures will have to
give at the coming of the Lord, when they shall there answer for al things whatsoever they
have done in the body, whether it be good or whether it be bad.[18]

So, when I departed from them, the Book of Statute was brought, but what they said of it I
know nothing at all, neither did I hear any more from them.

Some Carriages of the Adversaries of God's Truth with me at the next Assizes, which was on
the 19th of the First Month, 1662.

I shall pass by what befell between these two assizes, how I had, by my jailer, some liberty
granted me, more than at the first, and how I followed my wonted course of preaching, taking
all occasions that were put into my hand to visit the people of God; exhorting them to be steadfast
in the faith of Jesus Christ, and to take heed that they touched not the Common Prayer, &c.,
but to mind the Word of God, which giveth direction to Christians in every point, being able
to make the man of God perfect in all things through faith in Jesus Christ, and thoroughly
to furnish him unto all good works (2 Tim 3:17).[19] Also, how I, having, I say, somewhat more
liberty, did go to see Christians at London; which my enemies hearing of, were so angry, that
they had almost cast my jailer out of his place, threatening to indict him, and to do what
they could against him. They charged me also, that I went thither to plot and raise division,
and make insurrection, which, God knows, was a slander; whereupon my liberty was more straitened
than it was before: so that I must not look out of the door. Well, when the next sessions came,
which was about the 10th of the eleventh month, I did expect to have been very roundly dealt
withal; but they passed me by, and would not call me, so that I rested till the assizes, which
was the 19th of the first month following; and when they came, because I had a desire to come
before the judge, I desired my jailer to put my name into the calendar among the felons, and
made friends of the judge and high sheriff, who promised that I should be called; so that I
thought what I had done might have been effectual for the obtaining of my desire; but all was
in vain: for when the assizes came, though my name was in the calendar, and also though both
the judge and sheriff had promised that I should appear before them, yet the justices and the
clerk of the peace did so work it about, that I, notwithstanding, was deferred, and might not
appear; and although, I say, I do not know of all their carriages towards me, yet this I know,
that the clerk of the peace did discover himself to be one of my greatest opposers: for, first,
he came to my jailer, and told him that I must not go down before the judge, and therefore
must not be put into the calendar; to whom my jailer said, that my name was in already. He
bid him put me out again; my jailer told him that he could not, for he had given the judge
a calendar with my name in it, and also the sheriff another. At which he was very much displeased,
and desired to see that calendar that was yet in my jailer's hand; who, when he had given it
him, he looked on it, and said it was a false calendar; he also took the calendar and blotted
out my accusation, as my jailer had writ it. Which accusation I cannot tell what it was, because
it was so blotted out; and he himself put in words to this purpose: 'That John Bunyan was committed
to prison, being lawfully convicted for upholding of unlawful meetings and conventicles,' &c.
But yet, for all this, fearing that what he had done, unless he added thereto, it would not
do; he first run to the clerk of the assizes, then to the justices, and afterwards, because
he would not leave any means unattempted to hinder me, he comes again to my jailer, and tells
him, that if I did go down before the judge, and was released, he would make him pay my fees,
which, he said, was due to him; and further told him, that he would complain of him at the
next quarter sessions for making of false calendars; though my jailer himself, as I afterwards
learned, had put in my accusation worse than in itself it was by far. And thus was I hindered
and prevented, at that time also, from appearing before the judge, and left in prison. Farewell.

John Bunyan.

***

A CONTINUATION OF MR. BUNYAN'S LIFE, BEGINNING WHERE HE LEFT OFF, AND CONCLUDING WITH THE TIME
AND MANNER OF HIS DEATH AND BURIAL, TOGETHER WITH HIS TRUE CHARACTER.

Reader, the painful and industrious author of this book has already given you a faithful and
very moving relation of the beginning and middle of the days of his pilgrimage on earth; and
since there yet remains somewhat worthy of notice and regard, which occurred in the last scene
of his life; the which, for want of time, or fear that some over-censorious people should impute
it to him, as an earnest coveting of praise from men, he has not left behind him in writing.
Wherefore, as a true friend and long acquaintance of Mr. Bunyan's, that his good end may be
known as well as his evil beginning, I have taken upon me, from my knowledge, and the best
account given by other of his friends, to piece this to the thread, too soon broke off, and
so lengthen it out to his entering upon eternity.

He has told you at large of his birth and education; the evil habits and corruptions of his
youth; the temptations he struggled and conflicted so frequently with; the mercies, comforts,
and deliverances he found; how he came to take upon him the preaching of the gospel; the slanders,
reproaches, and imprisonments that attended him; and the progress he notwithstanding made,
by the assistance of God's grace, no doubt to the saving of many souls. Therefore take these
things as he himself has methodically laid them down in the words of verity; and so I pass
on as to what remains.

After his being freed from his twelve years' imprisonment and upwards, for nonconformity, wherein
he had time to furnish the world with sundry good books, &c.; and, by his patience, to move
Dr. Barlow, the then Bishop of Lincoln,[20] and other churchmen, to pity his hard and unreasonable
sufferings, so far as to stand very much his friends in procuring his enlargement, or there
perhaps he had died by the noisesomeness and ill usage of the place; being now, I say, again
at liberty, and having, through mercy, shaken off his bodily fetters, for those upon his soul
were broken before, by the abounding grace that filled his heart, he went to visit those that
had been a comfort to him in his tribulation, with a Christian-like acknowledgment of their
kindness and enlargement of charity; giving encouragement by his example if it happened to
be their hard haps to fall into affliction or trouble, then to suffer patiently for the sake
of a good conscience, and for the love of God in Jesus Christ towards their souls; and, by
many cordial persuasions, supported some whose spirits began to sink low through the fear of
danger that threatened their worldly concernment, so that the people found a wonderful consolation
in his discourse and admonitions.

As often as opportunity would admit, he gathered them together in convenient places, though
the law was then in force against meetings, and fed them with the sincere milk of the Word,
that they might grow up in grace thereby. To such as were anywhere taken and imprisoned upon
these accounts, he made it another part of his business to extend his charity, and gather relief
for such of them as wanted.

He took great care to visit the sick, and strengthen them against the suggestions of the tempter,
which at such times are very prevalent; so that they had cause for ever to bless God, who had
put into his heart, at such a time, to rescue them from the power of the roaring lion, who
sought to devour them; nor did he spare any pains or labour in travel, though to the remote
counties, where he knew, or imagined, any people might stand in need of his assistance, insomuch
that some of these visitations that he made, which was two or three every year, some, though
in jeering manner, no doubt, gave him the epithet of Bishop Bunyan, whilst others envied him
for his so earnestly labouring in Christ's vineyard, yet the seed of the Word he, all this
while, sowed in the hearts of his congregation, watered with the grace of God, brought forth
in abundance, in bringing in disciples to the church of Christ.

Another part of his time he spent in reconciling differences, by which he hindered many mischiefs,
and saved some families from ruin; and, in such fallings out, he was uneasy, till he found
a means to labour a reconciliation, and become a peace maker, on whom a blessing is promised
in Holy Writ: and, indeed, in doing this good office, he may be said to sum up his days, it
being the last undertaking of his life, as will appear in the close of this paper.

When, in the late reign, liberty of conscience was unexpectedly given and indulged to Dissenters
of all persuasions,[21] his piercing with penetrated the veil, and found that it was not for
the Dissenters' sake they were so suddenly freed from the prosecutions that had long lain heavy
upon them, and set, in a manner, on an equal foot with the Church of England, which the Papists
were undermining, and about to subvert.

During these things, there were regulators sent into all cities and towns corporate, to new-model
the government in the magistracy, &c., by turning out some, and putting in others.

When he was at leisure from writing and teaching, he often came up to London, and there went
among the congregations of the nonconformists, and used his talent to the great good liking
of the hearers; and even some, to whom he had been misrepresented, upon the account of his
education, were convinced of his worth and knowledge in sacred things, as perceiving him to
be a man of sound judgment, delivering himself plainly and powerfully; insomuch that many who
came as mere spectators, for novelty's sake, rather than to be edified and improved, went away
well satisfied with what they heard, and wondered, as the Jews did at the apostles, viz., whence
this man should have these things; perhaps not considering that God more immediately assists
those that make it their business industriously and cheerfully to labour in his vineyard.

Thus he spent his latter years, in imitation of his great Lord and Master, the ever-blessed
Jesus; he went about doing good, so that the most prying critic, or even malice herself, is
defied to find, even upon the narrowest search or observation, any sully or stain upon his
reputation with which he may be justly charged; and this we note as a challenge to those that
have had the least regard for him, or them of his persuasion, and have, one way or other, appeared
in the front of those that oppressed him, and for the turning whose hearts, in obedience to
the commission and commandment given him of God, he frequently prayed, and sometimes sought
a blessing for them, even with tears, the effects of which they may, peradventure, though undeservedly,
have found in their persons, friends, relations, or estates; for God will hear the prayers
of the faithful, and answer them, even for those that vex them, as it happened in the case
of Job's praying for the three persons that had been grievous in their reproach against him,
even in the day of his sorrow.

But yet let me come a little nearer to particulars and periods of time for the better refreshing
the memories of those that knew his labour and suffering, and for the satisfaction of all that
shall read this book.

After he was sensibly convicted of the wicked state of his life, and converted, he was baptized
into the congregation and admitted a member thereof, viz., in the year 1655, and became speedily
a very zealous professor; but, upon the return of King Charles to the crown, in 1660, he was,
on the 12th of November, taken, as he was edifying some good people that were got together
to hear the Word, and confined in Bedford jail for the space of six years, till the Act of
Indulgence to Dissenters being allowed, he obtained his freedom by the intercession of some
in trust and power that took pity of his sufferings; but within six years afterwards [from
his first imprisonment] he was again taken up, viz., in the year 1666, and was then confined
for six years more, when even the jailer took such pity of his rigorous sufferings that he
did as the Egyptian jailer did to Joseph, put all the care and trust into his hands. When he
was taken this last time, he was preaching on these words, viz., "Dost thou believe on the
Son of God?" and this imprisonment continued six years; and when this was over, another short
affliction, which was an imprisonment of half a year, fell to his share.

[Defence of Justification by Jesus Christ.]

In the last year of his twelve years' imprisonment, the pastor of the congregation at Bedford
died, and he was chosen to that care of souls on the 12th of December 1671. And in this his
charge, he often had disputes with scholars, that came to oppose him, as supposing him an ignorant
person, and though he argued plainly and by Scripture without phrases and logical expressions;
yet he nonplussed one who came to oppose him in his congregation, by demanding whether or no
we had the true copies of the original Scriptures; and another, when he was preaching, accused
him of uncharitableness, for saying, It was very hard for most to be saved; saying, by that,
he went about to exclude most of his congregation; but he confuted him and put him to silence
with the parable of the stony ground and other texts out of the 13th of Matthew, in our Saviour's
sermon out of a ship, all his method being to keep close to the Scriptures; and what he found
not warranted there, himself would not warrant nor determine, unless in such cases as were
plain, wherein no doubts or scruples did arise.

But not to make any further mention of this kind, it is well known that this person managed
all his affairs with such exactness as if he had made it his study, above all other things,
not to give occasion of offence, but rather suffer many inconvencies to avoid; being never
heard to reproach or revile any, what injury soever he received, but rather to rebuke those
that did; and as it was in his conversation, so it is manifested on those books he has caused
to be published to the world; where, like the archangel disputing with Satan about the body
of Moses, as we find it in the epistle of Jude, he brings no railing accusation, but leaves
the rebukers, those that persecuted him, to the Lord.

In his family he kept up a very strict discipline in prayer and exhortations; being in this
like Joshua, as that good man expresses it, viz., Whatsoever others did, as for me and my house,
we will serve the Lord; and, indeed, a blessing waited on his labours and endeavours, so that
his wife, as the Psalmist says, was like a pleasant vine upon the walls of his house, and his
children like olive branches round his table; for so shall it be with the man that fears the
Lord; and though by reason of the many losses he sustained by imprisonment and spoil, of his
chargeable sickness, &c., his earthly treasures swelled not to excess, he always had sufficient
to live decently and creditably, and with that he had the greatest of all treasures, which
is content; for, as the wise man says, that is a continual feast.

But where content dwells, even a poor cottage is a kingly palace; and this happiness he had
all his life long, not so much minding this world as knowing he was here as a pilgrim and stranger,
and had no tarrying city, but looking for one not made with hands, eternal in the highest heavens;
but at length, worn out with sufferings, age, and often teaching, the day of his dissolution
drew near, and death, that unlocks the prison of the soul, to enlarge it for a more glorious
mansion, put a stop to his acting his part on the stage of mortality; heaven, like earthly
princes when it threatens war, being always so kind as to call home its ambassadors before
it be denounced; and even the last act or undertaking of his was a labour of love and charity;
for it so falling out, that a young gentleman, a neighbour of Mr. Bunyan, happening into the
displeasure of his father, and being much troubled in mind upon that account, as also for that
he had heard his father purposed to disinherit him, or otherwise deprive him of what he had
to leave, he pitched upon Mr. Bunyan as a fit man to make way for his submission, and prepare
his father's mind to receive him; and he, as willing to do any good office as it could be requested,
as readily undertook it; and so, riding to Reading, in Berkshire, he then there used such pressing
arguments and reasons against anger and passion, as also for love and reconciliation, that
the father was mollified, and his bowels yearned towards his returning son.

He appeared in countenance to be of a stern and rough temper; but in his conversation mild
and affable, not given to loquacity or much discourse in company, unless some urgent occasion
required it; observing never to boast of himself, or his parts, but rather seem low in his
own eyes, and submit himself to the judgment of others; abhorring lying and swearing, being
just in all that lay in his power to his word, not seeming to revenge injuries, loving to reconcile
differences, and make friendship with all; he had a sharp quick eye, accomplished with an excellent
discerning of persons, being of good judgment and quick wit. As for his person, he was tall
of stature, strong-boned, though not corpulent, somewhat of a ruddy face, with sparkling eyes,
wearing his hair on his upper lip, after the old British fashion; his hair reddish, but in
his latter days, time had sprinkled it with grey; his nose well-set, but not declining or bending,
and his mouth moderate large; his forehead something high, and his habit always plain and modest.
And thus have we impartially described the internal and external parts of a person, whose death
hath been much regretted; a person who had tried the smiles and frowns of time; not puffed
up in prosperity, nor shaken in adversity, always holding the golden mean.

    In him at once did three great worthies shine,
    Historian, poet, and a choice divine;
    Then let him rest in undisturbed dust,
    Until the resurrection of the just.

POSTSCRIPT.

In this his pilgrimage, God blessed him with four children, one of which, names Mary, was blind,
and died some years before; his other children are Thomas, Joseph, and Sarah; and his wife
Elizabeth, having lived to see him overcome his labour and sorrow, and pass from this life
to receive the reward of his works, long survived him not, but in 1692 she died; to follow
her faithful pilgrim from this world to the other, whither he was gone before her; while his
works, which consist of sixty books, remain for the edifying of the reader, and the praise
of the author. Vale.

***

MR. JOHN BUNYAN'S DYING SAYINGS.

OF SIN.

Sin is the great block and bar to our happiness, the procurer of all miseries to man, both
here and hereafter: take away sin and nothing can hurt us: for death, temporal, spiritual,
and eternal, is the wages of it.

Sin, and man for sin, is the object of the wrath of God. How dreadful, therefore, must his
case be who continues in sin! For who can bear or grapple with the wrath of God?

No sin against God can be little, because it is against the great God of heaven and earth;
but if the sinner can find out a little God, it may be easy to find out little sins.

Sin turns all God's grace into wantonness; it is the dare of his justice, the rape of his mercy,
the jeer of his patience, the slight of his power, and the contempt of his love.[24]

Take heed of giving thyself liberty of committing one sin, for that will lead thee to another;
till, by an ill custom, it become natural.

To begin a sin, is to lay a foundation for a continuance; this continuance is the mother of
custom, and impudence at last the issue.

The death of Christ giveth us the best discovery of ourselves, in what condition we were, in
that nothing could help us but that; and the most clear discovery of the dreadful nature of
our sins. For if sin be so dreadful a thing as to wring the heart of the Son of God, how shall
a poor wretched sinner be able to bear it?

OF AFFLICTION.

Nothing can render affliction so insupportable as the load of sin: would you, therefore, be
fitted for afflictions, be sure to get the burden of your sins laid aside, and then what afflictions
soever you may meet with will be very easy to you.

If thou canst hear and bear the rod of affliction which God shall lay upon thee, remember this
lesson--thou art beaten that thou mayest be better.

The Lord useth his flail of tribulation to separate the chaff from the wheat.

The school of the cross is the school of light; it discovers the world's vanity, baseness,
and wickedness, and lets us see more of God's mind. Out of dark affliction comes a spiritual light.

In times of affliction we commonly meet with the sweetest experiences of the love of God.

Did we heartily renounce the pleasures of this world, we should be very little troubled for
our afflictions; that which renders an afflicted state so insupportable to many is because
they are too much addicted to the pleasures of this life, and so cannot endure that which makes
a separation between them.

OF REPENTANCE AND COMING TO CHRIST.

The end of affliction is the discovery of sin, and of that to bring us to a Saviour. Let us
therefore, with the prodigal, return unto him, and we shall find ease and rest.

A repenting penitent, though formerly as bad as the worst of men, may, by grace, become as
good as the best.

To be truly sensible of sin is to sorrow for displeasing of God; to be afflicted that he is
displeased by us more than that he is displeased with us.

Your intentions to repentance, and the neglect of that soul-saving duty, will rise up in judgment
against you.

Repentance carries with it a Divine rhetoric, and persuades Christ to forgive multitudes of
sins committed against him.

Say not with thyself, To-morrow I will repent; for it is thy duty to do it daily.

The gospel of grace and salvation is above all doctrines the most dangerous, if it be received
in word only by graceless men; if it be not attended with a sensible need of a Saviour, and
bring them to him. For such men as have only the notion of it, are of all men most miserable;
for by reason of their knowing more than heathens, this shall only be their final portion,
that they shall have greater stripes.

OF PRAYER.

Before you enter into prayer, ask thy soul these questions--1. To what end, O my soul, art
thou retired into this place? Art thou not come to discourse the Lord in prayer? Is he present;
will he hear thee? Is he merciful; will he help thee? Is thy business slight; is it not concerning
the welfare of thy soul? What words wilt thou use to move him to compassion?

To make thy preparation complete, consider that thou art but dust and ashes, and he the great
God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that clothes himself with light as with a garment;
that thou art a vile sinner, he a holy God; that thou art but a poor crawling worm, he the
omnipotent Creator.

In all your prayers forget not to thank the Lord for his mercies.

When thou prayest, rather let thy hearts be without words, than thy words without a heart.

Prayer will make a man cease from sin, or sin will entice a man to cease from prayer.

The spirit of prayer is more precious than treasures of gold and silver.

Pray often, for prayer is a shield to the soul, a sacrifice to God, and a scourge for Satan.

OF THE LORD'S DAY, SERMONS, AND WEEK DAYS.

Have a special care to sanctify the Lord's day; for as thou keepest it, so it will be with
thee all the week long.

Make the Lord's day the market for thy soul; let the whole day be spent in prayer, repetitions,
or meditations; lay aside the affairs of the other part of the week; let thy sermon thou hast
heard be converted into prayer: Shall God allow thee six days, and wilt not thou afford him one?

In the church, be careful to serve God; for thou art in his eyes, and not in man's.

Thou mayest hear sermons often, and do well in practicing what thou hearest; but thou must
not expect to be told thee in a pulpit all that thou oughtest to do, but be studious in searching
the Scriptures, and reading good books; what thou hearest may be forgotten, but what thou readest
may better be retained.

Forsake not the public worship of God, lest God forsake thee, not only in public, but in private.

In the week days, when thou risest in the morning, consider, 1. Thou must die. 2. Thou mayest
die that minute. 3. What will become of thy soul. Pray often. At night consider, 1. What sins
thou hast committed. 2. How often thou hast prayed. 3. What hath thy mind been bent upon. 4.
What hath been thy dealing. 5. What thy conversation. 6. If thou callest to mind the errors
of the day, sleep not without a confession to God, and a hope of pardon. Thus every morning
and evening make up thy accounts with Almighty God, and thy reckoning will be the less at last.

OF THE LOVE OF THE WORLD.

Nothing more hinders a soul from coming to Christ, than a vain love of the world; and till
a soul is freed from it, it can never have a true love for God.

What are the honours and riches of this world, when compared to the glories of a crown of life?

Love not the world; for it [the love of the world] is a moth in a Christian's life.

To despise the world is the way to enjoy heaven; and blessed are they who delight to converse
with God by prayer.

What folly can be greater than to labour for the meat that perisheth, and neglect the food
of eternal life?

God or the world must be neglected at parting time, for then is the time of trial.

To seek yourself in this world is to be lost; and to be humble is to be exalted.

The epicure that delighteth in the dainties of this world, little thinketh that those very
creatures will one day witness against him.

OF SUFFERING.

It is not every suffering that makes a martyr, but suffering for the Word of God after a right
manner; that is, not only for righteousness, but for righteousness' sake; not only for truth,
but out of love to truth; not only for God's Word, but according to it: to wit, in that holy,
humble, meek manner, as the Word of God requireth.

It is a rare thing to suffer aright, and to have my spirit in suffering bent only against God's
enemy, sin; sin in doctrine, sin in worship, sin in life, and sin in conversation.

The devil, nor men of the world, can kill thy righteousness, or love to it but by thy own hand;
or separate that and thee asunder without thy own act. Nor will he that doth indeed suffer
for the sake of it, or out of love he bears thereto, be tempted to exchange it, for the good
will of all the world.

I have often thought that the best of Christians are found in the worst of times. And I have
thought again that one reason why we are no better, is because God purges us no more. Noah
and Lot, who so holy as they in the time of their afflictions? And yet who so idle as they
in the time of their prosperity?

OF DEATH AND JUDGMENT.

Nothing will make us more earnest in working out the work of our salvation, than a frequent
meditation of mortality; nothing hath greater influence for the taking off our hearts from
vanities, and for the begetting in us desires after holiness.

A man would be counted a fool to slight a judge, before whom he is to have a trial of his whole
estate.[25] The trial we have before God is of otherguise importance,[26] it concerns our eternal
happiness or misery; and yet dare we affront him?

The only way for us to escape that terrible judgment, is to be often passing a sentence of
condemnation upon ourselves here. When the sound of the trumpet shall be heard, which shall
summon the dead to appear before the tribunal of God, the righteous shall hasten out of their
graves with joy to meet their Redeemer in the clouds; others shall call to the hills and mountains
to fall upon them, to cover them from the sight of their Judge; let us therefore in time be
posing[27] ourselves which of the two we shall be.

OF THE JOYS OF HEAVEN.

There is no good in this life but what is mingled with some evil; honours perplex, riches disquiet,
and pleasures ruin health. But in heaven we shall find blessings in their purity, without any
ingredient to embitter, with everything to sweeten them.

O! who is able to conceive the inexpressible, inconceivable joys that are there? None but they
who have tasted of them. Lord, help us to put such a value upon them here, that in order to
prepare ourselves for them, we may be willing to forego the loss of all those deluding pleasures
here.

Is there not a time coming when the godly may ask the wicked what profit they have in their
pleasure? what comfort in their greatness? and what fruits in all their labour?

If you would be better satisfied what the beatifical vision means, my request is that you would
live holily, and go and see.

OF THE TORMENTS OF HELL.

Heaven and salvation is not surely more promised to the godly than hell and damnation is threatened
to, and shall be executed on, the wicked.

When once a man is damned, he may bid adieu to all pleasures.

Oh! who knows the power of God's wrath? none but damned ones.

Sinners' company are the devil and his angels, tormented in everlasting fire with a curse.

Hell would be a kind of paradise if it were not worse than the worst of this world.

As different as grief is from joy, as torment from rest, as terror from peace; so different
is the state of sinners from that of saints in the world to come.

[Licensed, September 10, 1688.]

FOOTNOTES:

1.

2. Justice Wingate.

3. 'Chafe.' See 2 Sam 17:8.--Ed.

4. A right Judas.--Ed.

5. 'How little could Bunyan dream, that from the narrow cell in which he was incarcerated,
and cut off apparently from all usefulness, a glory would shine out, illustrating the government
and grace of God, and doing more good to man, than all the prelates of the kingdom put together
had accomplished.'--Dr. Cheever.

6. It is easy to say a prayer, but difficult truly to pray. It is not length, not eloquence,
that makes prayer. Though there be no more than 'My Father!' if the heart rise with it, that
is prayer. 'Prayer is an offering up of our DESIRES unto God.'--Ed.

7. It is not the spirit of a Christian to persecute any for their religion, but to pity them;
and if they will turn, to instruct them.--Ed.

8. The statute under which Bunyan suffered is the 35th Eliz., cap. 1, re-enacted with all its
rigour in the 16th Charles II, cap. 4, 1662; 'That if any person, above sixteen years of age,
shall forbear coming to church for one month, or persuade any other person to abstain from
hearing Divine service, or receiving the communion according to law, or come to any unlawful
assembly, conventicle, or meeting--every such person shall be imprisoned, without bail, until
he conform, and do in some church make this open submission following:--I do humbly confess
and acknowledge that I have grievously offended God in contemning his Majesty's godly and lawful
government and authority, by absenting myself from church, and from hearing Divine service,
contrary to the godly laws and statutes of this realm. And in using and frequenting disordered
and unlawful conventicles and assemblies, under pretence and colour of exercise of religion;
and I am heartily sorry for the same. And I do promise and protest, that from henceforth I
will, from time to time, obey and perform his Majesty's laws and statutes, in repairing to
the church and Divine services, and do my uttermost endeavour to maintain and defend the same.
And for the third offence he shall be sent to the jail or house of correction, there to remain
until the next sessions or assizes, and then to be indicted; and being thereupon found guilty,
the court shall enter judgment of transportation against such offenders, to some of the foreign
plantations (Virginia and New England only excepted), there to remain seven years; and warrants
shall issue to sequester the profits of their lands, and to distrain and sell their goods to
defray the charges of their transportation; and for want of such charges being paid, the sheriff
may contract with any master of a ship, or merchant, to transport them; and then such prisoner
shall be a servant to the transporter or his assigns; that is, whoever he will sell him or
her to, for five years. And if any under such judgment of transportation shall escape, or being
transported, return into any part of England, shall SUFFER DEATH as felons, without benefit
of clergy.' Notwithstanding this edict, mark well his words on the next leaf, 'Exhorting the
people of God to take heed, and touch not the Common Prayer.' Englishmen, blush! This is now
the law of the land we live in. Roman Catholics alone are legally exempted from its cruel operations,
by an Act passed in 1844. The overruling hand of God alone saved the pious and holy Bunyan
from having been legally murdered.--Ed.

9. The contemptible and mad insurrection to which Mr. Cobb refers, was the pretext for fearful
sufferings to the Dissenters throughout the kingdom. It is thus narrated by Bishop Burnet,
1660:--'The king had not been many days at Whitehall, when one Venner, a violent fifth-monarchy
man, who thought it was not enough to believe that Christ was to reign on earth, and to put
the saints in possession of the kingdom, but added to this that the saints were to take the
kingdom themselves. He gathered some of the most furious of the party to a meeting in Coleman
Street. There they concerted the day and the manner of their rising, to set Christ on his throne,
as they called it. But withal they meant to manage the government in his name, and were so
formal that they had prepared standards and colours, with their devices on them, and furnished
themselves with very good arms. But when the day came, there was but a small appearance, not
exceeding twenty. However, they resolved to venture out into the streets, and cry out, No king
but Christ. Some of them seemed persuaded that Christ would come down and head them. They scoured
the streets before them, and made a great progress. Some were afraid, and all were amazed at
this piece of extravagance. They killed a great many, but were at last mastered by numbers;
and were all either killed or taken and executed.--(Burnet's Own Times, 1660, vol. i. p. 160).--Ed.

10. The third section of 16th Charles II, cap. 4, also enacts, 'That any person above sixteen
years old, present at any meeting under pretence of exercise of religion, in other manner than
is allowed by the liturgy or practice of the Church of England, where there shall be present
five persons or more above those of the household, upon proof thereof made, either by confession
of the party, or oath of witness, or notorious evidence of the fact; the offence shall be recorded
under the hands of two justices, or the chief magistrate of the place, which shall be a perfect
conviction.'--Ed.

11. As Wicliffe wrote in Latin, and his words were of great rarity, it may excite inquiry how
poor Bunyan was conversant with is opinions. This is easily solved. Foxe gives a translation
of Wicliffe's doctrines in his Martyrology, the favourite book of Bunyan.--Ed.

12. April 23, 1661.

13. See page 56, and note there.

14. It is very probable that his persecutors knew the heroic spirit of this young woman, and
were afraid to proceed to extremities, lest their blood-guiltiness should be known throughout
the kingdom, and public execration be excited against them. Such a martyr's blood would indelibly
and most foully have stained both them and their families to the latest generation.--Ed.

15. 'Smayed,' an obsolete contraction of 'dismayed.'--Ed.

16. Bunyan is silent upon the death of his first wife and marriage to the second; in fact he
forgets his own domestic affairs in his desire to record the Lord's gracious dealings with
his soul. It is not his autobiography, but his religious feelings and experience, that he records.--Ed.

17. 'Chafed,' excited, inflamed, angry.--Ed.

18. This is a beautiful specimen of real Christian feeling; nothing vindictive, although such
cruel wrongs had been perpetrated against her beloved husband.--Ed.

19. Nothing daunted by the cruel Statute which was then in force, Bunyan acted exactly as Peter
and John did under similar circumstances, "We cannot but speak the things which we have seen
and heard" (Acts 4:20). If I suffer death for it, I am bound to speak the warning words of
truth, "Touch not the unclean thing."--Ed.

20. Application was made to Bishop Barlow, through Dr. Owen, to use his powerful influence
in obtaining liberty for this Christian captive; but he absolutely refused to interfere. See
Preface to Owen's Sermons, 1721. Bunyan, upon his petition, heard by the king in council, was
included in the pardon to the imprisoned and cruelly-treated Quakers. Whitehead, the Quaker,
was the honoured instrument in releasing him.--Introduction to Pilgrim's Progress, Hanserd
Knollys Edition.--Ed.

21. See an authentic copy of this Royal Declaration, and observations upon it, in the Introduction
to the Pilgrim's Progress, published by the Hanserd Knollys Society, 1847.--Ed.

22. All these letters, and nearly all his autographs, have disappeared. Of his numerous manuscripts,
books, and letters, not a line is now known to exist. If discovered, they would be invaluable.--Ed.

23. Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow
them.' What an exchange! From incessant anxious labour; from sighing and sorrow; from corruption
and temptation; to commence an endless life of holiness and purity, rest and peace. To be with
and like his Lord! His works have followed, and will follow him, till time shall be no more.--Ed.

24. Among these truly remarkable sayings, so characteristic of our great author, this of the
fearful nature of sin is peculiarly striking; it is worthy of being imprinted on every Christian's
heart, to keep alive a daily sense of the exceeding sinfulness of sin.--Ed.

25. Judges in those days were often biased by personal feelings, and in some cases even by
bribes.--Ed.

26. 'Otherguise importance'; another manner of importance.--Ed.

27. 'Posing,' questioning closely, putting to a stand.--Imperial Dictionary.--Ed.

***

PRISON MEDITATIONS DIRECTED TO THE HEART OF SUFFERING SAINTS AND REIGNING SINNERS

By John Bunyan, in Prison, 1665

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR

These verses, like those called "A Caution to watch against Sin," were first printed on a half
sheet, and passed through several editions. The Editor possesses a copy published by the author,
a short time before his decease; it is in an exceedingly rare little volume, including his
poems of "One thing needful" and his "Ebal and Gerizzim"; with "a catlogue of all his other
books." London: printed for Nath, Ponder, at the Peacock in the Poultry, 1688.

Bunyan was imprisoned for teaching the gospel in its purity to the poor, and for refusing conformity
to national creeds and ceremonies. This was as absurd as it would be, to imprison such of the
inhabitants of a country who refused to swear that all mankind were of one standard in height;
sending those who had consciences to prison, until they pretended that they had grown taller
or shorter, and were willing to take the oath. Mental decision must be formed on evidence.
God can enlighten the mind to see that he alone can guide us to spiritual worship--that his
will must be personally consulted, and unreservedly obeyed. Such a man feels that his soul's
salvation depends upon obedience to God, and not to man. If human laws send him to jail for
refusing to disobey God, he will write upon the prison wall as William Prynne did upon that
in the Tower, "The Lord heareth the poor, and despiseth not HIS prisoners."

   'Christ's presence hath my prison turn'd into
    A blessed heaven; what then will it do
    In heaven hereafter, when it now creates
    Heav'n in a dungeon; goals to courts translates?'

   'He is not bound whom Christ makes free; he,
    Though shut close prisoner, chained, remains still free:
    A godly man's at large in every place,
    Still cheerful, well content, in blessed case,
    Unconquered; he a sacred heaven still bears
    About within his breast.'...

These were the feelings of all Christ's prisoners. Indomitable was the heroic spirit of Bunyan.
He tells his persecutors their folly and their sin, even while suffering under their lash;
and after more than twelve years' incarceration, his free spirit is unsubdued. Again for sixteen
years he enjoyed the sweets of liberty, and then re-published at all risks his proofs of the
wickedness of persecution for conscience' sake. There was no craft, nor guile, nor hypocrisy
about his character, but a fearless devotion to the will of his God; and he became one of the
most honoured of his saints.

GEO. OFFOR.

PRISON MEDIATIONS

    1. Friend, I salute thee in the Lord,
    And wish thou may'st abound
    In faith, and have a good regard
    To keep on holy ground.

    2. Thou dost encourage me to hold
    My head above the flood,
    Thy counsel better is than gold,
    In need thereof I stood.

    3. Good counsel's good at any time,
    The wise will it receive,
    Though fools count he commits a crime
    Who doth good counsel give.

    4. I take it kindly at thy hand
    Thou didst unto me write,
    My feet upon Mount Zion stand,
    In that take thou delight.

    5. I am, indeed, in prison now
    In body, but my mind
    Is free to study Christ, and how
    Unto me he is kind.

    6. For though men keep my outward man
    Within their locks and bars,
    Yet by the faith of Christ I can
    Mount higher than the stars.

    7. Their fetters cannot spirits tame,
    Nor tie up God from me;
    My faith and hope they cannot lame,
    Above them I shall be.

    8. I here am very much refreshed
    To think when I was out,
    I preached life, and peace, and rest
    To sinners round about.

    9. My business then was souls to save,
    By preaching grace and faith;
    Of which the comfort now I have,
    And have it shall till death.

    10. They were no fables that I taught,
    Devised by cunning men,
    But God's own Word, by which were caught
    Some sinners now and then.

    11. Whose souls by it were made to see
    The evil of their sin;
    And need of Christ to make them free
    From death which they were in.

    12. And now those very hearts that then
    Were foes unto the Lord,
    Embrace his Christ and truth, like men
    Conquered by his word.

    13. I hear them sigh and groan, and cry
    For grace, to God above;
    They loathe their sin, and to it die,
    'Tis holiness they love.

    14. This was the work I was about
    When hands on me they laid,
    'Twas this from which they pluck'd me out,
    And vilely to me said,

    15. You heretic, deceiver, come,
    To prison you must go;
    You preach abroad, and keep not home,
    You are the church's foe.

    16. But having peace within my soul,
    And truth on every side,
    I could with comfort them control,
    And at their charge deride.

    17. Wherefore to prison they me sent,
    Where to this day I lie,
    And can with very much content
    For my profession die.

    18. The prison very sweet to me
    Hath been since I came here,
    And so would also hanging be,
    If God would there appear.

    19. Here dwells good conscience, also peace
    Here be my garments white;
    Here, though in bonds, I have release
    From guilt, which else would bite.

    20. When they do talk of banishment,
    Of death, or such-like things;
    Then to me God sends heart's content,
    That like a fountain springs.

    21. Alas! they little think what peace
    They help me to, for by
    Their rage my comforts do increase;
    Bless God therefore do I.

    22. If they do give me gall to drink,
    Then God doth sweetn'ning cast
    So much thereto, that they can't think
    How bravely it doth taste.

    23. For, as the devil sets before
    Me heaviness and grief,
    So God sets Christ and grace much more,
    Whereby I take relief.

    24. Though they say then that we are fools
    Because we here do lie,
    I answer, goals are Christ his schools,
    In them we learn to die.

    25. 'Tis not the baseness of this state
    Doth hide us from God's face,
    He frequently, both soon and late,
    Doth visit us with grace.

    26. Here come the angels, here come saints,
    Here comes the Spirit of God,
    To comfort us in our restraints
    Under the wicked's rod.

    27. God sometimes visits prisons more
    Than lordly palaces,
    He often knocketh at our door,
    When he their houses miss.

    28. The truth and life of heavenly things
    Lift up our hearts on high,
    And carry us on eagles' wings,
    Beyond carnality.

    29. It take away those clogs that hold
    The hearts of other men,
    And makes us lively, strong and bold
    Thus to oppose their sin.

    30. By which means God doth frustrate
    That which our foes expect;
    Namely, our turning th' Apostate,
    Like those of Judas' sect.

    31. Here comes to our rememberance
    The troubles good men had
    Of old, and for our furtherance,
    Their joys when they were sad.

    32. To them that here for evil lie
    The place is comfortless,
    But not to me, because that I
    Lie here for righteousness.

    33.

    34. This goal to us is as a hill,
    From whence we plainly see
    Beyond this world, and take our fill
    Of things that lasting be.

    35. From hence we see the emptiness
    Of all this world contains;
    And here we feel the blessedness
    That for us yet remains.

    36. Here we can see how all men play
    Their parts, as on a stage,
    How good men suffer for God's way,
    And bad men at them rage.

    37. Here we can see who holds that ground
    Which they in Scripture find;
    Here we see also who turns round
    Like weathercocks with wind.

    38. We can also from hence behold
    How seeming friends appear
    But hypocrites, as we are told
    In Scripture every where.

    39. When we did walk at liberty,
    We were deceiv'd by them,
    Who we from hence do clearly see
    Are vile deceitful men.

    40. These politicians that profest
    For base and worldly ends,
    Do now appear to us at best
    But Machiavellian friends.

    41. Though men do say, we do disgrace
    Ourselves by lying here
    Among the rogues, yet Christ our face
    From all such filth will clear.

    42. We know there's neither flout nor frown
    That we now for him bear,
    But will add to our heavenly crown,
    When he comes in the air.

    43. When he our righteousness forth brings
    Bright shining as the day,
    And wipeth off those sland'rous things
    That scorners on us lay.

    44. We sell our earthly happiness
    For heavenly house and home;
    We leave this world because 'tis less,
    And worse than that to come.

    45. We change our drossy dust for gold,
    From death to life we fly:
    We let go shadows, and take hold
    Of immortality.

    46. We trade for that which lasting is,
    And nothing for it give,
    But that which is already his
    By whom we breath and live.

    47. That liberty we lose for him,
    Sickness might take away:
    Our goods might also for our sin
    By fire or thieves decay.

    48. Again, we see what glory 'tis
    Freely to bear our cross
    For him, who for us took up his,
    When he our servant was.

    49. I am most free that men should see
    A hole cut thro' mine ear;
    If others will ascertain me,
    They'll hang a jewel there.

    50. Just thus it is we suffer here
    For him a little pain,
    Who, when he doth again appear,
    Will with him let us reign.

    51. If all must either die for sin
    A death that's natural;
    Or else for Christ, 'tis beset with him
    Who for the last doth fall.

    52. Who now dare say we throw away
    Our goods or liberty,
    When God's most holy Word doth say
    We gain thus much thereby?

    53. Hark yet again, you carnal men,
    And hear what I shall say
    In your own dialect, and then
    I'll you no longer stay.

    54. You talk sometimes of valour much,
    And count such bravely mann'd,
    That will not stick to have a touch
    With any in the land.

    55. If these be worth commending then,
    That vainly show their might,
    How dare you blame those holy men
    That in God's quarrel fight?

    56. Though you dare crack a coward's crown,
    Or quarrel for a pin,
    You dare not on the wicked frown,
    Nor speak against their sin.

    57. For all your spirits are so stout,
    For matters that are vain;
    Yet sin besets you round about,
    You are in Satan's chain.

    58. You dare not for the truth engage,
    You quake at prisonment;
    You dare not make the tree your stage
    For Christ, that King, potent.

    59. Know then, true valour there doth dwell
    Where men engage for God,
    Against the devil, death, and hell,
    And bear the wicked's rod.

    60. These be the men that God doth count
    Of high and noble mind;
    These be the men that do surmount
    What you in nature find.

    61. First they do conquer their own hearts,
    All worldly fears, and then
    Also the devil's fiery darts,
    And persecuting men.

    62. They conquer when they thus do fall,
    They kill when they do die:
    They overcome then most of all,
    And get the victory.

    63. The worldling understands not this,
    'Tis clear out of his sight;
    Therefore he counts this world his bliss,
    And doth our glory slight.

    64. The lubber knows not how to spring
    The nimble footman's stage;
    Neither can owls or jackdaws sing
    If they were in the cage.

    65. The swine doth not the pearls regard,
    But them doth slight for grains,
    Though the wise merchant labours hard
    For them with greatest pains.

    66. Consdier man what I have said,
    And judge of things aright;
    When all men's cards are fully played,
    Whose will abide the light?

    67. Will those, who have us hither cast?
    Or they who do us scorn?
    Or those who do our houses waste?
    Or us, who this have borne?

    68. And let us count those things the best
    That best will prove at last;
    And count such men the only blest,
    That do such things hold fast.

    69. And what though they us dear do cost,
    Yet let us buy them so;
    We shall not count our labour lost
    When we see others' woe.

    70. And let saints be no longer blam'd
    By carnal policy;
    But let the wicked be asham'd
    Of their malignity.

***

THE JERUSALEM SINNER SAVED;

OR,

GOOD NEWS FOR THE VILEST OF MEN;

BEING A HELP FOR DESPAIRING SOULS, SHOWING THAT JESUS CHRIST WOULD HAVE MERCY IN THE FIRST
PLACE OFFERED TO THE BIGGEST SINNERS.

THE THIRD EDITION,

IN WHICH IS ADDED, AN ANSWER TO THOSE GRAND OBJECTIONS THAT LIE IN THE WAY OF THE THEM THAT
WOULD BELIEVE: FOR THE COMFORT OF THEM THAT FEAR THEY HAVE SINNED AGAINST THE HOLY GHOST.

BY JOHN BUNYAN, OF BEDFORD.

London: Printed for Elizabeth Smith, at the Hand and Bible, on London Bridge, 1691.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

THAT Bunyan, who considered himself one of the most notorious of Jerusalem sinners, should
write with the deepest earnestness upon this subject, is not surprising. He had preached upon
it with very peculiar pleasure, and, doubtless, from many texts; and, as he says, 'through
God's grace, with great success.' It is not probable that, with his characteristic intensity
of feeling, and holy fervour in preaching, he ever delivered the same sermon twice; but this
was a subject so in unison with his own feelings and experience, that he must have dilated
upon it with even unusual interest and earnestness. The marrow of all these exercises he concentrated
in this treatise; and when his judgment was, by severe internal conflicts, fully matured--upon
the eve of the close of his earthly pilgrimage, in the last year of his life, 1688--he published
it in a pocket volume of eight sheets. It was soon translated into several languages, and became
so popular as to pass through ten editions in English by 1728. Like other favourite books,
it was ornamented with some very inferior wood-cuts.

The object of the author is fully explained in the title to his book. It is to display the
riches of Divine grace and mercy to the greatest sinners--even to those whose conduct entitled
them to be called 'Satan's colonels, and captains, the leaders of his people; and to such as
most stoutly make head against the Son of God.' It is to those who feel themselves to be such,
and who make a proper estimate of their own characters, as in the sight of God, that the gracious
proclamations of the gospel are peculiarly directed. They to whom much is forgiven, love much;
and the same native energies which had been misdirected to promote evil, when sanctified and
divinely guided, become a great blessing to the church, and to society at large.

Bunyan does not stoop to any attempt to reconcile the humbling doctrines of grace to the self-righteous
pride of those who, considering themselves but little sinners, would feel contaminated by the
company of those who had been such great sinners, although they were pardoned and sanctified
by God. His great effort was directed to relieve the distress and despair of those who were
suffering under deep convictions; still, his whole treatise shows that the doctrine of salvation
by grace, of free gift, is no encouragement to sin that grace may abound, as some have blasphemously
asserted. It is degrading to the pride of those who have not drunk so deeply of sin, to be
placed upon a level with great sinners. But the disease is the same--in breaking one commandment,
the whole law is violated; and, however in some the moral leprosy does not make such fearful
ravages as in others, the slightest taint conveys moral, spiritual, and eternal death. ALL,
whether young or old, great or small, must be saved by grace, or fall into perdition. The difference
between the taint of sin, and its awfully developed leprosy, is given. Who so ready to fly
to the physician as those who feel their case to be desperate? and, when cured, they must love
the Saviour most.

