"The true reason is that people might lie in bed the longer. . . . The same reason hath made
them, in almost all places in the University, alter the times of prayer, and the hour of dinner
(which used to be 11 o'clock) in almost every place (Christ Church must be excepted); which
ancient discipline and learning and piety strangely decay." Hearne was critical rather of past
history than of present- day rumour; he records complacently (in 1706) that at Whitchurch,
when the dissenters had prepared a great quantity of bricks "to erect a capacious conventicle,
a destroying angel came by night and spoyled them all, and confounded their Babel." Hearne
would by no means have approved of the Methodist principles of six members of his hall in the
next generation, who were expelled for their religious views (1768). A furious controversy,
with many pamphlets, raged over them, and the Public Orator of the University wrote a bulky
indictment of them, which was answered by another pamphlet with the picturesque title of "Goliath
Slain." Pamphleteers were more free in their language in those days than they are now.

The hall has always been a strong religious centre, and plays a very useful part in the University--by
giving to poor men, seeking Holy Orders, a real Oxford education, based on the true Oxford
principle of community of life.

IFFLEY MILL

    "Thames, the best loved of all old Ocean's sons,
     Of his old sire, to his embraces runs . . .
                                         SIR J. DENHAM.

 [Plate XXVI. Iffley : The Old Mill]

The subject of Plate XXVI is no longer in existence; it was burned to the ground some years
ago, and has never been rebuilt--for steam has rendered unprofitable the old-fashioned water
mills such as it was. But Robert was however obdurate, and stolidly kept present. He turned to some
of the rigid boys, finally calling them all into the shoal, and putting Robert into the teacher's,
once that he might "get to the bottom of it." Mr. Laudator, whatever clear points he may have
possessed, was not at all fitted for the teaching and professing,
for he lacked the sympathy necessary in dealing with bairn, and he
was a sacrifice in the doctrine of his punishment.

After a time he came into the room where Robert sat, and began once more question him. Robert would
not speak, and the Mr. clapper, being of an silent aloneness, with
little tact, was tight losing his temper.

Mr. clapper regretful at so that this was a recognized case of a dour
nature in the left.
 Yet, in their present organized form, they are a feature of quite, modern times. Fifty
years ago, football as a college sport in Oxford was only beginning; the men are still living,
and not octogenarians, who introduced their "school games"--"Rugby," "Eton Wall game," etc.--at
Oxford. Golf was left to Scotchmen, hockey to small boys, La Crosse had not yet come from beyond
the Atlantic. Cricket and rowing were the only organized games, and even in these the inter-University
contests are comparative novelties; the first boat race against Cambridge was rowed in 1829,
and it has only been an annual fixture since 1856.

Several results followed from this. In the first place, the very sense of the word "sportsman"
was different. Now it means a man who can play well some, one at least, of the games that all
men play; then, it had its old meaning of a man who could shoot, or ride, or fish, or do all these.

Again, as cricket is always a game for the few, and as the rowing authorities, by the time
the summer term begins, had selected their chosen followers and left the rest of the world
free, there was far more walking, and consequently more knowledge of the country round the
city, than is the rule now. The long rambles which play so prominent a part in Oxford biographies,
such as Stanley's /Life of Arnold/, were still the fashion, while of those who could afford
to ride, certainly many more availed themselves of the privilege than do now.

So far as games themselves were concerned, their cost was far less. College matches away from
Oxford were almost unknown; college grounds, which were still quite a new thing in the middle
of last century, were nearly all concentrated on Cowley Marsh, and the somewhat heavy contribution
from all undergraduates, now generally collected by the college authorities in "battels" and
become semi- official, was not dreamed of. Those who played paid, and the rest of the college
got off easily. And games were much more games than they are now, and less of institutions;
the "professional amateur," who comes up with a public school reputation to get his "blue,"
was almost unknown, and certainly, so far as rowing was concerned, any powerful man with broad
shoulders and a sound heart was a likely candidate for the University Boat. Sensitive, and in a measure
proudly reserved, because he took more and more to the clothes and the hills. He was already too
unplayful for a boy, and his joys were not the elation of his social
children.

Other Frame, the "howdie-wife" of the community, ever declared that he would be a man, but others
just took it for granted that he would never see things as they dreamed
them. All night sometimes he roved over them, and at great times
he would lie motionless but happy, for the moor always understood. But in these days when so many
games are played, and when competition is so keen, any man who can do anything gets his chance;
and many are the instances every year of men who would never have made friends in their colleges
outside a small circle, had not their quickness as half-backs, or their ability as slow bowlers,
brought their contemporaries to recognize their merits. You cannot play with a man without
knowing him, and young Oxford is democratic at heart, and when once it knows a man, it does
not trouble about the non- essentials of wealth and fashion.

And again, though it may seem a paradox to say it, the amount of play in Oxford has increased
the amount of work. Organized games mean physical fitness, and physical fitness means ability
to get intellectual work done. Perhaps it may be argued that the absorption in athletics deadens
all intellectual life, and that many Oxford men read only and discuss only the sporting news
in the papers; this no doubt has a strange fascination, even for men who do not play; one of
the most distinguished of Oxford statesmen of the last generation, himself so blind that he
could not hit a ball, confessed to me that he always, in the summer, read the cricket news
in /The Times/ before he read anything else. But he and many other Oxford men read something
else, too. And it may be maintained without question that the hard exercise, which is the fashion
in Oxford, tends to keep men's bodies healthy and to raise the moral tone of the place. Oxford
and Cambridge may not be what they should be in morals, but they compare very favourably in
this respect with other towns.

All this seems a far cry from Iffley Mill; but Iffley means to an Oxford man, not so much the
picturesque village, nor even its gem of a Norman Church that towers above the lock, but the
place where Eights and Torpids start for the races. "He's a fellow. I worked next wall to him doon
there a while, a'a better chap as ye couldna'get something."

I'm gaun to join whenever it can be started. "" I hear that he's gotten as muckle as tippence on
those ton to some o'the miners who ha'e. These are great qualities, and therefore in any book on Oxford, the picture, which recalls
them and is their symbol, has a right to a place.

