Major Anderson's dispatch to the Government, April 18, 1861, on steamship "Baltic," off Sandy
Hook, announcing the fall of Fort Sumter, was then read by Brigadier-General E.D. Townshend,
Assistant Adjutant-General United States Army.

Promptly upon the reading of the dispatch, Sergeant Hart (who had gallantly replaced the flag
after it had been shot away in the first assault) stepped forward with the Fort Sumter mail-bag
in his hand. As he quietly drew forth from its long seclusion the same old flag of '61, a wild
shout went up, "prolonged and loud." It was quickly attached to the halyards by three sailors
from the fleet, who were in the first fight, and crowned with a wreath of evergreen, set with
clusters of rosebuds and orange blossoms.

All was now ready, and the hour, the moment, for which the nation had so long earnestly struggled
and patiently waited, had come at last!

Who of us can ever forget that memorable hour, or the deep and silent expectation of the great
assembly, as General Robert Anderson, the hero of the day, stepped forward, and with uncovered
head and a voice trembling with emotion, said:

     "I am here, my friends, my fellow-citizens and
     fellow-soldiers, to perform an act of duty to my country,
     dear to my heart, and which all of you will appreciate and
     feel. Had I observed the wishes of my heart, it should have
     been done in silence; but in accordance with the request of
     the Honorable Secretary of War, I make a few remarks, as by
     his order, after four long, long years of war, I restore
     to its proper place this dear flag, which floated here
     during peace, before the first act of this cruel rebellion.
     [Taking the halyards in his hands, he said:] I thank God
     that I have lived to see this day, and to be here, to
     perform this, perhaps the last act of my life, of duty to my
     country. My heart is filled with gratitude to that God who
     has so signally blessed us, who has given us blessings
     beyond measure.

"Amen! amen!" the multitude responded. Then the old veteran grasped the halyards with firm
and steady hand, and

     "Forthwith from the glittering staff unfurled
     The starry banner, which full high advanced,
     Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind."

A loud and prolonged shout, from fort and fleet, greeted the old flag as, all tattered with
shot and shell, it rose above the battlements into its native air. The whole audience sprang
to their feet. Several bands began to play their most inspiring music. Men swung their hats
and grasped each other by the hand; women and children waved their handkerchiefs, and many
wept for very joy.

I can never forget the impression of that glorious spectacle, and that song of victory that
went up from five thousand voices. The colored soldier pacing to and fro, with beating heart
and gazing aloft with pride upon the "flag of the free hearts' hope and home," could now exclaim,
"Yes, that is now my flag! and yonder, at Fort Wagner, the colored soldier fought and died
to restore it. Four years ago, when that flag went down, more than four millions of my people
had no flag! But to-day it is our flag, and our country!"

Immediately followed the grand artillery salute to the flag; and I left my seat and climbed
the look-out high above upon the wall to obtain an unobstructed view of the bay. First, the
heavy guns of Sumter thundered forth their hearty greeting to the flag. Then, in loyal and
quick response, came the answering notes from Fort Moultrie and Morris Island, followed by
a national salute from every fort and rebel battery that had fired upon the flag four years before.

Finally the fleet, with the little monitors, joined in the deep harmonies of the grand chorus,
till the earth trembled with the cannonade, the air grew heavy with smoke, and nothing was
visible but the rapid flashes of the artillery. For a moment it seemed as if the assault of
'61 was being re-enacted before me. But it is safe to add that had this been the case, I should
hardly have chosen such an elevated position upon the observatory of the fort. At length the
roar of cannon ceased, the dense clouds of smoke and sand drifted away, and order was restored.
The orator of the day, Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, then began his address, of which the opening
and closing sentences were as follows:

     "On this solemn and joyful day, we again lift to the breeze
     our fathers' flag, now, again, the banner of the United
     States, with the fervent prayer that God would crown it
     with honor, protect it from treason, and send it down to our
     children, with all the blessings of civilization, liberty
     and religion. Terrible in battle, may it be beneficent in
     peace. Happily, no bird or beast of prey has been inscribed
     upon it. The stars that redeem the night from darkness, and
     the beams of red light that beautify the morning, have been
     united upon its folds. As long as the sun endures, or the
     stars, may it wave over a nation neither enslaved nor
     enslaving. [Great applause.]

     "Once, and but once, has treason dishonored it. In that
     insane hour, when the guiltiest and bloodiest rebellion of
     time hurled their fires upon this fort, you, sir, [turning
     to General Anderson,] and a small, heroic band, stood within
     these now crumbled walls, and did gallant and just battle
     for the honor and defense of the nation's banner.
     [Applause.]...

     "To-day you are returned again. We devoutly join with you in
     thanksgiving to Almighty God, that he has spared your
     honored life, and vouchsafed you the honors of this day. The
     heavens over you are the same; the same shores; morning
     comes, and evening, as they did. All else, how changed! What
     grim batteries crowd the burdened shores! What scenes have
     filled this air, and disturbed these waters! These shattered
     heaps of shapeless stone are all that is left of Fort
     Sumter. Desolation broods in yonder sad city--solemn
     retribution hath avenged our dishonored banner! You have
     come back with honor, who departed hence, four years ago,
     leaving the air sultry with fanaticism. The surging crowds
     that rolled up their frenzied shouts, as the flag came down,
     are dead, or scattered, or silent; and their habitations are
     desolate. Ruin sits in the cradle of treason. Rebellion has
     perished. But there flies the same flag that was insulted.
     [Great and prolonged applause.] With starry eyes it looks
     all over this bay for that banner that supplanted it, and
     sees it not. [Applause.] You that then, for the day, were
     humbled, are here again, to triumph once and forever. [Applause.] It was a
     prophecy. It said, 'Not one State shall be struck from this
     nation by treason!' The fulfillment is at hand. [Applause.]

     "Our nation, under one government, without slavery, has been
     ordained, and shall stand. There can be peace on no other
     basis. Reverently, piously, in hopeful patriotism, we spread
     this banner on the sky, as of old the bow was planted on the
     cloud; and, with solemn fervor, beseech God to look upon it,
     and make it the memorial of an everlasting covenant and
     decree, that never again on this fair land shall a deluge of
     blood prevail. [Applause.]...

     "From this pulpit of broken stone we speak forth our earnest
     greeting to all our land.

     "We offer to the President of these United States our solemn
     congratulations that God has sustained his life and health
     under the unparalleled burdens and sufferings of four bloody
     years, and permitted him to behold this auspicious
     consummation of that national unity for which he has waited
     with so much patience and fortitude, and for which he has
     labored with such disinterested wisdom. [Applause.]

     "To the members of the government associated with him in the
     administration of perilous affairs in critical times; to the
     Senators and Representatives of the United States, who have
     eagerly fashioned the instruments by which the popular will
     might express and enforce itself, we tender our grateful
     thanks. [Applause.]

     "To the officers and men of the Army and Navy, who have so
     faithfully, skillfully, and gloriously upheld their
     country's authority, by suffering, labor, and sublime
     courage, we offer here a tribute beyond the compass of
     words. [Great applause.]

     "Upon these true and faithful citizens, men and women, who
     have borne up with unflinching hope in the darkest hour, and
     covered the land with the labors of love and charity, we
     invoke the divinest blessing of Him whom they have so truly
     imitated. [Applause.]

     "But, chiefly, to Thee, God of our fathers, we render
     thanksgiving and praise for that wondrous Providence that
     has brought forth from such a harvest of war, the seed of so
     much liberty and peace. We invoke peace upon the North.
     Peace be to the West. Peace be upon the South.

     "In the name of God we lift up our banner, and dedicate it
     to Peace, Union and Liberty, now and forever." [Great
     applause.]

At the conclusion of the address, the audience arose and sang the doxology. An impressive prayer
followed, with the benediction, by the Rev. Dr. Storrs, Jr. Six deafening cheers were then
given for the old flag replaced on Sumter; and three times three for President Lincoln, General
Robert Anderson, and our soldiers and sailors. Many of us remained to avail ourselves of the
opportunity to shake hands with the old veteran, and I well remember the exultation with which
I walked off with the General's autograph.

We spent an hour in exploring the walls and casements of the fort and rummaging about for relics.
It was amusing to see a man who, after selecting a twenty-five pound shot for a memento, would
carry it a short distance, change hands to make it easier, and then come to the conclusion
that it was foolish to lug such a heavy thing around; or to see another person, who had been
sweating under the burden of a heavy shell,--when suddenly told that it was still loaded and
liable to go off, and take him off with it,--quickly turn and lay it down carefully, and quietly
depart. I satisfied my curiosity with a few small grape and canister shot, some fragments of
exploded shells, and a section of the rebel iron wire fence on the outer wall.

It must have been fully six o'clock when we all arrived safely back to the city. At sunset
there was another grand salute from the fleet, and in the evening we were summoned on deck
to witness the closing demonstration of the day. Nothing could be seen in the darkness, till
quick, as if by magic, at the signal from the flag-ship of the Admiral, the entire harbor for
miles around was brilliantly illuminated. Every vessel and transport and monitor was ablaze
with many-colored fires. Each mast and sail and rope was aglow with light. From every deck
came the roar and glare of rockets, darting in quick procession to the sky, then turning and
descending in showers of golden rain. Hundreds of lanterns, red, green and white, suspended
from the rigging, flashed out their starry signals over the bay, and were reflected in the
waters beneath, while heavy clouds of smoke, tinged with golden radiance, rolled heavenward
like ascending incense, presenting a scene of rare enchantment.

But hark! another signal gun is heard. Every light instantly disappears! Every sound is hushed!
and grim darkness again mantles the waters of the bay; and, I was about to add, we were all
soon in sleep's serene oblivion, but my diary records that at nine o'clock P.M. five of us
took an impressed carriage and started for the Charleston Hotel, to attend a reception given
by General Gilmore. On our arrival, we made a bargain with our negro driver to wait for us,
say half an hour, more or less, and then take us over to the Battery, to General Hatch's grand
military ball. But once inside, we became so much absorbed, like little Tommy Tucker, in the
supper and the toasts, that we forgot all about our colored driver outside,--just as people
do at parties still. The following are brief extracts from the remarks of two or three of the
principal speakers.

Judge-Advocate Holt, in responding to the toast, "General Robert Anderson," said:

     "It is not uncommon for organizations in treason or in
     crime, on a vast scale, to commit mistakes in the selection
     of agents to accomplish their work; and no man in all
     history committed a greater mistake than Floyd, in the
     selection of General Anderson, on the sole ground of his
     being a southern man, to command Fort Sumter. He thought to
     find in him a tool of treason, but he found instead a loyal,
     fearless, and true man. Those who have led great treasonable
     enterprises, or great crimes, have suffered most from
     mingled rage and angry fear when they discovered such
     mistakes in the selection of their agents, and none suffered
     more in this respect than Secretary Floyd, on hearing of the
     transfer of the small but devoted garrison from Fort
     Moultrie to the solid walls of Fort Sumter. There was one
     man, still in the service of the government, who was with
     Floyd, in the Cabinet, at the time, and could bear evidence
     to the rage of the defeated traitor, and that man, with
     giant brain and steadfast heart, has for three years
     presided at the head of the war Department--Edwin M.
     Stanton."

Major-General Abner Doubleday was called out by some remarks referring to the part he took
in the defense of Fort Sumter, and said:

     "I feel to-day as if I had been present at the birth of a
     new nation. I was most happy to have been present at the
     impressive ceremonies this day, and glad to remember that I
     dealt some blows against secession in the same place four
     years ago. I never doubted then the propriety of our
     resistance. I felt that the only answer to armed treason
     must come from the mouth of the cannon. There is one class
     of men in that early effort to whom justice has not been
     done. I mean the enlisted men. They were offered every
     inducement to desert,--heavy bribes, and promotion in a new
     service,--but they refused them all. [Cheers.] They were
     told that there would be no necessity for any fighting; that
     there would soon be peace, as the North could not stand up
     against them; but all their efforts failed, and I give you,
     'The remembrance of those noble soldiers.'" [Great
     cheering.]

But we were particularly interested in General Robert Anderson's response to a toast which
had been assigned to General John A. Dix, who sent the famous order to Louisiana, in 1861,
"If any man attempts to haul down the American flag, shoot him on the spot!"

General Anderson concluded by introducing the toast, "Abraham Lincoln," with an eloquent tribute
of respect and affection. Said he:

