Some of the cells carved in the living rock were just behind the face of the precipice, and
in each of these an arrow-slit had been pierced outward to the daylight, and so the captive
had a thin ray from the blessed sun for his comfort.  The case of one of these poor fellows
was particularly hard.  From his dusky swallow's hole high up in that vast wall of native rock
he could peer out through the arrow-slit and see his own home off yonder in the valley; and
for twenty-two years he had watched it, with heartache and longing, through that crack.  He
could see the lights shine there at night, and in the daytime he could see figures go in and
come out--his wife and children, some of them, no doubt, though he could not make out at that
distance.  In the course of years he noted festivities there, and tried to rejoice, and wondered
if they were weddings or what they might be.  And he noted funerals; and they wrung his heart.
He could make out the coffin, but he could not determine its size, and so could not tell whether
it was wife or child.  He could see the procession form, with priests and mourners, and move
solemnly away, bearing the secret with them.  He had left behind him five children and a wife;
and in nineteen years he had seen five funerals issue, and none of them humble enough in pomp
to denote a servant.  So he had lost five of his treasures; there must still be one remaining--one
now infinitely, unspeakably precious,--but which one? wife, or child? That was the question
that tortured him, by night and by day, asleep and awake.  Well, to have an interest, of some
sort, and half a ray of light, when you are in a dungeon, is a great support to the body and
preserver of the intellect.  This man was in pretty good condition yet.  By the time he had
finished telling me his distressful tale, I was in the same state of mind that you would have
been in yourself, if you have got average human curiosity; that is to say, I was as burning
up as he was to find out which member of the family it was that was left.  So I took him over
home myself; and an amazing kind of a surprise party it was, too --typhoons and cyclones of
frantic joy, and whole Niagaras of happy tears; and by George! we found the aforetime young
matron graying toward the imminent verge of her half century, and the babies all men and women,
and some of them married and experimenting familywise themselves--for not a soul of the tribe
was dead!  Conceive of the ingenious devilishness of that queen: she had a special hatred for
this prisoner, and she had invented all those funerals herself, to scorch his heart with; and
the sublimest stroke of genius of the whole thing was leaving the family-invoice a funeral
short, so as to let him wear his poor old soul out guessing.

But for me, he never would have got out.  Morgan le Fay hated him with her whole heart, and
she never would have softened toward him. And yet his crime was committed more in thoughtlessness
than deliberate depravity.  He had said she had red hair.  Well, she had; but that was no way
to speak of it.  When red-headed people are above a certain social grade their hair is auburn.

