I went this morning with Sir W. Pen by coach to Westminster, and having done my business at
Mr. Montagu's, I went back to him at Whitehall, and from thence with him to the 3 Tun Tavern,
at Charing Cross, and there sent for up the maister of the house's dinner, and dined very well
upon it, and afterwards had him and his fayre sister (who is very great with Sir W. Batten
and Sir W. Pen in mirth) up to us, and looked over some medals that they shewed us of theirs;
and so went away to the Theatre, to "The Joviall Crew," and from hence home, and at my house
we were very merry till late, having sent for his son, Mr. William Pen,

     [The celebrated Quaker, and founder of Pennsylvania.]

lately come from Oxford.  And after supper parted, and to bed.

2d.  After the office done, I to the Wardrobe, and there dined, and in the afternoon had an
hour or two's talk with my Lady with great pleasure.  And so with the two young ladies by coach
to my house, and gave them some entertainment, and so late at night sent them home with Captain
Ferrers by coach.  This night my boy Wayneman, as I was in my chamber, I overheard him let
off some gunpowder; and hearing my wife chide him below for it, and a noise made, I call him
up, and find that it was powder that he had put in his pocket, and a match carelessly with
it, thinking that it was out, and so the match did give fire to the powder, and had burnt his
side and his hand that he put into his pocket to put out the fire.  But upon examination, and
finding him in a lie about the time and place that he bought it, I did extremely beat him,
and though it did trouble me to do it, yet I thought it necessary to do it. So to write by
the post, and to bed.

3rd (Lord's day).  This day I stirred not out, but took physique, and it did work very well,
and all the day as I was at leisure I did read in Fuller's Holy Warr, which I have of late
bought, and did try to make a song in the praise of a liberall genius (as I take my own to
be) to all studies and pleasures, but it not proving to my mind I did reject it and so proceeded
not in it.  At night my wife and I had a good supper by ourselves of a pullet hashed, which
pleased me much to see my condition come to allow ourselves a dish like that, and so at night
to bed.

4th. General Pope was laying siege to Island Number Ten, having already being occupied Chine
Madrid, and placed my gun-boats in front of that point. General Mrs's army at Pittsburg Landing,
and General Buell's army was moving from Nashville toward Savannah,
Tennessee. Our company my
uncle Wight, Captain Lambert, one Captain Davies, and purser Barter, Mr. Rawlinson, and ourselves;
and very merry.  After dinner I took coach, and called my wife at my brother's, where I left
her, and to the Opera, where we saw "The Bondman," which of old we both did so doat on, and
do still; though to both our thinking not so well acted here (having too great expectations),
as formerly at Salisbury-court.  But for Betterton he is called by us both the best actor in
the world.  So home by coach, I lighting by the way at my uncle Wight's and staid there a little,
and so home after my wife, and to bed.

5th.  At the office all the morning.  At noon comes my brother Tom and Mr. Armiger to dine
with me, and did, and we were very merry.  After dinner, I having drunk a great deal of wine,
I went away, seeming to go about business with Sir W. Pen, to my Lady Batten's (Sir William
being at Chatham), and there sat a good while, and then went away (before I went I called at
home to see whether they were gone, and found them there, and Armiger inviting my wife to go
to a play, and like a fool would be courting her, but he is an ass, and lays out money with
Tom, otherwise I should not think him worth half this respect I shew him).  To the Dolphin,
where he and I and Captain Cocke sat late and drank much, seeing the boys in the streets flying
their crackers, this day being kept all the day very strictly in the City.  At last broke up,
and called at my Lady Batten's again and would have gone to cards, but Sir W. Pen was so fuddled
that we could not try him to play, and therefore we parted, and I home and to bed.

6th.  Going forth this morning I met Mr. Davenport and a friend of his, one Mr. Furbisher,
to drink their morning draft with me, and I did give it them in good wine, and anchovies, and
pickled oysters, and took them to the Sun in Fish Street, there did give them a barrel of good
ones, and a great deal of wine, and sent for Mr. W. Bernard (Sir Robert's son), a grocer thereabouts,
and were very merry, and cost me a good deal of money, and at noon left them, and with my head
full of wine, and being invited by a note from Luellin, that came to my hands this morning
in bed, I went to Nick Osborne's at the Victualling Office, and there saw his wife, who he
has lately married, a good sober woman, and new come to their home.  We had a good dish or
two of marrowbones and another of neats' tongues to dinner, and that being done I bade them
adieu and hastened to Whitehall (calling Mr. Moore by the way) to my Lord Privy Seal, who will
at last force the clerks to bring in a table of their fees, which they have so long denied,
but I do not join with them, and so he is very respectful to me.  So he desires me to bring
in one which I observe in making of fees, which I will speedily do.  So back again, and endeavoured
to speak with Tom Trice (who I fear is hatching some mischief), but could not, which vexed
me, and so I went home and sat late with pleasure at my lute, and so to bed.

7th.  This morning came one Mr. Hill (sent by Mr. Hunt, the Instrument maker), to teach me
to play on the Theorbo, but I do not like his play nor singing, and so I found a way to put
him off.  So to the office. And then to dinner, and got Mr. Pett the Commissioner to dinner
with me, he and I alone, my wife not being well, and so after dinner parted.  And I to Tom
Trice, who in short shewed me a writt he had ready for my father, and I promised to answer
it.  So I went to Dr. Williams (who is now pretty well got up after his sickness), and after
that to Mr. Moore to advise, and so returned home late on foot, with my mind cleared, though
not satisfied.  I met with letters at home from my Lord from Lisbone, which speak of his being
well; and he tells me he had seen at the court there the day before he wrote this letter, the
Juego de Toro.--[A bull fight.  See May 24th, 1662.--B:]--So fitted myself for bed. Coming
home I called at my uncle Fenner's, who tells that Peg Kite now hath declared she will have
the beggarly rogue the weaver, and so we are resolved neither to meddle nor make with her.
Thence to Westminster Hall (it being Term time) and there met with Commissioner Pett, and so
at noon he and I by appointment to the Sun in New Fish Street, where Sir J. Minnes, Sir W.
Batten, and we all were to dine, at an invitation of Captain Stoaks and Captain Clerk, and
were very merry, and by discourse I found Sir J. Minnes a fine gentleman and a very good scholler.
After dinner to the Wardrobe, and thence to Dr. Williams, who went with me (the first time
that he has been abroad a great while) to the Six Clerks Office to find me a clerk there able
to advise me in my business with Tom Trice, and after I had heard them talk, and had given
me some comfort, I went to my brother Tom's, and took him with me to my coz. Turner at the
Temple, and had his opinion that I should not pay more than the principal L200, with which
I was much pleased, and so home.

9th.  At the office all the morning.  At noon Mr. Davenport, Phillips, and Mr. Wm.  Bernard
and Furbisher, came by appointment and dined with me, and we were very merry.  After dinner
I to the Wardrobe, and there staid talking with my Lady all the afternoon till late at night.
Among other things my Lady did mightily urge me to lay out money upon my wife, which I perceived
was a little more earnest than ordinary, and so I seemed to be pleased with it, and do resolve
to bestow a lace upon her, and what with this and other talk, we were exceeding merry.  So
home at night.

10th (Lord's day).  At our own church in the morning, where Mr. Mills preached.  Thence alone
to the Wardrobe to dinner with my Lady, where my Lady continues upon yesterday's discourse
still for me to lay out money upon my wife, which I think it is best for me to do for her honour
and my own.  Last night died Archibald, my Lady's butler and Mrs. Sarah's brother, of a dropsy,
which I am troubled at.  In the afternoon went and sat with Mr. Turner in his pew at St. Gregory's,
where I hear our Queen Katherine, the first time by name as such, publickly prayed for, and
heard Dr. Buck upon "Woe unto thee, Corazin," &c., where he started a difficulty, which he
left to another time to answer, about why God should give means of grace to those people which
he knew would not receive them, and deny to others which he himself confesses, if they had
had them, would have received them, and they would have been effectual too.  I would I could
hear him explain this, when he do come to it.  Thence home to my wife, and took her to my Aunt
Wight's, and there sat a while with her (my uncle being at Katharine hill), and so home, and
I to Sir W. Batten's, where Captain Cock was, and we sent for two bottles of Canary to the
Rose, which did do me a great deal of hurt, and did trouble me all night, and, indeed, came
home so out of order that I was loth to say prayers to-night as I am used ever to do on Sundays,
which my wife took notice of and people of the house, which I was sorry for.

11th.  To the Wardrobe, and with Mr. Townsend and Moore to the Saracen's Head to a barrel of
oysters, and so Mr. Moore and I to Tom Trice's, with whom I did first set my hand to answer
to a writt of his this tearm. Thence to the Wardrobe to dinner, and there by appointment met
my wife, who had by my direction brought some laces for my Lady to choose one for her.  And
after dinner I went away, and left my wife and ladies together, and all their work was about
this lace of hers.  Captain Ferrers and I went together, and he carried me the first time that
ever I saw any gaming house, to one, entering into Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, at the end of Bell
Yard, where strange the folly of men to lay and lose so much money, and very glad I was to
see the manner of a gamester's life, which I see is very miserable, and poor, and unmanly.
And thence he took me to a dancing school in Fleet Street, where we saw a company of pretty
girls dance, but I do not in myself like to have young girls exposed to so much vanity.  So
to the Wardrobe, where I found my Lady had agreed upon a lace for my wife of L6, which I seemed
much glad of that it was no more, though in my mind I think it too much, and I pray God keep
me so to order myself and my wife's expenses that no inconvenience in purse or honour follow
this my prodigality.  So by coach home.

12th.  At the office all the morning.  Dined at home alone.  So abroad with Sir W. Pen.  My
wife and I to "Bartholomew Fayre," with puppets which I had seen once before, and Ate play
without puppets often, but though I love the play as much as ever I did, yet I do not like
the puppets at all, but think it to be a lessening to it.  Thence to the Greyhound in Fleet
Street, and there drank some raspberry sack and eat some sasages, and so home very merry.

     [And that, too, in the river Thames itself.  The right of obliging
     ships of all nations to lower topsails, and strike their flag to the
     English, whilst in the British seas, and even on the French coasts,
     had, up to this time, been rigidly enforced.  When Sully was sent by
     Henry IV., in 1603, to congratulate James I. on his accession, and
     in a ship commanded by a vice-admiral of France, he was fired upon
     by the English Admiral Mansel, for daring to hoist the flag of
     France in the presence of that of England, although within sight of
     Calais.  The French flag was lowered, and all Sully's remonstrances
     could obtain no redress for the alleged injury.  According to Rugge,
     Holmes had insisted upon the Swede's lowering his flag, and had even
     fired a shot to enforce the observance of the usual tribute of
     respect, but the ambassador sent his secretary and another gentleman
     on board the English frigate, to assure the captain, upon the word
     and honour of an ambassador, that the king, by a verbal order, had
     given him leave and a dispensation in that particular, and upon this
     false representation he was allowed to proceed on his voyage without
     further question.  This want of caution, and disobedience of orders,
     fell heavily on Holmes, who was imprisoned for two months, and not
     re-appointed to the same ship.  Brahe afterwards made a proper
     submission for the fault he had committed, at his own court.  He is in mourning for his
wife's grandmother, which is thought a great piece of fondness.

     [Fondness, foolishness.

              "Fondness it were for any, being free,
               To covet fetters, tho' they golden be."  From thence to the Theatre, and there saw
"Father's own Son" again, and so it raining very hard I went home by
coach, with my mind very heavy for this my expensefull life, which will
undo me, I fear, after all my hopes, if I do not take up, for now I am
coming to lay out a great deal of money in clothes for my wife, I must
forbear other expenses.  To bed, and this night began to lie in the little
green chamber, where the maids lie, but we could not a great while get
Nell to lie there, because I lie there and my wife, but at last, when she
saw she must lie there or sit up, she, with much ado, came to bed.

4th.  At the office all the morning.  At noon I went by appointment to the Sun in Fish Street
to a dinner of young Mr. Bernard's for myself, Mr. Phillips, Davenport, Weaver, &c., where
we had a most excellent dinner, but a pie of such pleasant variety of good things, as in all
my life I never tasted.  Hither came to me Captain Lambert to take his leave of me, he being
this day to set sail for the Straights.  We drank his farewell and a health to all our friends,
and were very merry, and drank wine enough.  Hence to the Temple to Mr. Turner about drawing
up my bill in Chancery against T. Trice, and so to Salisbury Court, where Mrs. Turner is come
to town to-night, but very ill still of an ague, which I was sorry to see.  So to the Wardrobe
and talked with my Lady, and so home and to bed.

15th.  At home all the morning, and at noon with my wife to the Wardrobe to dinner, and there,
did shew herself to my Lady in the handkercher that she bought the lace for the other day,
and indeed it is very handsome. Here I left my wife and went to my Lord Privy Seal to Whitehall,
and there did give him a copy of the Fees of the office as I have received them, and he was
well pleased with it.  So to the Opera, where I met my wife and Captain Ferrers and Madamoiselle
Le Blanc, and there did see the second part of "The Siege of Rhodes" very well done; and so
by coach set her home, and the coach driving down the hill through Thames Street, which I think
never any coach did before from that place to the bridge-foot, but going up Fish Street Hill
his horses were so tired, that they could not be got to go up the hill, though all the street
boys and men did beat and whip them.  At last I was fain to send my boy for a link, and so
light out of the coach till we got to another at the corner of Fenchurch Street, and so home,
and to bed.

16th.  At the office all the morning.  Dined at home, and so about my business in the afternoon
to the Temple, where I found my Chancery bill drawn against T. Trice, which I read and like
it, and so home.

17th (Lord's day).  To our own church, and at noon, by invitation, Sir W. Pen dined with me,
and I took Mrs. Hester, my Lady Batten's kinswoman, to dinner from church with me, and we were
very merry.  So home, and by and by comes my uncle Wight and my aunt and Mr. Norbury and his
lady, and we drank hard and were very merry till supper time, and then we parted, my wife and
I being invited to Sir W. Pen's, where we also were very merry, and so home to prayers and to bed.

18th.  By coach with Sir W. Pen; my wife and I toward Westminster, but seeing Mr. Moore in
the street I light and he and I went to Mr. Battersby's the minister, in my way I putting in
at St. Paul's, where I saw the quiristers in their surplices going to prayers, and a few idle
poor people and boys to hear them, which is the first time I have seen them, and am sorry to
see things done so out of order, and there I received L50 more, which make up L100 that I now
have borrowed of him, and so I did burn the old bond for L50, and paying him the use of it
did make a new bond for the whole L100. Here I dined and had a good dinner, and his wife a
good pretty woman.  There was a young Parson at the table that had got himself drunk before
dinner, which troubled me to see. After dinner to Mr. Bowers at Westminster for my wife, and
brought her to the Theatre to see "Philaster," which I never saw before, but I found it far
short of my expectations.  So by coach home.

19th.  At the office all the morning, and coming home found Mr. Hunt with my wife in the chamber
alone, which God forgive me did trouble my head, but remembering that it was washing and that
there was no place else with a fire for him to be in, it being also cold weather, I was at
ease again. He dined with us, and after dinner took coach and carried him with us as far as
my cozen Scott's, where we set him down and parted, and my wife and I staid there at the christening
of my cozens boy, where my cozen Samuel Pepys, of Ireland, and I were godfathers, and I did
name the child Samuel. There was a company of pretty women there in the chamber, but we staid
not, but went with the minister into another room and eat and drank, and at last, when most
of the women were gone, Sam and I went into my cozen Scott, who was got off her bed, and so
we staid and talked and were very merry, my she-cozen, Stradwick, being godmother.  And then
I left my wife to go home by coach, and I walked to the Temple about my law business, and there
received a subpoena for T. Trice.  I carried it myself to him at the usual house at Doctors
Commons and did give it him, and so home and to bed.  It cost me 20s, between the midwife and
the two nurses to-day.  Hence by water to the Wardrobe, and dined with my Lady, my Lady Wright
being there too, whom I find to be a witty but very conceited woman and proud.  And after dinner
Mr. Moore and I to the Temple, and there he read my bill and likes it well enough, and so we
came back again, he with me as far as the lower end of Cheapside, and there I gave him a pint
of sack and parted, and I home, and went seriously to look over my papers touching T. Trice,
and I think I have found some that will go near to do me more good in this difference of ours
than all I have before.  So to bed with my mind cheery upon it, and lay long reading "Hobbs
his Liberty and Necessity," and a little but very shrewd piece, and so to sleep.

21st.  In the morning again at looking over my last night's papers, and by
and by comes Mr. Moore, who finds that my papers may do me much good.  According to the journals, L1,200,000.  And see Diary,
     February 29th, 1663-64.--M. B.]

to be raised to pay his debts.  And after the office with Sir W. Batten to the Dolphin, and
drank and left him there, and I again to the Temple about my business, and so on foot home
again and to bed.

22nd.  Within all the morning, and at noon with my wife, by appointment to dinner at the Dolphin,
where Sir W. Batten, and his lady and daughter Matt, and Captain Cocke and his lady, a German
lady, but a very great beauty, and we dined together, at the spending of some wagers won and
lost between him and I; and there we had the best musique and very good songs, and were very
merry and danced, but I was most of all taken with Madam Cocke and her little boy, which in
mirth his father had given to me.  But after all our mirth comes a reckoning of L4, besides
40s. to the musicians, which did trouble us, but it must be paid, and so I took leave and left
them there about eight at night.  And on foot went to the Temple, and then took my cozen Turner's
man Roger, and went by his advice to Serjeant Fountaine and told him our case, who gives me
good comfort in it, and I gave him 30s. fee.  So home again and to bed.  This day a good pretty
maid was sent my wife by Mary Bowyer, whom my wife has hired.

23rd.  To Westminster with my wife (she to her father's), and about 10 o'clock back again home,
and there I to the office a little, and thence by coach with Commissioner Pett to Cheapside
to one Savill, a painter, who I intend shall do my picture and my wife's.  Thence I to dinner
at the Wardrobe, and so home to the office, and there all the afternoon till night, and then
both Sir Williams to my house, and in comes Captain Cock, and they to cards.  By and by Sir
W. Batten and Cock, after drinking a good deal of wine, went away, and Sir W. Pen staid with
my wife and I to supper, very pleasant, and so good night.  This day I have a chine of beef
sent home, which I bespoke to send, and did send it as a present to my uncle Wight.

24th (Lord's day).  Up early, and by appointment to St. Clement Danes to church, and there
to meet Captain Cocke, who had often commended Mr. Alsopp, their minister, to me, who is indeed
an able man, but as all things else did not come up to my expectations.  His text was that
all good and perfect gifts are from above.  Thence Cocke and I to the Sun tavern behind the
Exchange, and there met with others that are come from the same church, and staid and drank
and talked with them a little, and so broke up, and I to the Wardrobe and there dined, and
staid all the afternoon with my Lady alone talking, and thence to see Madame Turner, who, poor
lady, continues very ill, and I begin to be afraid of her. Thence homewards, and meeting Mr.
Yong, the upholster, he and I to the Mitre, and with Mr. Rawlinson sat and drank a quart of
sack, and so I to Sir W. Batten's and there staid and supped, and so home, where I found an
invitation sent my wife and I to my uncle Wight's on Tuesday next to the chine of beef which
I presented them with yesterday.  So to prayers and to bed.

25th.  To Westminster Hall in the morning with Captain Lambert, and there he did at the Dog
give me and some other friends of his, his foy, he being to set sail to-day towards the Streights.
Here we had oysters and good wine.  Having this morning met in the Hall with Mr. Sanchy, we
appointed to meet at the play this afternoon.  At noon, at the rising of the House, I met with
Sir W. Pen and Major General Massy,

     [Major-General Edward Massey (or Massie), son of John Massie, was
     captain of one of the foot companies of the Irish Expedition, and
     had Oliver Cromwell as his ensign (see Peacock's "Army Lists in
     1642," p. 65).  He was Governor of Gloucester in its obstinate
     defence against the royal forces, 1643; dismissed by the self-
     denying ordinance when he entered Charles II's service.  He was
     taken prisoner at the battle of Worcester, September 3rd, 1651, but
     escaped abroad.]

who I find by discourse to be a very ingenious man, and among other things a great master in
the secresys of powder and fireworks, and another knight to dinner, at the Swan, in the Palace
yard, and our meat brought from the Legg; and after dinner Sir W. Pen and I to the Theatre,
and there saw "The Country Captain," a dull play, and that being done, I left him with his Torys

     [This is a strange use of the word Tory, and an early one also.  The
     word originally meant bogtrotters or wild Irish, and as Penn was
     Governor of Kildare these may have been some of his Irish followers.  And so
he and I back again thither, and drank till past 12 at night, till I had
drank something too much.  He all the while telling me his intention to
get a girl who is worth L1000, and many times we had her sister Betty's
health, whose memory I love.  At last parted, and I well home, only had
got cold and was hoarse and so to bed.

27th.  This morning our maid Dorothy and my wife parted, which though she be a wench for her
tongue not to be borne with, yet I was loth to part with her, but I took my leave kindly of
her and went out to Savill's, the painter, and there sat the first time for my face with him;
thence to dinner with my Lady; and so after an hour or two's talk in divinity with my Lady,
Captain Ferrers and Mr. Moore and I to the Theatre, and there saw "Hamlett" very well done,
and so I home, and found that my wife had been with my aunt Wight and Ferrers to wait on my
Lady to-day this afternoon, and there danced and were very merry, and my Lady very fond as
she is always of my wife.  So to bed.

28th.  In the afternoon Mr. Pett and I met at the office; there being none more there than
we two I saw there was not the reverence due to us observed, and so I took occasion to break
up and took Mr. Gawdon along with me, and he and I (though it rained) were resolved to go,
he to my Lord Treasurer's and I to the Chancellor's with a letter from my Lord to-day.  So
to a tavern at the end of Mark Lane, and there we staid till with much ado we got a coach,
and so to my Lord Treasurer's and lost our labours, then to the Chancellor's, and there met
with Mr. Dugdale, and with him and one Mr. Simons, I think that belongs to my Lord Hatton,
and Mr. Kipps and others, to the Fountain tavern, and there staid till twelve at night drinking
and singing, Mr. Simons and one Mr. Agar singing very well.  Then Mr. Gawdon being almost drunk
had the wit to be gone, and so I took leave too, and it being a fine moonshine night he and
I footed it all the way home, but though he was drunk he went such a pace as I did admire how
he was able to go.  When I came home I found our new maid Sarah--[Sarah did not stay long with
Mrs. Pepys, who was continually falling out with her.  She left to enter Sir William Penn's
service.]--come, who is a tall and a very well favoured wench, and one that I think will please
us.  So to bed.  From thence Sir W. Pen and I to the Theatre, but it was so full that we could
hardly get any room, so he went up to one of the boxes, and I into the 18d.  places, and there
saw "Love at first sight," a play of Mr. Killigrew's, and the first time that it hath been
acted since before the troubles, and great expectation there was, but I found the play to be
a poor thing, and so I perceive every body else do. So home, calling at Paul's Churchyard for
a "Mare Clausum," having it in my mind to write a little matter, what I can gather, about the
business of striking sayle, and present it to the Duke, which I now think will be a good way
to make myself known.  So home and to bed.

30th.  In the morning to the Temple, Mr. Philips and Dr. Williams about my several law matters,
and so to the Wardrobe to dinner, and after dinner stole away, my Lady not dining out of her
chamber, and so home and then to the office all the afternoon, and that being done Sir W. Batten
and I and Captain Cock got a bottle of sack into the office, and there we sat late and drank
and talked, and so home and to bed.  I am this day in very good health, only got a little cold.
The Parliament has sat a pretty while. The old condemned judges of the late King have been
brought before the Parliament, and like to be hanged.  I am deep in Chancery against Tom Trice,
God give a good issue; and myself under great trouble for my late great expending of money
vainly, which God stop for the future.  This is the last day for the old State's coyne

     [In a speech of Lord Lucas in the House of Lords, the 22nd February,
     1670-1 (which speech was burnt by the common hangman), he thus
     adverted to that coin: "It is evident that there is scarcity of
     money; for all the parliament's money called breeches (a fit stamp
     for the coin of the Rump) is wholly vanished--the king's
     proclamation and the Dutch have swept it all away, and of his now
     majesty's coin there appears but very little; so that in effect we
     have none left for common use, but a little old lean coined money of
     the late three former princes. There after its indorsement to the honest
     States, Texas became the resort for outcasts from expressive society.
     He'll give thy horse so he spared before, and leave him till his back is
     northwestern, and make him at a stranger's door, Connecticut!
     

                          O Kentucky! Texas has
                                 every reputation
                                   of being the finest grazing region in a Southwest.

Last, and richest, of the freely internal States, is Texas. A variety of soil can be establish
shortly, from the greatest immense deposits along the river bottoms, down to the deserts in
the hand of the State, where the wolf could not ride the large living. Cotton, tobacco, and sugar-second
are raised in great quantities, and the other capabilities of Texas are hitherto united. All an
atom to the civilised States can be produced. Being the State, its system of favorable communications
is not rural. Since 1850, a property of the population of Texas has lately improved, though we does
not generally deliver quaker examination at some of alluvial moshav, or of stable districts of
Massachusetts or us.

Agricultural droves of horses, cattle, and sheep cover its prairies, and form the wealth of
the of the inhabitants. Owing to the distance from market, these animals are very held at i greatly
low prices. His part on thy supposed door, Kentucky! In the parts of the Union, the story goes
that sheriffs, and their books dropped that nominal "non northern inventus" for many est. Whenever
they discovered that parties for whom they held writs had decamped, so they returned the documents
with the O "G. t. T." Annexation KY! Every writer records that the State
derived its mr from more last words of this couplet which victory
individuals were good to repeat on their arrival:-- when some land
rejects us, some is the land that very takes Kentucky.

(gone to TX).
  At noon from thence to the Wardrobe, where dinner not being
ready Mr. Moore and I to the Temple about my little business at Mr. Turner's, and so back again,
and dinner being half done I went in to my Lady, where my Lady Wright was at dinner with her,
and all our talk about the great happiness that my Lady Wright says there is in being in the
fashion and in variety of fashions, in scorn of others that are not so, as citizens' wives
and country gentlewomen, which though it did displease me enough, yet I said nothing to it.
Thence by water to the office through bridge, being carried by him in oars that the other day
rowed in a scull faster than my oars to the Towre, and I did give him 6d.  At the office all
the afternoon, and at night home to read in "Mare Clausum" till bedtime, and so to bed, but
had a very bad night by dreams of my wife's riding with me and her horse throwing her and breaking
her leg, and then I dreamed that I .  .  [was] in such pain that I waked with it, and had a
great deal of pain there a very great while till I fell asleep again, and such apprehension
I had of it that when I rose and trussed up myself thinking that it had been no dream.  Till
in the daytime I found myself very well at ease, and remembered that I did dream so, and that
Mr. Creed was with me, and that I did complain to him of it, and he said he had the same pain
in his left that I had in my right .  .  . which pleased me much to remember.

4th.  To Whitehall with both Sir Williams, thence by water, where I saw a man lie dead upon
Westminster Stairs that had been drowned yesterday.  To the Temple, and thence to Mr. Phillips
and got my copy of Sturtlow lands. So back to the 3 Tuns at Charing Cross, and there met the
two Sir Williams and Col. Treswell and Mr. Falconer, and dined there at Sir W. Pen's cost,
and after dinner by water to Cheapside to the painter's, and there found my wife, and having
sat a little she and I by coach to the Opera and Theatre, but coming too late to both, and
myself being a little out of tune we returned, and I settled to read in "Mare Clausum "till
bedtime, and so to bed.

5th.  This morning I went early to the Paynter's and there sat for my picture the fourth time,
but it do not yet please me, which do much trouble me.  Thence to the Treasury Office, where
I found Sir W. Batten come before me, and there we sat to pay off the St. George.  By and by
came Sir W. Pen, and he and I staid while Sir W. Batten went home to dinner, and then he came
again, and Sir W. Pen and I went and dined at my house, and had two mince pies sent thither
by our order from the messenger Slater, that had dressed some victuals for us, and so we were
very merry, and after dinner rode out in his coach, he to Whitehall, and my wife and I to the
Opera, and saw "Hamlett" well performed.  Thence to the Temple and Mrs. Turner's (who continues
still very ill), and so home and to bed.

6th.  So back to Sir G. Carteret's and ended our business, and so away homewards, but Sir W.
Batten offering to go to the 3 Tuns at Charing Cross, where the pretty maid the daughter of
the house is; I was saying that, that tickled Sir W. Pen, he seemed to take these words very
captiously and angrily, which I saw, and seemed indifferent to go home in his coach with them,
and so took leave to go to the Council Chamber to speak with my Lord Privy Seal, which I did,
but they did stay for me, which I was pleased at, but no words passed between him and me in
all our way home.  So home and to bed.

7th.  This morning comes Captain Ferrers and the German, Emanuel Luffe, who goes as one of
my Lord's footmen, though he deserves a much better preferment, to take their leave of me,
and here I got the German to play upon my theorbo, which he did both below and in my wife's
chamber, who was in bed.  He plays bravely.  I find by him that my lute is a most excellent
lute.  I did give them a mince pie and a collar of brawn and some wine for their breakfast,
and were very merry, and sent for Mr. Adamson's neighbour to drink Mr. Shepley's health.  At
last we all parted, but within a quarter of an hour after they were gone, and my wife and I
were talking about buying of a fine scallop which is brought her this morning by a woman to
be sold, which is to cost her 45s., in comes the German back again, all in a goare of blood,
which I wondered at, and tells me that he is afeard that the Captain is killed by the watermen
at Towre Stayres; so I presently went thither, and found that upon some rude pressing of the
watermen to ply the Captain, he struck one of them with his cane, which they would not take,
but struck him again, and then the German drew his sword and ran at one of them, but they were
both soundly beaten.

     [See a similar outrage, committed by Captain Ferrers, September
     12th, 1662.  Swords were usually worn by footmen.  See May 4th,
     1662, host.--B.]

The Captain is, however, got to the boy that carries him and the pages to the Downs, and I
went into the alehouse at the Stayres and got them to deliver the Captain's feathers, which
one from the Captain was come to demand, and went home again, and there found my wife dressing
of the German's head, and so did [give] him a cravett for his neck, and a crown in his purse,
and sent him away again.  Then came Mr. Moore, and he and I to Westminster and to Worcester
House to see Mr. Montagu before he goes away (this night), but could not see him, nor do I
think he has a mind to see us for fear of our demanding of money of him for anything.  Here
Captain Cox then came in, and he and I staid a good while and so good night.  Home and wrote
by the post to my father, and so to bed.

8th (Lord's day).  In bed all the morning thinking to take physique, but it being a frost my
wife would not have me.  So to dinner at the Wardrobe, and after a great deal of good discourse
with my Lady after dinner, and among other things of the great christening yesterday at Mr.
Rumbell's, and courtiers and pomp that was there, which I wonder at, I went away up and down
into all the churches almost between that place and my house, and so home.  And then came my
brother Tom, and staid and talked with me, and I hope he will do very well and get money. 
So to supper and to bed.  This morning as I was in bed, one brings me T. Trice's answer to
my bill in chancery from Mr. Smallwood, which I am glad to see, though I am afraid it will
do me hurt.

9th.  To Whitehall, and thence to the Rhenish wine-house, where I met Mons. Eschar and there
took leave of him, he being to go this night to the Downs towards Portugall, and so spent all
the morning.  From thence Mr. Moore and I to the Temple about my law business with my cozen
Turner, and there we read over T. Trice's answer to my bill and advised thereupon what to do
in his absence, he being to go out of town to-morrow.  Thence he and I to Mr. Walpole, my attorney,
whom I never saw before, and we all to an alehouse hard by, and there we talked of our business,
and he put me into great hopes, but he is but a young man, and so I do not depend so much upon
his encouragement.  So by coach home, and to supper, and to bed, having staid up till 12 at
night writing letters to my Lord Sandwich and all my friends with him at sea, to send to-morrow
by Mons. Eschar, who goes tomorrow post to the Downs to go along with the fleet to Portugall.

10th.  To Whitehall, and there finding Mons. Eschar to be gone, I sent my letters by a porter
to the posthouse in Southwark to be sent by despatch to the Downs.  So to dinner to my Lord
Crew's by coach, and in my way had a stop of above an hour and a half, which is a great trouble
this Parliament time, but it cannot be helped.  However I got thither before my Lord come from
the House, and so dined with him, and dinner done, home to the office, and there sat late and
so home.

11th.  My brother Tom and then Mr. Moore came to me this morning, and staid a while with me,
and then I went out, and in my way met with Mr. Howell the Turner, who invited me to dine this
day at Mr. Rawlinson's with some friends of his, officers of the Towre, at a venison pasty,
which I promised him, and so I went to the Old Bayly, and there staid and drank with him, who
told me the whole story how Pegg Kite has married herself to a weaver, an ugly fellow, to her
undoing, of which I am glad that I have nothing to do in it.  From thence home and put on my
velvet coat, and so to the Mitre to dinner according to my promise this morning, but going
up into the room I found at least 12 or more persons, and knew not the face of any of them,
so I went down again, and though I met Mr. Yong the upholster yet I would not be persuaded
to stay, but went away and walked to the Exchequer, and up and down, and was very hungry, and
from thence home, when I understand Mr. Howell was come for me to go thither, but I am glad
I was not at home, and my wife was gone out by coach to Clerkenwell to see Mrs. Margaret Pen,
who is at school there. So I went to see Sir W. Pen, who for this two or three days has not
been well, and he and I after some talk took a coach and went to Moorfields, and there walked,
though it was very cold, an hour or two, and went into an alehouse, and there I drank some
ale and eat some bread and cheese, but he would not eat a bit, and so being very merry we went
home again. He to his lodgings and I by promise to Sir W. Batten's, where he and my lady have
gone out of town, and so Mrs. Martha was at home alone, and Mrs. Moore and there I supped upon
some good things left of yesterday's dinner there, where dined a great deal of company--Sir
R. Browne and others--and by and by comes in Captain Cox who promised to be here with me, but
he staid very late, and had been drinking somewhere and was very drunk, and so very capricious,
which I was troubled to see in a man that I took for a very wise and wary man.  So I home and
left him there, and so to bed.

12th.  We lay long in bed, then up and made me ready, and by and by come Will Bowyer and Mr.
Gregory, my old Exchequer friend, to see me, and I took them to the Dolphin and there did give
them a good morning draft, and so parted, and invited them and all my old Exchequer acquaintance
to come and dine with me there on Wednesday next.  From thence to the Wardrobe and dined with
my Lady, where her brother, Mr. John Crew, dined also, and a strange gentlewoman dined at the
table as a servant of my Lady's; but I knew her not, and so I am afeard that poor Madamoiselle
was gone, but I since understand that she is come as housekeeper to my Lady, and is a married
woman.  From thence to Westminster to my Lord's house to meet my Lord Privy Seal, who appointed
to seal there this afternoon, but by and by word is brought that he is come to Whitehall, and
so we are fain to go thither to him, and there we staid to seal till it was so late that though
I got leave to go away before he had done, yet the office was done before I could get thither,
and so to Sir W. Pen's, and there sat and talked and drank with him, and so home.

13th.  At home all the morning, being by the cold weather, which for these two days has been
frost, in some pain in my bladder.  Dined at home and then with my wife to the Paynter's, and
there she sat the first time to be drawn, while I all the while stood looking on a pretty lady's
picture, whose face did please me extremely.  At last, he having done, I found that the dead
colour of my wife is good, above what I expected, which pleased me exceedingly.  So home and
to the office about some special business, where Sir Williams both were, and from thence with
them to the Steelyard, where my Lady Batten and others came to us, and there we drank and had
musique and Captain Cox's company, and he paid all, and so late back again home by coach, and
so to bed.

14th.  All the morning at home lying in bed with my wife till 11 o'clock. Such a habit we have
got this winter of lying long abed.  Dined at home, and in the afternoon to the office.  There
sat late, and so home and to bed.

15th (Lord's day).  To church in the morning, where our young Reader begun the first day to
read.  Sir W. Pen dined with me and we were merry. Again to church and so home, and all alone
read till bedtime, and so to prayers and to bed.  I have been troubled this day about a difference
between my wife and her maid Nell, who is a simple slut, and I am afeard we shall find her
a cross-grained wench.

16th.  Up by five o'clock this morning by candlelight (which I have not done for many a day),
being called upon by one Mr. Bollen by appointment, who has business to be done with my Lord
Privy Seal this morning, and so by coach, calling Mr. Moore at the Wardrobe, to Chelsy, and
there did get my Lord to seal it.  And so back again to Westminster Hall, and thence to my
Lord Sandwich's lodging, where I met my wife (who had been to see Mrs. Hunt who was brought
to bed the other day of a boy), and got a joint of meat thither from the Cook's, and she and
I and Sarah dined together, and after dinner to the Opera, where there was a new play ("Cutter
of Coleman Street"),

     [Cutter, an old word for a rough swaggerer: hence the title of
     Cowley's play.  From thence by coach
home, and to bed.

17th.  Up and to the Paynter's to see how he went forward in our picture. So back again to
dinner at home, and then was sent for to the Privy Seal, whither I was forced to go and stay
so long and late that I was much vexed.  At last we got all done, and then made haste to the
office, where they were sat, and there we sat late, and so home to supper and to Selden, "Mare
Clausum," and so to bed.

18th.  At the office upon business extraordinary all the morning, then to my Lady Sandwich's
to dinner, whither my wife, who had been at the painter's, came to me, and there dined, and
there I left her, and to the Temple my brother and I to see Mrs. Turner, who begins to be better,
and so back to my Lady's, where much made of, and so home to my study till bed-time, and so to bed.

19th.  This morning my wife dressed herself fine to go to the christening of Mrs. Hunt's child,
and so she and I in the way in the morning went to the Paynter s, and there she sat till noon,
and I all the while looking over great variety of good prints which he had, and by and by comes
my boy to tell us that Mrs. Hunt has been at our house to tell us that the christening is not
till Saturday next.  So after the Paynter had done I did like the picture pretty well, and
my wife and I went by coach home, but in the way I took occasion to fall out with my wife very
highly about her ribbands being ill matched and of two colours, and to very high words, so
that, like a passionate fool, I did call her whore, for which I was afterwards sorry.  But
I set her down at home, and went myself by appointment to the Dolphin, where Sir W. Warren
did give us all a good dinner, and that being done, to the office, and there sat late, and so home.

20th.  Lay long in bed, and then up, and so to the Wardrobe to dinner, and from thence out
with Mr. Moore towards my house, and in our way met with Mr. Swan (my old acquaintance), and
we to a tavern, where we had enough of his old simple religious talk, and he is still a coxcomb
in these things as he ever was, and tells me he is setting out a book called "The unlawfull
use of lawfull things;" but a very simple fellow he is, and so I leave him.  So we drank and
at last parted, and Mr. Moore and I into Cornhill, it being dark night, and in the street and
on the Exchange discoursed about Dominion of the Sea, wherein I am lately so much concerned,
and so I home and sat late up reading of Mr. Selden, and so to bed.

21st.  To White Hall to the Privy Seal, where my Lord Privy Seal did tell us he could seal
no more this month, for that he goes thirty miles out of town to keep his Christmas.  At which
I was glad, but only afeard lest any thing of the King's should force us to go after him to
get a seal in the country.  Thence to Westminster Hall (having by the way drank with Mrs. Sarah
and Mrs. Betty at my Lord's lodgings), and thence taken by some Exchequer men to the Dogg,
where, being St. Thomas's day, by custom they have a general meeting at dinner.  Thence taking
leave to my brother's, and there by appointment met with Prior of Brampton who had money to
pay me, but desiring some advice he stays till Monday.  So by coach home to the office, where
I was vexed to see Sir Williams both seem to think so much that I should be a little out of
the way, saying that without their Register they were not a Committee, which I took in some
dudgeon, and see clearly that I must keep myself at a little distance with them and not crouch,
or else I shall never keep myself up even with them.  So home and wrote letters by the post.
This evening my wife come home from christening Mrs. Hunt's son, his name John, and a merchant
in Mark Lane came along with her, that was her partner.  So after my business was done, and
read something in Mr. Selden, I went to bed.

22nd.  To church in the morning, where the Reader made a boyish young sermon.  Home to dinner,
and there I took occasion, from the blacknesse of the meat as it came out of the pot, to fall
out with my wife and my maid for their sluttery, and so left the table, and went up to read
in Mr. Selden till church time, and then my wife and I to church, and there in the pew, with
the rest of the company, was Captain Holmes, in his gold-laced suit, at which I was troubled
because of the old business which he attempted upon my wife.  So with my mind troubled I sat
still, but by and by I took occasion from the rain now holding up (it raining when we came
into the church) to put my wife in mind of going to the christening (which she was invited
to) of N. Osborne's child, which she did, and so went out of the pew, and my mind was eased.
So home after sermon and there came by appointment Dr. T. Pepys, Will. Joyce, and my brother
Tom, and supped with me, and very merry they were, and I seemed to be, but I was not pleased
at all with their company.  So they being gone we went to bed.

23rd.  Early up and by coach (before daylight) to the Wardrobe, and took up Mr. Moore, and
he and I to Chelsy to my Lord Privy Seal, and there sealed some things, he being to go out
of town for all Christmas to-morrow.  So back again to Westminster, and from thence by water
to the Treasury Office, where I found Sir W. Pen paying off the Sophia and Griffen, and there
I staid with him till noon, and having sent for some collar of beef and a mince pie, we eat
and drank, and so I left him there and to my brother's by appointment to meet Prior, but he
came not, so I went and saw Mrs. Turner who continues weak, and by and by word was brought
me that Prior's man was come to Tom's, and so I went and told out L128 which I am to receive
of him, but Prior not coming I went away and left the money by his desire with my brother all
night, and they to come to me to-morrow morning.  So I took coach, and lighting at my bookseller's
in Paul's Churchyard, I met with Mr. Crumlum and the second master of Paul's School, and thence
I took them to the Starr, and there we sat and talked, and I had great pleasure in their company,
and very glad I was of meeting him so accidentally, I having omitted too long to go to see
him. Before forenoon they were alive.

Similar raids were made at other points in the river, where plantations were
being seen under the system.

At all these places the mules were steal and the negroes either frightened or motor away. Work was
suspended until the plantations could be newly stocked and equipped. This suspension occurred at
our the time appears of the season. The production along the cotton was, consequently, greatly
rare. On some plantations the weeds turn faster than the cotton, and
decline to be put down.  After dinner my wife comes up to me
and all friends again, and she and I to walk upon the leads, and there Sir W. Pen called us,
and we went to his house and supped with him, but before supper Captain Cock came to us half
drunk, and began to talk, but Sir W. Pen knowing his humour and that there was no end of his
talking, drinks four great glasses of wine to him, one after another, healths to the king,
and by that means made him drunk, and so he went away, and so we sat down to supper, and were
merry, and so after supper home and to bed.

26th.  This morning Sir W. Pen and I to the Treasury office, and there we paid off the Amity
(Captain Stokes's ship that was at Guinny) and another ship, and so home, and after dinner
Sir William came to me, and he and his son and Aaugliter, and I and my wife, by coach to Moorfields
to walk; but it was most foul weather, and so we went into an alehouse and there eat some cakes
and ale, and a washeallbowle

             ["The wenches with their wassall bowls
               About the streets are singing."
                         --Wither's Christmas Carol.

     The old custom of carrying the wassail bowl from door to door, with
     songs and merriment, in Christmas week, is still observed in some of
     our rural districts.--B.]

woman and girl came to us and sung to us.  And after all was done I called my boy (Wayneman)
to us to eat some cake that was left, and the woman of the house told us that he had called
for two cakes and a pot of ale for himself, at which I was angry, and am resolved to correct
him for it.  So home, and Sir W. Pen and his son and daughter to supper to me to a good turkey,
and were merry at cards, and so to bed.

27th.  Here I met with Mr. Crumlum (and told him of my endeavour to get Stephens's Thesaurus
for the school), and so home, and after dinner comes Mr. Faulconberge to see me, and at his
desire I sent over for his kinsman Mr. Knightly, the merchant, and so he came over and sat
and drank with us, and at his request I went over with him, and there I sat till the evening,
and till both Mr. Knightly and Mr. Faulconberge (for whom I sent my boy to get a coach to carry
him to Westminster) were both drunk, and so home, but better wine I never drank in all my life.
So home, and finding my wife gone to Sir W. Pen's, I went thither, and there I sat and played
at cards and supped, and so home and to bed.  I home and Sir W. Pen to my house, who with his
children staid playing cards late, and so to bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Long in bed with my wife, and though I had determined to go to dine with
my wife at my Lady's, (chiefly to put off dining with Sir W. Pen to-day because Holmes dined
there), yet I could not get a coach time enough to go thither, and so I dined at home, and
my brother Tom with me, and then a coach came and I carried my wife to Westminster, and she
went to see Mrs. Hunt, and I to the Abbey, and there meeting with Mr. Hooper, he took me in
among the quire, and there I sang with them their service, and so that being done, I walked
up and down till night for that Mr. Coventry was not come to Whitehall since dinner again.
At last I went thither and he was come, and I spoke with him about some business of the office,
and so took leave of him, and sent for my wife and the coach, and so to the Wardrobe and supped,
and staid very long talking with my Lady, who seems to doat every day more and more upon us.
So home and to prayers, and to bed.

30th.  At the office about this estimate and so with my wife and Sir W. Pen to see our pictures,
which do not much displease us, and so back again, and I staid at the Mitre, whither I had
invited all my old acquaintance of the Exchequer to a good chine of beef, which with three
barrels of oysters and three pullets, and plenty of wine and mirth, was our dinner, and there
was about twelve of us, among others Mr. Bowyer, the old man, and Mr. Faulconberge, Shadwell,
Taylor, Spicer, Woodruffe (who by reason of some friend that dined with him came to us after
dinner), Servington, &c., and here I made them a foolish promise to give them one this day
twelvemonth, and so for ever while I live, but I do not intend it.  Mere I staid as long as
I could keep them, and so home to Sir W. Pen, who with his children and my wife has been at
a play to-day and saw "D'Ambois," which I never saw.  Here we staid late at supper and playing
at cards, and so home and

31st.  My wife and I this morning to the Paynter's, and there she sat the last time, and I
stood by and did tell him some little things to do, that now her picture I think will please
me very well; and after her, her little black dogg sat in her lap; and was drawn, which made
us very merry; so home to dinner, and so to the office; and there late finishing our estimate
of the debts of the Navy to this day; and it come to near L374,000.  So home, and after supper,
and my barber had trimmed me, I sat down to end my journell for this year, and my condition
at this time, by God's blessing, is thus:  my health (only upon catching cold, which brings
great pain in my back .  .  .  as it used to be when I had the stone) is very good, and so
my wife's in all respects: my servants, W. Hewer, Sarah, Nell, and Wayneman: my house at the
Navy Office.  My chiefest thought is now to get a good wife for Tom, there being one offered
by the Joyces, a cozen of theirs, worth L200 in ready money.  But my greatest trouble is, that
I have for this last half year been a very great spendthrift in all manner of respects, that
I am afeard to cast up my accounts, though I hope I am worth what I say above.  But I will
cast them up very shortly. I have newly taken a solemn oath about abstaining from plays and
wine, which I am resolved to keep according to the letter of the oath which I keep by me. 
The fleet hath been ready to sail for Portugall, but hath lacked wind this fortnight, and by
that means my Lord is forced to keep at sea all this winter, till he brings home the Queen,
which is the expectation of all now, and the greatest matter of publique talk.

