"For a while I thus soared above frailty.  I imagined I had set myself forever beyond the reach
of selfishness.  But my imaginations were false. This rapture quickly subsided.  I looked again
at my wife. And still,
there is little to observe.

I am an enthusiastic admirer of the power of the spoken or written word. However, I am not
able to recognize the men who have contributed to the progress and moral improvement of our progeny
in society and as the individual, not to have written novels, nor scarcely have they written anything.
I do not know that Sakiamuni has written anything, nor Socrates, nor Jesus Christ, if it is
fair to cite them as mere men. As such, with much talk and much to write it follows that little
or nothing is done outside the delight of the reader or of that heard
when it is said it is a good job.

And to the contrary, it usually contributes more to our linage, than the written letter that is profusely
understood or destroyed or erased.

For example, Valga, who relates that Confucius was great to millions and millions in Chine,
extracted some and formed a book on the wisdom of the celestial empire.
The final lesson of all.

We, therefore,
are not wise, we write profusely what we want, but we should not imagine that we teach, nor that we improve
humanity, or that we open new and hidded paths. Suffice it to say, we aspire to entertain or to
agreeably move, not to all of humanity, solely to a few thousand individuals, who form our public
and have good or bad taste in the stories we write. God willing, this good or bad taste is not
lost and our audience does not dissapate, but that it persists or is renewed, and that for
better or for worse the novels and stories we write hold up half as well as Amadis of Gaul that
was read by Diana de Jorge de Montemayor, which almost no one reads now,
because they lack the patience. And, also that there is no lack for
the lectures of El Liberal, to note that throughout this literary
discussion, I put the final point on my part of this and promise not
to say anything, even if other writers contradict me and elucidate
on the matter with better skill and grace.

 Unlike that, however, it has an important and
salutary moral.  It is a warning to all who tamper with the mind and rashly experiment upon
its religious element.  As such, its perusal by the sectarian zealots of all classes would
perhaps be quite as profitable as much of their present studies.

                         THE POETRY OF THE NORTH.

THE Democratic Review not long since contained a singularly wild and spirited poem, entitled
the Norseman's Ride, in which the writer appears to have very happily blended the boldness
and sublimity of the heathen saga with the grace and artistic skill of the literature of civilization. It proposes the creation of breathtaking beauty that delights, grabs and
lifts the soul, which is achieved with the Georgics, where the read is able to understand, but do not get
with the card, which is available to the silliest, there is no one who does not understand, and
reporting useful knowledge. But what to achieve this end is not always better to write cards that
poems or novels? All that the wisest teach novel of the day can be estimated perhaps in a couple
of the more modest flat primer. And so, leaving aside the wisdom of the novel circle, will peel
and lirondo the artwork, which then passes the fashion of the day and will be another public taste is
almost certain that mankind bored and fall into forgotten or despised.

How am I to deny me that mankind has come a long way? Their culture is as an asset that increases every
day, either by new profits as revenues do not spend and accumulate. What I deny is that art,
like art, progressing to two of the culture.

I do not like to defend paradoxes. If you liked it, I would advocate the opposite, with no
little complacency, because the most divine and admirable that exist in art in general, and particularly
in a word, is what inspired the spontaneous, the somewhat unconscious, which is to say that summit
of individual consciousness in the collective mind on the impersonal reason, the superior ingenuity
of peoples and races and even the divinity, which is revealed to us or think that is revealed.
And although I do not deny the possibility and the continuity of present and future revelations,
I find more suited to the primitive ages of the present age such cases,
which may well be described as supernatural and divine.

It does not prevent the above that the technical side, the manufacturing industry is at the day literary
more advanced and more contained than in past centuries. Hence, for each of the novels that were
written one or two hundred years ago, today are written hundreds or even thousands. To which contributes
greatly that today more people have read them and buy them. But the same states as outdated
and ephemeral nature of current production. How do I remove merit that I managed to create
an audience, gain their attention and sympathy and entertain and amuse you for ten, twenty or thirty
years, with the stories you write? Grande and this merit is enviable, but does not arrive, or
with much, the author who produces something, not out of fashion, but more than fashion and
has to continue when the fashion is over, because all fashion has been authorized and justified,
understanding rather than disposal. So classicists century Renaissance and Louis XIV put Homer at the
head of the classics. Then came the romance and romantic Homer said.
And I have no doubt that the most ardent naturalists of the day leave
to quote the Iliad as a paragon and model of the more remarkable naturalism.

The rub, then, and the masterful touch of any work of literature is not pleasant to follow fashion,
but in giving fashion or rather become so by top fashion and so on
top of progress and moving, that all new trend is supported and authorized
in this work presented as a paragon and trying to convince the public
of the excellence of the new, not because of their disagreement, but
because of its resemblance to that model immortal.

Let there be works of this kind on the day and what they are, is what I would not venture to decide. The
sentence is difficult. Posterity will no doubt the issue. Suffice
us to recognize the relative merit of those who are interested, amused
or excited about their writing, even for a short number of years,
a number of people who call your audience. And to achieve this is to much.
Which he does deserve admiration and applause and even moved to envy,
who do not have the selfless and generous soul, but from this runaway
victory to glorious immortality and to achieve victory over those
authors, whom he revered the world over long centuries and who have
praised many generations of critics, there is great distance, over
which no one can give a jump without falling into absurdity.

