"A body of planetary size, if unrotating, becomes a sphere, except for solar tidal deformation;
if rotating, it takes on a spheroidal form exactly expressive, so far as observation goes,
of the so-called centrifugal force at work. Mars presents such a figure, being flattened out
to correspond to its axial rotation. Its surface therefore is in fluid equilibrium, or, in
other words, a particle of liquid at any point of its surface at the present time would stay
where it was devoid of inclination to move elsewhere. Now the water which quickens the verdure
of the canals moves from the pole down to the equator as the season advances. This it does
then irrespective of gravity. No natural force propels it, and the inference is forthright
and inevitable that it is artificially helped to its end. There seems to be no escape from
this deduction. Water only flows downhill, and there is no such thing as downhill on a surface
already in fluid equilibrium. A few canals might presumably be so situated that their flow
could, by inequality of terrane, lie equatorward, but not all....Now it is not in particular
but by general consent that the canal-system of Mars develops from pole to equator. From the
respective times at which the minima take place, it appears that the canal quickening occupies
fifty-two days, as evidenced by the successive vegetal darkenings, to descend from latitude
72° north to latitude 0°, a journey of 2650 miles. This gives for the water a speed of fifty-one
miles a day, or 2.1 miles an hour. The rate of progression is remarkably uniform, and this
abets the deduction as to assisted transference. But the fact is more unnatural yet. The growth
pays no regard to the equator, but proceeds across it as if it did not exist into the planet's
other hemisphere. Here is something still more telling than travel to this point. For even
if we suppose, for the sake of argument, that natural forces took the water down to the equator,
their action must there be certainly reversed, and the equator prove a dead-line, to pass which
were impossible" (pp. 374-5).

I think my readers will agree with me that this whole argument is one of the most curious ever
put forth seriously by an eminent man of science. Because the polar compression of Mars is
about what calculation shows it ought to be in accordance with its rate of rotation, its surface
is in a state of 'fluid equilibrium,' and must therefore be absolutely level throughout. But
the polar compression of the earth equally agrees with calculation; therefore its surface is
also in 'fluid equilibrium'; therefore it also ought to be as perfectly level on land as it
is on the ocean surface! But as we know this is very far from being the case, why must it be
so in Mars? Are we to suppose Mars to have been formed in some totally different way from other
planets, and that there neither is nor ever has been any reaction between its interior and
exterior forces? Again, the assumption of perfect flatness is directly opposed to all observation
and all analogy with what we see on the earth and moon. It gives no account whatever of the
numerous and large dark patches, once termed seas, but now found to be not so, and to be full
of detailed markings and varied depths of shadow. To suppose that these are all the same dead-level
as the light-coloured portions are assumed to be, implies that the darkness is one of material
and colour only, not of diversified contour, which again is contrary to experience, since difference
of material with us always leads to differences in rate of degradation, and hence of diversified
contour, as these dark spaces actually show themselves under favourable conditions to independent
observers.

Lowell on the System of Canals as a whole.

We will now see what Mr. Lowell claims to be the plain teaching of the 'canals' as a whole:

"But last and all-embracing in its import is the system which the canals form. Instead of running
at hap-hazard, the canals are interconnected in a most remarkable manner. They seek centres
instead of avoiding them. The centres are linked thus perfectly one with another, an arrangement
which could not result from centres, whether of explosion or otherwise, which were themselves
discrete. Furthermore, the system covers the whole surface of the planet, dark areas and light
ones alike, a world-wide distribution which exceeds the bounds of natural possibility. Any
force which could act longitudinally on such a scale must be limited latitudinally in its action,
as witness the belts of Jupiter and the spots upon the sun. Rotational, climatic, or other
physical cause could not fail of zonal expression. Yet these lines are grandly indifferent
to such competing influences. Finally, the system, after meshing the surface in its entirety,
runs straight into the polar caps.

"It is, then, a system whose end and aim is the tapping of the snow-cap for the water there
semi-annually let loose; then to distribute it over the planet's face" (p. 373).

Here, again, we have curiously weak arguments adduced to support the view that these numerous
straight lines imply works of art rather than of nature, especially in the comparison made
with the belts of Jupiter and the spots on the sun, both purely atmospheric phenomena, whereas
the lines on Mars are on the solid surface of the planet. Why should there be any resemblance
between them? Every fact stated in the above quotation, always keeping in mind the physical
conditions of the planet--its very tenuous atmosphere and rainless desert-surface--seem wholly
in favour of a purely natural as opposed to an artificial origin; and at the close of this
discussion I shall suggest one which seems to me to be at least possible, and to explain the
whole series of the phenomena set forth and largely discovered by Mr. Lowell, in a simpler
and more probable manner than does his tremendous assumption of their being works of art. Readers
who may not possess Mr. Lowell's volume will find three of his most recent maps of the 'canals'
reproduced in Nature of October 11th, 1906.

CHAPTER IV.

IS ANIMAL LIFE POSSIBLE ON MARS?

Having now shown, that, even admitting the accuracy of all Mr. Lowell's observations, and provisionally
accepting all his chief conclusions as to the climate, the nature of the snow-caps, the vegetation,
and the animal life of Mars, yet his interpretation of the lines on its surface as being veritably
'canals,' constructed by intelligent beings for the special purpose of carrying water to the
more arid regions, is wholly erroneous and rationally inconceivable. I now proceed to discuss
his more fundamental position as to the actual habitability of Mars by a highly organised and
intellectual race of material organic beings.

Water and Air essential to Life.

Here, fortunately, the issue is rendered very simple, because Mr. Lowell fully recognises the
identity of the constitution of matter and of physical laws throughout the solar-system, and
that for any high form of organic life certain conditions which are absolutely essential on
our earth must also exist in Mars. He admits, for example, that water is essential, that an
atmosphere containing oxygen, nitrogen, aqueous vapour, and carbonic acid gas is essential,
and that an abundant vegetation is essential; and these of course involve a surface-temperature
through a considerable portion of the year that renders the existence of these--especially
of water--possible and available for the purposes of a high and abundant animal life.

Blue Colour the only Evidence of Water.

In attempting to show that these essentials actually exist on Mars he is not very successful.
He adduces evidence of an atmosphere, but of an exceedingly scanty one, since the greatest
amount he can give to it is-- "not more than about four inches of barometric pressure as we
reckon it";[7] and he assumes, as he has a fair right to do till disproved, that it consists
of oxygen and nitrogen, with carbon-dioxide and water-vapour, in approximately the same proportions
as with us. With regard to the last item--the water-vapour--there are however many serious
difficulties. The water-vapour of our atmosphere is derived from the enormous area of our seas,
oceans, lakes, and rivers, as well as from the evaporation from heated lands and tropical forests
of much of the moisture produced by frequent and abundant rains. All these sources of supply
are admittedly absent from Mars, which has no permanent bodies of water, no rain, and tropical
regions which are almost entirely desert. Many writers have therefore doubted the existence
of water in any form upon this planet, supposing that the snow-caps are not formed of frozen
water but of carbon-dioxide, or some other heavy gas, in a frozen state; and Mr. Lowell evidently
feels this to be a difficulty, since the only fact he is able to adduce in favour of the melting
snows of the polar caps producing water is, that at the time they are melting a marginal blue
band appears which accompanies them in their retreat, and this blue colour is said to prove
conclusively that the liquid is not carbonic acid but water. This point he dwells upon repeatedly,
stating, of these blue borders: "This excludes the possibility of their being formed by carbon-dioxide,
and shows that of all the substances we know the material composing them must be water."

[Footnote 7: In a paper written since the book appeared the density of air at the surface of
Mars is said to be 1/12 of the earth's.]

This is the only proof of the existence of water he adduces, and it is certainly a most extraordinary
and futile one. For it is perfectly well known that although water, in large masses and by
transmitted light, is of a blue colour, yet shallow water by reflected light is not so; and
in the case of the liquid produced by the snow-caps of Mars, which the whole conditions of
the planet show must be shallow, and also be more or less turbid, it cannot possibly be the
cause of the 'deep blue' tint said to result from the melting of the snow.

But there is a very weighty argument depending on the molecular theory of gases against the
polar caps of Mars being composed of frozen water at all. The mass and elastic force of the
several gases is due to the greater or less rapidity of the vibratory motion of their molecules
under identical conditions. The speed of these molecular motions has been ascertained for all
the chief gases, and it is found to be so great as in certain cases to enable them to overcome
the force of gravity and escape from a planet's surface into space. Dr. G. Johnstone Stoney
has specially investigated this subject, and he finds that the force of gravity on the earth
is sufficient to retain all the gases composing its atmosphere, but not sufficient to retain
hydrogen; and as a consequence, although this gas is produced in small quantities by volcanoes
and by decomposing vegetation, yet no trace of it is found in our atmosphere. The moon however,
having only one-eightieth the mass of the earth, cannot retain any gas, hence its airless and
waterless condition.

Water Vapour cannot exist on Mars.

Now, Dr. Stoney finds that in order to retain water vapour permanently a planet must have a
mass at least a quarter that of the earth. But the mass of Mars is only one-ninth that of the
earth; therefore, unless there are some special conditions that prevent its loss, this gas
cannot be present in the atmosphere. Mr. Lowell does not refer to this argument against his
view, neither does he claim the evidence of spectroscopy in his favour. This was alleged more
than thirty years ago to show the existence of water-vapour in the atmosphere of Mars, but
of late years it has been doubted, and Mr. Lowell's complete silence on the subject, while
laying stress on such a very weak and inconclusive argument as that from the tinge of colour
that is observed a little distance from the edge of the diminishing snow-caps, shows that he
himself does not think the fact to be thus proved. If he did he would hardly adduce such an
argument for its presence as the following: "The melting of the caps on the one hand and their
re-forming on the other affirm the presence of water-vapour in the Martian atmosphere, of whatever
else that air consists" (p. 162). Yet absolutely the only proof he gives that the caps are
frozen water is the almost frivolous colour-argument above referred to!

No Spectroscopic Evidence of Water Vapour.

As Sir William Huggins is the chief authority quoted for this fact, and is referred to as being
almost conclusive in the third edition of Miss Clerke's History of Astronomy in 1893, I have
ascertained that his opinion at the present time is that "there is no conclusive proof of the
presence of aqueous vapour in the atmosphere of Mars, and that observations at the Lick Observatory
(in 1895), where the conditions and instruments are of the highest order, were negative." He
also informs me that Marchand at the Pic du Midi Observatory was unable to obtain lines of
aqueous vapour in the spectrum of Mars; and that in 1905, Slipher, at Mr. Lowell's observatory,
was unable to detect any indications of aqueous vapour in the spectrum of Mars.

It thus appears that spectroscopic observations are quite accordant with the calculations founded
on the molecular theory of gases as to the absence of aqueous vapour, and therefore presumably
of liquid water, from Mars. It is true that the spectroscopic argument is purely negative,
and this may be due to the extreme delicacy of the observations required; but that dependent
on the inability of the force of gravity to retain it is positive scientific evidence against
its presence, and, till shown to be erroneous, must be held to be conclusive.

This absence of water is of itself conclusive against the existence of animal life, unless
we enter the regions of pure conjecture as to the possibility of some other liquid being able
to take its place, and that liquid being as omnipresent there as water is here. Mr. Lowell
however never takes this ground, but bases his whole theory on the fundamental identity of
the substance of the bodies of living organisms wherever they may exist in the solar system.
In the next two chapters I shall discuss an equally essential condition, that of temperature,
which affords a still more conclusive and even crushing argument against the suitability of
Mars for the existence of organic life.

CHAPTER V.

THE TEMPERATURE OF MARS--MR. LOWELL'S ESTIMATE.

We have now to consider a still more important and fundamental question, and one which Mr.
Lowell does not grapple with in this volume, the actual temperatures on Mars due to its distance
from the sun and the atmospheric conditions on which he himself lays so much stress. If I am
not greatly mistaken we shall arrive at conclusions on this subject which are absolutely fatal
to the conception of any high form of organic life being possible on this planet.

The Problem of Terrestrial Temperatures.

