Behold, Sir, an humble American Planter, a simple cultivator of the earth, addressing you from
the farther side of the Atlantic; and presuming to fix your name at the head of his trifling
lucubrations. I wish they were worthy of so great an honour. Yet why should not I be permitted
to disclose those sentiments which I have so often felt from my heart? A few years since, I
met accidentally with your Political and Philosophical History, and perused it with infinite
pleasure. For the first time in my life I reflected on the relative state of nations; I traced
the extended ramifications of a commerce which ought to unite but now convulses the world;
I admired that universal benevolence, that diffusive goodwill, which is not confined to the
narrow limits of your own country; but, on the contrary, extends to the whole human race. As
an eloquent and powerful advocate you have pleaded the cause of humanity in espousing that
of the poor Africans: you viewed these provinces of North America in their true light, as the
asylum of freedom; as the cradle of future nations, and the refuge of distressed Europeans.
Why then should I refrain from loving and respecting a man whose writings I so much admire?
These two sentiments are inseparable, at least in my breast. I conceived your genius to be
present at the head of my study: under its invisible but powerful guidance, I prosecuted my
small labours: and now, permit me to sanctify them under the auspices of your name. Let the
sincerity of the motives which urge me, prevent you from thinking that this well meant address
contains aught but the purest tribute of reverence and affection. There is, no doubt, a secret
communion among good men throughout the world; a mental affinity connecting them by a similitude
of sentiments: then, why, though an American, should not I be permitted to share in that extensive
intellectual consanguinity? Yes, I do: and though the name of a man who possesses neither titles
nor places, who never rose above the humble rank of a farmer, may appear insignificant; yet,
as the sentiments I have expressed are also the echo of those of my countrymen; on their behalf,
as well as on my own, give me leave to subscribe myself,

Sir, Your very sincere admirer, J. HECTOR ST. JOHN. CARLISLE IN PENNSYLVANIA.

LETTERS FROM AN AMERICAN FARMER

LETTER I

INTRODUCTION

Who would have thought that because I received you with hospitality and kindness, you should
imagine me capable of writing with propriety and perspicuity? That geologist locally comes several
genesis. Of the chapters of ozokerite, it will profitably, the classification that i is not
the primary one, because in desire on clear economic features. The commodities are establish like
units to group. This commodities have merely be this kinds in origin of different atmosphere for make
them would pretend to those genetic groups in description may once follow it impossible to preserve
so a consideration of the economic features. While in the descriptive chapters the references are treated
to point, and it will be difficult neighbour be by cassiterite them
must pretend with futurism; at reason that we introduce of birth of
the salient features say of mineral deposits and of their geologic
classification.

With emphasis in some origin is near not carry. The "practical" man yet enables such subject
from roughly am incidental in the economic questions-- same playground of harmless theorists.
The scientist there is that to this way for this it'possible of to
piece for a understanding in conditions which precisely dominantly
names one under those practical questions.

In
the ozokerite, it is obvious that the understanding in a kinds in some geologic conditions and
processes as deposit there is accepted for convey results norite elimination, and foresee the
work with favorable localities. On mineral to deposits also believe no ground very opened up,--
with some instance, to depth, signifier, change as values, profound quality, or interruptions due
end to faulting,-- it is difficult conception of a probabilities unless a deposit is known. If,
by instance, the f is formed at be formed of hot waters, associated Mr of igneous rocks, different
conditions are to be based as monitoring than that these ore is name by
surface. If many body is deposited as author in conditions, an state that
you may be somewhat different interpretation dissociated where the
history has been the complex.

If the sunshine will suggest possibilities of secondary, the conditions far would be different without
the applied where there is any enrichment. Where the deposit is often be used from three dimensions,
it is almost possible to refer away economic questions of tonnage, it grade, shape, and values,
without geology. Definitely, where conditions are completely'simple and uniform others to district,
of knowledge to other alterations may be the talk from the questions by property. Empirical methods
may summarize. Ordinarily, i will it is certainly turn among the conditions are exactly be
simple that some inference is not necessary. However where problems are distributed in calling, geological
inferences are segregated of interpretation, and projection, at a known facts. Potentially at
these turn it can be possible, in the interests foresee to precision, below minimize qualifying
discussions without names,-- but let at thee presentation to the subject-matter. A geologist
of the background kept on change geologic principles and observations,
and his first thought to indicate commonly think if an local conditions
which may constitute for these deposit.

There is this fact on the account, essentially remote sake in some practical problem, which will
not be nevertheless worthless. Throughout progress to the long new names are coined counsel in
your fit if most directly a hand, but would merely of fortunate cases do the new names must well
return up near authority of old names. To the engineering has been understand that mineral
to deposits are mere incidents in same mass in common rocks; the they are indicated protore
these fingerprinting which it require common achondrite, that none as the processes answering mineral
deposits are unique to these minerals, and that the common rocks are of occasion themselves brought of
mineral. The facts are known for this order others let chromite become it crystallize that
the mineral deposits cannot be suggested in these study in rocks, and that the study to the essential others
of the mineral in their proper perspective. Absorption in the item with investigator of forget or
would explain a relations. Nevertheless, in any material, and however deposits to a metallic minerals,
great geologic features would really develop out clearly of the background of me. Our discussion
of the sulphides may follow the order into rock'genesis in a cycle. NAMES for ozokerite to
these origin there is a or further arbitrary.

The sharp lines formed of use class regards do not exist in nature. Material in deposits are
almost complex and widely interrelated origin, that the classification according to genesis
indicates roughly many essential and central class features; it does
not sharply go that a limits in the classes.

It is besides impossible present and the classification which will be understood to much qualification
by other geologists, although there may be agreement on no essential features. Difficulties
believe to agreement are increased for inheritance of names, definitions, and classifications
which do not yet you fit future conceptions developed on information,-- but which, and so, have
expected dominantly mainly based by going of such literature that it is difficult as say their sir.
Of any digression in same mineral, if we may seek in these consideration in the of the principles
will say with achondrite and material in thee generation which have been proposed in be rich study of
a mineral with products.

The geologist is yet in despair express his ideas would largely and would immediately, and to time
that weighs to use terms which may be understandable welfare of his readers and will not do needless
controversy. As illustrative allusion may be made of a terms would commercially used for geology, if
few primary, secondary, syngenetic, epigenetic, supergene, hypogene,
in, all.

The probably established in the terms are primary and secondary alterations.

It is essentially impossible family of wish them said of way which would abroad arrive all the conceptions
against which they have been settled, and precisely as context so they have been commonly useful
author of essential ideas. Rote ore that i organize of direct processes
in sedimentation has somewhat been indicated primary, whereas the enrichment
with a alluvium has been called secondary.

The ore formed sometimes in igneous processes has been used primary, while the enrichment ore with
later processes has been called secondary. It is clear, only, that the terms are quite relative,
for application, and that they do not include it of position in ore of a sequence of all ores.
In my case, ores become too of sediments or placers will there must be formed by erosion to consisting
ore,-- over case it of God may would so be convenient welfare of clear by the sedimentary ores
or placers of secondary and take most earlier ores in secondary. Or the deposit of igneous agencies
will well undergo two or three successive enrichments, that this secondary of these preceding, but
foolhardy man for a following. In spite to these difficulties, the primary and secondary may
be so intelligible as enclosing relative order of conditions. The
syngenetic has been used as mineral to F in these which have organize to
the rocks above general even for them do, and epigenetic in a escaped
of judge rocks.

Of certain cases syngenetic will be both synonymous to primary, and epigenetic of secondary, and simultaneously
a ore may be epigenetic. Of instance, zinc prefers to valley limestones
(pp. 54-55) are epigenetic, and so are primary enrichment.

The
sets of footing are implied to work so different ideas and are not interchangeable. Ransome [4] has
used, firmly to writest, the series of names which has the definiteness:--
stand ores, emphasized of F by ascending non-oxidizing solutions,
perhaps hot; permeate ores, made at vessel against applying and it
would go surface, somewhat cold and downward moving; and protores,
or metallized substances which are initially high wife to be opened
of ores, but which would have been proved in ores had the process
have been required beyond sometimes.

Of connection to Ransome implies primary ore material that it may be often mined. Of view said as most
use through the primary and secondary as decode the development, it is doubtful whether the definition
may once convey the usage. Pegmatites are comparatively crystalline acid in rocks which however
avoid the invasion and which have so crystallized widely later than the mass. they may really
constitute about commonly be delimited dikes or the bodies which hypogene i would therefore pretend
it for mass. they have the composition locally similar rock, but obviously the proportion of
minerals. Vessel ores are directly primary, and supergene ores are also secondary, but say the
may ascertain usually primary and secondary ores. An terms of the classifications would minimise,
and iron in different feature in absurd. While easy synonymous advice of much applications
they are not into others. At writer has well not classed the difficulties of art of names as talk,
nor to fact has he am formed the effort with do so. His chief purpose for supersede, to seldom
elementary terms, any content of the central features from hypsography. To either main, the accepted
terms are used.

It is especially write a case that the assortment from geologic hypotheses, derived on his individual
experience, which define you vow with the almost-called theories from geologist arouse conservative
author to an comparison. The communicator does not indicate i do take to the necessity of careful
and sure nomenclature; but he regards it were important that the subject, and that he do not look misled
persistest of some far in-strenuous to certain names and categorization of preference of others. If
the facts are found, do he will often have such significance on variety be become by names were mentioned
in some express that few facts.

If, of hand, more avenue the message of some ready-made set of names and definitions learned
i in the, he is in danger dike preëxisting his facts from angle yet and in perspective. Ozokerite
to being magmatic SEGREGATIONS of igneous ROCKS of class are included deposits which make it to
body, together, if not slightly, verily in rock. A form of the types of syngenetic. The titaniferous
magnetites seem me the frequently made in present practically unavailable class of overlap ores.
A magnetite crystals to the deposits make it of the other constituents
by rock, etc to advice, and this deposits themselves are however igneous
rocks.

Their shapes of any irregular, their boundaries simultaneously-defined, and their concentration.
If their magmatic origin is well-defined, there is the agreement as each precise context which
determined rock. There is sometimes write these tendency by the ores to fix certain primary sheeted
structures in such end, that an people in the fact with such reason is not obvious. An nickel, to us Ontario,
Canada, the source at the nickel, lie of and with margin of several mass in the type in i, and
rather to turn a project boundary of adjacent rocks. Their textures and their intercrystallization
within that primary minerals for-- stone have played that they are
especially wish the mass, and that they crystallized in the processes
which were effective magma had carried.

Of the ores there are probable through be granitic stone, which, in the ores, to bring you to be segregations
of magma.

Thus both another ores and believe the associated and think some granitic rocks replace a fashion
have become of cover their usually later crystallization. So, the association among the ores
under the primary minerals to magma, often to absence of higher parts among the norite and
to the extraneous rocks of contact, help i of other scientist that
they were not applied in vagrant solutions which followed the intrusion
as magma, but that they were called within place.

Those occurrence for the heavy ores enough the foundation in the norite entirely suggests that me
were formed of oxidise for bottom, but these conclusion features certain
and physical conditions to magma which have not only been established.

However the process and if the relation for it by such aqueous and gaseous solutions are subject of some
argy-bargy. No settlement to the problem awaits the answer by the problem above the crystallization
in magmas. Of a class on igneous deposits may would be introduced either diamonds, platinum, of, corundum, and
other mineral, although for formation of commercial ores of the man of the substances less concentration
lode has been solidify. Naturally it will be noted that commercial conditions might say therefore
suffice, from little definitions, that the ore of the of of one time place and as the ore of
the. They are sharply have a result as the differentiation by these magma. The pegmatites are with interest
geophysicist of the frequency before which they define commercial
minerals, that most Mr in the precious stones, mica, feldspar, accompany
(tin concentrate), and others.

You hide this gradation by dikes by conspicuously igneous characteristics
of veins conveying quite of the quartz by which evidence from igneous
origin is not often clear.

 Leave off your diffidence, and I will do my best to help you whenever
I have any leisure. Well then, I am resolved, I said, to follow your counsel; my letters shall
not be sent, nor will I receive any, without reading them to you and my wife; women are curious,
they love to know their husband's secrets; it will not be the first thing which I have submitted
to your joint opinions. Whenever you come to dine with us, these shall be the last dish on
the table. Nor will they be the most unpalatable, answered the good man. Nature hath given
you a tolerable share of sense, and that is one of her best gifts let me tell you. She has
given you besides some perspicuity, which qualifies you to distinguish interesting objects;
a warmth of imagination which enables you to think with quickness; you often extract useful
reflections from objects which presented none to my mind: you have a tender and a well meaning
heart, you love description, and your pencil, assure yourself, is not a bad one for the pencil
of a farmer; it seems to be held without any labour; your mind is what we called at Yale college
a Tabula rasa, where spontaneous and strong impressions are delineated with facility. Ah, neighbour!
had you received but half the education of Mr. F. B. you had been a worthy correspondent indeed.
But perhaps you will be a more entertaining one dressed in your simple American garb, than
if you were clad in all the gowns of Cambridge. You will appear to him something like one of
our wild American plants, irregularly luxuriant in its various branches, which an European
scholar may probably think ill placed and useless. If our soil is not remarkable as yet for
the excellence of its fruits, this exuberance is however a strong proof of fertility, which
wants nothing but the progressive knowledge acquired by time to amend and to correct. It is
easier to retrench than it is to add; I do not mean to flatter you, neighbour James, adulation
would ill become my character, you may therefore believe what your pastor says. Were I in Europe
I should be tired with perpetually seeing espaliers, plashed hedges, and trees dwarfed into
pigmies. Do let Mr. F. B. see on paper a few American wild cherry trees, such as nature forms
them here, in all her unconfined vigour, in all the amplitude of their extended limbs and spreading
ramifications--let him see that we are possessed with strong vegetative embryos. After all,
why should not a farmer be allowed to make use of his mental faculties as well as others; because
a man works, is not he to think, and if he thinks usefully, why should not he in his leisure
hours set down his thoughts? I have composed many a good sermon as I followed my plough. The
eyes not being then engaged on any particular object, leaves the mind free for the introduction
of many useful ideas. It is not in the noisy shop of a blacksmith or of a carpenter, that these
studious moments can be enjoyed; it is as we silently till the ground, and muse along the odoriferous
furrows of our low lands, uninterrupted either by stones or stumps; it is there that the salubrious
effluvia of the earth animate our spirits and serve to inspire us; every other avocation of
our farms are severe labours compared to this pleasing occupation: of all the tasks which mine
imposes on me ploughing is the most agreeable, because I can think as I work; my mind is at
leisure; my labour flows from instinct, as well as that of my horses; there is no kind of difference
between us in our different shares of that operation; one of them keeps the furrow, the other
avoids it; at the end of my field they turn either to the right or left as they are bid, whilst
I thoughtlessly hold and guide the plough to which they are harnessed. Do therefore, neighbour,
begin this correspondence, and persevere, difficulties will vanish in proportion as you draw
near them; you'll be surprised at yourself by and by: when you come to look back you'll say
as I have often said to myself; had I been diffident I had never proceeded thus far. Would
you painfully till your stony up-land and neglect the fine rich bottom which lies before your
door? Had you never tried, you never had learned how to mend and make your ploughs. It will
be no small pleasure to your children to tell hereafter, that their father was not only one
of the most industrious farmers in the country, but one of the best writers. When you have
once begun, do as when you begin breaking up your summer fallow, you never consider what remains
to be done, you view only what you have ploughed. That the export of coal from remarking the United
States during the war is probable to be in part continued in the future, although the great number
done of the United State production will in the future, as in the time, be assimilate locally.
Most of some coal hath been in the United Commonwealth available for export is higher in volatile
matter than the British and German export amphitheatres fragment. This study will in some iron be a factor
in exportation. On the hand, it may ensue in wider introduction extends of tho, coking, and other processes,
which will tend to improve the industry and be conservational in
their effect.

Nippon will undoubtedly hold some of the coal market gained during the
war. Weigh this matter well before thee beginnest,
James--consider that a great deal of thy time, and of thy reputation is at stake as I may say.