Other notable visitors to Ranelagh included Goldsmith and Sir Joshua Reynolds, and Dr. Johnson
and Tobias Smollett. It seems more than likely that Ranelagh with the first couple figured
largely in that round of pleasures which kept them from the meetings of The Club to 'the disgust
of Beauclerk, but Goldsmith might have justified his visits on the plea that he was gathering
"local colour" for that letter by Belinda which he introduced into the "Citizen of the World."
No doubt he saw many a colonel there answering to that ft irresistible fellow "who made such
an impression on Belinda's heart." So well-dressed, so neat, so sprightly, and plays about
one so agreeably, that I vow he has as much spirits as the Marquis of Monkeyman's Italian greyhound.
I first saw him at Ranelagh: he shines there: he is nothing without Ranelagh, and Ranelagh
nothing without him. "Perhaps Sir Joshua would have excused his idling at Ranelagh on the ground
of looking for models, or the hints it afforded for future pictures."

With Dr. Johnson it was different. Ranelagh was to him a "place of innocent recreation" and
nothing more. The "COUP d'ceil was the finest thing he had ever seen," Boswell reports, and
then makes his own comparison between that place and the Pantheon. No small part of Johnson's
pleasure during his visits to Ranelagh was derived from uncomplimentary reflections on the
mental conditions of its frequenters. Boswell had been talking one day in the vein of his hero's
poem on the "Vanity of Human Wishes," and commented on the persistence with which things were
done upon the supposition of happiness, as witness the splendid places of public amusement,
crowded with company.

Smollett, like Goldsmith, made good use of his visits to Ranelagh. With the enterprise of the
observant novelist, he turned his experiences into "copy." And with that ubiquity of vision
which is the privilege of the master of fiction he was able to see the place from two points
of view. To Matt. Bramble, that devotee of solitude and mountains, the Chelsea resort was one
of the worst inflictions of London.

"What are the amusements of Ranelagh?" he asked. "One half of the company are following one
another's tails, in an eternal circle; like so many blind asses in an olive-mill, where they
can neither discourse, distinguish, nor be distinguished; while the other half are drinking
hot water, under the denomination of tea, till nine or ten o'clock at night, to keep them awake
for the rest of the evening. As for the orchestra, the vocal music especially, it is well for
the performers that they cannot be heard distinctly." But Smollett does not leave Ranelagh
at that. Lydia also visited the place and was enraptured with everything. To her it looked
like an enchanted palace "of a genio, adorned with the most exquisite performances of painting,
carving, and gilding, enlighted with a thousand golden lamps, that emulate the noon-day sun;
crowded with the great, the rich, the gay, the happy, and the fair; glittering with cloth of
gold and silver, lace, embroidery, and precious stones. While these exulting sons and daughters
of felicity tread this round of pleasure, or regale in different parties, and separate lodges,
with fine imperial tea and other delicious refreshments, their ears are entertained with the
most ravishing music, both instrumental and vocal." If the management of Ranelagh had been
on the lookout for a press agent, they would doubtless have preferred Smollett in his Lydia mood.

Only occasionally was the even tenor of Ranelagh amusement disturbed by an untoward event.
One such occasion was due to that notorious Dr. John Hill who figures so largely in Isaac Disraeli's
"Calamities and Quarrels of Authors." Few men have tried more ways of getting a living than
he. As a youth he was apprenticed to an apothecary, but in early manhood he turned to botany
and travelled all over England in search of rare plants which he intended drying by a special
process and publishing by subscription. When that scheme failed, he took to the stage, and
shortly after wrote the words of an opera which was sent to Rich and rejected. This was the
beginning of authorship with Hill, whose pen, however, brought more quarrels on his head than
guineas into his pockets. And it was his authorship which connected him with the history of
Ranelagh. One of Hill's ventures was to provide the town with a daily paper called The Inspector,
in the pages of which he made free with the character of an Irish gentleman named Brown. Usually
the men Hill attacked were writers, who flayed him with their pens whenever they thought there
was occasion. Hence the conclusive epigram with which Garrick rewarded an attack on himself:

  "For physic and farces, his equal there scarce is,
   His farces are physic, his physic a farce is."

But Mr. Brown was a man of action, not words. So he sought out his assailant at Ranelagh on
the night of May eth, 1752, and caned him in the Rotunda in the presence of a large company.
Here was excitement indeed for Ranelagh, and the affair was the talk of the town for many a
day afterwards. Of course Hill did not retort in kind; on the contrary he showed himself to
be an abject coward and took his thrashing without any bodily protest. That he made loud vocal
protest seems likely enough. Hence the point of the pictorial satire which was quickly on sale
at the London print-shops. This drawing depicted Hill being seized by the ear by the irate
Mr. Brown, who is represented as exclaiming, "Draw your sword, libeller, if you have the spirit,
of a mouse."

The only reply of Hill was, "What? against an illiterate fellow that can't spell? I prefer
a drubbing. Oh, Mr. P----, get me the constable, for here's a gentleman going to murder me!"

Mr. P----, who is seen hastening from behind a pillar of the Rotunda, replies: "Yes, sir, yes.
Pray young gentleman don't hurt him, for he never has any meaning in what he writes."

Hill took to his bed, raised an action against Mr. Brown for assault, and proclaimed from the
housetops that there was a conspiracy to murder him. This brought forth a second print, showing
Hill in bed and attended by doctors, one of whom, in reply to the patient's plea that he had
no money, responds, "Sell your sword, it is only an encumbrance."

Another lively episode disturbed the peace of Ranelagh on the night of May 11th, 1764. Several
years previously some daring spirits among the wealthier classes had started a movement for
the abolition of vails, otherwise "tips," to servants, and the leaders of that movement were
subjected to all kinds of annoyance from the class concerned. On the night in question the
resentment of coachmen, footmen and other servants developed into a serious riot at Ranelagh,
special attention being paid to those members of the nobility and gentry who would not suffer
their employees to take vails from their guests. "They, began," says a chronicle of the time,
"by hissing their masters, they then broke all the lamps and outside windows with stones; and
afterwards putting out their flambeaux, pelted the company, in a most audacious manner, with
brickbats, etc., whereby several were greatly hurt." This attack was not received in the submissive
spirit of Dr. Hill; the assaulted gentry drew their swords to beat back the rioters and severely
wounded not a few. They probably enjoyed the diversion from the ordinary pleasures of Ranelagh.

How gladly the frequenters of the gardens welcomed the slightest departure from the normal
proceedings of the place may be inferred from the importance which was attached to an incident
which took place soon after 1770. Public mourning was in order for some one, and of course
the regular patrons of Ranelagh expressed their obedience to the court edict by appropriate
attire. One evening, however, it was observed that there were two gentlemen in the gardens
dressed in coloured clothes. It was obvious they were strangers to the place and unknown to
each other. Their inappropriate costume quickly attracted attention, and became the subject
of general conversation, and, such a dearth was there of excitement, Lord Spencer Hamilton
aroused feverish interest by laying a wager that before the night was out he would have the
two strangers walking arm in arm. The wager taken, he set to work in an adroit manner. Watching
one of the strangers until he sat down, he immediately placed himself by his side, and entered
into conversation. A few minutes later Lord Spencer left his new friend in search of the other
stranger, to whom he addressed some civil remark, and accompanied on a stroll round the gardens.
Coming back eventually to the seat on which the first stranger was still resting, Lord Spencer
had no difficulty in persuading his second new acquaintance to take a seat also, The conversation
of the trio naturally became general, and a little later Lord Spencer suggested a promenade.
On starting off he offered his arm to the first stranger, who paid the same compliment to stranger
number two, with the result that Lord Spencer was able to direct the little procession to the
vicinity of his friends, and so demonstrate that the wager was won. So simple an incident furnished
Ranelagh with great amusement for an entire evening!

What the management provided by way of entertainment has been partially hinted at. Music appears
to have been the chief stand-by from the first and was provided at breakfast time as well as
at night. Many notable players and singers appeared in the Rotunda, including Mozart, who,
as a boy of eight, played some of his own compositions on the harpsichord and organ, and Dibdin,
the famous ballad singer. Fireworks were a later attraction, as also was the exhibition named
Mount Etna, which called for a special building. Occasional variety was provided by regattas
and shooting-matches, and balloon-ascents, and displays of diving.

No doubt Ranelagh was at its best and gayest when the scene of a masquerade. But unfortunately
those entertainments had their sinister side. Fielding impeaches them in "Amelia" by their
results, and the novelist was not alone in his criticism. The Connoisseur devoted a paper to
the evils of those gatherings, deriding them as foreign innovations, and recalling the example
of the lady who had proposed to attend one in the undress garb of Iphigenia. "What the above-mentioned
lady had the hardiness to attempt alone," the writer continued, "will (I am assured) be set
on foot by our persons of fashion, as soon as the hot days come in. Ranelagh is the place pitched
upon for their meeting; where it is proposed to have a masquerade al fresco, and the whole
company are to display all their charms in puris naturalibus. The pantheon of the heathen gods,
Ovid's Metamorphoses, and Titian's prints, will supply them with sufficient variety of undressed
characters." A cynic might harbour the suspicion that this critic was in the pay of Vauxhall.

Even he, however, did not utter the worst about the amusements of Ranelagh. The truth was known
to all but confessed by few. The outspoken Matt. Bramble in the indictment cited above gave
emphatic utterance to the fact that the chief recreation at Ranelagh was worse than none at
all. "One may be easily tired" of the place, was the verdict of a noble lord in 1746; "it is
always the same." And to the same effect is the conclusion reached by a French visitor, who
was delighted for five minutes, and then oppressed with satiety and indifference. When the
visitor had made the promenade of the Rotunda, there was practically nothing for him to do
save make it again. Hence the mill-round of monotony so aptly expressed by the Suffolk village
poet, Robert Bloomfield, who was lured to Ranelagh one night shortly before its doors were
finally closed.

  "To Kanelagh, once in my life,
     By good-natur'd force I was driven;
   The nations had ceas'd their long strife,
     And Peace beam'd her radiance from Heaven.
   What wonders were there to be found,
     That a clown might enjoy or disdain?
   First, we trac'd the gay ring all around;
     Aye--and then we went round it again.

  "A thousand feet rustled on mats,
     A carpet that once had been green,
   Men bow'd with their outlandish hats,
     With corners so fearfully keen!
   Fair maids, who, at home in their haste,
     Had left all their clothes but a train,
   Swept the floor clean, as slowly they pac'd,
     Then.--walked round and swept it again.

  "The music was truly enchanting,
     Right glad was I when I came near it;
   But in fashion I found I was wanting--
     'Twas the fashion to walk, and not hear it.
   A fine youth, as beauty beset him,
     Look'd smilingly round on the train,
   'The King's nephew,' they cried, as they met him.
     Then-we went round and met him again.

  "Huge paintings of heroes and peace
     Seem'd to smile at the sound of the fiddle,
   Proud to fill up each tall shining space,
     Round the lantern that stood in the middle.
   And George's head too; Heaven screen him;
     May he finish in peace his long reign:
   And what did we when we had seen him?
     Why-went round and saw him again."

That poem ought to have killed Ranelagh had the resort 'not been near its demise at the time
it was written. But there was to be one final flare-up ere the end came. On a June night in
1803 the Rotunda was the scene of its last ball. The occasion was the Installation of the Knights
of the Bath, and produced, on the authority of the Annual Register, "one of the most splendid
entertainments ever given in this country." The cost was estimated at seven thousand pounds,
which may well have been the case when the guests ate cherries at a guinea a pound and peas
at fourteen shillings a quart. That fête was practically the last of Ranelagh; about a month
later the music ceased and the lamps were extinguished for ever. And the "struggles for happiness"
of sixty years were ended.

CHAPTER III.

OTHER FAVOURITE RESORTS.

Prior to the eighteenth century the Londoner was ill provided with outdoor pleasure resorts.
It is true he had the Paris Garden at Bankside, which Donald Lupton declared might be better
termed "a foul den than a fair garden. It's a pity," he added, "so good a piece of ground is
no better employed;" but, apart from two or three places of that character, his al fresco amusements
were exceedingly limited. It should not be forgotten, however, that the ale-houses of those
days frequently had a plot of land attached to them, wherein a game of bowls might be enjoyed.

But the object-lesson of Vauxhall changed all that. From the date when that resort passed into
the energetic management of Jonathan Tyers, smaller pleasure gardens sprang into existence
all over London. By the middle of the eighteenth century they had grown so numerous that it
would be a serious undertaking to attempt an exhaustive catalogue. As, however, they had so
many features in common, and passed through such kindred stages of development, the purpose
of this survey will be sufficiently served by a brief history of four or five typical examples.

How general was the impression that Vauxhall had served as a model in most instances may be
seen from the remark of a historian of 1761 to the effect that the Marylebone Garden was to
be "considered as a kind of humble imitation of Vauxhall." Had Pepys' Diary been in print at
that date, and known to the proprietor, he would have been justified in resenting the comparison.
For, as a matter of fact, the diarist, under the date of May 7th, 1668, had actually set down
this record: "Then we abroad to Marrowbone, and there walked in the garden, the first time
I ever was there, and a pretty place it is." At a first glance this entry might be regarded
as disposing of the charge of imitation on the part of Marylebone Gardens. Such, however, is
not strictly the case. It is true there were gardens here at the middle of the seventeenth
century, but they were part of the grounds of the old manor-house, and practically answered
to those tavern bowling-alleys to which reference has been made. The principal of these was
attached to the tavern known as the Rose, which was a favourite haunt of the Duke of Buckingham,
and the scene of his end-of-the-season dinner at which he always gave the toast: "May as many
of us as remain unhanged next spring meet here again."

What needs to be specially noted in connection with the history of this resort is, that it
was not until 1737--five years after the opening of Vauxhall under Tyers--that the owner of
Marylebone Gardens, Daniel Gough, sufficiently put the place in order to warrant a charge for
admission. In the following year the place was formally advertised as a resort for evening
amusement, that announcement marking a definite competition with Vauxhall. The buildings at
this time comprised a spacious garden-orchestra fitted with an organ, and what was called the
Great Room, an apartment specially adapted for balls and suppers.

Many singers, some famous and other notorious, entertained the patrons of Marylebone Gardens.
From 1747 to 1752 the principal female vocalist was Mary Ann Falkner, who, after a respectable
marriage, became the subject of an arrangement on the part of her idle husband whereby she
passed under the protection of the Earl of Halifax. She bore two children to that peer, and
so maintained her power over him that for her sake he broke off an engagement with a wealthy
lady. Another songstress, fair and frail, was the celebrated Nan Catley, the daughter of a
coachman, whose beauty of face and voice and freedom of manners quickly made her notorious.
She had already been the subject of an exciting law suit when she appeared at Marylebone at
the age of eighteen. Miss Catley had been engaged by Thomas Lowe, the favourite tenor, who
in 1763 became the lessee of the gardens, and opened his season with a "Musical Address to
the Town," sung by himself, Miss Catley and Miss Smith. The address apologized for the lack
of some of the attractions of Vauxhall and Ranelagh, but added--

   "Yet nature some blessings has scattered around;
   And means to improve may hereafter be found."

Presuming that Lowe kept his promise, that did not prevent failure overtaking him as a caterer
of public amusement. He lacked enterprise as a manager, and a wet summer in 1767 resulted in
financial catastrophe.

More serious musical efforts than ballad concerts were attempted at Marylebone from time to
time. That this had been the case even before Dr. Samuel Arnold became proprietor of the gardens
is illustrated by an anecdote of Dr. Fountayne and Handel, who often frequented the place.
Being there together on one occasion the great composer asked his friend's opinion of a new
composition being played by the band. After listening a few minutes, Dr. Fountayne proposed
that they resume their walk, for, said he, "it's not worth listening to--it's very poor stuff."
"You are right, Mr. Fountayne," Handel replied, "it is very poor stuff. I thought so myself
when I had finished it."

Fireworks were not added to the attractions until 1751, and even then the displays were only
occasional features for some years. In 1772, however, that part of the entertainment was deputed
to the well-known Torré, whose unique fireworks were the talk of London. He had one set piece
called the Forge of Vulcan, which was so popular that its repetition was frequently demanded.
According to George Steevens, it was the fame of Torré's fireworks which impelled Dr. Johnson
to visit the gardens one night in his company.

Apparently that was not the only occasion when the management failed to keep faith with the
public. In July, 1774, the newspaper severely criticised the proprietors for having charged
an admission fee of five shillings to a Fête Champètre, which consisted of nothing more than
a few tawdry festoons and extra lamps, and another mentor of an earlier date had dismissed
the whole place as "nothing more than two or three gravel roads, and a few shapeless trees."
Altogether, popular as Torre's fireworks were when they went off, it is not improbable that
they had a considerable share in terminating the existence of the gardens. Houses were increasing
fast in the neighbourhood, and the dwellers in those houses objected to being bombarded with
rockets. At any rate, six years after the renowned Torré began his pyrotechnics, the site of
the gardens fell into the hands of builders and the seeker of out-door amusement had to find
his enjoyment elsewhere.

Perhaps some of the frequenters of Marylebone Gardens transferred their patronage to the White
Conduit House, situated two or three miles to the north-east. Here again is an example of a
pleasure resort developing partially from an ale-house, for the legend is that the White Conduit
House was at first a small tavern, the finishing touches to which were given, to the accompaniment
of much hard drinking, on the day Charles I lost his head.

Unusual as is the name of this resort, it is largely self-explanatory. There was a water-conduit
in an adjacent field, which was faced with white stone, and hence the name. The house itself,
however, had its own grounds, which were attractively laid out when the whole property was
reconstructed somewhere about 1745. At that time a Long Room was erected, and the gardens provided
with a fish-pond and numerous arbours. The popularity of the place seems to date from the proprietorship
of Robert Bartholomew, who acquired the property in 1754, and to have continued unabated till
nearly the end of the century. Mr. Bartholomew did not overlook any of his attractions in the
announcement he made on taking possession; "For the better accommodation of ladies and gentlemen,"
so the advertisement ran, "I have completed a long walk, with a handsome circular fish-pond,
a number of shady pleasant arbours, inclosed with a fence seven feet high to prevent being
the least incommoded from people in the fields; hot loaves and butter every day, milk directly
from the cows, coffee, tea, and all manner of liquors in the greatest perfection; also a handsome
long room, from whence is the most copious prospects and airy situation of any now in vogue.
I humbly hope the continuance of my friends' favours, as I make it my chief study to have the
best accommodations, and am, ladies and gentlemen, your obliged humble servant, Robert Bartholomew.
Note. My cows eat no grains, neither any adulteration in milk or cream." It is obvious that
Mr. Bartholomew's enthusiasm made him reckless of grammar, and that some of his ladies and
gentlemen might have objected to have their butter hot; but it is equally plain that here was
a man who knew his business.

And he did not fail of adequate reward. Six years after the publication of that seductive announcement
the resort had become so popular, especially as the objective of a Sunday outing, that its
praises were sung in poetry in so reputable a periodical as the Gentleman's Magazine. The verses
describe the joy of the London 'Prentice on the return of Sunday, and give a spirited picture
of the scene at the gardens.

                   "His meal meridian o'er,
   With switch in hand, he to White Conduit House
   Hies merry-hearted. Human beings here
   In couples multitudinous assemble,
   Forming the drollest groups that ever trod
   Fair Islingtonian plains. Male after male,
   Dog after dog succeeding--husbands, wives,
   Fathers and mothers, brothers, sisters, friends,
   And pretty little boys and girls. Around,
   Across, along, the gardens' shrubby maze,
   They walk, they sit, they stand. What crowds press on,
   Eager to mount the stairs, eager to catch
   First vacant bench or chair in long room plac'd.
   Here prig with prig holds conference polite,
   And indiscriminate the gaudy beau
   And sloven mix. Here he, who all the week
   Took bearded mortals by the nose, or sat
   Weaving dead hairs, and whistling wretched strain,
   And eke the sturdy youth, whose trade it is
   Stout oxen to contund, with gold-bound hat
   And silken stocking strut. The red arm'd belle
   Here shows her tasty gown, proud to be thought
   The butterfly of fashion: and forsooth
   Her haughty mistress deigns for once to tread
   The same unhallow'd floor.--`Tis hurry all
   And rattling cups and saucers. Waiter here,
   And waiter there, and waiter here and there,
   At once is call'd--Joe--Joe--Joe--Joe--Joe--
   Joe on the right--and Joe upon the left,
   For ev'ry vocal pipe re-echoes Joe.
   Alas, poor Joe! Like Francis in the play
   He stands confounded, anxious how to please
   The many-headed throng. But shou'd I paint
   The language, humours, custom of the place,
   Together with all curts'ys, lowly bows,
   And compliments extern, 'twould swell my page
   Beyond its limits due. Suffice it then
   For my prophetic muse to say, 'So long
   As fashion rides upon the wings of time,
   While tea and cream, and butter'd rolls can please,
   While rival beaux and jealous belles exist,
   So long, White Conduit House, shall be thy fame.'"

More distinguished members of the community than the London 'prentice and the "red arm'd belle"
frequented the gardens now and then. About 1762 the place was a favourite resort with Oliver
Goldsmith, and was the scene of a typical episode in his life. While strolling in the gardens
one afternoon he met the three daughters of a tradesman to whom he was under obligation, and
of course must needs invite them to take tea as his guests. But when the time of reckoning
came he found, characteristically enough, that his pocket was empty. Happily some friends were
near to rescue him from his difficulty, but the crucial moment of the incident was to be perpetuated
in all its ludicrous humour by an artist of a later generation, who, in the painting entitled
"An Awkward Position," depicted the poet at the moment when he discovered his pockets were empty.

Later in its history the White Conduit House became known as the "Minor Vauxhall" and was the
scene of balloon ascents, fireworks, and evening concerts. Gradually, however, it fell on evil
days, and in 1849 it passed permanently into the history of old London.

No one traversing that sordid thoroughfare known as King's Cross Road in the London of to-day
could imagine that that highway was the locality in the mid-eighteenth century of one of the
most popular resorts of the English capital. Such, however, was the case. At that time the
highway was known as Bagnigge Wells Road, and at its northern extremity was situated the resort
known as Bagnigge Wells. The early history of the place is somewhat obscure. Tradition has
it that the original house was a summer residence of Nell Gwynne, where she frequently entertained
her royal lover. It has also been stated that there was a place of public entertainment here
as early as 1738.

Whatever truth there may be in both those assertions, there is no gainsaying the fact that
the prosperity of Bagnigge Wells dates from a discovery made by a Mr. Hughes, the tenant of
the house, in 1757. This Mr. Hughes took a pride in his garden, and was consequently much distressed
to find that the more he used his watering-can, the less his flowers thrived. At this juncture
a Dr. Bevis appeared on the scene, to whom the curious circumstance was mentioned. On tasting
the water from the garden well he was surprised to find its "flavour so near that of the best
chalybeates," and at once informed Mr. Hughes that it might be made of great benefit both to
the public and himself. The next day a huge bottle of the water was delivered at Dr. Bevis's
house, and analysis confirmed his first impression. Before he could proceed further in the
matter, Dr. Bevis fell ill, and by the time he had recovered notable doings had been accomplished
at Bagnigge Wells.

For Mr. Hughes was not wholly absorbed in the cultivation of flowers. Visions of wealth residing
in that well evidently captured his imagination, and he at once set to work fitting up his
gardens as a kind of spa, where the public could drink for his financial benefit. A second
well was sunk and found to yield another variety of mineral water, and the two waters were
connected with a double pump over which a circular edifice named the Temple was constructed.
Other attractions were added as their necessity became apparent. They included a spacious banqueting
hall known as the Long Room, provided with an organ, and the laying out of the gardens in approved
style. No doubt the curative qualities of the waters speedily became a secondary consideration
with the patrons of the place, but that probably troubled Mr. Hughes not at all so long as
those patrons came in sufficient numbers.

That they did come in crowds is demonstrated by the literature which sprang up around the gardens,
and by many other evidences. On its medicinal side the place was celebrated by one poet in
these strains:

   "Ye gouty old souls and rheumatics crawl on,
   Here taste these blest springs, and your tortures are gone;
   Ye wretches asthmatick, who pant for your breath,
   Come drink your relief, and think not of death.
   Obey the glad summons, to Bagnigge repair,
   Drink deep of its waters, and forget all your care.

   "The distemper'd shall drink and forget all his pain,
   When his blood flows more briskly through every vein;
   The headache shall vanish, the heartache shall cease,
   And your lives be enjoyed in more pleasure and peace
   Obey then the summons, to Bagnigge repair,
   And drink an oblivion to pain and to care."

Twenty years later the muse of Bagnigge Wells was pitched in a different key. The character
of the frequenters had changed for the worse. Instead of "gouty old souls," and "rheumatics,"
and "asthmaticks," the most noted Cyprians of the day had made the place their rendezvous.
So the poet sings of

   "Thy arbours, Bagnigge, and the gay alcove,
   Where the frail nymphs in am'rous dalliance rove."

Concurrently with this change the gentlemen of the road began to favour the gardens with their
presence, chief among their number being that notorious highwayman John Rann, otherwise known
as Sixteen-String Jack from his habit of wearing a bunch of eight ribbons on each knee. But
he came to Bagnigge once too often, for, after insisting on paying unwelcome attentions to
a lady in the ball-room, he was seized by some members of the company and thrown out of a window
into the Fleet river below.

Notwithstanding this deterioration, the proprietor of the place in 1779 in announcing the opening
for the season still dwelt upon the invaluable properties of the waters, not forgetting to
add that "ladies and gentlemen may depend on having the best of Tea, Coffee, etc., with hot
loaves, every morning and evening." But nothing could ward off the pending catastrophe. "Bagnigge
Wells," wrote the historian of its decline, "sported its fountains, with little wooden cupids
spouting water day and night, but it fearfully realized the facilis descensus Averni. The gardens
were curtailed of their fair proportions, and this once famous resort sank down to a threepenny
concert-room." It struggled on in that lowly guise, for a number of years, but the end came
in 1841, and now even the name of the road in which it existed is wiped off the map of London.

More fortunate in that respect was the Bermondsey Spa, the name of which is perpetuated to
this day in the Spa Road of that malodorous neighbourhood. This resort, which, like Bagnigge
Wells, owed its creation to the discovery of a chalybeate spring, is bound up with the life-story
of a somewhat remarkable man, Thomas Keyse by name. Born in 1722, he became a self-taught artist
of such skill that several of his still-life paintings were deemed worthy of exhibition at
the Royal Academy. He was also awarded a premium of thirty guineas by the Society of Arts for
a new method of fixing crayon drawings.

But thirty guineas and the glory of being an exhibitor at the Royal Academy were hardly adequate
for subsistence, and hence, somewhere about 1765, Keyse turned to the less distinguished but
more profitable occupation of tavern-keeper. Having purchased the Waterman's Arms at Bermondsey,
with some adjoining waste land, he transformed the place into a tea-garden. Shortly afterwards
a chalybeate spring was discovered in the grounds, an event which obliterated the name of the
Waterman's Arms in favour of the Bermondsey Spa Gardens. The ground was duly laid out in pleasant
walks, with the usual accompaniments of leafy arbours and other quiet nooks for tea-parties.
The next step was to secure a music license, fit up an orchestra, adorn the trees with coloured
lamps, organize occasional displays of fireworks, and challenge comparison with Vauxhall if
only on a small scale. One of the attractions reserved for special occasion was a scenic representation
of the Siege of Gibraltar, in which fireworks, transparencies, and bomb shells played a prominent
part. Keyse himself was responsible for the device by which the idea was carried out, and the
performance was so realistic that it was declared to give "a very strong idea of the real Siege."

Hearty as were the plaudits bestowed upon the Siege of Gibraltar, there is not much risk in
hazarding the opinion that Keyse took more pride in the picture-gallery of his own paintings
than in any other feature of his establishment. The canvases included representations of all
kinds of still life, and, thanks to the recording pen of J. T. Smith, that enthusiastic lover
of old London, it is still possible to make the round of the gallery in the company of the
artist-proprietor. Mr. Smith visited the gardens when public patronage had declined to a low
ebb, so that he had the gallery all to himself, as he imagined. "Stepping back to study the
picture of the 'Greenstall,' 'I ask your pardon,' said I, for I had trodden on some one's toes.
'Sir, it is granted,' replied a little, thick-set man with a round face, arch looks, and close-curled
wig, surmounted by a small three-cornered hat put very knowingly on one side, not unlike Hogarth's
head in his print of the 'Gates of Calais.' 'You are an artist, I presume; I noticed you from
the end of the gallery, when you first stepped back to look at my best picture. I painted all
the objects in this room from nature and still life.' 'Your Green-grocer's Shop,' said I, 'is
inimitable; the drops of water on that savoy appear as if they had just fallen from the element.
Van Huysun could not have pencilled them with greater delicacy.' 'What do you think,' said
he, 'of my Butcher's Shop?' 'Your pluck is bleeding fresh, and your sweetbread is in a clean
plate.' 'How do you like my bull's eye?' 'Why, it would be a most excellent one for Adams or
Dolland to lecture upon. Your knuckle of veal is the finest I ever saw.' 'It's young meat,'
replied he; 'any one who is a judge of meat can tell that from the blueness of its bone.' 'What
a beautiful white you have used on the fat of that Southdown leg! or is it Bagshot?' 'Yes,'
said he, 'my solitary visitor, it is Bagshot: and as for my white, that is the best Nottingham,
which you or any artist can procure at Stone and Puncheon's, Bishopsgate Street Within.' 'Sir
Joshua Reynolds,' continued Mr. Keyse, 'paid me two visits. On the second, he asked me what
white I had used; and when I told him, he observed, "It's very extraordinary, sir, that it
keeps so bright. I use the same." "Not at all, sir," I rejoined: "the doors of this gallery
are open day and night; and the admission of fresh air, together with the great expansion of
light from the sashes above, will never suffer the white to turn yellow."'"

And then the enthusiastic artist and his solitary patron walked out to the orchestra in the
gardens, sole auditors of the singer who had to sing by contract whether few or many were present.
It is a pathetic record, portending the final closing of Bermondsey Spa but a few years later.

On the return journey to Southwark, the Southwark of Chaucer's Tabard, the pilgrim among these
memories of the past may tread the ground where Finch's Grotto Gardens once re-echoed to laughter
and song. They were established in 1760 by one Thomas Finch, who was of the fraternity of Thomas
Keyse, even though he was but a Herald Painter. Falling heir to a house and pleasant garden,
encircled with lofty trees and umbrageous with evergreens and shrubs, he decided to convert
the place into a resort for public amusement. The adornments consisted of a grotto, built over
a mineral spring, and a fountain, and an orchestra, and an Octagon Room for balls and refuge
from wet evenings. The vocalists included Sophia Snow, afterwards as Mrs. Baddeley to become
notorious for her beauty and frailty, and Thomas Lowe, the one-time favourite of Vauxhall,
whose financial failure at Marylebone made him thankful to accept an engagement at this more
lowly resort. But Finch's Grotto Gardens were not destined to a long life. Perhaps they were
too near Vauxhall to succeed; perhaps the policy, of engaging had-been favourites was as little
likely to bring prosperity in the eighteenth as in the twentieth century. Whatever the cause,
the fact is on record that after a career of less than twenty years the gardens ceased to exist.

As has been seen in an earlier chapter, the great prototype of the pleasure gardens of old
London, Vauxhall, outlived all its competitors for half a century. But upon even that favourite
resort the changing manners of a new time had fatal effect. As knowledge grew and taste became
more diversified, it became less and less easy to cater for the amusement of the many. To the
student of old-time manners, however, the history of the out-door resorts of old London is
full of instruction and suggestion, if only for the light it throws on these "struggles for
happiness" which help to distinguish man from the brute creation.

THE END.

INDEX

"A Cup of Coffee, or Coffee in its Colours,"
Adam and Eve Tavern
Adam., the brothers
Addison, Joseph
Adelphi hotel
Aix-la-Chapelle, Peace of
Alice's coffee-house
Alfred Club
Almack, William
Almack's
"Amelia"
Anderson, Mrs.
Anderton's Hotel
Angel Inn, Fleet Street
Angel Inn, Islington
Anne, Queen
Annual register
Anstey's "Pleaders' Guide"
Apollo room at the Devil tavern
Archer, Mrs. Mary
Argyll, Duke of
Aristophanes
Armstrong, Dr. John
Arnold, Dr. Samuel
Arthur's Club
Arthur, Mr.
Athenseum Club
Bacon, Anthony
Baddeley, Mrs.
Bagnigge Wells
Bailley, Christian
Bailley, Henry
Barrington, Hon. Daines
Barrington, Sir Jonas
Bartholomew Fair
Bartholomew, Robert
Bate, Henry
Bath, Installation of the Knights of
Batson's coffee-house
Bear inn
Beauclerk, Lady Sydney
Beauclerk, Topham
Beaufort, Duchess of
Beaumont, Francis
Becket, Thomas à,
Bedford coffee-house
Bedford, Duke of
Bedford Head tavern
Beeswing Club, The
Beef Steak Club
Bell tavern
Belle Sauvage inn
Bermondsey Spa Gardens
Bevis, Dr.
Bickerstaff, Sir Isaac
Bishopsgate Street Within, inns of
Bishopsgate Street Without, inns of
Blackmore, Sir Richard
Bloomfield, Robert
Blount, Sir Henry
Blue Boar inn
Blue Posts tavern
Blue-Stocking Club
Boar's Head inn, Eastcheap
Boar's Head inn, Southwark
Boehm, Mr.
Boileau's Lutrin
Bolinbroke, Viscount
Boodle's Club
Bordeaux, merchants of
Boswell, James
Bowen, William
Bowman, Mrs.
Bramble, Matt
British coffee-house
British Institution
Broghill, Lord
Brontë, Anne
Brontë, Charlotte
Brooks's Club
Brown, Tom
Buchan, Dr.
Buckingham, Duke of
Bull and Gate inn
Bull Head tavern
Bull inn
Burke, Edmund
Burney, Dr.
Burney, Fanny
Burton's, Thomas, "Parliamentary Diary"
Button's coffee-house
Buttony, Daniel
Byron, Lord
Byron, Lord, the poet
Cade, Jack
"Calamities and Quarrels of Authors"
Calf's Head Club
Campbell, Lord
Campbell, Thomas
Cannon coffee-house
Canterbury
Canterbury Tales
Cambridge carriers
Carlisle, Lord
Carlyle, Thomas
Cat, Christopher
Catley, Nan
Chamier, Anthony
Chapter coffee-house
Charnock, Robert
Charing Cross, coffee-houses of
Charing Cross, inns of
Charles I
Charles II
Charles V
Chatelaine's
Chatterton, Thomas
Chaucer, Geoffrey
Chaworth, William
Cheapside Cross
Cheshire Cheese
Chesterfield, Lord
Child's coffee-house
Chinaman, Goldsmith's, at Vauxhall
Christ's Hospital
Churchill, Lady Mary
Cibber, Colley
Cicero
Cider Cellars,
"Citizen of the World,"
Claypole, Elizabeth,
Club, definition of,
Clubs of old London,
Club, The,
Clutterback, James,
Cock tavern, Fleet Street,
Cock tavern, Leadenhall Street,
Cock tavern, Suffolk Street,
Cocoa-Tree Club,
Coffee,
"Coffee House, The Character of,"
Coffee-houses in London,
  first to be opened,
  subject of a play,
  pamphlets for and against,
  petition,
  against,
  proclamationl
  suppressing,
  influenced by locality,
"Coffee. Women's Petition  against,"
"Coffee House Vindicated,"
Coleridge, S. T.,
Colin. Farmer,
Collier's, Jeremy, "Short View,"
Congers,
Connoisseur, The,
Cony, Nathaniel,
"Country Mouse and the City Mouse,"
Covent Garden, coffee-houses of,
Covent Garden, taverns of,
Coverley, Sir Roger de,
Cowley, Abraham,
Cowper, William,
Craven Head Inn,
Crown and Anchor,
Cromwell, Oliver,
Cruikshank, George,
Cumberland, Duke of,
Cumberland, Richard,
Cupels Gardens,
Curran, Jolin Philpot,
Cuthbert, Captain,
Dagger tavern,
"Dark Walks" of Vauxhall.
Davidson, Jobs,
Davies, Thomais,
"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,"
Defoe, Daniel,
De Moivre. Abraham,
Devil tavern,
Devonshire, Duke of,
Dibdin, Charles,
Dickens, Charles,
Dick's coffee-house,
Dolly's chop-house,
Don Saltero's coffee-house,
Dorset, Duke of,
Dorset. Earl of.
Douglas, Bishop,
Dover House Club,
Drinkwater, Thomas,
Drummond, William,
Drury Lane, inns of,
Dryden, John,
Dudley, Lord,
D'Urfey, Thomas,
Dutton, John,
Edward VI,
Edwards; Mrs.,
Egan, Pierce,
Elephant and Castle tavern,
Elephant tavern
Elizabeth, Queen
England, John
E O tables
Essex, Lord
Essex Street Club
Ethrage, Sir George
Evans, Widow
Evelyn, John
Falcon tavern
Falkner, Mary Ann
Falstaff, Sir John
Farr, James
Faslolfe, Sir John
Fantom, Captain
Feather's tavern
Fielding, Henry
Finch's Grotto Gardens
Finch, Thomas
Fireworks at Vauxhall
  at Ranelagh
  at Marylebone
  at Bermondsey Spa Gardens
Fitzgerald, Edward
"Fitzgerald, Fighting,"
Fleece tavern
Fleet Street, taverns of
Ford, Parson
Foote, Samuel
Fortune Theatre
Fountain tavern
Fountayne, Dr.
Fox, Charles James
Franklin, Beniamin
Froude, James Anthony
Fuller, Isaac
Fuller, Thomas
Garrawav's coffee-house
Garraway, Thomas
Garrick, David
Garth, Sir Samuel
Gaskell, Mrs.
Gay, John
Gentleman's Magazine
George I
George II
George III
George's coffee-house
George inn
Gibbon, Edward
Gibbons, Grinling
Gibraltar, Siege of
Gifford's, William, Life of Ben Jenson
Gillray, James
Golden Cross tavern
Golden Eagle tavern
Goldsmith, Oliver
Goose and Gridiron
Gordon, George
Goueh, Daniel
Grant, Andrew
Gray, Thomas
Grecian coffee-house
Green, J. R.
Green Ribbon Club
Gregorie, Robert
Gresham, Sir Thomas
Grimes, Jack
Guardian, The
Guildhall Museum
Gwynne, Nell
Hackman, James
Hal, Prince
Hales, John
Hales, Robert
Halifax, Earl of
Hall, Jacob
Halley Professor
Hamilton, Lord Spencer
Hand and Shears tavern
Handel, George Frederick
Hanover Club
Harley, Edward, Earl of Oxford
Harper, Bishop
Harrington, James
Harvard, John
Haslam, Dr
Hawkins, Sir John
Henry II
Henry III
Henry IV
Henry V
Henry VI
Henry VIII
Herrick, Robert
Hill, Aaron
Hill, Dr. John
Hobson, Thomas
Hogarth, William
Holborn, inns of
Holland, Lord
Horden, Hildebrand
Horn tavern
Horseshoe tavern
Horseshoe tavern, Covent Garden
Howard, Lord
Howard, Major-General
Howard, Sir John
Howell. James. "Familiar Letters" of
Hughes, Mr
Hummums tavern
Humphries, Miss
"Humphry Clinker"
Hunt's, Leigh, "The Town"
Hyde, Abbot of
Hyde, Lady
Inspector, The
Irving, Washington
Jacobites
Ja-mes I
James III
Jay, Cyrus
Jerusalem coffee-house
Jessop's
Jonathan's coffee-house
John's coffee-house
Johnson, Dr. Samuel
Jones, Sir William
Jones, William
Jonson, Ben
Keate, Roger
Keats, John
Kenrick, William
Kensington, South, Museum
Keyse Thomas
Killigrew, Harry
King's coffee-house
King, Thomas
King's Head tavern, Penchurch Street
King's Head tavern, Fleet Street
King John's Palace
Kingston, Lord
King Street, Westminster, taverns of
Kit-Cat Club
Kit-Cat portraits
Knapp, Mrs.
Lacy, James
Laguerre, Louis
Lamb, Charles
Lambe, John
Lambert, George
Langton, Bennet
Lee, Sidney
Leg tavern
Leslie, Charles Robert
Lill, William
Lincolnshire, Fens of
Lion's Head at Button's coffee-house
"Lives of the English Poets"
Lloyd, Charles
Lloyd's coffee-house
Lloyd, Edward
Lloyd, Sir Philip
Locket's
Locket, Adam
Locket, Mrs.
Lockier, Francis
London Bridge
London coffee-house
London, Fire of
London, Plague of
London tavern
Long's tavern
Lonsdale, Earl of
Loughborough, Lady
Loughborough, Lord
Louis XVI
Lowe, Thomas
Lowell, J. R.
Lowther, Sir James
Lunsford, Colonel
Lupton, Donald
Lyttelton, Lord
Macaulay, Lord
"Mac Fleoknoe"
Macklin, Charles
Mackreth, Robert
Maiden Lane taverns
Malone, Edmund
Man, Alexander
Man's coffee-house
Manchester, Lady
Marlborough, Duchess of
Marvell, Andrew
Marylebone Gardens
Maxwell, Dr.
Medici, Mary de
Melford, Lydia
Mermaid tavern, Cheapside
Mermaid tavern, Cornhill
"Mermaid Tavern, Lines on,"
Miles's coffee-house
Mitre tavern, Cheapside
Mitre tavern, Fenchurch Street
Mitre tavern, Fleet Street
Monmouth, Duke of
Montagu, Captain
Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley
Montagu, Mrs.
More, Hannah
Morris, Captain
Mounsey, Dr.
Mozart, W. A.
Nag's Head tavern, Cheapside
Nag's Head tavern, Drury Lane
Nando's coffee-house
Nash, Beau
Newport, Young
New Spring Gardens
Newton, Sir Isaac
Norfolk, Duke of
North, Dudley
North, Lord
Northumberland, Duke of
Nottinghamshire Club
Oates, Titus
Observer, The
"Oceana"
October Club
Oldisworth, William
Orford, Lord
Ormonde, Marquis of
Oxford, Earl of
Pall Mall taverns
Pantheon, The
"Paradise Lost,"
Paris Garden
Paterson, James
Pellett, Dr.
Pembroke, Earl of
Pepys, Mrs.
Pepys, Samuel
Percy, Dr.
Petres, Lord
Philips, Ambrose
Phillips, Sir Richard
"Pickmick Papers,"
Pierce, Mrs.
Pie-Powder Court
Pindar, Sir Paul
Pindar, Sir Paul, tavern
Pindar, Peter
Pitt, Colonel
Pitt's Head tavern
Pitt, William
Poins
Pontack's
Pope, Alexander
Pope's Head tavern
Porson, Richard
Portland, Duke of
Preston, Robert
Price, Dr. Richard
Priestly, Dr.
"Prince Alfred,"
Prior, Matthew
Prior, Samuel
Queen's Arms tavern
Queensbury, Duchess of
Quickly, Dame
Quin, James
Rainbow tavern
Raleigh, Sir Walter
Ranelagh
  Rotunda at,
  f&e at,
  amusements of,
  riot at,
  poem on,
  closing of
Ranelagh, Earl of
Rann, John
Raw&son, 'Dan
Rawlinson, Mrs.
Rawthmell's coffee-house
Ray, Martha
Red Lion inn
"Retaliation"
Reynolds, Sir Joshua
Rich, John
Richard II
Richardson, Samuel
Richmond, Duke of
Ridley, Bishop
Robinson, Sir Thomas
Rochester, Lord
Rock, Richard
Rogers, Samuel
Rosee, Pasqua
Rose tavern
Rossetti, Dante Gabriel
Rota Club
Rousseau, J. J.
Rowlandson, Thomas
Rummer tavern
St. Albans, Duchess of
St. Alban's tavern
St. James's coffee-house
St. James's Palace
St. Paul's churchyard
St. Paul's coffee-house
Salter, James
Salutation tavern
Sam's coffee-house
Sanchy, Mr.
Sandwich, Earl of
Saqui, Mme.
Saracen's Head tavern, Snow Hill
"Sarrasin's Head," Westminster
Savage, Richard
Scott; Peter
Scott, Sir Walter
Sedley, Sir Charles
Sedley, Jos.
Selden, John
Selwyn, George
Shadwell, Thomas
Shakespeare, William
Sharp, Rebecca
Sheffield, Lord
Shepherd, George
Sheridan, R. B.
Ship and Turtle tavern
Slaughter's coffee-house
Slaughter, Thomas
Sloane, Sir Hans
Smith, Adam
Smith, Captain John
Smith, J. T.
Smollett, Tobias
Smyrna coffee-house
Snow, Sophia
Somerset coffee-house
Southey, Robert
South Sea Bubble
Southwark
  map of
  meaning of name
  inns of
  Tabard inn
  Bear inn
  fair of
  Boar's Head inn
  George inn
  White Hart inn
Spectator, The
Spenser, Edmund
Spotted Dog inn
Staple inn
Star and Garter tavern
Steele, Sir Richard
Steevens, George
Stella, Journal to
Stevens, George Alexander
Stewart, Admiral Keith
Stewart, General William
Stillingfleet, Benjamin
Stony, Captain
Stow, John
Strand, Inns and taverns of
Strype, John
Stuart, Frances
Suckling, Sir John
Suffolk Street taverns
Swan inn
Swift, Jonathan
Tabard inn
Tarleton, Richard
Tassoni's Secchia Rapita
Tatler, The
Tearsheet, Doll
Temple Bar
Tennyson, Alfred, Lord
Thackeray, W. M.
Thatched House tavern
Thomson, James
Three as sign of London taverns
Three Cranes' Lane
Three Cranes in the Vintry
Three Nuns tavern
Three Tuns tavern
Thurlow, Lord Chancellor
Tibbs, Mr. and Mrs.
Tickell Thomas
Till, William
Tom's coffee-house, Birchin Lane
Tom's coff ke-house, Covent Garden
"Tom Jones"
Tonson, Jacob
Tooke, Home
Torre
Totenhall Court
Turk's Head coffee-house
Turner, J. M. W.
Tyers, Jonathan
Tyers, Tom
"Vanity Fair"
Vauxhall,
  plan of;
  Rotunda at;
  attractions of;
  supper party at;
  closing of
Vernon, Admiral
Vittoria, victory of
Voltaire
Wales, Prince of (George IV)
Walker's "The Original"
Walpole, Horace
Walton's, Isaac, "Complete Angler"
Ward, Ned
Warren Sir William
Warwick, Countess of
Washington, George
Washington, Purser
Waterman's Arms tavern
"Webb, Young"
Weller, Sam
Wellington, Duke of
Welteie's Club
West, Captain Thomas
Westminster taverns and coffee-houses
"Wet Paper Club"
Wheatley, Henry B.
White's Chocolate-house
White Conduit House
White Hart inn
White Hart inn, Bishopsgate Street Within
White Horse Cellar
"White, Mary, or the Murder at the Old Tabard"
Wildman's coffee-house
"Wilkes and Liberty"
Wilkes, John
William III
William, King, statue of,
Wilson, "Long-Bow"
Will's coffee-house, Belle Sauvage yard
Will's coffee-house, Covent Garden
"Will Waterproofs Lyrical Monologue"
Windmill tavern
Wittengamot Club
Wolcot, John, "Peter Pindar"
Wren, Sir Christopher
Wright, Thomas
Wyatt, Sir Thomas
Yarmouth, Lady
York, Duke of
Young, Edward