As I saw the way to the cathedral blocked up by a throng of people who had come out to see
me, I could not help saying, "What went ye out for to see? a reed shaken with the wind?" In
fact I was so worn out that I could hardly walk through the building. The next morning I was
so ill as to need a physician, unable to see any one that called, or to hear any of the letters.
I passed most of the day in bed, but in the evening I had to get up, as I had engaged to drink
tea with two thousand people. Our kind friends, Dr. and Mrs. Wardlaw, came after us, and Mr.
S. and I went in the carriage with them. Our carriage stopped at last at the place. I have
a dim remembrance of a way being made for us through a great crowd all round the house, and
of going with Mrs. Wardlaw up into a dressing-room where I met and shook hands with many friendly
people. Then we passed into a gallery, where a seat was reserved for our party, directly in
front of the audience. Our friend Bailie Paton presided. Mrs. Wardlaw and I sat together, and
around us many friends, chiefly ministers of the different churches, the ladies and gentlemen
of the Glasgow Anti-Slavery Society and others. I told you it was a tea-party; but the arrangements
were altogether different from any I had ever seen. There were narrow tables stretched up and
down the whole extent of the great hall, and every person had an appointed seat. These tables
were set out with cups and saucers, cakes, biscuit, etc., and when the proper time came, attendants
passed along serving tea. The arrangements were so accurate and methodical that the whole multitude
actually took tea together, without the least apparent inconvenience or disturbance.

There was a gentle, subdued murmur of conversation all over the house, the sociable clinking
of teacups and teaspoons, while the entertainment was going on. It seemed to me such an odd
idea, I could not help wondering what sort of a teapot that must be in which all this tea for
two thousand people was made. Truly, as Hadji Baba says, I think they must have had the "father
of all the tea-kettles" to boil it in. I could not help wondering if old mother Scotland had
put two thousand teaspoonfuls of tea for the company, and one for the teapot, as is our good
Yankee custom.

We had quite a sociable time up in our gallery. Our tea-table stretched quite across, and we
drank tea in sight of all the people. By we, I mean a great number of ministers and their wives,
and ladies of the Anti-Slavery society, besides our party, and the friends whom I have mentioned
before. All seemed to be enjoying themselves.

After tea they sang a few verses of the seventy-second psalm in the old Scotch version.

April 17. To-day a large party of us started on a small steamer to go down the Clyde. It was
a trip full of pleasure and incident. Now we were shown the remains of old Cardross Castle,
where it was said Robert Bruce breathed his last. And now we came near the beautiful grounds
of Roseneath, a green, velvet-like peninsula, stretching out into the widening waters.

Somewhere about here I was presented, by his own request, to a broad- shouldered Scotch farmer,
who stood some six feet two, and who paid me the compliment to say that he had read my book,
and that he would walk sis miles to see me any day. Such a flattering evidence of discriminating
taste, of course, disposed my heart towards him; but when I went up and put my hand into his
great prairie of a palm, I was as a grasshopper in my own eyes. I inquired who he was and was
told he was one of the Duke of Argyll's farmers. I thought to myself if all the duke's farmers
were of this pattern, that he might be able to speak to the enemy in the gates to some purpose.

It was concluded after we left Roseneath that, instead of returning by the boat, we should
take carriage and ride home along the banks of the river. In our carriage were Mr. S. and myself,
Dr. Robson, and Lady Anderson. About this time I commenced my first essay towards giving titles,
and made, as you may suppose, rather an odd piece of work of it, generally saying "Mrs." first,
and "Lady" afterwards, and then begging pardon. Lady Anderson laughed and said she would give
me a general absolution. She is a truly genial, hearty Scotchwoman, and seemed to enter happily
into the spirit of the hour.

As we rode on, we found that the news of our coming had spread through the village. People
came and stood in their doors, beckoning, bowing, smiling, and waving their handkerchiefs,
and the carriage was several times stopped by persons who came to offer flowers. I remember,
in particular, a group of young girls bringing to the carriage two of the most beautiful children
I ever saw, whose little hands literally deluged us with flowers.

At the village of Helensburgh we stopped a little while to call upon Mrs. Bell, the wife of
Mr. Bell, the inventor of the steamboat. His invention in this country was at about the same
time as that of Fulton in America. Mrs. Bell came to the carriage to speak to us. She is a
venerable woman, far advanced in years. They had prepared a lunch for us, and quite a number
of people had come together to meet us, but our friends said there was not time for us to stop.

We rode through several villages after this, and met everywhere a warm welcome. What pleased
me was, that it was not mainly from the literary, nor the rich, nor the great, but the plain,
common people. The butcher came out of his stall and the baker from his shop, the miller dusty
with flour, the blooming, comely young mother, with her baby in her arms, all smiling and bowing,
with that hearty, intelligent, friendly look, as if they knew we should be glad to see them.

Once, while we stopped to change horses, I, for the sake of seeing something more of the country,
walked on. It seems the honest landlord and his wife were greatly disappointed at this; however,
they got into the carriage and rode on to see me, and I shook hands with them with a right
good will.

We saw several of the clergymen, who came out to meet us; and I remember stopping just to be
introduced, one by one, to a most delightful family, a gray-headed father and mother, with
comely brothers and fair sisters, all looking so kindly and homelike, that I should have been
glad to accept the invitation they gave me to their dwelling.

This day has been a strange phenomenon to me. In the first place, I have seen in all these
villages how universally the people read. I have seen how capable they are of a generous excitement
and enthusiasm, and how much may be done by a work of fiction so written as to enlist those
sympathies which are common to all classes. Certainly a great deal may be effected in this
way, if God gives to any one the power, as I hope he will to many. The power of fictitious
writing, for good as well as evil, is a thing which ought most seriously to be reflected on.
No one can fail to see that in our day it is becoming a very great agency.

We came home quite tired, as you may well suppose. You will not be surprised that the next
day I found myself more disposed to keep my bed than go out.

Two days later: We bade farewell to Glasgow, overwhelmed with kindness to the last, and only
oppressed by the thought of how little that was satisfactory we were able to give in return.
Again we were in the railroad car on our way to Edinburgh. A pleasant two hours' trip is this
from Glasgow to Edinburgh. When the cars stopped at Linlithgow station, the name started us
as out of a dream.

In Edinburgh the cars stopped amid a crowd of people who had assembled to meet us. The lord
provost met us at the door of the car, and presented us to the magistracy of the city and the
committees of the Edinburgh Anti-Slavery Societies. The drab dresses and pure white bonnets
of many Friends were conspicuous among the dense moving crowd, as white doves seen against
a dark cloud. Mr. S. and myself, and our future hostess, Mrs. Wigham, entered the carriage
with the lord provost, and away we drove, the crowd following with their shouts and cheers.
I was inexpressibly touched and affected by this. While we were passing the monument of Scott,
I felt an oppressive melancholy. What a moment life seems in the presence of the noble dead!
What a momentary thing is art, in all its beauty! Where are all those great souls that have
created such an atmosphere of light about Edinburgh? and how little a space was given them
to live and enjoy!

We drove all over Edinburgh, up to the castle, to the university, to Holyrood, to the hospitals,
and through many of the principal streets, amid shouts, and smiles, and greetings. Some boys
amused me very much by their pertinacious attempts to keep up with the carriage.

"Heck," says one of them, "that's her; see the courls!"

The various engravers who have amused themselves by diversifying my face for the public having
all, with great unanimity, agreed in giving prominence to this point, I suppose the urchins
thought they were on safe ground there. I certainly think I answered one good purpose that
day, and that is of giving the much-oppressed and calumniated class called boys an opportunity
to develop all the noise that was in them, --a thing for which I think they must bless me in
their remembrances. At last the carriage drove into a deep-graveled yard, and we alighted at
a porch covered with green ivy, and found ourselves once more at home.

You may spare your anxieties about me, for I do assure you that if I were an old Sèvres china
jar I could not have more careful handling than I do. Everybody is considerate; a great deal
to say when there appears to be so much excitement. Everybody seems to understand how good-for-nothing
I am; and yet, with all this consideration, I have been obliged to keep my room and bed for
a good part of the time. Of the multitudes who have called, I have seen scarcely any.

To-morrow evening is to be the great tea-party here. How in the world I am ever to live through
it I don't know.

The amount of letters we found waiting for us here in Edinburgh was, if possible, more appalling
than in Glasgow. Among those from persons whom you would be interested in hearing of, I may
mention a very kind and beautiful one from the Duchess of Sutherland, and one also from the
Earl of Carlisle, both desiring to make appointments for meeting us as soon as we come to London.
Also a very kind and interesting note from the Rev. Mr. Kingsley and lady. I look forward with
a great deal of interest to passing a little time with them in their rectory.

As to all engagements, I am in a state of happy acquiescence, having resigned myself, as a
very tame lion, into the hands of my keepers. Whenever the time comes for me to do anything,
I try to behave as well as I can, which, as Dr. Young says, is all that an angel could do under
the same circumstances.

April 26. Last night came off the soiree. The hall was handsomely decorated with flags in front.
We went with the lord provost in his carriage. We went up as before into a dressing-room, where
I was presented to many gentlemen and ladies. When we go in, the cheering, clapping, and stamping
at first strikes one with a strange sensation; but then everybody looks so heartily pleased
and delighted, and there is such an all-pervading atmosphere of geniality and sympathy, as
makes me in a few moments feel quite at home. After all, I consider that these cheers and applauses
are Scotland's voice to America, a recognition of the brotherhood of the countries.

The national penny offering, consisting of a thousand golden sovereigns on a magnificent silver
salver, stood conspicuously in view of the audience. It has been an unsolicited offering, given
in the smallest sums, often from the extreme poverty of the giver. The committee who collected
it in Edinburgh and Glasgow bore witness to the willingness with which the very poorest contributed
the offering of their sympathy. In one cottage they found a blind woman, and said, "Here, at
least, is one who will feel no interest, as she cannot have read the book."

"Indeed," said the old lady, "if I cannot read, my son has read it to me, and I've got my penny
saved to give."

It is to my mind extremely touching to see how the poor, in their poverty, can be moved to
a generosity surpassing that of the rich. Nor do I mourn that they took it from their slender
store, because I know that a penny given from a kindly impulse is a greater comfort and blessing
to the poorest giver than even a penny received.

As in the case of the other meeting, we came out long before the speeches were ended. Well,
of course I did not sleep all night, and the next day I felt quite miserable.

From Edinburgh we took cars for Aberdeen. I enjoyed this ride more than anything we had seen
yet, the country was so wild and singular. In the afternoon we came in sight of the German
Ocean. The free, bracing air from the sea, and the thought that it actually was the German
Ocean, and that over the other side was Norway, within a day's sail of us, gave it a strange,
romantic charm. It was towards the close of the afternoon that we found ourselves crossing
the Dee, in view of Aberdeen. My spirits were wonderfully elated: the grand scenery and fine,
bracing air; the noble, distant view of the city, rising with its harbor and shipping,--all
filled me with delight. In this propitious state, disposed to be pleased with everything, our
hearts responded warmly to the greetings of the many friends who were waiting for us at the
station-house.

The lord provost received us into his carriage, and as we drove along pointed out to us the
various objects of interest in the beautiful town. Among other things, a fine old bridge across
the Dee attracted our particular attention. We were conducted to the house of Mr. Cruikshank,
a Friend, and found waiting for us there the thoughtful hospitality which we had ever experienced
in all our stopping-places. A snug little quiet supper was laid out upon the table, of which
we partook in haste, as we were informed that the assembly at the hall were waiting to receive us.

There arrived, we found the hall crowded, and with difficulty made our way to the platform.
Whether owing to the stimulating effect of the air from the ocean, or to the comparatively
social aspect of the scene, or perhaps to both, certain it is that we enjoyed the meeting with
great zest. I was surrounded on the stage with blooming young ladies, one of whom put into
my hands a beautiful bouquet, some flowers of which I have now, dried, in my album. The refreshment
tables were adorned with some exquisite wax flowers, the work, as I was afterwards told, of
a young lady in the place. One of these designs especially interested me. It was a group of
water-lilies resting on a mirror, which gave them the appearance of growing in the water.

We had some very animated speaking, in which the speakers contrived to blend enthusiastic admiration
and love for America with detestation of slavery.

They presented an offering in a beautiful embroidered purse, and after much shaking of hands
we went home, and sat down to the supper-table for a little more chat before going to bed.
The next morning--as we had only till noon to stay in Aberdeen--our friends, the lord provost
and Mr. Leslie, the architect, came immediately after breakfast to show us the place.

About two o'clock we started from Aberdeen, among crowds of friends, to whom we bade farewell
with real regret.

At Stonehaven station, where we stopped a few minutes, there was quite a gathering of the inhabitants
to exchange greetings, and afterwards, at successive stations along the road, many a kindly
face and voice made our journey a pleasant one.

When we got into Dundee it seemed all alive with welcome. We went in the carriage with the
lord provost, Mr. Thoms, to his residence, where a party had been waiting dinner for us for
some time.

The meeting in the evening was in a large church, densely crowded, and conducted much as the
others had been. When they came to sing the closing hymn, I hoped they would sing Dundee; but
they did not, and I fear in Scotland, as elsewhere, the characteristic national melodies are
giving way before more modern ones.

We left Dundee at two o'clock, by cars, for Edinburgh again, and in the evening attended another
soiree of the workingmen of Edinburgh. We have received letters from the workingmen, both in
Dundee and Glasgow, desiring our return to attend soirees in those cities. Nothing could give
us greater pleasure, had we time or strength. The next day we had a few calls to make, and
an invitation from Lady Drummond to visit classic Hawthornden, which, however, we had not time
to accept. In the forenoon, Mr. S. and I called on Lord and Lady Gainsborough. Though she is
one of the queen's household, she is staying here at Edinburgh while the queen is at Osborne.
I infer, therefore, that the appointment includes no very onerous duties. The Earl of Gainsborough
is the eldest brother of the Rev. Baptist W. Noel. It was a rainy, misty morning when I left
my kind retreat and friends in Edinburgh. Considerate as everybody had been about imposing
on my time or strength, still you may well believe that I was much exhausted. We left Edinburgh,
therefore, with the determination to plunge at once into some hidden and unknown spot, where
we might spend two or three days quietly by ourselves; and remembering your Sunday at Stratford-on-Avon,
I proposed that we should go there. As Stratford, however, is off the railroad line, we determined
to accept the invitation, which was lying by us, from our friend, Joseph Sturge, of Birmingham,
and take sanctuary with him. So we wrote on, intrusting him with the secret, and charging him
on no account to let any one know of our arrival.

About night our cars whizzed into the depot at Birmingham; but just before we came in a difficulty
was started in the company. "Mr. Sturge is to be there waiting for us, but he does not know
us and we don't know him; what is to be done?" C. insisted that he should know him by instinct;
and so, after we reached the depot, we told him to sally out and try. Sure enough, in a few
moments he pitched upon a cheerful, middle-aged gentleman, with a moderate but not decisive
broad brim to his hat, and challenged him as Mr. Sturge. The result verified the truth that
"instinct is a great matter." In a few moments our new friend and ourselves were snugly encased
in a fly, trotting off as briskly as ever we could to his place at Edgbaston, nobody a whit
the wiser. You do not know how pleased we felt to think we had done it so nicely.

As we were drinking tea that evening, Elihu Burritt came in. It was the first time I had ever
seen him, though I had heard a great deal of him from our friends in Edinburgh. He is a man
in middle life, tall and slender, with fair complexion, blue eyes, an air of delicacy and refinement,
and manners of great gentleness. My ideas of the "learned blacksmith" had been of something
altogether more ponderous and peremptory. Elihu has been for some years operating, in England
and on the Continent, in a movement which many in our half-Christianized times regard with
as much incredulity as the grim, old warlike barons did the suspicious imbecilities of reading
and writing. The sword now, as then, seems so much more direct a way to terminate controversies,
that many Christian men, even, cannot conceive how the world is to get along without it.

We spent the evening in talking over various topics relating to the anti-slavery movement.
Mr. Sturge was very confident that something more was to be done than had ever been done yet,
by combinations for the encouragement of free in the place of slave grown produce; a question
which has, ever since the days of Clarkson, more or less deeply occupied the minds of abolitionists
in England. I should say that Mr. Sturge in his family has for many years conscientiously forborne
the use of any article produced by slave labor. I could scarcely believe it possible that there
could be such an abundance and variety of all that is comfortable and desirable in the various
departments of household living within these limits. Mr. Sturge presents the subject with very
great force, the more so from the consistency of his example.

The next morning, as we were sitting down to breakfast, our friends sent in to me a plate of
the largest, finest strawberries I have ever seen, which, considering that it was only the
latter part of April, seemed to me quite an astonishing luxury.

Before we left, we had agreed to meet a circle of friends from Birmingham, consisting of the
Abolition Society there, which is of long standing, extending back in its memories to the very
commencement of the agitation under Clarkson and Wilberforce. The windows of the parlor were
opened to the ground; and the company invited filled not only the room, but stood in a crowd
on the grass around the window. Among the peaceable company present was an admiral in the navy,
a fine, cheerful old gentleman, who entered with hearty interest into the scene.

A throng of friends accompanied us to the depot, while from Birmingham we had the pleasure
of the company of Elihu Burritt, and enjoyed a delightful run to London, where we arrived towards
evening.

At the station-house in London we found the Rev. Messrs. Binney and Sherman waiting for us
with carriages. C. went with Mr. Sherman, and Mr. S. and I soon found ourselves in a charming
retreat called Rose Cottage, in Walworth, about which I will tell you more anon. Mrs. B. received
us with every attention which the most thoughtful hospitality could suggest. One of the first
things she said to me after we got into our room was, "Oh, we are so glad you have come! for
we are all going to the lord mayor's dinner tonight, and you are invited." So, though I was
tired, I hurried to dress in all the glee of meeting an adventure. As soon as Mr. and Mrs.
B. and the rest of the party were ready, crack went the whip, round went the wheels, and away
we drove.

We found a considerable throng, and I was glad to accept a seat which was offered me in the
agreeable vicinity of the lady mayoress, so that I might see what would be interesting to me
of the ceremonial.

A very dignified gentleman, dressed in black velvet, with a fine head, made his way through
the throng, and sat down by me, introducing himself as Lord Chief Baron Pollock. He told me
he had just been reading the legal part of the "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin," and remarked especially
on the opinion of Judge Ruffin, in the case of State v. Mann, as having made a deep impression
on his mind.

Dinner was announced between nine and ten o'clock, and we were conducted into a splendid hall,
where the tables were laid.

Directly opposite me was Mr. Dickens, whom I now beheld for the first time, and was surprised
to see looking so young. Mr. Justice Talfourd, known as the author of "Ion," was also there
with his lady. She had a beautiful, antique cast of head. The lord mayor was simply dressed
in black, without any other adornment than a massive gold chain. We rose from table between
eleven and twelve o'clock--that is, we ladies--and went into the drawing-room, where I was
presented to Mrs. Dickens and several other ladies. Mrs. Dickens is a good specimen of a truly
English woman; tall, large, and well developed, with fine, healthy color, and an air of frankness,
cheerfulness, and reliability. A friend whispered to me that she was as observing and fond
of humor as her husband.

After a while the gentlemen came back to the drawing-room, and I had a few moments of very
pleasant, friendly conversation with Mr. Dickens. They are both people that one could not know
a little of without desiring to know more. After a little we began to talk of separating; the
lord mayor to take his seat in the House of Commons, and the rest of the party to any other
engagement that might be upon their list.

"Come, let us go to the House of Commons," said one of my friends, "and make a night of it."
"With all my heart," replied I, "if I only had another body to go into to-morrow."

What a convenience in sight-seeing it would be if one could have a relay of bodies as of clothes,
and slip from one into the other! But we, not used to the London style of turning night into
day, are full weary already. So good-night to you all.

ROSE COTTAGE, WALWORTH, LONDON, May 2, 1856.

MY DEAR,--This morning Mrs. Follen called and we had quite a chat. We are separated by the
whole city. She lives at the West End, while I am down here in Walworth, which is one of the
postscripts of London, for this place has as many postscripts as a lady's letter. This evening
we dined with the Earl of Carlisle. There was no company but ourselves, for he, with great
consideration, said in his note that he thought a little quiet would be the best thing he could
offer.

Lord Carlisle is a great friend to America, and so is his sister, the Duchess of Sutherland.
He is the only English traveler who ever wrote notes on our country in a real spirit of appreciation.

We went about seven o'clock, the dinner hour being here somewhere between eight and nine. We
were shown into an ante-room adjoining the entrance hall, and from that into an adjacent apartment,
where we met Lord Carlisle. The room had a pleasant, social air, warmed and enlivened by the
blaze of a coal fire and wax candles.

We had never, any of us, met Lord Carlisle before; but the considerateness and cordiality of
our reception obviated whatever embarrassment there might have been in this circumstance. In
a few moments after we were all seated, a servant announced the Duchess of Sutherland, and
Lord Carlisle presented me. She is tall and stately, with a most noble bearing. Her fair complexion,
blonde hair, and full lips speak of Saxon blood.

The only person present not of the family connection was my quondam correspondent in America,
Arthur Helps. Somehow or other I had formed the impression from his writings that he was a
venerable sage of very advanced years, who contemplated life as an aged hermit from the door
of his cell. Conceive my surprise to find a genial young gentleman of about twenty-five, who
looked as if he might enjoy a joke as well as another man.

After the ladies left the table, the conversation turned on the Maine law, which seems to be
considered over here as a phenomenon in legislation, and many of the gentlemen present inquired
about it with great curiosity.

After the gentlemen rejoined us, the Duke and Duchess of Argyll came in, and Lord and Lady
Blantyre. These ladies are the daughters of the Duchess of Sutherland. The Duchess of Argyll
is of slight and fairy- like figure, with flaxen hair and blue eyes, answering well enough
to the description of Annot Lyle in the Legend of Montrose. Lady Blantyre was somewhat taller,
of fuller figure, with a very brilliant bloom. Lord Blantyre is of the Stuart blood, a tall
and slender young man with very graceful manners.

