The green dot slowed, came to a stop. Gefty's finger tapped the same button four times. The
big chart flicked out of existence, and in the plate three regional star maps appeared and
vanished in quick succession behind it. The fourth map stayed. For a few seconds, the red-circled
green spark was not visible here. Then it showed at the eastern margin of the map, came gliding
forwards and to the left, slowed again and held steady. Now the star map began to glide through
the locator plate, carrying the fixed green dot with it. It brought the dot up to dead center
point in the locator plate and stopped.

Gefty slumped a little. He rubbed his hands slowly down his face and muttered a few words.
Then he shook his head.

"Gefty," Kerim whispered, "what is it? Where are we?"

Gefty looked at her.

"After we got hauled into that time current," he said hoarsely, "I tried to find out which
way in space we were headed. The direction indicators over there seemed to show we were trying
to go everywhere at once. You remember Maulbow's control unit wasn't working right, needed
adjustments. Well, all those little impulses must have pretty well canceled out because we
weren't taken really far. In the last hour and a half we've covered roughly the distance the
Queen could have gone on her own in, say, thirty days."

"Then where ..."

"Home," Gefty said simply. "It's ridiculous! Other side of the Hub from where we started."
He nodded at the plate. "Eastern Hub Quadrant. Section Six Eight. The G2 behind the green dot--that's
the Evalee system. We could be putting down at Evalee Interstellar three hours from now if
we wanted to."

Kerim was laughing and crying together. "Oh, Gefty! I knew you would ..."

"A fat lot I had to do with it!" Gefty leaned forward suddenly, switched on the transmitter.
"And now let's pick up a live newscast. There's something else I ..."

His voice trailed off. The transmitter screen lit up with a blurred jumble of print, colors,
a muttering of voices, music and noises. Gefty twisted a dial. The screen cleared, showed a
newscast headline sheet. Gefty blinked at it, glanced sideways at Kerim, grimaced.

"The something else," he said, his voice a little strained, "was something I was also worried
about. Looks like I was more or less right."

"Why, what's wrong?"

"Nothing really bad," Gefty assured her. He added, "I think. But take a look at the Federation
dateline."

Kerim peered at the screen, frowned. "But ..."

"Uh-huh."

"Why, that ... that's almost ..."

"That," Gefty said, "or rather this is the day after we started out from the Hub, headed roughly
Galactic west. Three weeks ago. We'd be just past Miam." He knuckled his chin. "Interesting
thought, isn't it?"

Kerim was silent for long seconds. "Then they ... or we ..."

"Oh, they're us, all right," Gefty said. "They'd have to be, wouldn't they?"

"I suppose so. It seems a little confusing. But I was thinking. If you send them a transmitter
call ..."

Gefty shook his head. "The Queen's transmitter isn't too hot, but it might push a call as far
as Evalee. Then we could arrange for a Com-Web link-up there, and in another ten minutes or
so ... but I don't think we'd better."

"Why not?" Kerim demanded.

"Because we got through it all safely, so we're going to get through it safely. But if we receive
that message now and never go on to Maulbow's moon ... you see? There's no way of knowing just
what would happen."

Kerim looked hesitant, frowned. "I suppose you're right," she agreed reluctantly at last. "So
Mr. Maulbow will have to stay dead now. And that janandra." After a moment she added pensively,
"Of course, they weren't really very nice--"

