CONTENTS

THE SPIRIT OF FASTING AND PETTER NORD THE LEGEND OF THE BIRD'S NEST THE KING'S GRAVE THE OUTLAWS
THE LEGEND OF REOR VALDEMAR ATTERDAG MAMSELL FREDRIKA THE ROMANCE OF A FISHERMAN'S WIFE MOTHER'S
PORTRAIT A FALLEN KING A CHRISTMAS GUEST UNCLE REUBEN DOWNIE AMONG THE CLIMBING ROSES

THE SPIRIT OF FASTING AND PETTER NORD

I

I can see before me the little town, friendly as a home. It is so small that I know its every
hole and corner, am friends with all the children and know the name of every one of its dogs.
Who ever walked up the street knew to which window he must raise his eyes to see a lovely face
behind the panes, and who ever strolled through the town park knew well whither he should turn
his steps to meet the one he wished to meet.

One was as proud of the beautiful roses in the garden of a neighbor, as if they had grown in
one's own. If anything mean or vulgar was done, it was as great a shame as if it had happened
in one's own family; but at the smallest adventure, at a fire or a fight in the market-place,
one swelled with pride and said: "Only see what a community! Do such things ever happen anywhere
else? What a wonderful town!"

In my beloved town nothing ever changes. If I ever come there again, I shall find the same
houses and shops that I knew of old; the same holes in the pavements will cause my downfall;
the same stiff hedges of lindens, the same clipped lilac bushes will captivate my fascinated
gaze. Again shall I see the old Mayor who rules the whole town walking down the street with
elephantine tread. What a feeling of security there is in knowing that you are walking there!
And deaf old Halfvorson will still be digging in his garden, while his eyes, clear as water,
stare and wander as if they would say: "We have investigated everything, everything; now, earth,
we will bore down to your very centre."

But one who will not still be there is little, round Petter Nord: the little fellow from Värmland,
you know, who was in Halfvorson's shop; he who amused the customers with his small mechanical
inventions and his white mice. There is a long story about him. There are stories to be told
about everything and everybody in the town. Nowhere else do such wonderful things happen.

He was a peasant boy, little Petter Nord. He was short and round; he was brown-eyed and smiling.
His hair was paler than birch leaves in the autumn; his cheeks were red and downy. And he was
from Värmland. No one, seeing him, could imagine that he was from any other place. His native
land had equipped him with its excellent qualities. He was quick at his work, nimble with his
fingers, ready with his tongue, clear in his thoughts. And, moreover, full of fun, good-natured
and brave, kind and quarrelsome, inquisitive and a chatterbox. A madcap, he never could show
more respect to a burgomaster than to a beggar! But he had a heart; he fell in love every other
day, and confided in the whole town.

This child of rich gifts attended to the work in the shop in rather an extraordinary manner.
The customers were waited on while he fed the white mice. I was considering what might be the result
of all this, when they suddenly seized hold of the chair, and marched off. I ought now indeed
to have called out to them, but partly from a curiosity to discover the cause of this singular
nocturnal ramble, and partly from a fear of being roughly treated for my obtrusiveness, I
was induced to remain quietly in my corner. My weight did not seem to attract their notice;
but how great was my astonishment on observing that my bearers were
carrying me, in unvarying circles, round the market place, though
at every turn they contracted the space they traversed-- and that the
usual heavy-sounding tread of the chairmen was changed for a noiseless,
gliding pace.

I looked out to see whether they had not drawn off their boots, but I was soon convinced by the
evidence of my eyes that their heavy boots were in unison with the rest of the customary apparel
of that class. Their evolutions now became gradually narrower, and I, in the same proportion,
more anxious and excited.

At length they stopped, panting, under the lamp-post which stands in the middle of the market
place, and I was once more greeted by those low, hoarse sounds, which I have already mentioned,
and it was only by dint of the most attentive listening, that I could distinguish the following
words: We are formed of the mist of the grave, We bear to the feast
of the slain, There we carry the free and the slave, The host and
his numberless train, Yonder we carry-- to and fro, Nor end our labours
e'er shall know.

At this moment a mist floated before my eyes-- I endeavoured to shout-- but although I used the
utmost exertion, I could not produce a sound-- I felt as if palsied
and enchained-- my situation was desperate-- what species of civility
could I expect from the spirits, (for that they were supernatural
beings I could no longer doubt) of those chairmen who during their
mortal career are so noted for their brutality?

After a short halt, they recommenced their march at the same stealthy pace, through how many
streets I cannot now tell, for fear almost deprived me of my senses. We came to the town gate--
it opened-- and my conductors bore me directly towards-- the churchyard! I was in a fever of
excitement. They no sooner reached this desired spot, than they stopped, and I heard their accursed
voices for the third time. They opened the door, as if waiting for some one-- I endeavoured
to embrace this opportunity to escape, or to call out, but my strength had totally deserted
me; every limb felt paralyzed.

And now a whole legion of similar fiends swarmed around my conductors, and one after another, sprang
in upon me, apparently no more remarking my presence than if I had formed part of the cushion.
The first that fell upon me was a cold, heavy carcass that might have been buried, at farthest,
about three days. I thought horror and disgust would have destroyed
me. Then came a countless myriad of the skeletons of the defunct, all
crowding into the sedan, as if it had been the ark of Noah.

At length, to all appearance, the whole of the inhabitants of the churchyard were safely seated
upon and beside me, and the tombstones which had pertinaciously adhered to many a greasy soul,
added not a little to the load which lay rattling and groaning upon
me.

A monstrous skeleton which lay at my side-- with its eternal grin-- made the most horrible
inroads into my right side with its bony elbow, and such a smell-- even now I wonder that
every sense did not leave me. The patience of my bearers seemed however
now to be exhausted. They still battled at the door with hundreds of
this amiable fraternity; at length they dashed the door to with a
force that made the windows quiver, and made off with me and my noble
troop.

And now it was that the rattling, and groaning, and the elbow manoeuvre were first fully brought
into action, and in their endeavours to seat themselves more conveniently, my accursed freight
jolted from one side to the other till I thought my knees would have
broken down under their burthen.

One would imagine that in such numerous society I should have been warmly seated, yet no icehouse
ever was colder. At every step that our bearers took, the icy mass of putridity before me, shook
together-- my flesh creeps even now at the recollection. The company, growing merry, began to sing--
and with organs similar to those I had already remarked in our guides; but what airs! what tunes! The
corpse before me seemed to be a leading singer; his soul-moving, heart-rending treble, sounded
something like scraping slate pencil upon glass; the stave was of
the following joyous import:-- See, how glows the deadly wine, Upon
the bony lip, And arranged in spectral line, Our joyous numbers trip.

See-- attentive at her side, The ghastly lover woos his bride; Whilst sepulchral music flowing, Scares
the dawning day from growing. To the latest hour of my existence, I shall retain a vivid recollection
of this auricular martyrdom. After a ride of about half an hour, during which, my situation was
more horrible than I can depict, our conductors stopped at another churchyard; the door was now opened,
and as each passed forward to escape, a terrific squabble ensued
between the cargo and my two attendants, probably about the fare.

A third time I strained every nerve to call out, but it was absolutely impossible; at length,
however, their quarrel seemed to have been adjusted; the chairman shut the door, still grumbling,
and I was again, thank God, alone-- could once more breathe freely--
and by degrees became warmer.

My conductors took their way through the gate back again, and I became more easy in the reflection
that, in consonance with old habits of good order, they would probably
replace the chair in its original situation; but, to my astonishment
and terror, I now first became aware that the size of my conductors
was rapidly enlarging.

Instantly their statures became more exalted, their forms more aerial, and their strides more gigantic;
and I could see distinctly into the first floor of the houses of the street through which we
were passing. In the square where stands the monument of our late lamented monarch, their forms became
really terrific, and as the foremost strode past, he swept the statue
from its pedestal with his coat, with as much apparent ease as if
it had been a wax doll.

In the next street, I could, without difficulty, look into the third floor of the houses we were
passing, and on reaching the market place, I found myself elevated to the altitude of the church-clock;
my bearers having become as attenuated as the conductor. Here all consciousness left me, and what
farther became of me, I know not. On recovering myself, I lay in the chair which stood in its old
place. It was already near mid-day; I therefore crept softly out of my
fearful tenement, and luckily escaped unobserved. My friends to whom
I related my adventure, said, that I had dreamed-- that I had been
visited by the nightmare-- but to me it has always appeared singular,
that for the whole of the next day, my coat had a smell as earthy
as if it had lain in a grave; and that the storm should this very
night have thrown down the statue of the king from its pedestal.

J. H. F.***** SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY. Waterproof Composition. Mr. Henry Hunt, the patentee of the
"Waterproof Composition," informs us that for the above invention we are indebted to the scientific
researches of Baron Charles Wetterstedz, the brother of one of the ministers of state at the Court
of Sweden, by whom it was employed to prevent the infection of the plague, by means of absorption
through the pores of the soles of boots and shoes; but he accidentally discovered that it rendered them
waterproof, during a thaw in Sweden, when his boots, being prepared with this composition, resisted
the snow-water, and remained perfectly dry, whilst the boots of other
persons were saturated, and resembled tripe. Mr. Scott, an experienced
engineer, has experimented upon leather prepared with Mr. Hunt's
Composition, and found it "impervious to moisture at all degrees of
pressure that leather will bear."

The best tannage becomes saturated at from ten to fourteen pounds upon the inch, whilst that prepared
with the Composition, was not penetrated at 180 lbs. upon the inch. With such testimony, we need not add our
recommendation of "the Waterproof Composition" as likely to prove of great benefit, especially to
our sporting and country friends. Preservation of Canvass. The Literary
Gazette informs us, that an inhabitant of Troyes, in Champagne, has discovered
a method of preparing canvass, and every other description of coarse
linen, so as to resist damp, and prevent the approach of insects
and vermin, and that the inventor promises to make his discovery
public.

Bacon.

An American journal says, that Elder leaves bruised in a mortar,
with a little water, will destroy skippers in bacon, without injuring
the meat.

Ale.

Ale brewers usually put into the bung-hole of each cask, when stowed
away, a handful of half boiled hops impregnated with wort, the object
of which is to exclude the atmospheric air by covering the surface
of the liquid; but some brewers, more rigidly attentive, insert (privately)
at the same time, about one ounce of powdered black rosin, previously
mixed with beer, which swims on the surface, but after a time is partially
absorbed.-- Lib.

Useful Know. Beer Poisons. Cocculus Indicus is largely imported into
this country, considering that few know for what other purpose it
is used than to adulterate beer. We suspect what was at one time generally
sold to brewers for Cocculus Indicus was really Nux Vomica (used to
poison rats), and that the brewers'druggists when making their defence,
passed Nux Vomica for Cocculus Indicus, on the same principle as the forgers
of bank notes plead guilty to the lesser indictment. Opium, we believe,
is still in use; for we have known seizures of that article in the custody
of ale brewers, within the last two years.-- Library of Useful Know.
Bees.

A Correspondent of the Magazine of Natural History, says, "the superstition respecting bees prevails in
some parts, as to informing them of any great public event that takes place." Swan River Settlement.
The soil of Swan River, from its moist state, is better adapted to the cultivation of tobacco and
cotton than any other part of Australia. Both these articles are intended to be cultivated on a
large scale, as also sugar and flax, with various important articles of drugs that the climate
is peculiarly adapted to the growth of.-- Parliamentary Papers.

The Harvest Bug Is so minute as to be visible only to the keenest
eyes, and then only when on any very smooth white surface.

Ladies and children are the first to complain of their attacks; and chiefly where any part of
the dress fits closely to the skin. There they seat themselves at
the intersection of the lines, and lay such firm hold with their feet
and jaws, that they cannot be displaced by rubbing, nor by washing,
unless a powerful spirit or acid be used.

By a microscope, the bug will be seen to have eight legs, two feelers,
and an abdomen something egg-shaped; colour livid red; and in size
no bigger than the point of a small needle.

They lacerate the epidermis in some way or other, as a small hole is observable where they have been
seated; and cause extreme itching and considerable inflammation of
the part.-- Magazine of Natural History.

We should think Eau de luce or ammonia a remedy for their bite.

Adulterated Flour. If flour adulterated with potato starch be sprinkled upon black paper, and
examined by a powerful lens, or a microscope, the starch may be detected
by the brilliancy of its grains.***** NOTES OF A READER.***** A BOTTLE
OF GOOD WINE. The following (from the Ramblings of a Desultory Man, in
the New Monthly Magazine) is in the best vein of a bon vivant and will
be easily credited:-- "After dinner we ordered a bottle of Sautern,
which was marked in the carte at two francs ten sous.

It was in a kind of despair that we did it, for the red wine was
worth nothing.

It came-- people may talk of Hocheim, and Burgundy, and Hermitage,
and all the wines that ever the Rhone or the Rhine produced, but never
was their wine like that one bottle of Sautern.

It poured out as clear as the stream of hope ere it has been muddied by disappointment, and
it was as soft and generous as early joy ere youth finds out its fallacy. We drank it slowly,
and lingered over the last glass as if we had a presentiment that
we should never meet with any thing like it again. When it was done,
quite done, we ordered another bottle. But no-- it was not the same wine.
We sent it away and had another-- in vain;-- and another-- there
was no more of it to be had."

It was like one of those days of pure unsophisticated happiness, that sometimes break in upon life,
and leave nothing to be desired; that come unexpectedly, last their
own brief space, like things apart, and are remembered for ever.

"We remember just such a bottle of Grave at Abbeville.***** ST. SAVIOUR,
SOUTHWARK.

[4] [4] In connexion with the decay of this venerable pile, we notice with
sincere regret the recent and premature death of Mr. George Gwilt,
jun., who assisted his father in the restoration of the tower and
the choir of St. Saviour's, (see MIRROR, vol. xiii p. 227.) Though
little advanced in his 27th year, he had already proved an honour
to his family and his profession of an architect, by the production
of a design for the restoration of the church, for which a premium
of one hundred guineas was awarded to him about five years since.

Of his excellent disposition and many good qualities as a friend
and associate, we are enabled to speak with equal confidence; and
seldom has it been our lot to meet with so much good sense and correct
taste in an individual as we were wont to enjoy in the society of
the deceased.

This is far from a full eulogium on his merits; but as the above extract,
presented an opportunity, we could not omit this slight tribute to
the memory of A LAMENTED FRIEND.

Among the fine old localities of London is the neighbourhood of the church of St. Saviour,
Southwark; this is one of the noblest and largest churches in London, and when the new London
Bridge is finished, might be made a noble object from the approach
on the Borough side.

It is a positive disgrace if it be suffered to remain in its present
dilapidated state by the parishioners.

The massy spaciousness of the structure, and the solidity of its walls, strike the stranger who
first beholds it with admiration. In this church lies old Gower the poet,
and there are several very curious relics of the olden time scattered
about within its walls.

Its date is believed to be anterior to London Bridge. All the ground along the river near it towards
Blackfriars'Bridge is filled with remains celebrated in the annals
of the church, and what is singular, also of the theatre.-- New Monthly
Magazine.***** HUMAN LIFE.

Human life is like a river-- Its brightness lasts not on for ever-- That
dances from its native braes, As pure as maidhood's early days; But
soon, with dark and sullen motion, It rolls into its funeral ocean,
And those whose currents are the slightest, And shortest run, are
aye the brightest: So is our life-- its latest wave Rolls dark and
solemn to the grave.

Ettrick Shepherd.***** SHUMLA. The following description of Shumla, by an experienced officer,
will at this moment, be particularly interesting:--" What is properly called
the town of Shumla, is nearly surrounded by a rampart of Mount Hæmus,
or the Balkan, which descends on both sides in the form of a horse-shoe.

The steep slopes of this great fence are covered with detached rocks
and close thorny bushes.

The nature of the ground makes it a most advantageous position for
the Turkish soldier, who when sheltered by these inequalities, rapid
steeps and a few intrenchments, displays all the address of the most
skilful marksman.

Like some orators, who cannot express themselves unless when partly concealed by a table or tribunal,
the Turk cannot use his musket unless he can rest it on a stone or
against the trunk of a tree, but then his aim is infallible.

"The town is about a league in length, with half that breadth, and
may contain from thirty to thirty-five thousand souls.

The fortifications are of barbarian architecture; a ditch, with a
simple rampart, partly of earth, partly of brick, flanked here and
there with little towers, which serve neither for support nor resistance,
and which contain not above seven or eight fusileers.

But it is not the town itself which is to be considered, but the
vast intrenched field in the centre of which it is placed, and which
is capable of containing an immense army, with its magazines, its
utensils and equipage, without the enemy having the power to throw
a single shell into the place, or disturb it by any manoeuvre whatever."

The air is extremely healthy in the elevated positions of the Balkan
and in the narrow valleys which lie between its ridges.... On the
other hand, there cannot be a more unhealthy country than that which
extends from the Balkan to the borders of the Danube and Pruth.

This difference between the climate of the mountains and the plain is the most formidable defence
which nature has given Shumla.

While the enemy is encamped in wet grounds and pestilential marshes, in want of wood, of provisions,
and sometimes of men in health to take care of the sick; the Turks
breathe a keen, dry air, and have an inexhaustible supply of fuel
in the forests which surround them.

In summer, Shumla is an agreeable abode; the town is surrounded by pleasant gardens, by vineyards,
and a stream running from the mountains maintains the verdure of the
fields.

In time of peace it may be entered without hindrance, and the Turks allow the curious to walk
about and survey all the posts. In this there is perhaps a secret pride, joined with the wish
to communicate to others the conviction which they themselves feel, that the place is inexpugnable.
"***** COURT FLATTERY.

Here is a draught of" delicious essence, "proffered by the lord of
the Burmese granaries to the British embassy:--"

The most glorious monarch, the lord of the golden palace, the sunrising
king, holds dominion over that part of the world which lies towards
the rising sun; the great and powerful monarch, the King of England,
rules over the whole of that portion of the world which lies towards
the setting sun.

The same glorious sun enlightens the one and the other. Thus may peace continue between the two
countries, and for ever impart mutual blessings to both. Let no cloud
intervene, or mist arise, to obscure its genial rays. "***** A BARGAIN.

The Archbishop of Saltzburg paid, in 1745, 995 scudi for his pallium,
and 31,338 for his confirmation; i. e. (roughly speaking) about 7,000
l. The pallium consists of two stripes of white wool, cut from two
lambs offered up, in St. Agnes's Church, on St. Agnes's Day, spun
into a sort of cloth by the nuns of St. Agnes, and consecrated by
the Pope on the altar of St. Peter's.***** CITY PAGEANTS.

In the reign of James I. the sober liverymen of London decked themselves,
on days of state, with chains of gold, pearl, or diamonds.

The wealthy merchant, Sir Paul Pindar, had a diamond valued at thirty
thousand pounds, which he lent to the king on great occasions, but
refused to sell.

It was said by the Prince of Anhalt, in 1610, after seeing" the pleasant triumphs upon the water,
and within the city, which at this time, were extraordinary, in honour of the lord mayor and citizens,
"that" there was no state nor city in the world that did elect their
magistrates with such magnificence, except the city of Venice, unto
which the city of London cometh very near. "These exhibitions were more splendid,
and, though quaint and whimsical, savoured more of intellect and invention
than the similar" triumphs "of the present day.-- Quarterly Review.*****
Brussels is rapidly advancing in the art of printing; one individual
published no less than 250,000 volumes in the year 1827.

Books are published much cheaper than in Paris, which creates no
small jealousy there. Therefore shame and dishonor shall befall you, until you change your ways."

He had changed his ways, and the Spirit of Fasting had protected him. He had never needed to
go farther than to the big town, for he was never followed. And in its working quarter the
Spirit of Fasting had her dwelling. Petter Nord found work in a machine shop. He grew strong
and energetic. He became serious and thrifty. He had fine Sunday clothes; he acquired new knowledge,
borrowed books and went to lectures. There was nothing really left of little Petter Nord but
his white hair and his brown eyes.

That night had broken something in him, and the heavy work at the machine-shop made the break
ever bigger, so that the wild Värmland boy had crept quite out through it. He no longer talked
nonsense, for no one was allowed to speak in the shop, and he soon learned silent ways. He
no longer invented anything new, for since he had to look after springs and wheels in earnest,
he no longer found them amusing. He never fell in love, for he could not be interested in the
women of the working quarter, after he had learned to know the beauties of his native town.
He had no mice, no squirrels, nothing to play with. He had no time; he understood that such
things were useless, and he thought with horror of the time when he used to fight with street boys.

Petter Nord did not believe that life could be anything but gray, gray, gray. Petter Nord always
had a dull time, but he was so used to it that he did not notice it. Petter Nord was proud
of himself because he had become so virtuous. He dated his good behavior from that night when
Joy failed him and Fasting became his companion and friend.

But how could the virtuous Petter Nord be coming to the village on a work-day, accompanied
by three boon companions, who were loafers and drunken?

He had always been a good boy, poor Petter Nord. And he had always tried to help those three
good-for-nothings as well as he could, although he despised them. He had come with wood to
their miserable hovel, when the winter was most severe, and he had patched and mended their
clothes. The men held together like brothers, principally because they were all three named
Petter. That name united them much more than if they bad been born brothers. And now they allowed
the boy on account of that name to do them friendly services, and when they had got their grog
ready and settled themselves comfortably on their wooden chairs, they entertained him, sitting
and darning the gaping holes in their stockings, with gallows humor and adventurous lies. Petter
Nord liked it, although he would not acknowledge it. They were now for him almost what the
mice had been formerly.

Now it happened that these wharf-rats had heard some gossip from the village. And after the
space of six years they brought Petter Nord information that Halfvorson had put the fifty crowns
out for him to disqualify him as a witness. And in their opinion Petter Nord ought to go back
to the town and punish Halfvorson.

But Petter Nord was sensible and deliberate, and equipped with the wisdom of this world. He
would not have anything to do with such a proposal.

The Petters spread the story about through the whole quarter. Every one said to Petter Nord:
"Go back and punish Halfvorson, then you will be arrested, and there will be a trial, and the
thing will get into the papers, and the fellow's shame will be known throughout all the land."

But Petter Nord would not. It might be amusing, but revenge is a costly pleasure, and Petter
Nord knew that Life is poor. Life cannot afford such amusements.

One morning the three men had come to him and said that they were going in his place to beat
Halfvorson, "that justice should be done on earth," as they said.

Petter Nord threatened to kill all three of them if they went one step on the way to the village.

Then one of them who was little and short, and whose name was Long-Petter, made a speech to
Petter Nord.

"This earth," he said, is an apple hanging by a string over a fire to roast. By the fire I
mean the kingdom of the evil one; Petter Nord, and the apple must hang near the fire to be
sweet and tender; but if the string breaks and the apple falls into the fire, it is destroyed.
Therefore the string is very important, Petter Nord. Do you understand what is meant by the
string?"

"I guess it must be a steel wire," said Petter Nord.

"By the string I mean justice," said Long-Petter with deep seriousness. "If there is no justice
on earth, everything falls into the fire. Therefore the avenger may not refuse to punish, or
if he will not do it, others must."

"This is the last time I will offer any of you any grog," said Petter Nord, quite unmoved by
the speech.

"Yes, it can't be helped," said Long-Petter, "justice must be done."

"We do not do it to be thanked by you, but in order that the honorable name of Petter shall
not be brought to disrepute," said one, whose name was Rulle-Petter, and who was tall and morose.

"Really, is the name so highly esteemed!" said Petter Nord, contemptuously.

"Yes, and the worst of it is that they are beginning to say everywhere in all the saloons that
you must have meant to steal the fifty crowns, since you will not have the shopkeeper punished."

Those words bit in deep. Petter Nord started up and said that he would go and beat the shopkeeper.

"Yes, and we will go with you and help you," said the loafers.

And so they started off, four men strong, to the village. At first Petter Nord was gloomy and
surly, and much more angry with his friends than with his enemy. But when he came to the bridge
over the river, he became quite changed. He felt as if he had met there a little, weeping fugitive,
and had crept into him. And as he became more at home in the old Petter Nord he felt what a
grievous wrong the shopkeeper had done him. Not only because he had tried to tempt him and
ruin him, but, worst of all, because he had driven him away from that town, where Petter Nord
could have remained Petter Nord all the days of his life. Oh, what fun he had had in those
days, how happy and glad he had been, how open his heart, how beautiful the world! Lord God,
if he had only been allowed always to live here! And he thought of what he was now--silent
and stupid, serious and industrious--quite like a prodigal.

He grew passionately angry with Halfvorson, and instead of, as before, following his companions,
he dashed past them.

But the tramps, who had not come merely to punish Halfvorson, but also to let their wrath break
loose, hardly knew how to begin. There was nothing for an angry man to do here. There was not
a dog to chase, not a street-sweeper to pick a quarrel with, nor a fine gentleman at whom to
throw an insult.

It was early in the year; the spring was just turning into summer. It was the white time of
cherry and hawthorn blossoms, when bunches of lilacs cover the high, round bushes, and the
air is full of the fragrance of the apple-blossoms. These men who had come direct from paved
streets and wharves to this realm of flowers were strangely affected by it. Three pairs of
fists that till now had been fiercely clenched, relaxed, and three pairs of heels thundered
a little less violently against the pavement.

From the market-place they saw a pathway that wound up the hill. Along it grew young cherry-trees
which formed vaulted arches with their white tops. The arch was light and floating, and the
branches absurdly slender, altogether weak, delicate and youthful.

The cherry-tree path attracted the eyes of the men against their will. What an unpractical
hole it was, where people planted cherry trees, where any one could take the cherries. The
three Petters had considered it before as a nest of iniquity, full of cruelty and tyranny.
Now they began to laugh at it, and even to despise it a little.

But the fourth one of the company did not laugh. His longing for revenge was seething ever
more fiercely, for he felt that this was the town where he ought to have lived and labored.
It was his lost paradise. And without paying any attention to the others he walked quickly
up the street.

They followed him; and when they saw that there was only one street, and when they saw only
flowers, and more flowers the whole length of it, their scorn and their good humor increased.
It was perhaps the first time in their lives that they had ever noticed flowers, but here they
could not help it, for the clusters of lilac blossoms brushed off their caps and the petals
of cherry-blossoms rained down over them.

"What kind of people do you suppose live in this town?" said Long-Petter, musingly.

"Bees," answered Cobbler-Petter, who had received his name because he had once lived in the
same house as a shoemaker.

Of course, little by little, they perceived a few people. In the windows, behind shining panes
and white curtains, appeared young, pretty faces, and they saw children playing on the terraces.
But no noise disturbed the silence. It seemed to them as if the trump of the Day of Doom itself
would not be able to wake this town. What could they do with themselves in such a town!

They went into a shop and bought some beer. ***** Huber, a German priest, relates a curious instance, in his own
experience, of the mischief done by hasty proceedings.

When he first went to his parish, he found, to his great disgust, only the
common books of devotion, viz.:-- P. Cochem, the Great and Little
Garden, the Spiritual Soul-watcher,& c. The very first occasion which
offered, he attacked these books publicly and vehemently from the
pulpit.

The people were shocked and offended; they said that their fathers knew how to pray as well as fresh
teachers, and would not look at his new volumes of prayer. Taught by his ill
success to vary his plan, on a subsequent occasion he took occasion
to speak in proper terms of respect of the piety of the composers
of those early books, but added that many improvements, as they all
knew, were constantly making in agriculture, masonry,& c., and so
they must see that this might be the case with books.

He then proceeded in the pulpit to compare the old and one of his new books of devotion, and before
the evening he had numerous applications for copies.-- Foreign Quarterly Review.***** MOONLIGHT.
When sunbeams on the river blaze, You on its glory scarce can gaze; But
when the moon's delirious beam, In giddy splendour woos the stream,
Its mellow'd light is so refined,'Tis like a gleam of soul and mind;
Its gentle ripple glittering by, Like twinkle of a maiden's eye; While
all amazed at Heaven's steepness, You gaze into its liquid deepness,
And see some beauties that excel-- Visions to dream of, not to tell--
A downward soul of living hue, So mild, so modest, and so blue!

Ettrick Shepherd.***** PERILS OF TRAVEL. Humboldt and his party, on their memorable ascent of
the volcano of Tunguragna, in the Nevado del Chimborazo, at the elevation
of 19,300 feet, the highest spot ever trod by man, suffered severely.

The air was reduced to half its usual density, and felt intensely
cold and piercing.

Respiration was laborious; and blood oozed from their eyes, their
lips, and their gums.

Another peculiarity of great elevations, noticed by travellers, is
the astonishing clearness of the atmosphere. Captain Head was struck with
it in the case of a condor shot, which appeared to fall within thirty
or forty yards; but on sending one of his miners to bring it back, to
his astonishment he found that the distance was such, as to take up
above half an hour, going and returning. In Norway, a friend of the present
writer stepped out of a boat to visit a spot, as he conceived, of
a few hundred yards distant, when in fact it proved to be some miles.

In the Pyrenees, the celebrated cascade of Gavarni appears about
a short mile from the auberge, where travellers frequently leave their
mules to rest, while they proceed on foot, little aware that they
are thereby exposing themselves to a long and laborious walk of above
an hour's duration.

In the Andes, Humboldt remarks this phenomenon; stating that in the
mountains of Quito he could distinguish the white poncho of a person
on horseback, at the distance of seventeen miles.

He also notices the extreme clear and steady light of the stars,
which we can vouch to be true to a most extraordinary degree even
in Europe, having distinctly seen the planet Venus, in a dazzling
sunshine, at half past eleven, from the summit of the port of Venasque,
in the Pyrenees.

London Review.***** TITLES. Everybody knows that titles and dignities are not only integral parts
of the person, but its most distinctive attributes. When Earl Grey
said he would stand or fall by his order, it was as if he had said,
he would stand or fall by himself.

Take a noble lord, and, if the process be possible, abstract him mentally from his titles and privileges,
and offer the two lots separately for sale in the market, who would not
buy the latter if they could? who would, in most cases, even bid
for the first?

It is the title that is asked everywhere to dinner; it is the title
receives all the bows and prostrations, that gets the nomination
to so many places, that commands the regiments and ships-of-war, and
"robs the Exchequer with unwashed hands."

The man who owns it, may be what he can, an honest man, or a scoundrel, a mushroom or an Howard, a
scholar, or a brute, a wit or a blockhead, c'est égal. Proud, haughty, highdaring, free England,
is not this true to the letter?-- New Monthly Magazine.***** At Thetford,
not far from his beloved Newmarket, James I. was threatened with
an action of trespass for following his game over a farmer's corn.--
Quarterly Review.***** SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.***** "SIR DAN
DANN'LY, THE IRISH HAROE."

From "Walks in Ireland," in the Monthly Magazine. In spite of all that yet remains, it must be admitted
with a sigh, that the glory of Donnybrook has departed in the person of the renowned Daniel Donnelly,
better known among his admiring followers, by the sounding title of "Sir Dan Dann'ly, the Irish haroe."
Of course if you know any thing of the glorious science of self-defence, a necessary accomplishment
which I hope you have not neglected amidst the general diffusion of knowledge which distinguishes
this happy age, of course if you have cultivated that noble art which
teaches us the superiority of practical demonstration over theoretical
induction, the recollection of that celebrated champion must fill
your mind with reverence for his exploits, mingled with regret that
he was snatched so soon from the path of glory.

I was fortunate enough to possess the friendship of that great man, and I esteem among the happiest
days of my life, that on which I was lucky enough to attract his
attention: it was during a row at Donnybrook Fair. I was defending
myself with whatever energy I possess, against overwhelming odds,
when suddenly, as if Mars himself had listened to my invocation, and
descended to the fray, Dan rushed from his tent to show fair play,
and in an instant my cowardly assailants fled, as if scattered by
a whirlwind.

From that hour, gratitude on my part, and a consciousness of protection
on his, cemented an intimacy between us.

During the fair week, Dan Donnelly's tent (he always kept one after
he became a celebrated character) was always crowded to excess by
all classes, high and low; some attracted by admiration of the good
things of this life dispensed by the amiable Lady Dann'ly, others
by the convivial and facetious qualities of her redoubted spouse;
in the evening, especially, you were sure to find him the centre of
a circle of wondering listeners, detailing some of his extraordinary
adventures, the most astonishing of which it was heresy in the eyes
of his followers to doubt for an instant, though my love of truth
obliges me to confess, that one or two I have heard him relate sounded
a little apocryphal.

But great and extraordinary characters are not to be judged of by
common rules; for instance, his account of the manner in which he
obtained the honour of knighthood from the hands of our present gracious
sovereign, then Prince Regent, always appeared to me to differ in
some material circumstances from the ordinary routine of court etiquette,
and rather to resemble one of those amusing and instructive narratives
denominated fairy tales.

But on this delicate subject perhaps the safest course is to suffer the reader to judge for
himself: so without further circumlocution, I will submit my lamented friend's account to his perusal,
in the precise words in which I have so often had the pleasure of hearing it:-- "My jewels,
I was lyin'in bed one mornin', restin'myself, in regard ov bein'dhrunk
the night afore, wid Scroggins an'Jack Randall, an'some more ov the
boys; an'as I was lyin'on the broad ov my back, thinkin'ov nothin',
a knock came to my door.'Come in,'says I,'iv you're fat.'So the door
opened sure enough, an'in come a great big chap, dhressed in the most
elegantest way ever you see, wid a cockade in his hat, an'a plume
ov feathers out ov id, an'goolden epulets upon his shouldhers, an'tossels
an'bobs of goold all over the coat ov him, jist like any lord ov the
land.'Are you Dan Dann'ly,'says he;--'Throth an'I am,'says I;'an'that's
my name sure enough, for want ov a better; an'what do ye want wid
me now you've found me.'--'My masther is waitin'to spake to ye, an'sint
me to tell you to come down to his place in a hurry.'--'An'who the
devil is your masther?'says I;'an'didn't think ye had one, only yourself,
an'you so fine.'--'Oh,'says he,'my masther is the Prence Ragin.'--'Blur
an'ouns,'says I;'tell his honour I'll be wid him in the twinklin'ov
a bedpost, the minit I take my face from behind my beard, an'get on
my clane flax; but stop a bit,'says I;'where does the masther live?'--'Down
at Carltown Palace,'says he;'so make yourself dacent, an'be off wid
yourself afther me.'Wid that away he wint."

Up I gets, an'away I goes, the instant minit I put on my duds, down to Carltown Palace. An'it's it that's the
place; twicet as big as the castle, or Kilmainham gaol, an'groves ov threes round about it, like the
Phaynix Park. Up I goes to the gate, an'I gives a little asy rap to show I wasn't proud; who
should let me in but the'dentical chap that come to ax me up.'Well, Dan,'says he,'you didn't let
the grass grow undher your feet; the masther's waitin', so away in
wid ye as fast as ye can.'--'An'which way will I go?'says I.--'Crass
the yard,'says he,'an'folley your nose up through the house, ever'till
you come to the dhrawin'-room door, an'then jist rap wid your knuckle,
an'ye'll get lave to come in.'So away I wint acrass the yard, an'it's
there the fun was goin'on, soldiers marchin', and fiddlers playin',
and monkeys dancin', an'every kind ov diversion, the same as ourselves
here at Donnybrook Fair, only it lasts all the year round, from mornin'till
night, I'm tould.

"When
I come to the house, in I wint, bowin'an'doin'my manners in the most
genteelest way to all the grand lords an'ladies that was there, folleyin'their
own divarsion, the same as thim that was in the yard, every way they
liked-- dhrinkin', an'singin', an'playin'ov music, and dancin'like
mad!

I wint on, on, on, out ov one room an'into another, till my head was fairly
addled, an'I thought I'd never come to the ind. And sich grandeur!--
why, the playhouse was nothin'to id. At last I come to a beautiful
big stairs, an'up I wint; an'sure enough there was the drawin'-room
door, reachin'up to the ceilin'almost, an'as big as the gate ov a
coach-house, an'wrote on a board over the door,'No admittance for
strangers, only on business.'--'Sure,'says I,'I'm come on the best
ov business, whin the Prence is afther sendin'his man to tell me to
come on a visit.'-- An'wid that I gave a knock wid my knuckle the
way I was bid.'Come in,'says a voice; and so I opened the door."

Oh! then, ov all the sights ever I see, an'it's that was the finest!

There was the Prence Ragin'himself, mounted up upon his elegant throne,
an'his crown, that was half a hundred weight ov goold, I suppose,
on his head, an'his sceptre in his hand, an'his lion sittin'on one
side ov him, an'his unicorn on the other.--'Morrow, Dan,'says he,'you're
welcome here.'--'Good morning, my Lord,'says I,'plase your Reverence.'--'An'what
do you think ov my place,'says he,'Dan, now you're in it?'--'By Dad!
your worship,'says I,'it bates all the places ever I see, an'there's
not the like ov id for fun in the wide world, barrin'Donnybrook Fair.'--'I
never was at the fair,'says he,'bud I'm tould there's plenty ov sport
there for them that has money, an'is able to take their own part in
a row.'--'Throth, Majesty,'says I,'your honour may say that; an'iv
your holiness'ill come an'see us there, it's myself that'ill give
you a dhrop ov what's good, an'show ye all the divarsion ov the place--
ay, an'leather the best man in the fair, that dare say, Black is the
white ov your eye!'--'More power to ye, Dan!'says he, laughin';'an'what
id you like to dhrink now?'--'Oh, by Gor!'says I,'I'm afeard to take
any thing, for I was dhrunk last night, an'I'm not quite study yet.'--'By
the piper that played afore Moses,'says he,'ye'll not go out ov my
house till ye dhrink my health;'so wid that he mounted down off his
throne, an'wint to a little black cupboard he had snug in the corner,
an'tuck out his gardy vine an'a couple of glasses.'Hot or cowld, Dan?'says
he.--'Cowld, plase your reverence,'says I. So he filled a glass for
me, an'a glass for himself.--'Here's towards ye, Dan,'says he.--'The
same to you, Majesty!'says I;-- an'what do ye think it was?

May I never tell a lie iv id wasn't as good whiskey as ever you see
in your born days.'Well,'says I,'that's as fine sperits as ever I
dhrunk, for sperits like id; might I make bould to ax who does your
worship dale wid?'--'Kinahan, in Dublin,'says he.--'An'a good warrant
he is,'says I: so we wint on, dhrinkin'and chattin', till at last,'Dan,'says
he,'I'd like to spar a round wid ye.'' Oh,'says I,'Majesty, I'd be
afeard ov hurtin'ye, without the gloves.'--'Arrah, do you think it's
a brat ov a boy ye're spakin'to?'says he;'do ye're worst, Dan, and
divil may care!'An'so wid that we stud up.

"Do you know he has a mighty purty method ov his own, bud thin, though
id might do wid Oliver, it was all nonsense wid me, so afore you could
say Jack Lattin, I caught him wid my left hand undher the ear, an'tumbled
him up on his throne.'There now,'says I,'Majesty, I tould ye how id
would be, but you'd never stop until you got yourself hurt.'--'Give
us your fist, Dan,'says he,'I'm not a bit the worse of the fall; you're
a good man, an'I'm not able for you.'--'That's no disgrace,'says I,'for
it's few that is; but iv I had you in thrainin'for six months, I'd
make another man ov ye;'an'wid that we fell a dhrinkin'again, ever
till we didn't lave a dhrop in the bottle; an'then I thought it was
time to go, so up I got.--'Dan,'says he,'before you lave me I'll make
you a knight, to show I have no spite again ye for the fall.'--'Oh,'says
I,'for the matter ov that, I'm sure ye're too honourable a gintleman
to hould spite for what was done in fair play, an'you know your reverence
wouldn't be easy until you had a thrial ov me.'--'Say no more about
id, Dan,'says he, laughin','bud kneel down upon your bended knees.'So
down I kneeled.--'Now,'says he,'ye wint down on your marrow bones
plain Dan, but I give ye lave to get up Sir Dan Dann'ly, Esquire.'--'Thank
your honour,'says I,'an'God mark you to grace wherever you go.'So
wid that we shook hands, an'away I wint.

Talk of your kings and prences, the Prence Ragin'is the finest Prence
ever I dhrunk wid."***** I'D BE A PARODY.

BY THOMAS HAYNES BAYLEY. I'd be a Parody, made by a ninny On some
little song with a popular tune, Not worth a halfpenny, sold for a guinea,
And sung in the Strand by the light of the moon. I'd never sigh for
the sense of a Pliny, (Who cares for sense at St. James's in June?)
I'd be a Parody, made by a ninny, And sung in the Strand by the light
of the moon.

Oh! could I pick tip a thought or a stanza, I'd take a flight on another bard's wings, Turning his
rhymes into extravaganza, Laugh at his harp-- and then pilfer its strings! When a poll-parrot can
croak the cadenza A nightingale loves, he supposes he sings! Oh, never mind, I will pick up a stanza,
Laugh at his harp-- and then pilfer its strings! What though you tell me each metrical puppy
Might make of such parodies two pair a day; Mocking birds think they obtain for each copy Paradise
plumes for the parodied lay:-- Ladder of fame! if man can't reach
thy top, he Is right to sing just as high up as he may; I'd be a Parody,
made by a puppy, Who makes of such parodies two pair a day!

Sharpe's Magazine.***** THE ANECDOTE GALLERY.***** VISIT TO FERNEY IN 1829. Sharpe's London
Magazine, (No, 3.), Contains a pleasant article under the above title,
describing the present state of Ferney, the residence of Voltaire,
an engraving of which appeared in our No. 384.

We would willingly have made the journey, and written our description in the Poet's salon, could
we have "stayed time;" but as the old dials quaintly tell us, time "tarryeth for no man," and
we were then compelled to adopt the most recent description. Such of this last "Visit to Ferney"
as relates to the Château will therefore be interesting, as a supplement to our previous illustration:--
"The road leading from Geneva to this celebrated spot is delightful,
bordered on each side with superb villas, and presenting picturesque
points of view only to be found in the environs of that enchanting
city.

A handsome avenue conducts the traveller to the château, the architecture of which is nothing
very remarkable. After mounting three steps, and crossing a narrow vestibule, we entered the salon,
which in its day received most of the wits and celebrated personages of Europe: for as a contemporary
of Voltaire observed,'to have been admitted at Ferney, is to have taken out a patent for genius.'The appearance
of this salon is far from brilliant: a few indifferent pictures, some old red tapestry, and antiquated
furniture compose the whole of its ornaments. To the left we entered the
chamber of Voltaire." On one side of the apartment an humble mausoleum
has been reared, the sanctity of which was not however respected
by the sabres of the Austrians.

The inscription on the top (a happy inspiration of the husband of Mademoiselle Varicourt), contains
these simple words:'Mon coeur est ici; et mon esprit est partout.'The most
elaborate panegyric could not have conveyed a finer eulogium. "On entering,
the spectator is struck with the view of a bed of simple materials,
and which was pillaged by the Austrians. Hung round the room are the
portraits of Frederick, of Catharine, of Lekain-- one of Voltaire
himself, taken at the age of forty, and full of expression, with a
number of silhouettes of the celebrated men of the day."

The window of this apartment looks upon the gardens, and upon a little wood, which has undergone many
changes since the death of Voltaire. Time however has hitherto respected
a long and thick row of elm trees, whither he was wont to repair at sunrise,
and where he usually meditated and recited aloud the scenes of his
tragedies when finished, to any one whom he could find.

His jealousy of criticism on such
occasions is matter of record. "The gardener at present belonging to the
château was there during the latter period of Voltaire's life, and
related to us with much naïveté several anecdotes, not generally
known, of his master."

Where the thickly-spreading branches of the elm trees present the slightest opening, the spectator
enjoys one of the most beautiful views that can be imagined. In the distance, that giant of
the hills-- Mont Blanc, crowned with its eternal snows, rises majestically. At the base of the
mountain the eye is gratified with the sight of variegated plains, smiling with verdure, and cultivated
with the most industrious care. The Rhone with its silver stream
floats through the beautiful country that surrounds Geneva, which may
be said to describe an amphitheatre just above the lake. "A spacious
park, not far from the château, usually formed the termination of
Voltaire's rambles: in its cool shades he delighted to indulge his poetic
meditations. To this place he was in the habit of driving daily in
a little open calèche, drawn by a favourite black mare. The space
which separates the park from the château, and which forms a gentle
acclivity, is planted with vines."***** THE GATHERER. "A snapper-up
of unconsidered trifles." SHAKSPEARE.***** A WELSH RABBIT. Colonel
A---- baiting for the first time in his life at a Welsh inn, thought
he would order for his dinner, a dish which must be perfection in
its own country: viz. a Welsh rabbit.

The dinner hour arrived, and the colonel lifting up the cover of the dish next him, exclaimed in angry
astonishment to the waiter, upon beholding a large, dry-looking, fleshy
animal before him. "What the d---- l d'ye call this, a Welsh rabbit?"

"Why, noo, noo, Sir!" replied the man, perfectly cool, and unconscious of the error, "Noo,
it certainly an't exactly a Welsh rabbit, but'tis a Monmouthshire one!" J. R.***** ODD MEAL.
The celebrated David Hartley entertained, at his apartments in Merton College, of which he was
fellow, a party of his friends; they all dined well, comme de raison; and there was every
likelihood that the evening would conclude with the utmost festivity, when a letter was brought
to the naturalist; after due apology, he opened and read it; then starting up, he rushed out of
the room. He soon returned, with horror on his face and a basketful
of feathers in his hand; "Gentlemen, what do you think we have been eating?"
Some of the guests began to fear they had been poisoned; even the boldest
felt qualms.

"Oh! that the letter had but arrived before the bird!" Then holding up some of the feathers,
and letting them fall into the basket to display them to the company, he relieved their apprehensions,
while he revealed the cause of his own grief, "we have eaten a nondescript."


And Petter Nord sat there and believed that it was for love she had called him. He could not
know that she believed him vindictive, coarse, degraded, a drunkard and a bully. He who was
an example to all his comrades in the working quarter, he could not guess that she had summoned
him, in order to preach virtue and good habits to him, in order to say to him, if nothing else
helped: "Look at me, Petter Nord! It is your want of judgment, your vindictiveness, that is
the cause of my death. Think of it, and begin another life!"

He had come filled with love of life and dreams to celebrate love's festival, and she lay there
and thought of plunging him into the black depths of remorse.

There must have been something of the glory of the kingly crown shining on her, which made
her hesitate so that she decided to question him first.

"But, Petter Nord, was it really you who were here with those three terrible men?"

He flushed and looked on the ground. Then he had to tell her the whole story of the day with
all its shame. In the first place, what unmanliness he had shown in not sooner demanding justice,
and how he had only gone because he was forced to it, and then how he had been beaten and whipped
instead of beating some one himself. He did not dare to look up while he was speaking; he did
expect that even those gentle eyes would judge him with forbearance. He felt that he was robbing
himself of all the glory with which she must have surrounded him in her dreams.

"But Petter Nord, what would have happened if you had met Halfvorson?" asked Edith, when he
had finished.

He hung his head even lower. "I saw him well enough," he said. "He had not gone away. He was
working in his garden outside the gates. The boy in the shop told me everything."

"Well, why did you not avenge yourself?" said Edith.

He was spared nothing.--But he felt the inquiring glance of her eyes on him and he began obediently:
"When the men lay down to sleep on a slope, I went alone to find Halfvorson, for I wished to
have him to myself. He was working there, staking his peas. It must have rained in torrents
the day before, for the peas had been broken down to the ground; some of the leaves were whipped
to ribbons, others covered with earth. It was like a hospital, and Halfvorson was the doctor.
He raised them up so gently, brushed away the earth and helped the poor little things to cling
to the twigs. I stood and looked on. He did not hear me, and he had no time to look up. I tried
to retain my anger by force. But what could I do? I could not fly at him while he was busy
with the peas. My time will come afterwards, I thought.

"But then he started up, struck himself on the forehead and rushed away to the hotbed. He lifted
the glass and looked in, and I looked too, for he seemed to be in the depths of despair. Yes,
it was dreadful, of course. He had forgotten to shade it from the sun, and it must have been
terribly hot under the glass. The cucumbers lay there half-dead and gasped for breath; some
of the leaves were burnt, and others were drooping. I was so overcome, I too, that I never
thought what I was doing, and Halfvorson caught sight of my shadow. 'Look here, take the watering-pot
that is standing in the asparagus bed and run down to the river for water,' he said, without
looking up. I suppose he thought it was the gardener's boy. And I ran."

"Did you, Petter Nord?"

"Yes; you see, the cucumbers ought not to suffer on account of our enmity. I thought myself
that it showed lack of character and so on, but I could not help it. I wanted to see if they
would come to life. When I came back, he had lifted the glass off and still stood and stared
despairingly. I thrust the watering-pot into his hand, and he began to pour over them. Yes,
it was almost visible what good it did in the hotbed. I thought almost that they raised themselves,
and he must have thought so too, for he began to laugh. These ornaments are not wrought into more than four fashions, which
never vary.

The Genoese women marry at fifteen or sixteen years of age, and it
is impossible to imagine a creature more innocent, childish-looking,
and perfectly beautiful, than a young bride in her nuptial attire.

The female children of genteel parentage are, in Genoa, allowed to visit amongst themselves in
balls and fêtes, until they have attained the age of fourteen; when, being considered marriageable,
instead of "coming out" as in England, they are kept strictly at home; allowed indeed to see
a little company there, but there only, except when taken per favour, once or twice to the
opera, to which they go purposely in an undress, sit at the back
of the box, so as not to be seen, or if accidentally beheld, they
are not to be recognised.

When a girl reaches the appointed years of discretion, the sole consideration of her parents is,
to marry her, and in this matter she, poor thing, has no voice, as
I shall proceed to prove.

Negotiating matches, making proposals, and arranging marriages, are
affairs confided to the prudence and mediation of certain busy old
ladies, who find their account in bringing about weddings, since they
receive a regular per centage upon them.

One of these emissaries of Hymen will call on a parent who has a son, reported to be an eligible
match, and open the business by talking of the young man, until an opportunity occurs of inquiring
whether he is not soon to be settled, and how much will be allowed him? These queries being
answered to the good lady's satisfaction, she proceeds a step further,
and enumerates the principal families of her acquaintance, who have
daughters to dispose of, adding an accurate description of each Signorina's
person, connexions, property, expectancies, and other advantages.

A lady having been selected as an eligible match for the youth, the
parents on both sides being agreed, and the young gentleman duly informed
of their arrangements for his happiness, he is allowed to commence
paying his addresses to the fair one, by sending her a large, and
peculiarly constructed bouquet, the acceptance of which, is in fact
an acceptance of himself, and the girl is immediately considered a
Sposina, or betrothed one.

The bouquet, and herself, in full dress, are forthwith carried to the opera, where the former
is laid, and the latter seated, immediately in front of the box;
when, numerous are the eyes and glasses levelled at the new Sposina,
upon this her first appearance in public.

On this interesting and trying occasion, her accepted lover stands
during the performance behind her chair, and is assiduous in his
attentions.

The next amusement at which, according to etiquette the Sposina appears, is a ball, to which
she goes attended by her lover, and one or both of her parents. The bouquet, the emblem of her
engagement goes with her, which never quits her hand, except when
she dances, and is then laid on her seat, until her return.

She is not allowed to dance with any one but her brother, intended husband, or his most intimate
friend to whom perhaps as a favour, he may choose to introduce her. The duty of the engaged
man is, to present his Sposina every morning up to the period of
their union, with a fresh bouquet, the size of which intimates the
degree of affection and respect that he entertains for her.

But should the lover's finances be slender, and his nuptials long delayed, he must find this
elegant custom a very ruinous one, since the price of the best of
these bouquets (and who durst for his own credit's sake present an
inferior one?) is five or six francs.

The Sposina appears everywhere and everyday with a bouquet in her hand, closely attended by
her lover, and either or both of her parents; and a female, a stranger in Genoa, commits a
breach of etiquette by walking through the streets carrying a nosegay, besides subjecting herself
to the impertinence of a thousand eyes, that ask, "Are you a Sposina?" The wedding is celebrated
with splendour, the fortune of the bride being sometimes expended
in purchasing a magnificent dress, which is then deemed essential.

Amongst the highest classes, the English custom of the bride and bridegroom quitting the wedding
party immediately after the performance of the marriage-ceremony,
for a tour, has commenced; but this innovation upon their established
national manners, has not yet obtained a very general footing.

The match-maker is, upon the wedding-day, presented with a sum of money adequate to the trouble
she has taken to effect the alliance; for a lack of beauty, or fortune on the lady's side, mars
her matrimonial prospects, and causes as great difficulties respecting
her settlement in life, at Genoa, as in some other places I could
mention rather nearer home.

Once, being in company with an ancient dame, who had brought about a marriage that astonished all
Genoa, she informed me, that she received as her douceur upon the occasion, 50l. This, I am to
conclude, was a liberal recompense; for the Sposina, in that instance,
was so plain, (a circumstance unusual with the Genoese women,) and
afflicted with so bad a breath, as to be an object of disgust with
all the men who heard of her.

The bouquets which I have mentioned, are peculiar in structure, and
beautiful in appearance: they are composed of the most brilliantly
coloured flowers, disposed round a large central flower, in tiers,
or rows, of the same colour; as, first perhaps, a row of red, then
white, then purple, then yellow, then blue,& c.& c.; the stalks are
cut short, curiously attached to wire by fine silk or thread, and
being bound compactly together, so that the stalks and wires brought
into a point, form a convenient handle, the petals of the flowers
stand out in lines of the most vivid hues, making a kind of smooth,
expanded, circular, and convex, surface.

The manufacture of these bouquets, one of which takes a considerable time to complete, is a distinct
occupation, and the sale of them, quite a trade; and though made
elsewhere than at Genoa, those of that town are most esteemed, and
sent over all parts of Italy.

The flowers composing these bouquets, will keep for at least a fortnight as fresh and beautiful
as when first gathered, and are capable of bearing long journeys,
for they are constantly forwarded in boxes made expressly for them,
to Turin, which is about a hundred miles from Genoa, where they arrive
fresh and uninjured.

An English nobleman indeed, not long since, having a quick conveyance, dispatched a Genoese bouquet
to his family in England, who received it in its pristine beauty.

Besides being presented by lovers to their affianced brides, they are the gifts of friend to friend
on most festive occasions, such as weddings, christenings, birthdays,
Saint's days, and holidays; and always upon New Year's day, which
is as great an occasion for the transfer of gifts in Italy, as it
is in France.

The freshness and beauty of these bouquets, of which several were sent to me during my residence
in Genoa, are to be thus preserved: at night put your flowers into a glass or vase, without water,
since the stalks bound together in the manner described have lost the power of suction and could
not be benefitted by it; then, lightly sprinkle, or water (with a
watering-pot, the rose of which is finely bored,) the flowery head
of the bouquet, and carefully cover it with a fine, light handkerchief,
also moistened.

This attention paid every night will preserve these beautiful nosegays, fresh and fair for
many weeks.

M. L. B.***** THE NAUTILUS.

WRITTEN FOR MUSIC.

(For the Mirror.) Hark!'tis the song of the sailor shell, Sweet on
the breezes swelling: Rearing its arms to the breathing gale, Over
the billows sailing.

Calm is the eve, The wavelets heave Their crests to the setting sun,
Glitter awhile In his golden smile, And their brilliant course is
run.

Hasten, my brothers, our boat along, Off to our sea side dwelling:
Haste; while the Nautilus'evening song Sweet on the breeze is swelling.

Up with the sail! for the earliest boat Lies'neath the world of waters Ceased is the wild harmonious
note That melody's soul first taught us. [2] Over the sea The wind blows free, The spray in the air
is hurl'd: Clouds in the wave Their bosoms lave; Then quick be our sail unfurl'd, Haste ye,
my brothers, ere night comes on, Over the world of waters: Sing to
high heaven, the mellow song The Nautilus'note first taught us.

W. PEARCE. [2] The Nautilus, or Sailor-shell, is said to be the origin
of Music and Navigation.***** PARAPHRASE ON BISHOP HEBER'S PICTURE
OF HUMAN LIFE. (For the Mirror.) Life, like a mighty river, bears us on
A rapid tide, we ne'er can rest upon, Adown the narrow stream, at first,
we glide Thro'fruits and flowers that fringe the grassy side. The playful
murmurings of its windings seem Soft, as the far-off music of a dream,
Over our heads the trees their blossoms shed, Flowers on the brink
their mingled odours shed.

Beauty around, above us, Hope within; Eager we grasp each dazzling
charm to win.

But hurried on and on, we ne'er can stay Our little bark to anchor
or delay.

For now, how full, how deep, how vast the river On which we glide,
that stays its journey never!

As rolling years bring with them joy and woe, Dark, and more various,
seems our voyage to grow.

Buoyant we ride on waves of hope and joy, Down, down, we sink, when
earthly cares annoy!

Futile and vain, alike each hope or fear On, on, we glide, there is no resting here. For far
behind is left each joy and woe, The mighty river ne'er will cease to flow! And, rough and smooth,
it hastens to its home, Glides by each futile hope and pleasure gone. Until within our ears the
ocean roars, And the bleak billows break upon the shores; Beneath
our keel the bounding waves arise, And the land lessens from our aching
eyes.

The floods of "Time's wide ocean" round us swell, Earth take of us thy long and last farewell!
For witness of our future voyage there's none But He, the Infinite, Eternal One! Kirton Lindsey.
ANNIE R.***** ON VEILS. (To the Editor of the Mirror.) In No. 385, of the MIRROR, one of your Correspondents
gives an account of the "Origin of wearing the veil," in which he attributes it to Penelope,
the beautiful wife of Ulysses. Now, for my own part, I feel inclined to query this statement
of C. K. W. first by his own account of the origin, and second by
Scripture.

2nd. In Scripture we find the veil used in Moses'time, and even by Moses himself, [3] 1491 years
before Christ; but the earliest mention of it which I can find in the Old Testament is in Genesis,
xxiv. 65, (before Christ 1857 years,) where it says "Rebekah took a veil when she saw Isaac coming towards
her, and covered herself;" it being customary even in those early times to wear them, especially
with brides.

Now, by referring to the History of Greece, it appears that Sparta,
near which this scene of Penelope's is said to have taken place, was
not founded or instituted till about A. M. 2650, or before Christ
1354, which alone makes a difference of 500 years, setting aside the
time from the foundation of Sparta to the period in which Ulysses
lived.

[3] Exodus, xxxiv.

33, 34, and 35.

I therefore come to the conclusion that your Correspondent is mistaken
with regard to the origin of wearing the veil; for it is allowed by
all that the Bible is the most ancient work extant, therefore to that
we must go for such information as cannot be derived from any other
source.

I beg leave to conclude this paper with a few observations, and some
extracts from different writers, on the veils worn in the East, which
may not, perhaps, be uninteresting to your numerous readers.

By perusing the various accounts given us by travellers in the East, it appears that great importance
is attached to the veil. The strictness with which the ladies keep their faces covered and hidden
from the sight of men, is common in the East, for they are generally
of the most exquisite beauty; and would take it as the greatest insolence
which could be offered to them, should their veils at any time be
drawn aside.

"Veil answers to the Hebrew word tzaiph, translated by a veil, a scarf, or mantle, with which
the eastern women covered their head and face. The Hebrew has also haradidim, or veils to sit at
table in. The veil was a kind of crape, so that they could see through it, or at least a passage
was left for the light to come to their eyes." Calmet, vol. ii. art. Veil. Veils are usually worn both
in the house and when abroad, and are of four kinds; one of which
is a kind of handkerchief, which the Eastern ladies wear over the
face and the temples.

This handkerchief or veil has a net work at the place of the eyes,
like point or thread lace, in order that it may be seen through. Chardin,
in his Voyage en Perse, tom. ii. p. 50, says, "The Armenian women, contrary
to the Mahometan women, have, even when in the house, the lower part
of the face veiled, even including the nose, if they are married.

This is in order that their nearest relations and their priests,
who have the liberty of visiting them, may see only a part of their
face; but the girls wear this veil only to the mouth, for the contrary
reason, in order that they may be seen enough to judge of their beauty,
and to talk of it.... Girls are not shut up in Persia till they attain
the age of six or seven years; before that age they go out of the
seraglio, sometimes with their father, so that they may then be seen.

I have seen some wonderfully pretty. They show the neck and bosom, and more beautiful cannot be
seen." Hanway gives the following account, Travels in Persia, vol i. 185:-- "The women in Ghilan
are fair, their eyes and hair black; but here, as in other places, they
often use a drug with which they blacken their eyes.

In this province their features are small: these, as well as their stature, partaking much of
the delicate. But in general the Georgians are most esteemed for the charms of their persons. The
females who do not labour in the field, are seldom seen abroad, except
in a morning before the sun rises, and then they are covered with
veils, which reach down to their feet.

When they travel on horseback, every lady of distinction is not only veiled, but has generally
a servant; who runs or rides before her to clear the way; and on
such occasions the men, even in the market-places, always turn their
backs till the women are past, it being thought the highest ill manners
to look at them; but this awful respect is a proof of the slavery
in which they are doomed to live.

The care which they take to conceal their faces, to avoid the imputation of acting indelicately,
and contrary to custom, has made so strong an impression on them, that I was told of a woman
who being accidentally surprised when bathing, showed her whole
person except her face; to hide which all her solicitude was employed."

From Volney, vol. ii. p. 481, we have the following:-- "In Asia the women are rigorously secluded
from the society of men; constantly shut up in their houses, they
have no communication but with their husband, their father, their
brother, or at most their cousin german.

Carefully veiled in the streets, they dare hardly speak to a man, even on business. Everybody
must be strangers to them; it would be indecent to fix your eyes on
them; and you must let them pass you as if there were something contagious
in their nature.

The situation of the women among the Orientals, occasions a great
contrast between their manners and ours.

Such is their delicacy on this head, that they never speak of them; and it would be esteemed highly
indecent to make any inquiries of the men respecting the women of their family. They are unable to conceive
how our women go with their faces uncovered; when, in their country, an uplifted veil is the
mark of a prostitute, or the signal for a love adventure."

They talked of it in the whole town, talked of it and nothing else. As the cities of ancient
times had loved their martyrs, the little village loved the unhappy Petter Nord; but no one
liked to go into the graveyard and talk to him. He looked wilder each day. The obscurity of
madness sank ever closer about him. "Why does she not try to get well?" they said of Edith.
"It is unjust of her to die."

Edith was almost angry. She who was so tired of life, must she be compelled to take up the
heavy burden again? But nevertheless she began an honest effort. She felt what a work of repairing
and mending was going on in her body with seething force during these weeks. And no material
was spared. She consumed incredible quantities of those things which give strength and life,
whatever they may be: malt extract or codliver oil, fresh air or sunshine, dreams or love.

And what glorious days they were, long, warm, and sunny!

At last she got the doctor's permission to be carried up there. The whole town was in alarm
when she undertook the journey. Would she come down with a madman? Could the misery of those
weeks be blotted out of his brain? Would the exertions she had made to begin life again be
profitless? And if it were so, how would it go with her?

As she passed by, pale with excitement, but still full of hope, there was cause enough for
anxiety. No one concealed from themselves that Petter Nord had taken quite too large a place
in her imagination. She was the most eager of all in the worship of that strange saint. All
restraints had fallen from her when she had heard what he suffered for her sake. But how would
the sight of him affect her enthusiasm? There is nothing romantic in a madman.

When she had been carried up to the gate of the graveyard, she left her bearers and walked
alone up the broad middle path. Her gaze wandered round the flowering spot, but she saw no one.

Suddenly she heard a faint rustle in a clump of fir-trees, and she saw a wild, distorted face
staring from it. Never had she seen terror so plainly stamped on a face. She was frightened
herself at the sight of it, mortally frightened. She could hardly restrain herself from running
away.

Then a great, holy feeling welled up in her. There was no longer any thought of love or enthusiasm,
but only grief that a fellow-being, one of the unhappy ones who passed through the vale of
tears with her, should be destroyed.

The girl remained. She did not give way a single step; she let him slowly accustom himself
to the sight of her. But she put all the strength she possessed in her gaze. She drew the man
to her with the whole force of the will that had conquered the illness in herself.

He came forward out of his corner, pale, wild and unkempt. He advanced towards her, but the
terror never left his face. He looked as if he were fascinated by a wild beast, which came
to tear him to pieces. When he was quite close to her, she put both her hands on his shoulders
and looked smiling into his face.

"Come, Petter Nord, what is the matter with you? You must go from here! What do you mean by
staying so long up here in the graveyard, Petter Nord?"

He trembled and sank down. But she felt that she subdued him with her eyes. Her words, on the
other hand, seemed to have absolutely no meaning to him.

She changed her tone a little. "Listen to what I say, Petter Nord. I am not dead. I am not
going to die. I have got well in order to come up here and save you."

He still stood in the same dull terror. Again there came a change in her voice. "You have not
caused my death," she said more tenderly, "you have given me life."

She repeated it again and again. And her voice at last was trembling with emotion, thick with
weeping. But he did not understand anything of what she said.

"Petter Nord, I love you so much, so much!" she burst out.

He was just as unmoved.

She knew nothing more to try with him. She would have to take him down with her to the town
and let time and care help.

It is not easy to say what the dreams she had taken up there with her were and what she had
expected from this meeting with the man who loved her. Now, when she was to give it all up
and treat him as a madman only, she felt such pain, as if she was about to lose the dearest
thing life had given her. And in that bitterness of loss she drew him to her and kissed him
on the forehead.

It was meant as a farewell to both happiness and life. She felt her strength fail her. A mortal
weakness came over her.

But then she thought she saw a feeble sign of life in him. He was not quite so limp and dull.
His features were twitching. He trembled more and more violently. She watched with ever-growing
alarm. He was waking, but to what? At last he began to weep.

She led him away to a tomb. She sat down on it, pulled him down in front of her and laid his
bead on her lap. She sat and caressed him, while he wept.

He was like some one waking from a nightmare.

"Why am I weeping?" he asked himself. "Oh, I know; I had such a terrible dream. But it is not
true. She is alive. I have not killed her. So foolish to weep for a dream."

Gradually everything grew clear to him; but his tears continued to flow. She sat and caressed
him, but he wept still for a long time.

"I feel such a need of weeping," he said.

Then he looked up and smiled. "Is it Easter now?" he asked.

"What do you mean by now?"

"It can be called Easter, when the dead rise again," he continued. Thereupon, as if they had
been intimate many years, he began to tell her about the Spirit of Fasting and of his revolt
against her rule.

"It is Easter now, and the end of her reign," she said.

But when he realized that Edith was sitting there and caressing him, he had to weep again.
He needed so much to weep. All the distrust of life which misfortunes had brought to the little
Värmland boy needed tears to wash it away. Distrust that love and joy, beauty and strength
blossomed on the earth, distrust in himself, all must go, all did go, for if was Easter; the
dead lived and the Spirit of Fasting would never again come into power.

THE LEGEND OF THE BIRD'S NEST

Hatto the hermit stood in the wilderness and prayed to God. A storm was raging, and his long
beard and matted hair waved about him like weather-beaten tufts of grass on the summit of an
old ruin. But he did not push his hair out of his eyes, nor did he tuck his beard into his
belt, for his arms were uplifted in prayer. Ever since sunrise he had raised his gnarled, hairy
arms towards heaven, as untiringly as a tree stretches up its branches, and he meant to remain
standing so till night. He had a great boon to pray for.

He was a man who had suffered much of the world's anger. Her dreams were a constant source of wonder
and edification in the Convent, for they were all of angels and saints; and many a time, after
hearing one, the sisterhood crossed themselves, and the Abbess said, "Ex oribus parvulorum."
Always sweet, dutiful, submissive, cradling herself every night with
a lulling of sweet hymns and infant murmur of prayers, and found sleeping
in her little white bed with her crucifix clasped to her bosom, it
was no wonder that the Abbess thought her the special favorite of
her divine patroness, and, like her, the subject of an early vocation
to be the celestial bride of One fairer than the children of men,
who should snatch her away from all earthly things, to be united to
Him in a celestial paradise.

As the child grew older, she often sat at evening, with wide, wondering eyes, listening over and
over again to the story of the fair Saint Agnes:-- How she was a princess, living in her father's palace,
of such exceeding beauty and grace that none saw her but to love
her, yet of such sweetness and humility as passed all comparison;
and how, when a heathen prince would have espoused her to his son,
she said, "Away from me, tempter! for I am betrothed to a lover who
is greater and fairer than any earthly suitor,-- he is so fair that
the sun and moon are ravished by his beauty, so mighty that the angels
of heaven are his servants"; how she bore meekly with persecutions
and threatenings and death for the sake of this unearthly love; and
when she had poured out her blood, how she came to her mourning friends
in ecstatic vision, all white and glistening, with a fair lamb by
her side, and bade them weep not for her, because she was reigning
with Him whom on earth she had preferred to all other lovers.

There was also the legend of the fair Cecilia, the lovely musician whom angels had rapt away
to their choirs; the story of that queenly saint, Catharine, who passed through the courts of heaven,
and saw the angels crowned with roses and lilies, and the Virgin on her throne, who gave her
the wedding-ring that espoused her to be the bride of the King Eternal.

Fed with such legends, it could not be but that a child with a sensitive,
nervous organization and vivid imagination should have grown up with
an unworldly and spiritual character, and that a poetic mist should
have enveloped all her outward perceptions similar to that palpitating
veil of blue and lilac vapor that enshrouds the Italian landscape.

Nor is it to be marvelled at, if the results of this system of education went far beyond what the
good old grandmother intended. For, though a stanch good Christian, after the manner of those
times, yet she had not the slightest mind to see her grand-daughter a nun; on the contrary, she
was working day and night to add to her dowry, and had in her eye
a reputable middle-aged blacksmith, who was a man of substance and
prudence, to be the husband and keeper of her precious treasure.

In a home thus established she hoped to enthrone herself, and provide for the rearing of a generation
of stout-limbed girls and boys who should grow up to make a flourishing household in the land.
This subject she had not yet broached to her grand-daughter, though daily preparing to do so,-- deferring
it, it must be told, from a sort of jealous, yearning craving to have wholly to herself the child
for whom she had lived so many years.

Antonio, the blacksmith to whom this honor was destined, was one of those broad-backed, full-chested,
long-limbed fellows one shall often see around Sorrento, with great,
kind, black eyes like those of an ox, and all the attributes of a
healthy, kindly, animal nature.

Contentedly he hammered away at his business; and certainly, had not Dame Elsie of her own providence
elected him to be the husband of her fair grand-daughter, he would never have thought of the
matter himself; but, opening the black eyes aforenamed upon the girl, he perceived that she
was fair, and also received an inner light through Dame Elsie as to the amount of her dowry; and,
putting these matters together, conceived a kindness for the maiden, and awaited with tranquillity
the time when he should be allowed to commence his wooing.

REST AND MOTION.

Motion and Rest are the two feet upon which existence goes. All action and all definite power
result from the intimacy and consent of these opposite principles.

If, therefore, one would construct any serviceable mechanism, he must incorporate into it, and
commonly in a manifold way, a somewhat passive, a somewhat contrary, and, as it were, inimical
to action, though action be the sole aim and use of his contrivance. Thus, the human body is
penetrated by the passive and powerless skeleton, which is a mere weight upon the muscles,
a part of the burden that, nevertheless, it enables them to bear.

The lever of Archimedes would push the planet aside, provided only it were supplied with its
indispensable complement, a fulcrum, or fixity: without this it will not push a pin. The block
of the pulley must have its permanent attachment; the wheel of the
locomotive engine requires beneath it the fixed rail; the foot of
the pedestrian, solid earth; the wing of the bird rests upon the relatively
stable air to support his body, and upon his body to gain power over
the air.

Nor is it alone of operations mechanical that the law holds good: it is universal; and its
application to pure mental action may be shown without difficulty. A single act of the mind
is represented by the formation of a simple sentence. The process consists, first, in the mind's
fixing upon and resting in an object, which thereby becomes the subject of the sentence; and,
secondly, in predication, which is movement, represented by the verb.

The reader will easily supply himself with instances and illustrations of this, and need not,
therefore, be detained.

In the economy of animal and vegetable existence, as in all that Nature makes, we observe the
same inevitable association. Here is perpetual fixity of form, perpetual flux of constituent,-- the
ideas of Nature never changing, the material realization of them
never ceasing to change.

A horse is a horse through all the ages; yet the horse of to-day is changed from the horse of
yesterday.

If one of these principles seem to get the start, and to separate itself, the other quickly
follows.

No sooner, for example, does any person perform an initial deed, proceeding purely (let us suppose)
from free will, than Nature in him begins to repose therein, and consequently inclines to its repetition
for the mere reason that it has been once done.

This is Habit, which makes action passive, and is the greatest of
labor-saving inventions.

Custom is the habit of society, holding the same relation to progressive genius. It is the
sleeping partner in the great social firm; it is thought and force laid up and become fixed
capital. Annihilate this,-- as in the French Revolution was attempted,-- and society is at once reduced
to its bare immediate force, and must scratch the soil with its fingers.

Sometimes these principles seem to be strictly hostile to each other and in no respect reciprocal,
as where habit in the individual and custom in society oppose themselves bitterly to free will
and advancing thought: yet even here the special warfare is but the material of a broader and
more subtile alliance.

An obstinate fixity in one's bosom often serves as a rock on which to break the shell of some
hard inclosed faculty.

Upon stepping-stones of our slain selves we mount to new altitudes. So do the antagonisms
of these principles in the broader field of society equally conceal a fundamental reciprocation.
By the opposition to his thought of inert and defiant custom, the thinker is compelled to
interrogate his consciousness more deeply and sacredly; and being
cut off from that sympathy which has its foundation in similarity
of temperaments and traditions, he must fall back with simpler abandonment
upon the pure idea, and must seek responses from that absolute nature
of man which the men of his time are not human enough to afford him.

This absolute nature, this divine identity in man, underrunning times, temperaments, individualities,
is that which poet and prophet must address: yet to speak to it, they must speak from it; to
be heard by the universal heart, they must use a universal language. But this marvellous vernacular
can be known to him alone whose heart is universal, in whom even
self-love is no longer selfish, but is a pure respect to his own being
as it is Being.

Well it is, therefore, that here and there one man should be so denied all petty and provincial
claim to attention, that only by speaking to Man as Man, and in the
sincerest vernacular of the human soul, he can find audience; for
thus it shall become his need, for the sake of joy no less than of
duty, to know himself purely as man, and to yield himself wholly to
his immortal humanity.

Thus does fixed custom force back the most moving souls, until they touch the springs of inspiration,
and are indued with power: then, at once potent and pure, they gush into history, to be influences,
to make epochs, and to prevail over that through whose agency they
first obtained strength.

Thus,
everywhere, through all realms, do the opposite principles of Rest and Motion depend upon and
reciprocally empower each other. In every act, mechanical, mental, social, must both take
part and consent together; and upon the perfection of this consent depends the quality of the
action. Every progress is conditioned on a permanence; every permanence lives but in and through
progress. Where all, and with equal and simultaneous impulse, strives to move, nothing can move,
but chaos is come; where all refuses to move, and therefore stagnates,
decay supervenes, which is motion, though a motion downward.

Having made this general statement, we proceed to say that there are two chief ways in which these
universal opposites enter into reciprocation. The first and more obvious is the method of alternation,
or of rest from motion; the other, that of continuous equality, which
may be called a rest in motion.

These two methods, however, are not mutually exclusive, but may at once occupy the same ground,
and apply to the same objects,-- as oxygen and nitrogen severally fill the same space, to the
full capacity of each, as though the other were absent.

Instances of the alternation, either total or approximative, of these principles are many and
familiar.

They may be seen in the systole and diastole of the heart; in the alternate activity and passivity
of the lungs; in the feet of the pedestrian, one pausing while the other proceeds; in the waving
wings of birds; in the undulation of the sea; in the creation and propagation of sound, and
the propagation, at least, of light; in the alternate acceleration and retardation of the earth's
motion in its orbit, and in the waving of its poles. In all vibrations and undulations there is
a going and returning, between which must exist minute periods of
repose; but in many instances the return is simply a relaxation or
a subsidence, and belongs, therefore, to the department of rest.

Discourse itself, it will be observed, has its pauses, seasons of repose thickly interspersed
in the action of speech; and besides these has its accented and unaccented
syllables, emphatic and unemphatic words,-- illustrating thus in itself
the law which it here affirms.

History is full of the same thing; the tides of faith and feeling now ascend and now subside,
through all the ages, in the soul of humanity; each new affirmation prepares the way for new doubt,
each honest doubt in the end furthers and enlarges belief; the pendulum
of destiny swings to and fro forever, and earth's minutest life and
heaven's remotest star swing with it, rising but to fall, and falling
that they may rise again.

So does rhythm go to the very bottom of the world: the heart of Nature pulses, and the echoing
shore and all music and the throbbing heart and swaying destinies of man but follow and proclaim
the law of her inward life.

The universality and mutual relationship of these primal principles have, perhaps, been sufficiently
set forth; and this may be the place to emphasize the second chief
point,-- that the perfection of this mutuality measures the degree
of excellence in all objects and actions.

It will everywhere appear, that, the more regular and symmetrical their relationship, the more
beautiful and acceptable are its results. For example, sounds proceeding from vibrations wherein
the strokes and pauses are in invariable relation are such sounds as we denominate musical. Accordingly
all sounds are musical at a sufficient distance, since the most irregular
undulations are, in a long journey through the air, wrought to an
equality, and made subject to exact law,-- as in this universe all
irregularities are sure to be in the end.

Thus, the thunder, which near at hand is a wild crash, or nearer yet a crazy crackle, is by distance
deepened and refined into that marvellous bass which we all know. And doubtless the jars,
the discords, and moral contradictions of time, however harsh and
crazy at the outset, flow into exact undulation along the ether of
eternity, and only as a pure proclamation of law attain to the ear
of Heaven.

Nay, whoso among men is able to plant his ear high enough above this rude clangor may, in like
manner, so hear it, that it shall be to him melody, solace, fruition, a perpetual harvest of
the heart's dearest wishes, a perpetual corroboration of that which
faith affirms.

We may therefore easily understand why musical sounds are musical, why they are acceptable
and moving, while those affront the sense in which the minute reposes are capricious, and, as
it were, upon ill terms with the movements. The former appeal to what is most universal and cosmical
within us,-- to the pure Law, the deep Nature in our breasts; they
fall in with the immortal rhythm of life itself, which the others
encounter and impugn.

It will be seen also that verse differs from prose as musical sounds
from ordinary tones; and having so deep a ground in Nature, rhythmical
speech will be sure to continue, in spite of objection and protest,
were it, if possible, many times more energetic than that of Mr.
Carlyle.

But always the best prose has a certain rhythmic emphasis and cadence: in Milton's grander passages
there is a symphony of organs, the bellows of the mighty North (one might say) filling their pipes;
Goldsmith's flute still breathes through his essays; and in the ampler prose of Bacon there is
the swell of a summer ocean, and you can half fancy you hear the long soft surge falling on
the shore.

Also in all good writing, as in good reading, the pauses suffer no slight; they are treated handsomely;
and each sentence rounds gratefully and clearly into rest. Sometimes, indeed, an attempt is
made to react in an illegitimate way this force of firm pauses, as in exaggerated French style,
wherein the writer seems never to stride or to run, but always to
jump like a frog.

Again, as reciprocal opposites, our two principles should be of equal
dignity and value.

To concede, however, the equality of rest with motion must, for an American, be not easy; and it
is therefore in point to assert and illustrate this in particular. What better method of doing
so than that of taking some one large instance in Nature, if such can be found, and allowing
this, after fair inspection, to stand for all others? And, as it happens, just what we require
is quite at hand;-- the alternation of Day and Night, of sleep and
waking, is so broad, obvious, and familiar, and so mingled with our
human interests, that its two terms are easily subjected to extended
and clear comparison; while also it deserves discussion upon its own
account, apart from its relation to the general subject.

Sleep is now popularly known to be coextensive with Life,-- inseparable from vital existence of
whatever grade. The rotation of the earth is accordingly implied, as was happily suggested
by Paley, in the constitution of every animal and every plant. It is quite evident, therefore, that
this necessity was not laid upon, man through some inadvertence of
Nature; on the contrary, this arrangement must be such as to her seemed
altogether suitable, and, if suitable, economical.

Eager men, however, avaricious of performance, do not always regard it with entire complacency. Especially
have the saints been apt to set up a controversy with Nature in this
particular, submitting with infinite unwillingness to the law by which
they deem themselves, as it were, defrauded of life and activity in
so large measure.

In form, to be sure, their accusation lies solely against themselves; they reproach themselves
with sleeping beyond need, sleeping for the mere luxury and delight of it; but the venial
self-deception is quite obvious,-- nothing plainer than that it is their necessity itself which is
repugnant to them, and that their wills are blamed for not sufficiently withstanding and thwarting
it. Pious William Law, for example, is unable to disparage sleep enough for his content. "The
poorest, dullest refreshment of the body," he calls it,... "such
a dull, stupid state of existence, that even among animals we despise
them most which are most drowsy."

You should therefore, so he urges, "begin the day in the spirit of renouncing sleep." Baxter,
also,-- at that moment a walking catalogue and epitome of all diseases,-- thought himself guilty
for all sleep he enjoyed beyond three hours a day.

More's Utopians were to rise at very early hours, and attend scientific
lectures before breakfast.

Ambition
and cupidity, which, in their way, are no whit less earnest and self-sacrificing
than sanctity, equally look upon sleep as a wasteful concession to
bodily wants, and equally incline to limit such concession to its
mere minimum.

Commonplaces accordingly are perpetually circulating in the newspapers,
especially in such as pretend to a didactic tone, wherein all persons
are exhorted to early rising, to resolute abridgment of the hours
of sleep, and the like.

That Sir Walter Raleigh slept but five hours in twenty-four; that John Hunter, Frederick the Great,
and Alexander von Humboldt slept but four; that the Duke of Wellington made it an invariable
rule to "turn out" whenever he felt inclined to turn over, and John Wesley to arise upon his
first awaking: instances such as these appear on parade with the regularity of militia troops
at muster; and the precept duly follows,-- "Whoso would not be insignificant, let him go and do
likewise." "All great men have been early risers," says my newspaper.

Of late, indeed, a better knowledge of the laws of health, or perhaps only a keener sense of its
value and its instability, begins to supersede these rash inculcations;
and paragraphs due to some discreet Dr. Hall make the rounds of the
press, in which we are reminded that early rising, in order to prove
a benefit, rather than a source of mischief, must be duly matched
with early going to bed.

The one, we are told, will by no means answer without the other. As yet, however, this is
urged upon hygienic grounds alone; it is a mere concession to the body, a bald necessity that
we hampered mortals lie under; which necessity we are quite at liberty to regret and accuse,
though we cannot with safety resist it. Sleep is still admitted to be a waste of time, though
one with which Nature alone is chargeable. And I own, not without reluctance, that the great
authority of Plato can be pleaded for this low view of its functions. In the "Laws" he enjoins
a due measure thereof, but for the sake of health alone, and adds, that the sleeper is, for the time,
of no more value than the dead. Clearly, mankind would sustain some loss of good sense, were
all the dullards and fat-wits taken away; and Sancho Panza, with
his hearty, "Blessings on the man that invented sleep!" here ekes
out the scant wisdom of sages. She had very red cheeks, very dark
hair. She was exuberant in figure, moving with vigor and life. Her clothes were shabby but
bright in color. Red bands edged the striped skirt and bright colored worsted fringes outlined
the seams of her bodice. Other young maidens resemble roses and lilies, but she was like the
heather, strong, gay and glowing.

The hunter watched with pleasure as the big, splendid woman danced on the red heath among the
playing grasshoppers and the fluttering butterflies. While he looked at her he laughed so that
his mouth was drawn up towards his ears. But then she suddenly caught sight of him and stood
motionless.

"I suppose you think I am mad," was the first thing that occurred to her to say. At the same
time she wondered how she would get him to hold his tongue about what he had seen. She did
not care to hear it told down in the village that she had danced with a fir root.

He was a man poor in words. Not a syllable could he utter. He was so shy that he could think
of nothing better than to run away, although he longed to stay. Hastily he got his hat on his
head and his leather bag on his back. Then he ran away through the clumps of heather.

She snatched up her bundle and ran after him. He was small, stiff in his movements and evidently
had very little strength. She soon caught up with him and knocked his hat off to induce him
to stop. He really wished to do so, but he was confused with shyness and fled with still greater
speed. She ran after him and began to pull at his game-bag. Then he had to stop to defend it.
She fell upon him with all her strength. They fought, and she threw him to the ground. "Now
he will not speak of it to any one," she thought, and rejoiced.

At the same moment, however, she grew sick with fright, for the man who lay on the ground turned
livid and his eyes rolled inwards in his head. He was not hurt in any way, however. He could
not bear emotion. Never before had so strong and conflicting feelings stirred within that lonely
forest dweller. He rejoiced over the girl and was angry and ashamed and yet proud that she
was so strong. He was quite out of his head with it all.

The big, strong girl put her arm under his back and lifted him up. She broke the heather and
whipped his face with the stiff twigs until the blood came back to it. When his little eyes
again turned towards the light of day, they shone with pleasure at the sight of her. He was
still silent; but he drew forward the hand which she had placed about his waist and caressed
it gently.

He was a child of starvation and early toil. He was dry and pallid, thin and anaemic. She was
touched by his faintheartedness; he who nevertheless seemed to be about thirty years old. She
thought that he must live quite alone in the forest since he was so pitiful and so meanly dressed.
He could have no one to look after him, neither mother nor sister nor sweetheart.

***

The great compassionate forest spread over the wilderness. Concealing and protecting, it took
to its heart everything which sought its help. With its lofty trunks it kept watch by the lair
of the fox and the bear, and in the twilight of the thick bushes it hid the egg-filled nests
of little birds.

At the time when people still had slaves, many of them escaped to the woods and found shelter
behind its green walls. It became a great prison for them which they did not dare to leave.
The forest held its prisoners in strict discipline. It forced the dull ones to use their wits
and educated those ruined by slavery to order and honor. Only to the industrious did it give
the right to live.

The two who met on the heath were descendants of such prisoners of the forest. They sometimes
went down to the inhabited, cultivated valleys, for they no longer feared to be reduced to
the slavery from which their forefathers had fled, but they were happiest in the dimness of
the forest. The hunter's name was Tönne. His real work was to cultivate the earth, but he also
could do other things. He collected herbs, boiled tar, dried punk, and often went hunting.
The dancer was called Jofrid. Her father was a charcoal burner. She tied brooms, picked juniper
berries and brewed ale of the white-flowering myrtle. They were both very poor.

They had never met before in the big wood, but now they thought that all its paths wound into
a net, in which they ran forward and back and could not possibly escape one another. They never
knew how to choose a way where they did not meet.

Tönne had once had a great sorrow. He had lived with his mother for a long while in a miserable,
wattled but, but as soon as he was grown up he was seized with the idea to build her a warm
cabin. During all his leisure moments he went into the clearing, cut down trees and hewed them
into squared pieces. Then he hid the timber in dark crannies under moss and branches. It was
his intention that his mother should not know anything of all this work before he was ready
to build the house. But his mother died before he could show her what he had collected; before
he had time to tell her what he had wished to do. He, who had worked with the same zeal as
David, King of Israel, when he gathered treasures for the temple of God, grieved most bitterly
over it. He lost all interest in the building. For him the brushwood shelter was good enough.
Yet he was hardly better off in his home than an animal in its hole.

When he, who had always heretofore crept about alone, was now seized with the desire to seek
Jofrid's company, it certainly meant that he would like to have her for his sweetheart and
his bride. Jofrid also waited daily for him to speak to her father or to herself about the
matter. But Tönne could not. This showed that he was of a race of slaves. The thoughts that
came into his head moved as slowly as the sun when he travels across the sky. And it was more
difficult for him to shape those thoughts to connected speech than for a smith to forge a bracelet
out of rolling grains of sand.

One day Tönne took Jofrid to one of the clefts, where he had hidden his timber. He pulled aside
the branches and moss and showed her the squared beams. "That was to have been mother's house,"
he said. The young girl was strangely slow in understanding a young man's thoughts. When he
showed her his mother's logs she ought to have understood, but she did not understand.

Then he decided to make his meaning even plainer. A few days later he began to drag the logs
up to the place between the cairns, where he had seen Jofrid for the first time. She came as
usual along the path and saw him at work. Nevertheless she went on without saying anything.
Since they had become friends she had often given him a good handshake, but she did not seem
to want to help him with the heavy work. Tönne still thought that she ought to have understood
that it was now her house which he meant to build.

She understood it very well, but she had no desire to give herself to such a man as Tönne.
She wished to have a strong and healthy husband. She thought it would be a poor livelihood
to marry any one who was weak and dull. Still, there was much which drew her to that silent,
shy man. She thought how hard he had worked to gladden his mother and had not enjoyed the happiness
of being ready in time. She could weep for his sake. And now he was building the house just
where he had seen her dance. He had a good heart. And that interested her and fixed her thoughts
on him, but she did not at all wish to marry him.

Every day she went over the heather field and saw the log cabin grow, miserable and without
windows, with the sunlight filtering in through the leaky walls.

Tönne's work progressed very quickly, but not with care. His timbers were not bent square,
the lark was scarcely taken off. He laid the floor with split young trees. It was uneven and
shaky. The heather, which grew and blossomed under it,--for at year had passed since the day
when Tönne had lain aleep behind King Atle's pile,-- pushed up bold red clusters through the
cracks, and ants without number wandered out and in, inspecting the fragile work of man.

Wherever Jofrid went during those days, the thought never left her that a house was being built
for her there. A home was being prepared for her upon the heath. And she knew that if she did
not enter there as mistress, the bear and the fox would make it their home. For she knew Tönne
well enough to understand that if he found he had worked in vain, he would never move into
the new house. He would weep, poor man, when he heard that she would not live there. It would
be a new sorrow for him, as deep as when his mother died. But he had himself to blame, because
he had not asked her in time.

She thought that she gave him a sufficient hint in not helping him with the house. She often
felt impelled to do so. Every time she saw any soft, white moss, she wanted to pick it to fill
in the leaky walls. She longed, too, to help Tönne to build the chimney. That book will some day
be treasured in the library of a bibliophile, but that will not be until Bifulco is dead, for
while he lives he will never part with it.

One comes to look upon this bohemian wine-shop as an adjunct of the laboratory, and to feel
that the free-and-easy meetings there are in their way as important
for the progress of science as the private séances of the individual
workers in the laboratory itself.

Not because scientific topics are discussed here, though doubtless that sometimes happens,
but because of that vitalizing influence of the contact of kindred spirits of which I am speaking,
and because this is the one place where a considerable number of the workers at the laboratory
meet together with regularity.

The men who enter into such associations go out from them revitalized,
full of the spirit of propaganda.

Returned to their own homes, they agitate the question of organizing marine laboratories there;
and it is largely through the efforts of the graduates, so to say, of the Naples laboratory that
similar institutions have been established all over the world.

Thanks largely to the original efforts of Dr. Dohrn, nearly all civilized countries with a coast-line
now have their marine laboratories.

France has half a dozen, two of them under government control. Russia has two on the Black Sea
and one on the French Mediterranean coast. Great Britain has important stations at St. Andrews,
at Liverpool, and at Plymouth. The Scandinavian peninsula has also three important stations. Germany
shows a paucity by comparison, which, however, is easily understood when one reflects that
the mother-laboratory at Naples is essentially a German institution
despite its location.

The American stations are located at Woods'Holl and at Cold Spring Harbor, on opposite coasts
of Long Island Sound. The Japanese station is an adjunct of Tokio University. For the rest,
the minor offspring of the Naples laboratory are too numerous to be cited here. Nor can I enter
into any details regarding even the more important ones.

Each in its way enters into the same general line of work, varying the details according to
the bent of mind of individual directors and the limitations of individual resources. But in
the broader outlines the aim of all is the same, and what we have seen at Naples is typical of
what is best in all the others.

VI. ERNST HAECKEL AND THE NEW ZOOLOGY THE DREAM CITY THE train crept
on its tortuous way down the picturesque valley of the little Saale.

At last we saw, high above us, on a jutting crag, three quaint old
castles, in one of which, as we knew from our Baedeker; Goethe at
one time lived.

We were entering the region of traditions. Soon we knew we should be passing that famous battle-field
on which Napoleon, in 1806, sealed the fate of Germany for a generation. But this spot, as seen
from the car window, bore no emblem to distinguish it, and before we were quite sure that we
had reached it we had in point of fact passed on, and the train was coming
to a stop.

"Jena!" called the guard, and the scramble for "luggage" began, leaving us for the moment no
place for other thoughts than to make sure that all our various parcels were properly dragged
out along with ourselves. For a wonder no Dienstman appeared to give us aid-- showing how
unexpected is the arrival of any wayfarer at this untoward season-- and for a moment one seemed in
danger of being reduced to the unheard-of expedient of carrying one's own satchel. But, fortunately,
one is rescued from this most un-German predicament by the porter of a waiting hotel omnibus, and
so at last we have time to look about us, and to awaken to a realizing
sense that we have reached the land of traditions; that we have come
to Mecca; that we are in the quondam home of Guericke, Fichte, Goethe,
Schiller, Oken, and Gagenbaur; in the present home of Haeckel.

The first glimpse of a mountain beaming down at us from across the way was in admirable conformity
with our expectations, but for the rest, the vicinage of the depot presented a most distressing
air of modernity. A cluster of new buildings-- some of them yet unfinished-- stared back at
us and the mountain with the most barefaced aspect of cosmopolitanism. Was this, then, Jena,
the home of traditions?

Or were we entering some Iowa village, where the first settlers still
live who but yesterday banished the prairie-dog and the buffalo? But
this disappointment and its ironical promptings were but fleeting.
Five minutes'drive and we were in the true Jena with the real flavor
of mediaeval-ism about us.

Here is the hostelry where Luther met the Swiss students in 1522. There is nothing in that date
to suggest our Iowa village, nor in the aspect of the hostelry itself, thank fortune. And there
rises the spire of the city church, up the hill yonder, which was
aging, as were most of the buildings that still flank it, when Luther
made that memorable visit.

America was not discovered, let alone Iowa, when these structures
were erected.

Now, sure enough, we are in the dream city. A dream city it truly seems, when one comes to wander
through its narrow, tortuous streets, between time-stained walls,
amid its rustic population.

Coming from Berlin, from Dresden, from Leipzig-- not to mention America-- one feels as if he
had stepped suddenly back two or three centuries into the past. There are some evidences of modernity
that mar the illusion, to be sure; but the preponderance of the old-time
emblems is sufficient to leave the mind in a delightful glow of reminiscences.

As a whole, the aspect of the central portion of the village-- of the true Jena-- cannot greatly have
changed since the days when Luther stopped here on his way to Wittenberg;
surely not since 1662, when the mighty young Leibnitz, the Aristotle
of Germany, came to Jena to study under Weigel, the most famous of
German mathematicians of that century.

Here and there an old house has been demolished, to be sure; even
now you may see the work of destruction going on, as a new street is
being cut through a time-honored block close to the old church.

But in the main the old thoroughfares run hither and thither, seemingly at
random, as of old, disclosing everywhere at their limits a sky-line
of picturesque gables, and shut in by walls that often are almost
canon-like in narrowness; while the heavy, buttressed doors and the
small, high-placed windows speak of a time when every house partook
of the nature of the fortress.

The footway of the thoroughfares has no doubt vastly changed, for it is for the most part paved
now-- badly enough, to be sure, yet, after all, paved as no city was in the good old days when
garbage filled the streets and cleanliness was an unknown virtue.
The Jena streets of to-day are very modern in their cleanliness; yet
a touch of medievalism is retained in that the main work of cleaning
is done by women. But, for that matter, it seems to the casual observer
as if the bulk of all the work here were performed by the supposedly
weaker sex.

Certainly woman is here the chief beast of burden. In every direction she may be seen, in rustic
garb, struggling cheerily along under the burden of a gigantic basket strapped at her back.
You may see the like anywhere else in Germany, to be sure, but not often elsewhere in such preponderant
numbers. And scarcely elsewhere does the sight jar so little on one's New-World sensibilities
as in the midst of this mediaeval setting. One is even able to watch the old women sawing and
splitting wood in the streets here, with no thought of anything but
the picturesque-ness of the incident.

If
one follows a band of basket-laden women, he will find that their goal is that focal-point of every old-time
city, the market-place. There arrived, he will witness a scene common enough in Europe but hardly
to be duplicated anywhere in America. Hundreds of venders of meat, fish, vegetables, cloths,
and household utensils have their open-air booths scattered all across the wide space, and other
hundreds of purchasers are there as well.

Quaint garbs and quainter faces are everywhere, and the whole seems quite in keeping with
the background of fifteenth-century houses that hedges it in on every side. Could John the Magnanimous,
who rises up in bronze in the midst of the assembly, come to life, he would never guess that three
and a half centuries have passed since he fell into his last sleep. This same John the Magnanimous
it was who founded the institution which gives Jena its fame and
distinguishes it from all the other quaint hypnotic clusters of houses
that nestle similarly here and there in other picturesque valleys
of the Fatherland-- I mean, of course, its world-renowned university.

It is but a few minutes'walk from the market-place, past the home where Schiller once lived
and through the "street" scarcely more than arms'-breadth wide beyond, to the site of the older buildings
of the university. Inornate, prosaic buildings they are, unrelieved even by the
dominant note of picturesqueness; rescued, however, from all suggestion
of the commonplace by the rugged ruins of the famed "powder-tower"
jutting out from the crest of the hill just above, by the spire of
the old church which seems to rise from the oldest university building
itself, and by the mountain peaks that jut up into view far beyond.

If you would enter one of the old buildings there is naught to hinder. Go into one of the lecture-halls
which chances at the moment to be unoccupied, and you will see an array of crude old benches for
seats that look as if they might have been placed there at the very inaugural of the institution.
The boards that serve for desks, if you scan them closer, you will find
scarred all over with the marks of knives, showing how some hundreds
of successive classes of listeners have whiled away the weary lecture-hours.

Not a square inch can you find of the entire desk surface that is un-scarred. If one would woo a new sensation,
he has but to seat himself on one of these puritanical old benches and conjure up in imagination
the long series of professors that may have occupied the raised platform in front, recalling the
manner of thought and dogma that each laid down as verity.

He of the first series appears in the garb of the sixteenth century, with mind just eagerly striving
to peer a little way out of the penumbra of the Renaissance. The students who carve the first gashes
in the new desks will learn, if perchance they listen in intervals of whittling, that this World
on which they live is perhaps not flat, but actually round, like a ball. It is debatable doctrine,
to be sure, but we must not forget that Signor Columbus, recently dead,
found land off to the west which is probably a part of the Asiatic
continent.

If the earth be indeed a ball, then the sun and stars whirl clear around it in twenty-four hours,
travelling thus at an astonishing speed, for the sphere in which they are fastened is situated hundreds
of miles away. The sun must be a really great ball of fire-- perhaps a mile even in diameter.
The moon, as is plain to see, is nearly as large. The stars, of course, are only sparks, though
of great brilliancy.

They are fixed in a different sphere from that of the sun. In still other spheres are the moon, and a small
set of large stars called planets, of which latter there are four, in order that, with the sun,
the moon, and the other stars, there may be made seven orders of heavenly bodies-- seven being, of course,
the magic number in accordance with which the universe is planned.
This is, in substance, the whole subject of astronomy, as that first professor
must have taught it, even were he the wisest man of his time.

Of the other sciences, except an elementary mathematics, there was hardly so much as an inkling
taught that first class of students. You will find it appalling, as you muse, to reflect upon the
amazing mixture of utter ignorance and false knowledge which the learned
professor of that day brought to the class-room, and which the "educated"
student carried away along with his degree.

The one and the other knew Greek, Latin, and Bible history and doctrine. Beyond that their minds were
as the minds of babes. Yet no doubt the student who went out from the University of Jena in the
year 1550 thought himself upon the pinnacles of learning. So he was in his day and age, but
could he come to life to-day, in the full flush of his scholarship, yonder wood-vender, plying
her saw out here in front of the university building, would laugh
in derision at his simplicity and ignorance. So it seems that, after
all, the subjects of John the Magnanimous have changed more than
a little during the three hundred and odd years that John himself,
done in bronze, has been standing out there in the market-place.

THE CAREER OF A ZOOLOGIST Had one time for it, there would be real interest in noting the steps by
which the mental change in question has been brought about; in particular
to note the share which the successive generations of Jena professors
have taken in the great upward struggle.

But we must not pause for that here. Our real concern, despite the
haunting reminiscences, is not with the Jena of the past, but with
the Jena of to-day; not with ghosts, but with the living personality
who has made the Jena of our generation one of the greatest centres
of progress in human thought in all the world.

Jena is Jena to-day not so much because Guericke and Fichte and Hegel and Schiller and Oken taught
here in the past, as because it has for thirty-eight years been the seat of the labors of Germany's
greatest naturalist, one of the most philosophical zoologists of any
country or any age, Professor Ernst Haeckel. It is of Professor Haeckel
and his work that I chiefly mean to write, and if I have dwelt somewhat upon
Jena itself, it is because this quaint, retired village has been the theatre
of Haeckel's activities all the mature years of his life, and because
the work he has here accomplished could hardly have been done so well
elsewhere; some of it, for reasons I shall presently mention, could
hardly have been done elsewhere at all-- at least in another university.

It was in 1861 that young Dr. Haeckel came first to Jena as a teacher. He had made a tentative effort
at the practice of medicine in Berlin, then very gladly had turned from a distasteful pursuit to the
field of pure science. His first love, before he took up the study
of medicine, had been botany, though pictorial art, then as later,
competed with science for his favorable attention.

But the influence of his great teacher, Johannes Müller, together with his medical studies, had turned his
attention more directly to the animal rather than vegetable life, and when he left medicine
it was to turn explicitly to zoology as a life study. Here he believed he should find a wider field
than in art, which he loved almost as well, and which, it may be added, he has followed all his
life as a dilettante of much more than amateurish skill. Had he so elected, Haeckel might have
made his mark in art quite as definitely as he has made it in science. Indeed, even as the case
stands, his draughtsman's skill has been more than a mere recreation
to him, for without his beautiful drawings, often made and reproduced
in color, his classical monographs on various orders of living creatures
would have lacked much of their present value.

Moreover, quite aside from these merely technical drawings, Professor Haeckel has made hundreds of
paintings purely for recreation and the love of it, illustrating-- and that too often with
true artistic feeling for both form and color-- the various lands
to which his zoological quests have carried him, such as Sicily, the
Canaries, Egypt, and India.

From India alone, after a four-months'visit, Professor Haeckel brought
back two hundred fair-sized water-colors, a feat which speaks at once
for his love of art and his amazing industry.

I dwell upon this phase of Professor Haeckel's character and temperament from the very outset because
I wish it constantly to be borne in mind, in connection with some of
the doctrines to be mentioned presently, that here we have to do
with no dry-as-dust scientist, cold and soulless, but with a broad,
versatile, imaginative mind, one that links the scientific and the
artistic temperaments in rarest measure.

Charles Darwin, with whose name the name of Haeckel will always be linked, told with regret
that in his later years he had become so steeped in scientific facts that he had lost all love
for or appreciation of art or music. There has been no such mental
warping and atrophy in the mind of Ernst Haeckel.

Yet there is probably no man living to-day whose mind contains a larger
store of technical scientific facts than his, nor a man who has enriched
zoology with a larger number of new data, the result of direct personal
observation in field or laboratory. How large Haeckel's contribution
in this last regard has been can be but vaguely appreciated by running
over the long list of his important publications, though the list
includes more than one hundred titles, unless it is understood that
some single titles stand for monographs of gigantic proportions, which
have involved years of labor in the production.

Thus the text alone of the monograph on the radiolarians, a form of microscopic sea-animalcule (to
say nothing of the volume of plates), is a work of three gigantic volumes, weighing, as Professor
Haeckel laughingly remarks, some thirty pounds, and representing
twelve years of hard labor. This particular monograph, by-the-bye, is written
in English (of which, as of several other languages, Professor Haeckel
is perfect master), and has a history of more than ordinary interest.

It appears that the radiolarians were discovered about a half-century
ago by Johannes Müller, who made an especial-study of them, which
was uncompleted at the time of his death in 1858.

His monograph, describing the fifty species then known, was published posthumously. Haeckel,
on whom the mantle of the great teacher was to fall, and who had
been Müller's last pupil, took up the work his revered master had
left unfinished as his own first great original Arbeit.

He went to Messina and was delighted to find the sea there replete
with radiolarians, of which he was able to discover one or two new
species almost every day, until he had added one hundred and fifty
all told to Müller's list, or more than triple the whole number previously
known.

The description of these one hundred and fifty new radiolarians constituted
Haeckel's first great contribution to zoology, and won him his place
as teacher at Jena in 1861. Henceforth Haeckel was, of course, known
as the greatest authority on this particular order of creatures.

For this reason it was that Professor Murray, the naturalist of
the famous expedition which the British government sent around the world
in the ship Challenger, asked Haeckel to work up the radiolarian
material that had been gathered during that voyage.

Murray showed Haeckel a little bottle containing water, with a deposit of seeming clay or mud
in the bottom. "That mud," he said, "was dredged up from the bottom of the ocean, and every
particle of it is the shell of a radiolarian." "Impossible," said Haeckel. "Yet true," replied Murray,
"as the microscope will soon prove to you." So it did, and Professor
Haeckel spent twelve years examining that mud under the microscope,
with the result that, before he had done, he had discovered no fewer
than four thousand new species of radiolarians, all of which, of course,
had to be figured, described, and christened.

Think of baptizing four thousand creatures, finding a new, distinct,
and appropriate Latin name for each and every one, and that, too, when
the creatures themselves are of microscopic size, and the difference between
them often so slight that only the expert eye could detect it. Think,
too, of the deadly tedium of labor in detecting these differences,
in sketching them, and in writing out, to the length of three monster
volumes, technical dissertations upon them.

To the untechnical reader that must seem a deadly, a veritably mind-sapping task. And such, indeed,
it would prove to the average zoologist. But with the mind of a Haeckel
it is far otherwise.

To him a radiolarian, or any other creature, is of interest, not so much on its own account as
for its associations. He sees it not as an individual but as a link
in the scale of organic things, as the bearer of a certain message
of world-history. Thus the radiolarians, insignificant creatures though
they seem, have really taken an extraordinary share in building up
the crust of the earth.

The ooze at the bottom of the sea, which finally becomes metamorphosed into chalk or stone,
is but the aggregation of the shells of dead radiolarians. In the light
of such a rôle the animalcule takes on a new interest.

But even greater is the interest that attaches to every creature in regard to the question of its place
in the organic scale of evolution. What are the homologies of this form and that? What its probable
ancestry? What gaps does it bridge? What can it tell us of the story of animal creation? These and
such like are the questions that have been ceaselessly before Haeckel's
mind in all his studies of zoology.

Hence the rich fountain of philosophical knowledge that has welled up from what otherwise might
have been the most barren of laboratory borings. Thus from a careful investigation of the sponge
Haeckel was led to his famous gastrula theory, according to which the pouchlike sponge-animalcule--
virtually a stomach without members-- is the type of organism on which all high organisms are
built, so to speak-- that is, out of which all have evolved. This gastrula
theory, now generally accepted, is one of Haeckel's two great fundamental
contributions to the evolution philosophy with the history of which his
life work is so intimately linked.

The other contribution is the theory, even more famous and now equally undisputed, that every
individual organism, in its em-bryological development, rehearses in slurred but unmistakable epitome
the steps of evolution by which the ancestors of that individual came into racial being. That
is to say, every mammal, for example, originating in an egg stage, when it is comparable to a protozoon, passes
through successive stages when it is virtually in succession a gastrula,
a fish, and an amphibian before it attains the mammalian status, because
its direct ancestors were in succession, through the long geological
ages, protozoons, gastrulae, fishes, amphibians before the true mammal
was evolved.

This theory cast a flood of light into many dark places of the Darwinian
philosophy. It was propounded in 1866 in Professor Haeckel's great work
on morphology, and it has ever since been a guiding principle in
his important philosophical studies.

It was through this same work on morphology that Haeckel first came to be universally recognized
as the great continental champion of Darwinism-- the Huxley of Germany. Like Huxley, Haeckel had
at once made the logical application of the Darwinian theory to man himself, and he sought
now to trace the exact lineage of the human family as no one had hitherto attempted
to fathom it. Utilizing his wide range of zoological and anatomical
knowledge, he constructed a hypothetical tree of descent-- or, if
you prefer, ascent-- from the root in a protozoon to the topmost twig
or most recent offshoot, man. In her extreme need she felt that if she only could decide
to give in the next day, he would not have the power to catch her, but she could not.--She
came last, and she was swung so violently that she was more dragged and jerked forward than
running herself, and it was hard for her to keep from falling. And although she passed at lightning
speed, the old warrior was too quick for her. The heavy arms sank down over her, the stone
hands seized her, she was drawn into the silvery harness of that breast. The agony of death
took more and more hold of her, but she knew to the very last that it was because she had not
been able to conquer the stone king in her own heart that Atle had power over her.

It was the end of the dancing and merriment. Jofrid lay dying. In the violence of their mad
rout, she had been thrown against the king's cairn and received her death-blow on its stones.

THE OUTLAWS

A peasant who had murdered a monk took to the woods and was made an outlaw. He found there
before him in the wilderness another outlaw, a fisherman from the outermost islands, who had
been accused of stealing a herring net. They joined together, lived in a cave, set snares,
sharpened darts, baked bread on a granite rock and guarded one another's lives. The peasant
never left the woods, but the fisherman, who had not committed such an abominable crime, sometimes
loaded game on his shoulders and stole down among men. There he got in exchange for black-cocks,
for long-eared hares and fine-limbed red deer, milk and butter, arrow-heads and clothes. These
helped the outlaws to sustain life.

The cave where they lived was dug in the side of a hill. Broad stones and thorny sloe-bushes
hid the entrance. Above it stood a thick growing pine-tree. At its roots was the vent-hole
of the cave. The rising smoke filtered through the tree's thick branches and vanished into
space. The men used to go to and from their dwelling-place, wading in the mountain stream,
which ran down the hill. No-one looked for their tracks under the merry, bubbling water.

At first they were hunted like wild beasts. The peasants gathered as if for a chase of bear
or wolf. The wood was surrounded by men with bows and arrows. Men with spears went through
it and left no dark crevice, no bushy thicket unexplored. While the noisy battue hunted through
the wood, the outlaws lay in their dark hole, listening breathlessly, panting with terror.
The fisherman held out a whole day, but he who had murdered was driven by unbearable fear out
into the open, where he could see his enemy. He was seen and hunted, but it seemed to him seven
times better than to lie still in helpless inactivity. He fled from his pursuers, slid down
precipices, sprang over streams, climbed up perpendicular mountain walls. All latent strength
and dexterity in him was called forth by the excitement of danger. His body became elastic
like a steel spring, his foot made no false step, his hand never lost its hold, eye and ear
were twice as sharp as usual. He understood what the leaves whispered and the rocks warned.
When he had climbed up a precipice, he turned towards his pursuers, sending them gibes in biting
rhyme. When the whistling darts whizzed by him, he caught them, swift as lightning, and hurled
them down on his enemies. As he forced his way through whipping branches, something within
him sang a song of triumph.

The bald mountain ridge ran through the wood and alone on its summit stood a lofty fir. The
red-brown trunk was bare, but in the branching top rocked an eagle's nest. The fugitive was
now so audaciously bold that he climbed up there, while his pursuers looked for him on the
wooded slopes. There he sat twisting the young eaglets' necks, while the hunt passed by far
below him. The male and female eagle, longing for revenge, swooped down on the ravisher. They
fluttered before his face, they struck with their beaks at his eyes, they beat him with their
wings and tore with their claws bleeding weals in his weather beaten skin. Laughing, he fought
with them. Standing upright in the shaking nest, he cut at them with his sharp knife and forgot
in the pleasure of the play his danger and his pursuers. When he found time to look for them,
they had gone by to some other part of the forest. No one had thought to look for their prey
on the bald mountain-ridge. No one had raised his eyes to the clouds to see him practising
boyish tricks and sleep-walking feats while his life was in the greatest danger.

The man trembled when he found that he was paved. With shaking hands he caught at a support,
giddy he measured the height to which he had climbed. And moaning with the fear of falling,
afraid of the birds, afraid of being seen, afraid of everything, he slid down the trunk. He
laid himself down on the ground, so as not to be seen, and dragged himself forward over the
rocks until the underbrush covered him. There he hid himself under the young pine-tree's tangled
branches. Weak and powerless, he sank down on the moss. A single man could have captured him.

***

Tord was the fisherman's name. He was not more than sixteen years old, but strong and bold.
He had already lived a year in the woods.

The peasant's name was Berg, with the surname Rese. He was the tallest and the strongest man
in the whole district, and moreover handsome and well-built. He was broad in the shoulders
and slender in the waist. His hands were as well shaped as if he had never done any hard work.
His hair was brown and his skin fair. After he had been some time in the woods he acquired
in all ways a more formidable appearance. His eyes became piercing, his eyebrows grew bushy,
and the muscles which knitted them lay finger thick above his nose. It showed now more plainly
than before how the upper part of his athlete's brow projected over the lower. His lips closed
more firmly than of old, his whole face was thinner, the hollows at the temples grew very deep,
and his powerful jaw was much more prominent. His body was less well filled out but his muscles
were as hard as steel. His hair grew suddenly gray.

Young Tord could never weary of looking at this man. SCENE-- The terrace in front of Hauberk Hall, which
the LARKSPURS have taken for the Summer. TIME-- An August afternoon. Miss STELLA LARKSPUR--
a young lady with great energy and a talent for organisation-- has insisted upon all the Guests
taking part in a Menagerie Race.

The Rev. Ninian Headnote, the Local Curate (to Mr. PLUMLEY DUFF-- after
uneasily regarding Miss STELLA, as she shakes up some pieces of folded
paper in a hat).

Can you give me any idea of the precise nature of this amusement-- er-- nothing resembling
a gambling transaction, I suppose?-- or I really-- Mr. Plumley Duff.

Well, I'm given to understand that we shall each be expected to take an animal of some sort, and drive
it along with a string tied to its leg. Sounds childish-- to me.
The Curate (relieved).

Oh, exactly, I see. Most entertaining, I'm sure! (He coos.) What wonderful ingenuity one sees in
devising ever-fresh pastimes, do we not? Indeed, yes! Miss Stella.

There, I've shuffled all the animals now.

(Presenting the hat.) Mr. HEADNOTE, will you draw first?

The Curate. Oh, really. Am I to take one of these? Charmed! (He draws.)
Now I wonder what my fate-- (Opening the paper.) The Monkey!

(His
face falls.) Is there a Monkey here? Dear me, how very interesting! Dick Gatling (of H. M. Gunboat "Weasel").
Brought him over my last cruise from Colombo. No end of a jolly little
beast-- bites like the-- like blazes, you know!

Miss
Stella (to her Cousin).

Now, DICK, I won't have you taking away poor Jacko's character like that. He's only bitten BINNS--
and, well, there was the gardener's boy-- but I'm sure he teased him.

You won't tease him, will you, Mr. HEADNOTE? The Curate. I-- I shouldn't dream of it, Miss
STELLA,-- on the contrary, I-- (To himself.) Was it quite discreet to let myself be drawn into
this? Shall I not risk lowering my office by publicly associating
myself with a-- a Monkey?

I feel certain the Vicar would disapprove strongly.

Dick (to Colonel KEMPTON). Drawn your animal yet, Sir? The Colonel (heatedly). Yes, I have-- and
I wish I'd kept out of this infernal tomfoolery. Why the mischief don't they leave a man in peace and
quietness on a hot afternoon like this?

Here am I, routed out of a comfortable seat to go and drive a confounded
White Rabbit, Sir!

Idiotic, I call it! The Curate. Pardon me, Colonel KEMPTON; but if you object to the Rabbit,
I would not at all mind undertaking it myself-- and you could take my Monkey-- The Colonel. Thanks--
but I won't deprive you. A Rabbit is quite responsibility enough for me! The Curate (to himself,
disappointed).

He's afraid of a poor harmless Monkey-- and he an Army man, too! But I don't see why I-- Miss Gussie
Grissell. Oh, Mr. HEADNOTE, isn't it ridiculous!

They've given me a Kitten!

It makes me feel too absurdly young!

The Curate (eagerly). If you would prefer a-- a more appropriate animal, there's a Monkey, which
I am sure-- (To himself, as Miss G. turns away indignantly).

This Monkey doesn't seem very popular-- there must be someone here
who-- I'll try the American Lady-- they are generally eccentric.

(To Mrs. HEBER K. BANGS.) I hope Fortune has been kind to you, Mrs.
BANGS?

Mrs. Bangs. Well, I don't know; there are quadrupeds that can trot faster over the measured mile
than a Tortoise, and that's my animal. The Curate (with sympathy). Dear me! That is a trial, indeed, for
you! But if you would prefer something rather more exciting, I should be
most happy, I'm sure, to exchange my Monkey-- Dick Gatling (bustling
up).

Hallo, what's that? No, no, Mrs. BANGS-- be true to your Tortoise.

I tell you he's going to romp in-- Æsop's tip, don't you know? I've backed you to win or a
place. I say, what do you think I've drawn-- the Mutton!

Just my luck! The Curate. DICK, just come this way a moment-- I've a proposition to make; it's
occurred to me that the Monkey would feel more-- more at home with
you, and, in short, I-- Mr. Plumley Duff (plaintively, to Miss CYNTHIA
CHAFFERS).

I shouldn't have minded any other animal-- but to be paired off with a
Goose! Miss Chaffers (consolingly).

You're better off than I am, at all events-- I've got a Puppy!

Mr. Duff. Have you? (After a pause-- sentimentally.) Happy Puppy! Miss C. He'll be anything
but a happy Puppy if he doesn't win.

Mr. Duff. Oh, but he's sure to. I know I would, if I was your Puppy! Miss C. I'm not so sure of
that. Don't they lodge objections, or something, for boring? Mr.
Fanshawe.

Can anybody inform me whether I'm expected to go and catch my Peacock? Because I'll be hanged if-- The
Curate.

Oh, Miss STELLA, it's all right-- Mr. GATLING thinks that it would
be better if he undertook the Monkey himself; so we've arranged to--
Miss Stella.

Oh, nonsense, DICK! I can't have you taking advantage of Mr. HEADNOTE's
good-nature like that.

What's the use of drawing lots at all if you don't keep to them?

Of course Mr. HEADNOTE will keep the Monkey.

[The unfortunate Curate accepts his lot with Christian resignation.

Dick.

Well, that's settled-- but I say, STELLA, where's my Mutton's moorings--
and what's to be the course?

Stella. The course is straight up the Avenue from the Lodge to the House, and I've told them
to get all the beasts down there ready for us; so we'd better go
at once.

THE START.

The Competitors. STELLA, my dear, mustn't Miss GRISSELL tell her kitten not to claw my Tortoise's
head every time he pokes his poor nose out?

It isn't fair, and it's damping all his enthusiasm!... Now, Colonel KEMPTON, it isn't the Puppy's
fault-- you know your Rabbit began it!... Hi, STELLA, hold on a bit, my Mutton wants to lie down.
Mayn't I kick it up!... DUFF, old chap, your Goose is dragging her
anchor again, back her engines a bit, or there'll be a foul.... Miss
STELLA, I-- I really don't think this Monkey is quite well-- his teeth
are chattering in such a very.... All right, padre, only his nasty
temper-- jerk the beggar's chain.

More than that! Chorus of Spectators at Lodge Gates.

My word, I wonder what next the gentry'll be up to, I dew.

Ain't Miss STELLA orderin'of'en about! Now she's started'en.

They ain't
not allowed to go'ittin of'en-- got to go just wheeriver the animiles want. Lor, the guse is takin
his genlm'n in among the treeses! Well, if iver I did!

That theer tartus gits along, don't he?

Passon don't seem com'fable along o'that monkey. I'll back the young sailor gent-- keeps that sheep
wunnerful stiddy, he do. There's the hold peacock puttin'on a bust now. Well, well, these be fine
doin's for'Auberk'All, and no mistake. Make old Sir HALBERD stare if he was'ere,& c.,& c. The Colonel
(wrathfully to his Rabbit, which will do nothing but run round and round him). Stop that, will
you, you little fool. Do you want to trip me up! Of all the dashed nonsense I ever--! Mrs. Bangs.
My! Colonel, you do seem to have got hold of a pretty insubordinate kind of a Rabbit, too! The
Colonel (looking round). Well, you aren't getting much pace out of
your Tortoise either, if it comes to that!

Mrs. Bangs.

He puts in most of his time in stoppages for rest and refreshment. I'm beginning to believe
that old fable's a fraud. Anyway, it's my opinion this Tortoise isn't going to beat any hare-- unless
it's a jugged one. Dick Gatling (in front, as his Sheep halts to crop the turf in a leisurely
manner). We've not pulled up-- only lying-to to take in supplies.

We're going ahead directly. There, what did I tell you! Now she's tacking! The Curate (in the
rear). Poo'little Jacko, then-- there, there, quietly now! Miss STELLA, what does it mean
when it gibbers like that? (Sotto voce.) I wonder, if I let go the chain-- Mr. Duff (hauling
his Goose towards Miss CHAFFERS).

It's no use-- I can't keep this beast from bolting off the course! Miss C. Do keep it away from
my Puppy, at all events. I know it will peck him, and he's perfectly
happy licking my shoe-- he's found out there's sugar-candy in the
varnish.

Mr.
Duff (solemnly). Yes, but I say, you know-- that's all very well,
but it's not making him race, is it?

Now
I am getting some running out of my Goose. Miss C. Rather in-and-out-running, isn't it? (Cries
of distress from the rear.) But what is the matter now?

That poor dear Curate again! The Curate (in agony). Here, I say, somebody! do help me! Miss
STELLA, do speak to your monkey, please!

It's jumped on my back, and it's pulling my hair--'ow! [Most of the
Competitors abandon their animals and rush to the rescue.

Dick Gatling (coming up later). Why on earth did you all jack up like that? You've missed a splendid
finish! My Mutton was forging ahead like fun, when FANSHAWE's Peacock hoisted his sail, and drew
alongside, and it was neck and neck.

Only, as he had more neck than the Mutton, and stuck it out, he won by a beak. Look here, let's
have it all over again!

[But the Monkey being up a tree, and the Colonel having surreptitiously got rid of his Rabbit among the bracken,
and the Tortoise having retired within his shell and firmly declined
to come out again, sport is abandoned for the afternoon, to the scarcely
disguised relief of the Curate, who is prevented from remaining to
tea by the pressure of parish-work.

I have spent the last few weeks in the Isle of Wight, which is a British Possession in the latitude
of Spithead-- (I don't know why Spithead should want any latitude,
but it seems to take a good deal!)-- sacred to Tourists, Char-à-bancs,
and Pirates-- the latter disguised as Lodging-letters!

While there we suffered severely from Regattas; which swarm in the Island at this season, and
are hotly pursued by the visitors, with the deadly telescope.

I myself was bitten once by the Regatta Bacteria, and very painful it was. My friend, Baron
VON HODGEMANN, owner of the Anglesey, persuaded me to go on board
for a race, and we travelled the whole thirty miles sitting at an
angle of forty-five degrees, and singing the war-cry of the Royal
Victoria Yacht Club!-- To the mast-head high we nail the Burge, [1]
When the north wind snores its dismal dirge!

In the trough of the sea with a mighty splurge, The quiv'ring Yacht beats down the surge, And weathers
the Warner Light!

This experience having inspired me with courage, I indulged in another
flight of daring which required all the aplomb of a leader of Fashion
to carry out successfully; and, though few of the "smart"

Ladies of my set habitually indulge in the habit. I am happy to think I am encouraging them
in a healthy and amusing pastime, which, in the Summer, may in time even rival Lawn Tennis!
However-- not to beat about the bush any longer-- an utterly absurd expression this is!-- as if
it could hurt the bush to beat it!-- to say nothing of the difficulty
of keeping a bush always handy to beat!)-- it is time I told you what
this great achievement of mine was-- I went paddling!

There!-- the secret is out!-- the Fashion is set!-- the new Summer Amusement discovered! The
Rules of the Game are being written, and will shortly be published
under the title, "Routledge's Etiquette of Paddling, for Ladies of
Good Standing." I need hardly tell you that the first thing necessary
is to find a secluded bay, and it is also advisable to collect a
few children to take with you-- (there are usually plenty left about
on the beach from which you can make a selection)-- as a sort of excuse;--
no other implements are required for the game, in fact, superfluities
are a nuisance and only get wet-- thus equipped-- the game can be
played with freedom-- (not from pebbles)-- combined of course with
propriety, and will be found amusing and invigorating-- (quotation
from the preface to the Book of Rules written by the eminent German
Doctor, HERR SPLASHENWASSER-- inventor of the Water-Cure.

The next Race meeting requiring attention takes place at Doncaster this week, and the most
important race, I take it-- at least, I don't take it-- but the
winner will-- another senseless expression-- is naturally the St.
Leger, for which I make a poetic selection, which has cost me weeks
of anxious thought, no "leger" task!-- (French joke)-- owing to the
number of horses engaged, so few of which will run!

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY. ST. LEGER SELECTION. The best of the classic
events of the year We are told by the students of "form," Is a foregone
conclusion,'tis perfectly clear, For the noble possessor of Orme.

[Footnote 1: This should really be Burgee, but then it wouldn't rhyme,
and a Poet may drop a syllable, if he or she mayn't drop an H!]**********
STUDIES IN THE NEW POETRY.

NO. V. It may be objected that Mr. Punch's fifth example does not
strictly conform to the canons laid down by him in his prefatory remarks
to No. I. Mr. Punch neither admits nor denies the charge. He is convinced,
however, that those who do him the honour to read these Studies,
might justly complain if he failed to include in them an example of
the work of a Poet who has shown our generation how rusticity and
rhymes, cattle and Conservative convictions, peasants and patriotism,
may be combined in verse.

It is scarcely necessary to add
that the author of the following magnificent piece is Mr. A-FR-D
A-ST-N. Like others who might be named, he has not the honour to be
an agricultural labourer; but no living man has sung at greater length
of rural life, and its simple joys.

Many of his admirers have asserted that Britain ought to have more than one Laureate, and that
Mr. A-FR-D A-ST-N ought to be among the number.

Others are not prepared to go quite so far. They have been heard to complain that cows and trees,
and woodmen and farms, and sheep and wains, and hay and turnips, do not necessarily
suggest the highest happiness, and that it is not always dignified
for an aspiring Poet to be led about helpless through the byeways
of sense by those wilful, wanton playfellows, his rhymes.

The two factions may be left to fight out their quarrel over the present example, which, by
the way, is not taken from the collected edition of the Poet's works. IS LUNCH WORTH LUNCHING?
(BY A-FR-D A-ST-N.) Is Lunch worth lunching? Go, dyspeptic man, Where in the meadows green the
oxen munch. Is it not true that since our land began The hornéd ox hath given us steaks for lunch?
Steaks rump or otherwise, the prime sirloin, Sauced with the stinging radish of the horse. Beeves meditate
and die; we pay our coin, And though the food be often tough and coarse, We eat it, we, through
whose bold British veins Bold British hearts drive bubbling British blood. No true-born Briton,
come what may, disdains To eat the patient chewers of the cud. Or seek the uplands, where of old
Bo Peep (So runs the tale) lost all her fleecy flocks; There happy shepherds tend their grazing
sheep (Some men like mutton, some prefer the ox). Ay, surely it would
need a heart of flint To watch the blithe lambs caper o'er the lea,
And, watching them, refrain from thoughts of mint, Of new potatoes,
and the sweet green pea. Is Lunch worth lunching? The September sun Makes
answer "Yes;" no longer must thou lag. Forth to the stubble, cynic;
take thy gun, And add the juicy partridge to thy bag. Out in the
fields the keen-eyed pigeons coo; They fill their crops, and then away they
fly.

Pigeons are sometimes passable in stew, And always quite delicious
in a pie. Or pluck red-currants on some summer day, Then take of raspberries
an equal part, Add cream and sugar-- can mere words convey The luscious
joys of this delightful tart? Is Lunch worth lunching? If such cates
should fail, Go out of country bread a solid hunch, Pile on it cheese,
wash down with country ale, And, faring plainly, yet enjoy thy lunch.

Yea, this is truth, the lunch of knife and fork, The pic-nic lunch,
spread out upon the earth, Lunches of beef, bread, mutton, veal, or
pork, All, all, without exception all, are worth!***** NINETY-NINE
OUT OF A HUNDRED CANDIDATES MUST BE "PILLED."-- The Living of "Easington-with-Liverton,
Yorkshire, worth£ 600 per annum," is vacant.

Is it in the gift of the celebrated Dr. COCKLE? or of Dr. CARTER,
of Little-Liverpill-Street fame?********** PLAYFUL HEIFERVESCENCE
AT HAWARDEN.

[Mr. GLADSTONE met with an extraordinary adventure in Hawarden Park one day last week. A heifer,
which had got loose, made for Mr. GLADSTONE as he was crossing the
park, and knocked him down.

Mr. GLADSTONE took refuge behind a tree. The heifer scampered off, and was subsequently shot.]
G. O. M. sings:-- How happy could I be with heifer, If sure it were
only her play.

Is't LABBY? or Labour?

Together In one?

I'll get out of the way.

Singing (to myself)-- With my tol de rol de rol LABBY,& c. She comes!

On her horns she is playing A tune with a nourish or two! No cow-herd
am I but my staying To play second fiddle won't do. Singing (to myself)--
With my tol de rol tol-e-rate LABBY,& c. Don't chivey her!

I would allot her "Three acres," and lots of sweet hay. Alas! while I'm talking, they've shot
her! Well! heifers, like dogs, have their day! Singing (to myself, as before)-- With my tol lol de rol-licking
LABBY,& c. Latest.-- After dinner, Mr. GLADSTONE fell asleep in his chair! He was seen to smile,
although his repose seemed somewhat disturbed. Presently he was heard to murmur melodiously the
words of the old song, slightly adapted to the most recent event,-- "Heifer of thee I'm fondly dreaming!"
Then a shudder ran through his frame as he pronounced softly a Latin
sentence; it was "Labor omnia vincit!"

Then he awoke.***** SONGS OUT OF SEASON. NO. II.-- KEW-RIOUS! It's
a pleasure worth the danger, Deems your gorgeous DE LA PLUCHE, To become
the main arranger Of a drive in your barouche; And your Coachman,
honest JOE too, When approached thereon by JEAMES, Doesn't say exactly
"no," to Such inviting little schemes.

JEAMES has doffed them "'orrid knee-things;" Plush gives way to tweed and socks; And a hamper with
the tea-things, Fills his place upon the box; With MARIA, JANE, and HEMMA, He is playing archest
games, And they're in the sweet dilemma, Who shall make the most of JAMES. Mr. COACHMAN smokes
his pipe on His accustomed throne of pride, And, through driving, keeps an eye'pon All the revellers
inside. Mrs. COACHMAN there is seated; Children twain are on her
lapped, Who alternately are treated, And alternately are slapped. While
the painters haunt your mansion, And you're "Hup"

"The Halps" or "Rhind," Your domestics find expansion In diversions
of the kind; And on such a day as this is, They will drink the health
at Kew, Of "The Master and the Missis, And their bloomin'kerridge
too!"***** THE PALLIUM AND ARCHIEPISCOPAL OATH CONTROVERSY IN THE
"TIMES."-- No wonder this is a very dry subject, when they've got
such a strong THURST-ON among them.

Our advice, by way of moistening it, is, "Drop it!"***** "CLERGY
FEES"

(see "Times" Correspondence).-- Growl of the Archiepiscopal Ogre& Co.:--
"Fee, fi, fo, fum!

I smell the coin of a Clergyman!

Hath he fat glebe, be he ill-fee'd, ill-fed, I'll grab his fees to butter my bread!"*****
A NIGHTLY CHEVALIER. Music-Hall Artists are not by any means "Fixed
Stars."

During the evening they manage to accomplish the somewhat paradoxical-sounding
feat of shining in the same parts, yet in different places and at
different times, appearing everywhere with undiminished brilliancy.

The Student of the Music-Hall Planetary system, has only by observation
to ascertain the exact time and place of the appearance of his favourite
bright particular Star, and then to pay his money, take his choice
between sitting and standing, and like a true astronomer, he will--
glass in hand, a strong glass too,-- await the great event of the
evening, calmly and contentedly.

If the Wirtuous Westender wandering down the Strand, after having
on some previous nights exhausted the Pavilion and the elaborately gorgeous
Variety Shows given at the Empire and Alhambra, seeks for awhile
a resting-place wherein to enjoy his postprandial cigar, and be amused,
if such an one will drop into the classic Tivoli, he will find excellent
entertainment, that is as long as their present programme holds the
field.

The Holborn and the Oxford may delight him on other nights, for it seems that much the same
Stars shine all around; but for the present, taking Tivoli as synonymous
with Tibur, he may, with Horation humour, say to himself ("himself"
being not a bad audience as a rule):-- "Holborn Tibur amem ventosus,
Tivoli Holborn," and he can then enter the Tivoli, now under the benign
rule of that old Music Hall Hand, CAROLUS MORTONIUS, M. A., Magister
Agens, while the experienced Mr. VERNON DOWSETT-- "Experientia Dowsett"--
manages the stage.

He sat down on a stone to rest. Then the dry leaves played about his feet as if to amuse him.
All the leaves of the forest were there: small, light yellow birch leaves, red speckled mountain
ash, the elm's dry, dark-brown leaves, the aspen's tough light red, and the willow's yellow
green. Transformed and withered, scarred and torn were they, and much unlike the downy, light
green, delicately shaped leaves, which a few months ago had rolled out of their buds.

"Sinners," said the boy, "sinners, nothing is pure in God's eyes. The flame of his wrath has
already reached you."

When he resumed his wandering, he saw the forest under him bend before the storm like a heaving
sea, but in the path it was calm. But he heard what he did not feel. The woods were full of voices.

He heard whisperings, wailing songs, coarse threats, thundering oaths. There was laughter and
laments, there was the noise of many people. That which hounded and pursued, which rustled
and hissed, which seemed to be something and still was nothing, gave him wild thoughts. He
felt again the anguish of death, as when he lay on the floor in his den and the peasants hunted
him through the wood. He heard again the crashing of branches, the people's heavy tread, the
ring of weapons, the resounding cries, the wild, bloodthirsty noise, which followed the crowd.

But it was not only that which he heard in the storm. There was something else, something still
more terrible, voices which he could not interpret, a confusion of voices, which seemed to
him to speak in foreign tongues. He had heard mightier storms than this whistle through the
rigging, but never before had he heard the wind play on such a many-voiced harp. Each tree
had its own voice; the pine did not murmur like the aspen nor the poplar like the mountain
ash. Every hole had its note, every cliff's sounding echo its own ring. And the noise of the
brooks and the cry of foxes mingled with the marvellous forest storm. But all that he could
interpret; there were other strange sounds. It was those which made him begin to scream and
scoff and groan in emulation with the storm.

He had always been afraid when he was alone in the darkness of the forest. He liked the open
sea and the bare rocks. Spirits and phantoms crept about among the trees.

Suddenly he heard who it was who spoke in the storm. It was God, the great Avenger, the God
of justice. He was hunting him for the sake of his comrade. He demanded that he should deliver
up the murderer to His vengeance.

Then Tord began to speak in the midst of the storm. He told God what he had wished to do, but
had not been able. He had wished to speak to Berg Rese and to beg him to make his peace with
God, but he had been too shy. Bashfulness had made him dumb. "When I heard that the earth was
ruled by a just God," he cried, "I understood that he was a lost man. I have lain and wept
for my friend many long nights. I knew that God would find him out, wherever he might hide.
But I could not speak, nor teach him to understand. I was speechless, because I loved him so
much. Ask not that I shall speak to him, ask not that the sea shall rise up against the mountain."

He was silent, and in the storm the deep voice, which had been the voice of God for him, ceased.
It was suddenly calm, with a sharp sun and a splashing as of oars and a gentle rustle as of
stiff rushes. These sounds brought Unn's image before him.--The outlaw cannot have anything,
not riches, nor women, nor the esteem of men. --If he should betray Berg, he would be taken
under the protection of the law.--But Unn must love Berg, after what he had done for her. There
was no way out of it all.

When the storm increased, he heard again steps behind him and sometimes a breathless panting.
Now he did not dare to look back, for he knew that the white monk went behind him. He came
from the feast at Berg Rese's house, drenched with blood, with a gaping axe-wound in his forehead.
And he whispered: "Denounce him, betray him, save his soul. Leave his body to the pyre, that
his soul may be spared. Leave him to the slow torture of the rack, that his soul may have time
to repent."

Tord ran. All this fright of what was nothing in itself grew, when it so continually played
on the soul, to an unspeakable terror. He wished to escape from it all. As he began to run,
again thundered that deep, terrible voice, which was God's. God himself hunted him with alarms,
that he should give up the murderer. Berg Rese's crime seemed more detestable than ever to
him.. An unarmed man had been murdered, a man of God pierced with shining steel. It was like
a defiance of the Lord of the world. And the murderer dared to live! He rejoiced in the sun's
light and in the fruits of the earth as if the Almighty's arm were too short to reach him.

He stopped, clenched his fists and howled out a threat. Then he ran like a madman from the
wood down to the valley.

***

Tord hardly needed to tell his errand; instantly ten peasants were ready to follow him. It
was decided that Tord should go alone up to the cave, so that Berg's suspicions should not
be aroused. But where he went he should scatter peas, so that the peasants could find the way.

When Tord came to the cave, the outlaw sat on the stone bench and sewed. The fire gave hardly
any light, and the work seemed to go badly. The boy's heart swelled with pity. The splendid
Berg Rese seemed to him poor and unhappy. And the only thing he possessed, his life, should
be taken from him. Tord began to weep.

"What is it?" asked Berg. "Are you ill? Have you been frightened?"

Then for the first time Tord spoke of his fear. "It was terrible in the wood. I heard ghosts
and raw spectres. I saw white monks."

"'Sdeath, boy!"

"They crowded round me all the way up Broad mountain. Stopping here, she was about to enter without
warning, according to her usual custom, but as she advanced, a dwarf, whom she recognized as
the same which that morning had so eagerly presented himself for
notice in the front of her husband's captives, sprang forward, grinned
his recognition of the armor bearer, made another grimace expressive
of mingled respect and admiration for herself, threw open the door,
and ushered her in with an outburst of ceremonious pride befitting
an imperial reception.

At a back window of the house, from whence the line of aqueduct could
be seen for some distance leaping houses and streets in its undeviating
course to the centre of the city, sat the centurion.

He was a man of medium height, short necked, and thick set, with blunted features and grizzled
hair and beard. Two of the fingers of his left hand were wanting, and a broad scar, the trophy
of a severe skirmish among the Alemanni, crossed his right cheek
and one side of his nose, giving him an expression more curious than
pleasing.

His general appearance was after the common type of an old, war-worn
soldier, rough and unscrupulous by nature, hardened by camp life and
dissipation, grown cruel by excess of petty authority, overbearing
with his inferiors, jovial and complaisant with his equals, cringing
to his superiors, and with an air of discontent overlaying every other
expression, as though he was continually tortured with the belief
that his success in life had not equalled his merits.

As Ænone entered, he was bending over a shield, and earnestly engaged
in burnishing its brazen mouldings.

At his side leaned a short sword, awaiting similar attention, and in a rack beside him were
a number of weapons of different varieties and sizes, which had already
submitted to his restorative skill, and now shone like glass.

Hearing her light step, he looked up, arose, flung the shield into
a corner, and, with a roar, as though ordering a battalion, called
out to the grinning dwarf, who had followed her in: "Ho there, ape!

A seat for my daughter, the wife of the imperator Sergius Vanno!"

The dwarf sprang forward and dragged out a seat for her; having done
which, he seemed about to yield to his curiosity and remain.

But the centurion, disapproving of such freedom, made a lunge at him with the small sword,
before which the dwarf retired with a precipitate leap, and joined the bondwoman and armor bearer outside.
Then the father, being left alone with his daughter, embraced her, and uttered such words of welcome
as his rough nature suggested.

As regarded his intercourse with her, perhaps the most noticeable traits were the mingled reverence
and familiarity with which he treated her.

It seemed as though he was actuated by an ever-pervading consciousness that her exalted position demanded
the observance of the deepest respect toward her; but that this feeling was connected in his mind with
an unceasing struggle to remember that, after all, she was his own child, and as such was not
entitled to any undue consideration from him. Upon the present occasion,
he first timidly touched her cheek with his lips and uttered a gentle
and almost courtly salutation; but immediately recollecting himself,
and appearing to become impressed with the belief that his unwitting
deference was unworthy of the character of a father, he proceeded
to atone for the mistake by a rough and discomposing embrace, and
such a familiar and frolicksome greeting as none but a camp follower
would have felt flattered with.

Then, seating himself before her, he commenced his conversation in a rude and uncouth tone, and
with rather a forced affectation of military bluntness; from which,
however, as his eye dwelt upon the richness of her apparel and his mind
began to succumb to the charm of her native refinement, he gradually
and unconsciously subsided, in turn, into his former soft and deferential
manner.'And so the imperator Sergius Vanno has returned,'he said, rolling
upon his tongue, with evident satisfaction, that high-sounding title--
once the acknowledged appellation of a conqueror, but now claimed
as a right by the imperial line alone, and no longer elsewhere bestowed
except as an informal and transitory compliment.'It was a splendid
ovation, and well earned by a glorious campaign.

There is no one in all the Roman armies who could have managed it better.'Nevertheless, with
unconscious inconsistency, he immediately began to show wherein the campaign could have been improved,
and how many gross mistakes were visible in every portion of it-- how the force of Mutius should have
been diverged more in advancing inland-- how, in the battle along
the shore, the three-oared galleys of Agricola should have been drawn
up to support the attack-- the consequence of this omission, if the
leading cohort had met with a repulse-- and the like.

All
this he marked out upon the floor with a piece of coal, taking but little heed that Ænone could
not follow him; and step by step, in the ardor of criticism, he advanced
so far that he was soon ready to prove that the campaign had been most
wofully misconducted, and was only indebted to accident for success.'But
it is of little use for me to talk, if I cannot act as well,'he at
length concluded, rising from the floor.'And how could I act any part,
placed as I am?

The father of the wife of the imperator Sergius Vanno should be the leader of a cohort rather
than of a mere century; and be otherwise lodged than in this poor
place.

Then would they listen to him.'He spoke bitterly and enviously, exhibiting in his whole tone as
well as in his words his besetting weakness. For a while Ænone did not answer. It was as far from
her duty as from her taste and pleasure to remind him, even if she could have done so to his comprehension,
that her husband had already advanced him as far as was possible or fitting, and had otherwise provided
for him in various ways as well as could reasonably be expected.
The views of the centurion were of a far different nature.

In giving his daughter to the patrician he had meanly intended thereby to rise high in life--
had anticipated ready promotion beyond what his ignorance would have justified-- had supposed
that he would be admitted upon an equal social footing among the friends of Sergius,
not realizing that his own native roughness and brutishness must
have forbidden such a connection-- had dazzled his eyes too wilfully
with pictures of the wealth and influence and glory that would fall
to his lot.

As long, therefore, as so many of those gilded imaginings had failed
in their promise, it seemed as nothing to him that Sergius, in the
first flush of admiration for the daughter, had removed the father
from rough provincial to more pleasing and relaxing urban duties,
had purchased him a house befitting his station, and had lightened
his condition in various ways.'But we are gradually doing better,'Ænone
said at length, striving to cheer him by identifying her fortunes
more nearly with his own,'This is a finer place than we had to live
in at Ostia.

Think how narrow and crowded we were then. And now I see that we have a new slave to open for
us, while at Ostia we had only old Mitus. Indeed, we are very comfortable.'' Ay,
ay,'growled the centurion;'a new slave-- a dwarf or idiot, or what
not-- just such a creature as would not bring five sestertia in the
market; and, therefore, the imperator has cast him to me, like a bare
bone to a dog.

Tell him I thank him for the gift.

And in this matter it has been with me as always heretofore-- either no luck at all, or too much. How
often have I not passed a campaign without taking a prisoner, while they fell in crowds to all around
me? And when at last I gained my share, when was it ever of any value
to me, being hundreds of miles from a market? And here it is the same
again. For months, no slave at all; and then all at once there are
two, and I shall be, eaten out of my house.'' Two, father?'' Listen
to me.

No sooner did your honored lord send me this dwarf, than arrives
Tisiphon of the twelfth cohort.

He had long owed me a slave; and now that a captive, poor and feeble,
and likely to die, had fallen into his hands, he thought it a fair
opportunity to acquit himself toward me. But for once Tisiphon has
cheated himself. The slave he brought was weak and sick, but it was
only from want of food and rest. The fellow will recover, and I will
yet make much of him. Would you see him? Look out of the back window
there. He will turn out a fine slave yet, and, if this dwarf had
not come, would be right pleasing to me.

But two of them! How shall I find bread for both?'Ænone walked to the window, and leaned out. The
courtyard behind was but limited in size, containing a few squares of burnt brick arranged for
pavement around a small plot of grass at the foot of a single plane tree. The slave of whom
the centurion spoke was seated upon this plot, with his back against
the tree, and his head bent over, while, with vacant mind, he watched
the play of a small green lizard.

As she appeared at the window, he raised his eyes toward her, then dropped them again upon the
ground. It was hardly, in fact, as much as could be called a look-- a mere glance, rather, a single
tremor of the drooping lid, a mute appeal for sympathy, as though
there had been an inner instinct which, at that instant, had directed
him to her, as one who could feel pity for his trouble and desolation.

But at that glance, joined to something strangely peculiar in the captive's figure and attitude, a nervous
thrill shot through Ænone's heart, causing her to hold her breath
in unreasoning apprehension; a fear of something which she could not
explain, a dim consciousness of some forgotten association of the
past arising to confront her, but which she could not for the moment
identify.

And still she looked out, resisting the impulse of dread which bade
her move away, fixing a strained gaze upon the captive, in a vain struggle
to allay, by one moment of calm scrutiny, that phantom of her memory
which, act as she might, would not be repressed, but which each instant
seemed to expand into clearer certainty before her.'Do you see him?

Does he appear to you a worthy slave?'cried the centurion.'A worthy slave, indeed,'she answered, in a
low tone, feeling compelled to make some response. At her voice, the captive again raised his
head, and looked into her face; not now with a hasty, timid glance,
but with the full gaze of one who believes he has been spoken to,
and waits for a renewal of the question.

And as she met the inquiring look, Ænone turned away and sank back
in terror and dismay.

She knew it all, now, nor could she longer deceive herself by vain pretences or assurances. The instinct
which, at the first had filled her soul with that unexplained dread,
had not been false to her.

For that glance, as it now rested upon her with, longer duration
and deeper intensity, too surely completed the suggestion which, at
the first it had faintly whispered to her, flashing into her heart
the long-stifled memories of the past, recalling the time when, a
few years before, she had sat upon the rock at Ostia, and had gazed
down upon eyes lifted to meet her own with just so beseeching an appeal,
and telling her too truly that she stood again in the presence of
him to whom she had then promised her girlish faith, and whom she
had so long since looked upon as dead to her.'I will call him in,'said
the centurion,'and you can see him closer.'' Nay, nay, father; let
him remain where he is,'she exclaimed, in uncontrollable dread of
recognition.'Ha! art not afraid, girl?'demanded the old man.'He can
do no hurt, even were he stronger; and now that he is weak, a child
could lead him with a string.

Come hither, sirrah!'The captive arose, smoothed down his tunic, and, obediently entering the house,
awaited commands; while Ænone, with as quiet movement as possible, shrunk, into the most distant
corner of the room. What if he should recognize her, and should call upon her by name, not knowing
her changed position, or recollecting his own debasement into slavery?

What explanation other than the true one could she give to account for his audacity, and save him
from the chastisement which the offended centurion would prepare to bestow upon him? This was
but a momentary fear, however, since she felt that the increasing glow of evening, added to her own
alteration by dress, and the certainty that he would not expect to
meet her thus, found a sure protection against recognition, as long
as she took care not to risk betrayal by her voice or manner.

And, perhaps, after all-- and her heart lightened somewhat at the thought-- it might be that her reason
had too freely yielded to an insane fancy, and allowed her to be deceived by a chance resemblance.'How
is he called?'she inquired, disguising her voice as thoroughly as she could. The instant she had
spoken she would have retracted her words, if possible, from the mere fear lest her father, in his
response, might mention her name. But it luckily chanced that the centurion did not do so.'How
is he called? Nay, that thing I had not thought to ask as yet. Your name, slave?'' Cleotos.'At
the word, the blood again flew back to her heart. There could now no longer be a doubt. How often
had she repeated that name endearingly, in those early days of her first romance in life!'Cleotos,'said
the centurion.'It is a brave name. There was once a leader of a full phalanx with that name, and
he did well to the empire. It is, therefore, scarcely a name for a slave to bear. But we will
talk some other time about that. It is of thine appearance now, that we will speak. Is he not, after
all, a pleasing youth? Did Tisiphon so surely deceive me as he intended, when he gave the
man to me? See! there is but little brawn and muscle to him, I grant; and therefore he will
not make a good gladiator or even spearman; but he has a comely shape, which will fit him well
for a page or palace usher. And, therefore, I will sell him for such.
He should bring a good price, indeed, when the marks of his toil and sickness
have gone off from him, and he has been fattened into better condition.

But two of them!'continued the centurion, suddenly recurring to his
former source of grief.'How can I fatten him when there are two of
them?

How find bread for both? And yet he is not so very thin, now.

I
will light a lamp, daughter, for it has grown quite dark, and you shall come nearer and examine
him.'' Nay! nay!'exclaimed Ænone, in hurried resistance of this new danger.'Not now. I am no judge
of the merits of captives, and it is getting late. I know that my lord will be expecting me, and perchance
will be vexed if I delay.'' Be it so, then,'responded the other.'And
as it is dark, it is not befitting that you should go without escort.

Take, therefore--' She sat quiet on his arm, but she wished to see what the man
looked like who was carrying her. He let her do as she pleased. He went on with longer strides,
but said nothing.

Then she must have noticed how hot the sun burned on his head, since she had taken off his
hat. She held it out over his head like a parasol, but she did not put it back, rather held
it so, that she could still look down into his face. Then it seemed to him that he did not
need to ask or to speak. He carried her silently down to his mother's hut. But his whole being
was filled with happiness, and when he stood on the threshold of his home, he saw the white
snake, which gives good fortune, glide in under its foundation.

VALDEMAR ATTERDAG

The spring that Hellqvist's great picture "Valdemar Atterdag levies a Contribution on Visby"
was exhibited at the Art League, I went in there one quiet morning not knowing that that work
of art was there. The big, richly colored canvas with its many figures made at the first glance
an extraordinary impression. I could not look at any other picture, but went straight to that
one, took a chair and sank into silent contemplation. For half an hour I lived in the Middle Ages.

Soon I was within the scene that was passing in the Visby market-place. I saw the beer vats
which began to be filled with the golden brew that King Valdemar had ordered, and the groups
which gathered around them. I saw the rich merchant with his page bending under his gold and
silver dishes; the young burgher who shakes his fist at the king; the monk with the sharp face
who closely watches His Majesty; the ragged beggar who offers his copper; the woman who has
sunk down beside one of the vats; the king on his throne; the soldiers who some swarming out
of the narrow streets; the high gables, and the scattered groups of insolent guards and refractory
people.

But suddenly I noticed that the chief figure of the picture is not the king, nor any of the
burghers, but one of the king's steel-clad shield-bearers, the one with the closed vizor.

Into that figure the artist has put a strange force. There is not a hair of him to be seen;
he is steel and iron, the whole man, and yet he gives the impression of being the rightful
master of the situation.

"I am Violence; I am Rapacity," he says. "It is I who am levying contribution on Visby. I am
not a human being; I am merely steel and iron. My pleasure is in suffering and evil. Let them
go on and torture one another. To-day it is I who am lord of Visby."

"Look," he says to the beholder, "can you see that it is I who am master? As far as your eye
can reach, there is nothing here but people who are torturing one another. Groaning the conquered
come and leave their gold. They hate and threaten, but they obey. And the desires of the victors
grow wilder the more gold they can extort. What are Denmark's king and his soldiers but my
servants, at least for this one day? To-morrow they will go to church, or sit in peaceful mirth
in their inns, or also perhaps be good fathers in their own homes, but to-day they serve me;
to-day they are evil-doers and ravishers."

The longer one listens to him, the better one understands what the picture is; nothing but
an illustration of the old story of how people can torture one another. There is not one redeeming
feature, only cruel violence and defiant hate and hopeless suffering.

Those three beer vats were to be filled that Visby should not be plundered and burned. Why
do they not come, those Hanseaters, with glowing enthusiasm? Why do the women not hasten with
their jewels; the revellers with their cups, the priest with his relics, eager, burning with
enthusiasm for the sacrifice? "For thee, for thee, our beloved town! It is needless to send
soldiers for us when it concerns thee! Oh, Visby, our mother, our honor! Take back what thou
hast given us!"

But the painter has not wished to see them so, and it was not so either. No enthusiasm, only
constraint, only suppressed defiance, only bewailings. Gold is everything to them, women and
men sigh over that gold which they have to give.

"Look at them!" says the power that stands on the steps of the throne. "It goes to their very
hearts to offer it. May he who will feel sympathy for them! They are mean, avaricious, arrogant.
They are no better than the covetous brigand whom I have sent against them."

A woman has sunk down on the ground by the vats. Does it cost her so much pain to give her
gold? Or is she perhaps the guilty one? Is she the cause of the laments? Is it she who has
betrayed the town? Yes, it is she who has been King Valdemar's mistress. It is Ung-Hanse's
daughter.

She knows well that she need give no gold. Her father's house will not be plundered, but she
has collected what she possesses and brings it. In the market-place she has been overcome by
all the misery she has seen and has sunk down in infinite despair.

He had been active and merry, the young goldsmith's apprentice who served the year before in
her father's house. It had been glorious to stroll at his side through this same market-place,
when the moon rose from behind the gables and illumined the beauties of Visby. She had been
proud of him, proud of her father, proud of her town. And now she is lying there, broken with
grief. Innocent and yet guilty! He who is sitting cold and cruel on the throne and who has
brought all this devastation on the town, is he the same as the one who whispered sweet words
to her? Was it to meet him that she crept, when the night before she stole her father's keys
and opened the town-gate? And when she found her goldsmith's apprentice a knight with sword
in hand and a steel clad host behind him, what did she think? Did she go mad at the sight of
that stream of steel surging in through the gate which she had opened? Too late to bemoan,
maiden! Why did you love the enemy of your town? Visby is fallen, its glory shall pass away.
Why did you not throw yourself down before the gate and let the steel-shod heels trample you
to death? Did you wish to live in order to see heaven's thunder-bolts strike the transgressor?

Oh maiden, at his side stands Violence and protects him. He has violated holier things than
a trusting maiden. He does not even spare God's own temple. He breaks away the shining carbuncles
from the church walls to fill the last vat.

The bearing of all the figures in the picture changes. Blind terror fills everything living.
The wildest soldier grows pale; the burghers turn their eyes towards heaven; all await God's
punishment; all tremble except Violence on the steps of the throne and the king who is his servant.

I wish that the artist had lived long enough to take me down to the harbor of Visby and let
me see those same burghers, when they followed the departing fleet with their eyes. They cry
curses out over the waves. "Destroy them!" they cry. "Destroy them! Oh sea, our friend, take
back our treasures! Open thy choking depths under the ungodly, under the faithless!"

And the sea murmurs a faint assent, and Violence, who stands on the royal ship, nods approvingly.
"That is right," he says. "To persecute and to be persecuted, that is my law. May storm and
sea destroy the pirate fleet and take to itself the treasures of my royal servant! But the clew
thus gained, other gases were subjected to similar conditions by
Davy, and particularly by Faraday, with the result that several of
them, including sulphurous, carbonic, and hydrochloric acids were
liquefied.

The method employed, stated in familiar terms, was the application of cold and of pressure.
The results went far towards justifying an extraordinary prediction made by that extraordinary man,
John Dalton, as long ago as 1801, to the effect that by sufficient cooling and compressing all gases
might be transformed into liquids-- a conclusion to which Dalton had vaulted, with the sureness
of supreme genius, from his famous studies of the properties of aqueous
vapor.

Between Dalton's theoretical conclusion, however, and experimental
demonstration there was a tremendous gap, which the means at the disposal
of the scientific world in 1823 did not enable Davy and Faraday more
than partially to bridge.

A long list of gases, including the familiar oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, resisted all their
efforts utterly-- notwithstanding the facility with which hydrogen and oxygen are liquefied when
combined in the form of water-vapor, and the relative ease with which nitrogen and hydrogen, combined
to form ammonia, could also be liquefied. Davy and Faraday were well satisfied of the truth of
Dalton's proposition, but they saw the futility of further efforts to put it into effect until
new means of producing, on the one hand, greater pressures, and,
on the other, more extreme degrees of cold, should be practically
available.

So the experiments of 1823 were abandoned.

But in 1844 Faraday returned to them, armed now with new weapons, in the way of better air-pumps
and colder freezing mixtures, which the labors of other workers,
chiefly Thilorier, Mitchell, and Natterer, had made available.

With these new means, and without the application of any principle other than the use of cold
and pressure as before, Faraday now succeeded in reducing to the liquid form all the gases
then known with the exception of six; while a large number of these substances were still
further reduced, by the application of the extreme degrees of cold now attained, to the condition
of solids. The six gases which still proved intractable, and which hence came to be spoken
of as "permanent gases," were nitrous oxide, marsh gas, carbonic oxide, oxygen, nitrogen, and
hydrogen.

These six refractory gases now became a target for the experiments
of a host of workers in all parts of the world.

The resources of mechanical ingenuity of the time were exhausted in the effort to produce low
temperatures on the one hand and high pressures on the other. Thus Andrews, in England, using the
bath of solid carbonic acid and ether which Thilorier had discovered, and which produces a
degree of cold of-- 80° Centigrade, applied a pressure of five hundred atmospheres, or nearly
four tons to the square inch, without producing any change of state.

Natterer increased this pressure to two thousand seven hundred atmospheres,
or twenty-one tons to the square inch, with the same negative results.

The result of Andrews'experiments in particular was the final proof of
what Cagniard de la Tour had early suspected and Faraday had firmly believed,
that pressure alone, regardless of temperature, is not sufficient to reduce
a gas to the liquid state.

In other words, the fact of a so-called "critical temperature," varying for different substances,
above which a given substance is always a gas, regardless of pressure,
was definitively discovered.

It became clear, then, that before the resistant gases would be liquefied
means of reaching extremely low temperatures must be discovered.

And for this, what was needed was not so much new principles as elaborate
and costly machinery for the application of a principle long familiar-- the
principle, namely, that an evaporating liquid reduces the temperature
of its immediate surroundings, including its own substance.

Ingenious means of applying this principle, in connection with the means previously employed,
were developed independently by Pictet in Geneva and Cailletet in Paris, and a little later by
the Cracow professors Wroblewski and Olzewski, also working independently.

Pictet, working on a commercial scale, employed a series of liquefied gases to gain lower and
lower temperatures by successive stages. Evaporating sulphurous acid liquefied carbonic acid,
and this in evaporating brought oxygen under pressure to near its liquefaction point; and, the
pressure being suddenly released (a method employed in Faraday's earliest experiments), the
rapid expansion of the compressed oxygen liquefies a portion of its
substance.

This result was obtained in 1877 by Pictet and Cailletet almost simultaneously. Cailletet had
also liquefied the newly discovered acetylene gas. Five years later Wroblewski liquefied marsh
gas, and the following year nitrogen; while carbonic oxide and nitrous oxide yielded to Olzewski
in 1884. Thus forty years of effort had been required to conquer five of Faraday's refractory
gases, and the sixth, hydrogen, still remains resistant. Hydrogen had, indeed, been seen to assume
the form of visible vapor, but it had not been reduced to the so-called
static state-- that is, the droplets had not been collected in an appreciable
quantity, as water is collected in a cup.

Until this should be done, the final problem of the liquefaction
of hydrogen could not be regarded as satisfactorily solved.

More than another decade was required to make this final step in the completion, of Faraday's work. And,
oddly enough, yet very fittingly, it was reserved for Faraday's successor in the chair at the
Royal Institution to effect this culmination. Since 1884 Professor Dewar's work has made the
Royal Institution again the centre of low-temperature research.

By means of improved machinery and of ingenious devices for shielding the substance operated on
from the accession of heat, to which reference will be made more in detail presently, Professor
Dewar was able to liquefy the gas fluorine, recently isolated by Moussan, and the recently
discovered gas helium in 1897.

And in May, 1898, he was able to announce that hydrogen also had yielded, and for the first time
in the history of science that* elusive substance, hitherto "permanently" gaseous, was held as a
tangible liquid in a cuplike receptacle; and this closing scene of the long struggle was enacted
in the same laboratory in which Faraday performed the first liquefaction experiment with chlorine
just three-quarters of a century before.

It must be noted, however, that this final stage in the liquefaction
struggle was not effected through the use of the principle of evaporating
liquids which has just been referred to, but by the application of
a quite different principle and its elaboration into a perfectly novel
method.

This principle is the one established long ago by Joule and Thomson (Lord Kelvin), that compressed
gases when allowed to expand freely are lowered in temperature. In this well-known principle
the means was at hand greatly to simplify and improve the method of liquefaction of gases, only for
a long time no one recognized the fact. Finally, however, the idea had occurred to two men almost
simultaneously and quite independently. One of these was Professor Linde, the well-known German
experimenter with refrigeration processes; the other, Dr. William
Hampson, a young English physician.

Each of these men conceived the idea-- and ultimately elaborated it in practice-- of accumulating
the cooling effect of an expanding gas by allowing the expansion
to take place through a small orifice into a chamber in which the
coil containing the compressed gas was held.

In Dr. Hampson's words: "The method consists in directing all the
gas immediately after its expansion over the coils which contain the
compressed gas that is on its way to the expansion-point.

The cold developed by expansion in the first expanded gas is thus communicated to the oncoming compressed
gas, which consequently expands from, and therefore to, a lower temperature
than the preceding portion.

It communicates in the same way its own intensified cold to the succeeding
portion of compressed gas, which, in its turn, is made colder, both before
and after expansion, than any that had gone before.

This intensification of cooling goes on until the expansion-temperature is far lower than it was
at starting; and if the apparatus be well arranged the effect is so powerful that even the smaller
amount of cooling due to the free expansion of gas through a throttle-valve, though pronounced by
Siemens and Coleman incapable of being utilized, may be made to liquefy air without using other
refrigerants." So well is this principle carried out in Dr. Hamp-son's apparatus for liquefying
air that compressed air passing into the coil at ordinary temperature
without other means of refrigeration begins to liquefy in about six
minutes-- a result that seems almost miraculous when it is understood
that the essential mechanism by which this is brought about is contained
in a cylinder only eighteen inches long and seven inches in diameter.

As has been said, it was by adopting this principle of self-intensive refrigeration that Professor Dewar
was able to liquefy hydrogen. More recently the same result has been
attained through use of the same principle by Professor Ramsay and
Dr. Travers at University College, London, who are to be credited also
with first publishing a detailed account of the various stages of the
process.

It appears that the use of the self-intensification principle alone is
not sufficient with hydrogen as it is with the less volatile gases,
including air, for the reason that at all ordinary temperatures hydrogen
does not cool in expanding, but actually becomes warmer.

It is only after the compressed hydrogen has been cooled by immersion
in refrigerating media of very low temperature that this gas becomes amenable
to the law of cooling on expansion. In the apparatus used at University
College the coil of compressed hydrogen is passed successively through
(1) a jar containing alcohol and solid carbonic acid at a temperature
of-- 80° Centigrade; (2) a chamber containing liquid air at atmospheric
pressure, and (3) liquid air boiling in a vacuum bringing the temperature
to perhaps 2050 Centigrade before entering the Hampson coil, in which
expansion and the self-intensive refrigeration lead to actual liquefaction.

With this apparatus Dr. Travers succeeded in producing an abundant quantity
of liquid hydrogen for use in the experiments on the new gases that were
first discovered in the same laboratory through the experiments on liquid
air-- gases about which I shall have something more to say in another
chapter.

PRINCIPLES AND EXPERIMENTS At first blush it seems a very marvellous
thing, this liquefaction of substances that under all ordinary conditions
are gaseous.

It is certainly a little startling to have a cup of clear, water-like liquid offered one, with the
assurance that it is nothing but air; still more so to have the same air presented in the form of
a white "avalanche snow." In a certain sense it is marvellous, because the mechanical difficulties
that have been overcome in reducing the air to these unusual conditions
are great. Yet, in another and broader view, there is nothing more wonderful
about liquid air than about liquid water, or liquid mercury, or liquid
iron.

Long before air was actually liquefied, it was perfectly understood by men of science that under
certain conditions it could be liquefied just as surely as water, mercury, iron, and every other
substance could be brought to a similar state. This being known,
and the principles involved understood, had there been nothing more
involved than the bare effort to realize these conditions all the
recent low-temperature work would have been mere scientific child's-play,
and liquid air would be but a toy of science.

But in point of fact there are many other things than this involved;
new principles were being searched for and found in the course of
the application of the old ones; new light was being thrown into many
dark corners; new fields of research, some of them as yet barely entered,
were being thrown open to the investigator; new applications of energy,
of vast importance not merely in pure science but in commercial life
as well, were being made available.

That is why the low-temperature work must be regarded as one of the
most important scientific accomplishments of our century.

At the very outset it was this work in large measure which gave the final answer to the long-mooted
question as to the nature of heat, demonstrating the correctness of Count Rumford's view that heat
is only a condition not itself a substance. Since about the middle of the century this view, known as
the mechanical theory of heat, has been the constant guide of the physicists
in all their experiments, and any one who would understand the low-temperature
phenomena must keep this conception of the nature of heat clearly
and constantly in mind.

To understand the theory, one must think of all matter as composed of minute isolated particles
or molecules, which are always in motion-- vibrating, if you will. He must mentally magnify
and visualize these particles till he sees them quivering before him, like tuning-forks held in
the hand. Remember, then, that, like the tuning-fork, each molecule
would, if left to itself, quiver less and less violently, until it
ran down altogether, but that the motion thus lessening is not really
lost.

It is sent out in the form of ether waves, which can set up like motion
in any other particles which they reach, be they near or remote; or it is transmitted
as a direct push-- a kick, if you will-- to any other particle with
which the molecule comes in physical contact.

But note now, further, that our molecule, while incessantly giving out
its energy of motion in ether waves and in direct pushes, is at the
same time just as ceaslessly receiving motion from the ether waves made
by other atoms, and by the return push of the molecules against which it
pushes. In a word, then, every molecule of matter is at once a centre for
the distribution of motion (sending out impulses which affect, sooner
or later, every other atom of matter in the universe), and, from
the other point of view, also a centre for the reception of motion
from every direction and from every other particle of matter in the
universe.

Whether any given molecule will on the whole gain motion or lose it depends clearly on the simple
mechanical principles of give and take.

From equally familiar mechanical principles, it is clear that our vibrating molecule, in virtue of
its vibrations, is elastic, tending to be thrown back from every other molecule with which it comes
in contact, just as a vibrating tuning-fork kicks itself away from anything it touches. And
of course the vigor of the recoil will depend upon the vigor of the
vibration and the previous movements. But since these movements constitute
temperature, this is another way of saying that the higher the temperature
of a body the more its molecules will tend to spring asunder, such
separation in the aggregate constituting expansion of the mass as
a whole.

Thus the familiar fact of expansion of a body under increased temperature is explained. But now,
since all molecules are vibrating, and so tending to separate, it
is clear that no unconfined mass of molecules would long remain in
contiguity unless some counter influence tended to draw them together.

Such a counter influence in fact exists, and is termed the "force"
of cohesion.

This force is a veritable gravitation influence, drawing every molecule
towards every other molecule. Possibly it is identical with gravitation.
It seems subject to some law of decreasing in power with the square
of the distance; or, at any rate, it clearly becomes less potent as
the distance through which it operates increases.

Now, between this force of cohesion which tends to draw the molecules together, and the heat vibrations
which tend to throw the molecules farther asunder, there seems to be an incessant battle. If
cohesion prevails, the molecules are held for the time into à relatively
fixed system, which we term the solid state.

If the two forces about balance each other, the molecules move among themselves more freely
but maintain an average distance, and we term the condition the
liquid state. But if the heat impulse preponderates, the molecules (unless
restrained from without) fly farther and farther asunder, moving
so actively that when they collide the recoil is too great to be checked
by cohesion, and this condition we term the gaseous state.

Now after this statement, it is clear that what the low-temperature worker does when he would
liquefy a gas is to become the champion of the force of cohesion. He cannot directly aid it, for
so far as is known it is an unalterable quantity, like gravitation.
But he can accomplish the same thing indirectly by weakening the power
of the rival force.

Thus, if he encloses a portion of gas in a cylinder and drives a piston down against it, he is virtually
aiding cohesion by forcing the molecules closer together, so that
the hold of cohesion, acting through a less distance, is stronger.

What he accomplishes here is not all gain, however, for the bounding
molecules, thus jammed together, come in collision with one another
more and more frequently, and thus their average activity of vibration
is increased and not diminished; in other words, the temperature of the
gas has risen in virtue of the compression.

Compression alone, then, will not avail to enable cohesion to win the battle. But the physicist has
another resource. He may place the cylinder of gas in a cold medium, so that the heat vibrations
sent into it will be less vigorous than those it sends out. That is a blow the molecule cannot withstand.
It is quite impotent to cease sending out the impulses however little comes in return; hence the aggregate
motion becomes less and less active, until finally the molecule is
moving so sluggishly that when it collides with its fellow cohesion
is able to hold it there.

Cohesion, then, has won the battle, and the gas has become a liquid. Such, stated in terms
of the mechanical theory of heat, is what is brought to pass when a gas is liquefied in the laboratory
of the physicist. It remains only to note that different chemical substances show the widest
diversity as to the exact point of temperature at which this balance
of the expansive and cohesive tendencies is affected, but that the
point, under uniform conditions of pressure, is always the same for
the same substance.

This diversity has to do pretty clearly with the size of the individual
molecules involved; but its exact explanation is not yet forthcoming,
and, except in a general way, the physicist would not be able to predict
the "critical temperature" of any new gas presented to him.

But once this has been determined by experiment, he always knows just
what to expect of any given substance. He knows, for example, that
in a mixture of gases hydrogen would still remain gaseous after all
the others had assumed the liquid state, and most of them the solid
state as well.

These mechanical conceptions well in mind, it is clear that what the would-be liquefier of gases
has all along sought to attain is merely the insulation of the portion of matter with which he worked
against the access of heat-impulse from its environment. It is clear that were any texture known
which would permit a heat-impulse to pass through it in one direction only, nothing more would be necessary
than to place a portion of gas in such a receptacle of this substance, so faced as to permit
egress but not entrance of the heat, and the gas thus enclosed, were
it hydrogen itself, would very soon become liquid and solid, through
spontaneous giving off of its energy, without any manipulation whatever.
Contrariwise, were the faces of the receptacle reversed, a piece
of iron placed within it would be made red-hot and melted though the
receptacle were kept packed in salt and ice and no heat applied except
such as came from this freezing mixture.

One could cook a beefsteak with a cake of ice had he but such a material as this with which to
make his stove. Not even Rumford or our modern Edward Atkinson ever
dreamed of such economy of fuel as that.

But, unfortunately, no such substance as this is known, nor, indeed, any
substance that will fully prevent the passage of heat-impulses in
either direction.

Hence one of the greatest tasks of the experimenters has been to
find a receptacle that would insulate a cooled substance even partially
from the incessant bombardment of heat-impulses from without.

It is obvious that unless such an insulating receptacle could be provided none of the more
resistent gases, such as oxygen, could be long kept liquid, even when
once brought to that condition, since an environment of requisite
frigidity could not practicably be provided.

But now another phase of the problem presents itself to the experimenter. Oxygen has assumed
the quiescent liquid state, to be sure, but in so doing it has fallen
below the temperature of its cooling medium; hence it is now receiving
from that medium more energy of vibration than it gives, and unless
this is prevented very soon its particles will again have power to
kick themselves apart and resume the gaseous state.

Something, then, must be done to insulate the liquefied gas, else
it will retain the liquid state for too short a time to be much experimented
with.

How might such insulation be accomplished?

The most successful attack upon this important problem has been made by Professor Dewar. He invented
a receptacle for holding liquefied gases which, while not fulfilling
the ideal conditions referred to above, yet accomplishes a very remarkable
degree of heat insulation.

In consists of a glass vessel with double walls, the space between which
is rendered a vacuum of the highest practicable degree. This vacuum,
containing practically no particles of matter, cannot, of course, convey
heat-impulses to or from the matter in the receptacle with any degree
of rapidity. Without his ever having said it in so many
words, they got the impression that he was from a respectable home, the only son of a rich
widow, but that his unconquerable love for a sailor's profession had made him take a place
before the mast, so that his mother should see that he was in earnest. When he had passed his
examination, she would certainly get him his own ship.

The lonely family who had drawn away from all their former friends, received him without the
slightest suspicion. And he described with a light heart and fluent tongue his home with its
high, pointed roof, the great open fireplace in the dining-room and the little leaded glass
panes. He also painted the silent streets of his native town and the long rows of even houses,
built in the same style, against which his home, with its irregular buttresses and terraces,
made a pleasant contrast. And his listeners believed that he had come from one of those old
burgher houses with carved gables and with overhanging second stories, which give such a strong
impression of wealth and venerable age.

Soon enough she saw that he cared for her. And that gave her mother and sisters great joy.
The young, rich Swede came as if to raise them all up from their poverty. Even if she had not
loved him, which she did, she would never have had a thought of saying no to his proposal.
If she had had a father or a grown-up brother, he could have found out about the stranger's
extraction and position, but neither she nor her mother thought of making any inquiries. Afterwards
she saw how they had actually forced him to lie. In the beginning, he had let them imagine
great ideas about his wealth without any evil intention, but when he understood how glad they
were over it, he had not dared to speak the truth for fear of losing her.

Before he left they were betrothed, and when the lugger came again, they were married. It was
a disappointment for her that he also on his return appeared as a sailor, but he had been bound
by his contract. He had no greetings either from his mother. She had expected him to make another
choice, but she would be so glad, he said, if she would once see Astrid.--In spite of all his
lies, it would have been an easy matter to see that he was a poor man, if they had only chosen
to use their eyes.

The captain offered her his cabin if she would like to make the journey in his vessel, and
the offer was accepted with delight. Börje was almost exempt from all work, and sat most of
the time on the deck, talking to his wife. And now he gave her the happiness of fancy, such
as he himself had lived on all his life. The more he thought of that little house which lay
half buried in the sand, so much the higher he raised that palace which he would have liked
to offer her. He let her in thought glide into a harbor which was adorned with flags and flowers
in honor of Börje Nilsson's bride. He let her hear the mayor's speech of greeting. He let her
drive under a triumphal arch, while the eyes of men followed her and the women grew pale with
envy. And he led her into the stately home, where bowing, silvery-haired servants stood drawn
up along the side of the broad stairway and where the table laden for the feast groaned under
the old family silver. 

It strains off the impressions that engross, but not enrich us,-- that superfluous material of
experience which, either from glutting excess, or from sheer insignificance, cannot be spiritualized,
made human, transmuted into experience itself. Every man in our day, according to the measure
of his sensibility, and with some respect also to his position, is mobbed by impressions, and
must fight as for his life, if he escape being taken utterly captive by them. It is our perpetual
peril that our lives shall become so sentient as no longer to be reflective or artistic,-- so
beset and infested by the immediate as to lose all amplitude, all
perspective, and to become mere puppets of the present, mere Chinese
pictures, a huddle of foreground without horizon, or heaven, or even
earthly depth and reach.

It is easy to illustrate this miserable possibility. A man, for example, in the act of submitting
to the extraction of a tooth, is, while the process lasts, one of the poorest poor creatures with
whose existence the world might be taunted. His existence is but skin-deep, and contracted to
a mere point at that: no vision and faculty divine, no thoughts that
wander through eternity, now: a tooth, a jaw, and the iron of the
dentist,-- these constitute, for the time being, his universe.

Only when this monopolizing, enslaving, sensualizing impression has gone by, may what had
been a point of pained and quivering animality expand once more to the dimensions of a human
soul.

Kant, it is said, could withdraw his attention from the pain of gout by pure mental engagement,
but found the effort dangerous to his brain, and accordingly was
fain to submit, and be no more than a toe-joint, since evil fate would
have it so.

These extreme cases exemplify a process of impoverishment from which we all daily suffer. The
external, the immediate, the idiots of the moment, telling tales that signify nothing, yet
that so overcry the suggestion of our deeper life as by the sad and weary to be mistaken for
the discourse of life itself,-- these obtrude themselves upon us, and multiply and brag and brawl
about us, until we have neither room for better guests, nor spirits
for their entertainment.

We are like schoolboys with eyes out at the windows, drawn by some
rattle of drum and squeak of fife, who would study, were they but
deaf.

Reproach sleep as a waste, forsooth! It is this tyrannical attraction to the surface, that indeed
robs us of time, and defrauds us of the uses of life. There stretched several rows
of dark moats and high, green ramparts, remains from the time when the town had been fortified,
and at the point where they all gathered around a fort, she saw some ancient buildings and
big, round towers. She cast a shy look towards them, but Börje turned off to the mounds which
followed the shore.

"This is a shorter way," he said, for she seemed to be surprised that there was only a narrow
path to follow.

He had become very taciturn. She understood afterwards that he had not found it so merry as
he had fancied, to come with a wife to the miserable little house in the fishing village. It
did not seem so fine now to bring home a better man's child. He was anxious about what she
would do when she should know the truth. 

The spring rises out of an aperture in the solid rocks and is computed to discharge about forty gallons
in a minute.

The author of the History and Beauties of Clifton Hot Wells, in describing this scenery, says,
"One of the sublimest and most beautiful scenes in nature is exhibited
by those bold and rugged eminences behind the crescent, known by the
name of St. Vincent's Rocks, which appear to have been rent asunder
by some violent convulsion of nature."

They are misshapen and massy projections, nearly 300 feet in height. Pieces of this rock, when
broken, have much the appearance of a dark, red marble; and when struck by a substance of corresponding
hardness, emit a strong sulphureous smell. It is sometimes used as a substitute for foreign marble
for chimney-pieces; but principally for making lime.

In the fissures of these rocks are found those fine crystals usually called Bristol stones,
which are so hard as to cut glass, and sustain the action of fire and of aquafortis; this,
however, is only the case with such as are tinged. The imperfect ones, in which there appears
something like small hairs, white specks, or bubbles of air and water,
turn white when calcined.

On these rocks, the Rev. W. Lisle Bowles has the following lines:--
How beauteous the pale rocks above the shore Uplift their bleak and
furrow'd aspect high!

How
proudly desolate their foreheads, hoar, That meet the earliest sunbeam of
the sky!

Bound to yon dusky mart, with pennants gay, The tall bark on the
winding water's line, Between the river cliffs plies her hard way,
And peering on the sight the white sails shine.***** LITERARY PROBLEM.
 "You have deceived me worse than
if you were my worst enemy. Why have you done it?"

"I wanted you for my wife," he answered, with a low, trembling voice.

"If you had only deceived me within bounds! Why did you make everything so fine and rich? What
did you have to do with man-servants and triumphal arches and all the other magnificence? Did
you think that I was so devoted to money? Did you not see that I cared enough for you to go
anywhere with you? That you could believe you needed to deceive me! That you could have the
heart to keep up your lies to the very last!"

"Will you not come in and speak to my mother?" he said, helplessly.

"I do not intend to go in there."

"Are you going home?"

"How can I go home? How could I cause them there at home such sorrow as to return, when they
believe me happy and rich? But with you I will not stay either. For one who is willing to work
there is always a livelihood."

"Stop!" he begged. "I did it only to win you."

"If you had told me the truth, I would have stayed."

"If I had been a rich man, who had pretended to be poor, then you would have stayed."

She shrugged her shoulders and turned to go, when the door of the cottage opened and Börje's
mother came out. She was a little, dried-up old woman with few teeth and many wrinkles, but
not so old in years or in feelings as in looks. 

Love had been the root of all poor Isella's troubles,-- and Agnes never should know love, till taught
it safely by a husband of Elsie's own choosing.

The first step of security was in naming her for the chaste Saint Agnes, and placing her girlhood
under her special protection. Secondly, which was quite as much to the point, she brought her
up laboriously in habits of incessant industry,-- never suffering
her to be out of her sight, or to have any connection or friendship,
except such as could be carried on under the immediate supervision
of her piercing black eyes.

Every night she put her to bed as if she had been an infant, and, wakening her again in the morning,
took her with her in all her daily toils,-- of which, to do her justice, she performed all the
hardest portion, leaving to the girl just enough to keep her hands
employed and her head steady.

The
peculiar circumstance which had led her to choose the old town of Sorrento for her residence, in
preference to any of the beautiful villages which impearl that fertile plain, was the existence
there of a flourishing convent dedicated to Saint Agnes, under whose
protecting shadow her young charge might more securely spend the earlier
years of her life.

With this view, having hired the domicile we have already described, she lost no time in making
the favorable acquaintance of the sisterhood,-- never coming to them empty-handed. The finest
oranges of her garden, the whitest flax of her spinning, were always reserved as offerings
at the shrine of the patroness whom she sought to propitiate for
her grandchild.

In her earliest childhood the little Agnes was led toddling to the shrine by her zealous relative;
and at the sight of her fair, sweet, awe-struck face, with its viny mantle of encircling curls,
the torpid bosoms of the sisterhood throbbed with a strange, new
pleasure, which they humbly hoped was not sinful,-- as agreeable things,
they found, generally were.

They loved the echoes of her little feet down the damp, silent aisles
of their chapel, and her small, sweet, slender voice, as she asked
strange baby-questions, which, as usual with baby-questions, hit all
the insoluble points of philosophy and theology exactly on the head.

The child became a special favorite with the Abbess, Sister Theresa,
a tall, thin, bloodless, sad-eyed woman, who looked as if she might
have been cut out of one of the glaciers of Monte Rosa, but in whose
heart the little fair one had made herself a niche, pushing her way
up through, as you may have seen a lovely blue-fringed gentian standing
in a snow-drift of the Alps with its little ring of melted snow around
it.

Sister Theresa offered to take care of the child at any time when
the grandmother wished to be about her labors; and so, during her
early years, the little one was often domesticated for days together
at the Convent.

A perfect mythology of wonderful stories encircled her, which the good sisters were never
tired of repeating to each other. They were the simplest sayings and doings of childhood,-- handfuls
of such wild-flowers as bespread the green turf of nursery-life everywhere, but miraculous
blossoms in the eyes of these good women, whom Saint Agnes had unwittingly
deprived of any power of making comparisons or ever having Christ's
sweetest parable of the heavenly kingdom enacted in homes of their
own.

Old Jocunda, the porteress, never failed to make a sensation with her one stock-story of how
she found the child standing on her head and crying,-- having been put into this reversed position
in consequence of climbing up on a high stool to get her little fat hand into the vase of holy water,
failing in which Christian attempt, her heels went up and her head
down, greatly to her dismay.

"Nevertheless,"
said old Jocunda, gravely, "it showed an edifying turn in the child; and when I lifted the
little thing up, it stopped crying the minute its little fingers touched the water, and it made
a cross on its forehead as sensible as the oldest among us.

Ah, sisters! there's grace there, or I'm mistaken."

All the signs of an incipient saint were, indeed, manifested in the
little one. And it is a fixed old custom that all the
inhabitants of the fishing-village live the same life. Since Mattsson, the pilot, had grown
old, he had conformed carefully to the conditions and customs; his house, his rooms and his
mode of living were like everybody else's.

On the wall over the bed old Mattsson had a picture of his mother. One night he dreamed that
the portrait stepped down from its frame, placed itself in front of him and said with a loud
voice: "You must marry, Mattson."

Old Mattsson then began to make clear to his mother that it was impossible. He was seventy
years old.--But his mother's portrait merely repeated with even greater emphasis: "You must
marry, Mattsson."

Old Mattsson had great respect for his mother's portrait. It had been his adviser on many debatable
occasions, and he had always done well by obeying it. But this time he did not quite understand
its behavior. It seemed to him as if the picture was acting in opposition to its already acknowledged
opinions. Although he was lying there and dreaming, he remembered distinctly and clearly what
had happened the first time he wished to be married. Just as he was dressing as a bridegroom,
the nail gave way on which the picture hung and it fell to the floor. He understood then that
the portrait wished to warn him against the marriage, but he did not obey it. He soon found
that the portrait had been right. His short married life was very unhappy.

The second time he dressed as a bridegroom the same thing happened. The portrait fell to the
ground as before, and he did not dare again to disobey it. He ran away from bride and wedding
and travelled round the world several times before he dared come home again.--And now the picture
stepped down from the wall and commanded him to marry! However good and obedient he was, he
allowed himself to think that it was making a fool of him.

But his mother's portrait, which looked out with the grimmest face that sharp winds and salt
sea-foam could carve, stood solemnly as before. And with a voice which had been exercised and
strengthened for many years by offering fish in the town marketplace, it repeated: "You must
marry, Mattsson."

Old Mattsson then asked his mother's portrait to consider what kind of a community it was they
lived in.

All the hundred houses of the fishing-village had pointed roofs and whitewashed walls; all
the boats of the fishing-village were of the same build and rig. No one there ever did anything
unusual. His mother would have been the first to oppose such a marriage if she had been alive.
His mother had held by habits and customs. And it was not the habit and custom of the fishing-village
for old men of seventy years to marry.

His mother's picture stretched out her beringed hand and positively commanded him to obey.
There had always been something excessively awe-inspiring in his mother when she came in her
black silk dress with many flounces. The big, shining gold brooch, the heavy, rattling gold
chain had always frightened him. If she had worn her market-clothes, in a striped head-cloth
and with an oil-cloth apron, covered with fish-scales and fish eyes, he would not have been
quite so overawed by her. The end of it was that he promised to get married. And then his mother's
portrait crept up into the frame again.

The next morning old Mattsson woke in great trouble. It never occurred to him to disobey his
mother's portrait; it knew of course what was best for him. As a mere spectacle, therefore, this
new star was of great interest; but a far greater importance attaches
to it through the fact that it conforms so admirably to the course
that meteoritic hypothesis would predict for it.

"That is what confounds my opponents," said Professor Lockyer, in talking to me about the new
star. "Most of those who oppose my theory have not taken the trouble to make observations for
themselves, but have contented themselves with falling back apparently on the postulate that
because a theory is new it must be wrong.

Then, outside the scientific world, comparatively few people appreciate the extreme parsimony of
nature. They expect, therefore, that when such a phenomenon as the appearance of a new star
occurs, the new-comer will establish new rules for itself and bring chaos into the scientific world.
But in point of fact nature never does things in two ways if she can possibly do them in one,
and the most striking thing about the new stars is that all the phenomena they present conform so admirably
to the laws built up through observation of the old familiar stars. As to our particular theories,
we here at South Kensington"-- it will be understood that this use of the editorial "we" is merely
a modest subterfuge on the part of Professor Lockyer-- "have no regard
for them at all simply as ours.

Like all scientists worthy the name, we seek only the truth, and should new facts come along
that seem to antagonize our theory we should welcome them as eagerly
as we welcome all new facts of whatever bearing.

But the truth is that no such new facts have appeared in all these years, but that, on the
contrary, the meteoritic hypothesis has received ever-increasing support from most unexpected
sources, from none more brilliantly or more convincingly than from
this new star in Perseus."

And I suspect that as much as this at least-- if not indeed a good deal more-- will be freely
admitted by every candid investigator of Sir Norman Lockyer's theory.

SIR WILLIAM RAMSAY AND THE NEW GASES The seat of Sir William Ramsay's
labors is the University College, London.

The college building itself, which is located on Gower Street, is, like the British Museum, reminiscent
or rather frankly duplicatory in its columned architecture of the classical.
Interiorly it is like so many other European institutions in its
relative simplicity of equipment.

One finds, for example, Professor Ramsay and Dr. Travers generating
the hydrogen for their wonderful experiments in an old beer-cask.

Professor Ramsay himself is a tall, rather spare man, just entering
the gray stage of life, with the earnest visage of the scholar, the
keen, piercing eye of the investigator-- yet not without a twinkle
that justifies the lineage of the "canny Scot."

He is approachable, affable, genial, full of enthusiasm for his work,
yet not taking it with such undue seriousness as to rob him of human
interest-- in a word, the type of a man of science as one would picture
him in imagination, and would hope, with confident expectation, to
find him in reality.

I have said that the equipment of the college is somewhat primitive, but this must not be taken
too comprehensively. Such instances as that of the beer-cask show,
to be sure, an adaptation of means to ends on economical lines; yet,
on the other hand, it should not be forgotten that the beer-cask
serves its purpose admirably; and, in a word, it may be said that
Professor Ramsay's laboratory contains everything that is needed to
equip it fully for the special work to which it has been dedicated
for some years past.

In general, it looks like any other laboratory-- glass tubes, Bunsen burners, retorts and jars
being in more or less meaningless tangles; but there are two or three bits of apparatus pretty
sure to attract the eye of the casual visitor which deserve special
mention. One of these is a long, wooden, troughlike box which extends across
the room near the ceiling and is accessible by means of steps and
a platform at one end. Through this boxlike tube the chief expert in
spectroscopy (Dr. Bay-ley) spies on the spectrum of the gas, and
learns some of its innermost secrets.

But an even more mystifying apparatus is an elaborate array of long
glass tubes, some of them carried to the height of several feet, interspersed
with cups of mercury and with thermometers of various sizes and shapes.
The technical scientist would not make much of this description,
but neither would an untechnical observer make much of the apparatus;
yet to Dr. Travers, its inventor, it is capable of revealing such
extraordinary things as the temperature of liquid hydrogen-- a temperature
far below that at which the contents of even an alcoholic thermometer
are solidified; at which, indeed, the prime constituents of the air
suffer a like fate.

The responsible substance which plays the part of the familiar mercury,
or alcohol, in Dr. Travers's marvellous thermometer is hydrogen gas.
The principle by which it is utilized does not differ, in its rough
essentials, from that of ordinary thermometers, but the details of
its construction are much too intricate to be elaborated here.

But if you would see the most wonderful things in this laboratory-- or rather, to be quite accurate,
I should say, if you would stand in the presence of the most wonderful
things-- you must go with Professor Ramsay to his own private laboratory,
and be introduced to some little test-tubes that stand inverted in
cups of mercury decorating a shelf at one end.

You would never notice these tubes of your own accord were you to browse
ever so long about the room. Even when your attention is called to them you still
see nothing remarkable. These are ordinary test-tubes inverted over
ordinary mercury.

They contain something, since the mercury does not rise in them completely, but if that something be other
than ordinary air there is nothing about its appearance, or rather lack of appearance, to demonstrate
it. But your interest will hardly fail to be arrested when Professor Ramsay,
indicating one and another of these little tubes, says: "Here you see,
or fail to see, all the krypton that has ever been in isolated existence
in the world, and here all the neon, and here, again, all the zenon."

You will understand, of course, that krypton, neon, and zenon are the new gases of the atmosphere whose
existence no one suspected until Professor Ramsay ferreted them out
a few years ago and isolated them.

In one sense there should be nothing mysterious about substances that
every air-breathing creature on the globe has been imbibing pretty
constantly ever since lungs came into fashion.

But in another view the universal presence of these gases in the air makes it seem all the more wonderful
that they could so long have evaded detection, considering that chemistry has been a precise
science for more than a century. During that time thousands of chemists have made millions of experiments
in the very midst of these atmospheric gases, yet not one of the experimenters, until recently,
suspected their existence. This proves that these gases are no ordinary substances-- common though
they be.

Personally I have examined many scientific exhibits in many lands, but nowhere have I seen anything
that filled my imagination with so many scientific visions as these
little harmless test-tubes at the back of Professor Ramsay's desk.
Perhaps I shall attempt to visualize some of these imaginings before
finishing this paper, but for the moment I wish to speak of the modus
operandi of the discovery of these additions to the list of elements.

The discovery of argon came about in a rather singular way. Lord Rayleigh, of the Royal Institution, had
noticed in experiments with nitrogen that when samples of this element
were obtained from chemicals, such samples were uniformly about one
per cent, lighter in weight than similar quantities of nitrogen obtained
from the atmosphere.

This discrepancy led him to believe that the atmospheric nitrogen
must contain some impurity. Curiously enough, the experiments of Cavendish,
the discoverer of nitrogen-- experiments made more than a century
ago-- had seemed to show quite conclusively that some gaseous substance
different from nitrogen was to be found mixed with the samples of
this gas as he obtained it from the atmosphere.

This conclusion of Cavendish, put forward indeed but tentatively,
had been quite ignored by his successors. Now, however, it transpired,
by experiments made jointly by Lord Rayleigh and Professor Ramsay,
that the conclusion was quite justified, it being shown presently
that there actually exists in every portion of nitrogen, as extracted
from the atmosphere, a certain quantity of another gas, hitherto unknown,
and which now received the name of argon.

It will be recalled with what astonishment the scientific and the unscientific world alike
received the announcement made to the Royal Society in 1895 of the discovery of argon, and the proof
that this hitherto unsuspected constituent of the atmosphere really constitutes about one per cent,
of the bulk of atmospheric nitrogen, as previously estimated. The discovery here on the earth
of a substance which Professor Lockyer had detected as early as 1868 in the sun, and which he had provisionally
named helium, excited almost equal interest; but this element was found in certain minerals, and
not as a constituent of the atmosphere. Having discovered so interesting
a substance as argon, Professor Ramsay and his assistants naturally
devoted much time and attention to elucidating the peculiarities
of the new substance.

In the course of these studies it became evident to them that the presence of argon alone did not
fully account for all the phenomena they observed in handling liquefied air, and in 1898 Professor
Ramsay was again able to electrify his audience at the Royal Society
by the announcement of the discovery, in pretty rapid succession,
of three other elementary substances as constituents of the atmosphere,
these three being the ones just referred to-- krypton, neon, and
zenon.

It is a really thrilling experience, standing in the presence of the
only portions of these new substances that have been isolated, to
hear Professor Ramsay and Dr. Travers, his chief assistant, tell the
story of the discovery-- how they worked more and more eagerly as
they found themselves, so to say, on a "warmer scent," following out
this clew and that until the right one at last brought the chase to
a successful issue.

"It was on a Sabbath morning in June, if I remember rightly, when we
finally ran zenon down," says Dr. Travers, with a half smile; and
Professor Ramsay, his eyes twinkling at the recollection of this very
unorthodox procedure, nods assent. "And have you got them all now?"

I queried, after hearing the story. "Yes; we think so," replied Professor
Ramsay.

"And I am rather glad of it," he adds, with a half sigh, "for it was wearisome even though fascinating
work." Just how wearisome it must have been only a professional scientific
investigator can fully comprehend; but the fascination of it all may
be comprehended in some measure by every one who has ever attempted
creative work of whatever grade or in whatever field.

I have just said that the little test-tubes contain the only bit
of each of the substances named that has ever been isolated.

     This statement might lead the untechnical reader to suppose
                                                  that these substances, once isolated, have been carefully stored away
and jealously guarded, each in its imprisoning test-tubes. Jealously
guarded they have been, to be sure, but there has not been, by any means,
the solitary confinement that the words might seem to imply. On the
contrary, each little whiff of gas has been subjected to a variety
of experiments-- made to pass through torturing-tubes under varying
conditions of temperature, and brought purposely in contact with various
other substances, that its physical and chemical properties might
be tested.

But in each case the experiment ended with the return of the substance, as pure as before,
to its proper tube. The precise results of all these experiments have been communicated to
the Royal Society by Professor Ramsay. Most of these results are of a
technical character, hardly appealing to the average reader. There
is one very salient point, however, in regard to which all the new
substances, including argon and helium, agree; and it is that each
of them seems to be, so far as present experiments go, absolutely
devoid of that fundamental chemical property, the power to combine
with other elements.

All of them are believed to be monatomic-- that is to say, each of their molecules is composed
of a single atom. This, however, is not an absolutely novel feature
as compared with other terrestrial elements, for the same thing is true,
for example, of such a familiar substance as mercury.

But the incapacity to enter into chemical combinations seems very paradoxical;
indeed it is almost like saying that these are chemical elements which lack
the most fundamental of chemical properties.

It is this lack of combining power, of course, that explains the non-discovery of these elements
during all these years, for the usual way of testing an element is to bring it in contact with
other substances under conditions that permit its atoms to combine with other atoms to the formation
of new substances. But in the case of new elements such experiments as this have not proved possible
under any conditions as yet attained, and reliance must be had upon other
physical tests-- such as variation of the bulk of the gas under pressure,
and under varying temperatures, and a study of the critical temperatures
and pressures under which each gas becomes a liquid.

The chief reliance, however, is the spectroscope-- the instrument which revealed the presence of
helium in the sun and the stars more than a quarter of a century before Professor Ramsay ferreted
it out as a terrestrial element. Each whiff of colorless gas in its test-tube interferes with the
light passing through it in such a way that when viewed through a prism it gives a spectrum
of altogether unique lines, which stamp it as krypton, neon, or zenon as definitely as certain familiar
and more tangible properties stamp the liquid which imprisons it as mercury.
QUERIES SUGGESTED BY THE NEW GASES Suppose that a few years ago you
had asked some chemist, "What are the constituents of the atmosphere?"

He would have responded, with entire confidence, "Oxygen and nitrogen chiefly, with a certain amount
of water-vapor and of carbonic-acid gas and a trace of ammonia." If questioned as to the chief properties
of these constituents, he would have replied, with equal facility, that these are among the most important
elements; that oxygen might almost be said to be the life-giving
principle, inasmuch as no air-breathing creature could get along without
it for many moments together; and that nitrogen is equally important
to the organism, though in a different way, inasmuch as it is not
taken up through the lungs.

As to the water-vapor, that, of course, is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen, and no one need
be told of its importance, as every one knows that water makes up the chief bulk of protoplasm;
carbonic-acid gas is also a compound of oxygen, the other element this time being carbon, and
it plays a quite different rôle in the economy of the living organism, inasmuch as it is produced
by the breaking down of tissues, and must be constantly exhaled from the lungs to prevent the
poisoning of the organism by its accumulation; while ammonia, which exists
only in infinitesimal quantities in the air, is a compound of nitrogen
and hydrogen, introducing, therefore, no new element. If one studies somewhat
attentively the relation which these elements composing the atmosphere
bear to the living organism he cannot fail to be struck with it;
and it would seem a safe inductive reasoning from the stand-point
of the evolutionist that the constituents of the atmosphere have come
to be all-essential to the living organism, precisely because all
their components are universally present.

But, on the other hand, if we consider the matter in the light of these researches regarding
the new gases, it becomes clear that perhaps the last word has not been said on this subject; for
here are four or five other elementary substances which, if far less abundant than oxygen and nitrogen,
are no less widely distributed and universally present in the atmosphere, yet no one of which
apparently takes any chemical share whatever in ministering to the
needs of the living organism. This surely is an enigma. Taking another
point of view, let us try to imagine the real status of these new
gases of the air.

We think of argon as connected with nitrogen because in isolation experiments it remains after
the oxygen has been exhausted, but in point of fact there is no such connection between argon and nitrogen
in nature. The argon atom is just as closely in contact with the oxygen
in the atmosphere as with the nitrogen; it simply repels each indiscriminately.

But consider a little further; the argon atom not only repels all advance on the part of oxygen
and nitrogen, but it equally holds itself aloof from its own particular kindred atoms. The oxygen
or nitrogen atom never rests until it has sought out a fellow, but
the argon atom declines all fellowship.

When the chemist has played his tricks upon it, it finds itself crowded together
with other atoms of the same kind; but lift up the little test-tube and
these scurry off from one another in every direction, each losing its fellows
forever as quickly as possible. As one ponders this one is almost
disposed to suggest that the atom of argon (or of krypton, helium,
neon, or zenon, for the same thing applies to each and all of these)
seems the most perfect thing known to us in the world, for it needs
no companionship, it is self-sufficing.

There is something sublime about this magnificient isolation, this splendid self-reliance,
this undaunted and undauntable self-sufficiency-- these are traits which the world is wont to ascribe
to beings more than mortal. But let us pause lest we push too far into the old, discredited territory
of metaphysics.

PROFESSOR J. J. THOMPSON AND THE NATURE OP ELECTRICITY Many fascinating questions suggest themselves
in connection with these strange, new elements-- new, of course, only in the sense of human
knowledge-- which all these centuries have been about us, yet which have managed until now to keep
themselves as invisible and as intangible as spirits. Have these
celibate atoms remained thus always isolated, taking no part in world-building?
Are they destined throughout the sweep of time to keep up this celibate
existence? And why do these elements alone refuse all fellowship, while
the atoms of all the other seventy-odd known elements seek out mates
under proper conditions with unvarying avidity?

It is perhaps not possible fully to answer these questions as yet,
but recent studies in somewhat divergent fields give us suggestive
clews to some of them.

I refer in particular to the studies in reference to the passage of electricity through liquids and gases
and to the observations on radioactivity. The most conspicuous worker in the field of electricity
is Professor J. J. Thompson, who for many years has had charge of
the Cavendish laboratory at Cambridge.

In briefly reviewing certain phases of his work we shall find ourselves brought into contact
with some of the same problems raised by workers in the other fields of physics, and shall
secure some very interesting bits of testimony as to the solution of questions already outlined. The line
of observation which has led to the most striking results has to do,
as already suggested, with the conduction of electricity through
liquids and gases.

It has long been known that many liquids conduct electricity with relative facility. More recently
it has been observed that a charge of electricity carried by any liquid bears a curious relation to the atomic
composition of that liquid. If the atom in question is one of the sort that can combine with
only a single other atom (that is to say, a monovalent atom), each atom
conveys a unit charge, which is spoken of as an ion of electricity. But if
a divalent atom is in question the charge carried is double, and,
similarly, a trivalent atom carries a triple charge. As there are no
intermediate charges it is obvious that here a very close relation is suggested
between electrical units and the atomic units of matter.

This, however, is only a beginning. Far more interesting are the results
obtained by the study of gases in their relation to the conduction
of electricity. As is well known, gases under ordinary conditions
are nonconductors. But there are various ways in which a gas may
be changed so as to become a conductor; for example, by contact with
incandescent metals or with flame, or by treating with ultra-violet
light, with Rôntgen rays, or with the rays of a radio-active substance.

Now the all-important question is as to just what change has taken place in the gas so treated
to make it a conductor of electricity. I cannot go into details here as to the studies that have
been addressed to the answer of this question, but I will briefly epitomize
what, for our present purpose, are the important results. First and
foremost of these is the fact that a gas thus rendered conductive contains
particles that can be filtered out of it by passing the gas through
wool or through water.

These particles are the actual agents of conduction of electricity,
since the gas when filtered ceases to be conductive.

But there is another way in which the particles may be removed-- namely, by action of electricity itself.
If the gas be caused to pass between two metal plates, one of them insulated
and attached to an electrometer, a charge of positive electricity at
high potential sent through the other plate will drive part of the
particles against the insulated plate.

This proves that the particles in question are positively electrified. The amount of the charge
which they carry may be measured by the electrometer. The aggregate amount of the electrical charge
carried by these minute particles in the gas being known, it is obvious that could we know
the number of particles involved the simplest calculation would determine
the charge of each particle.

Professor Thompson devised a singularly ingenious method of determining this number. The method
was based on the fact discovered by C. T. R. Wilson that charged
particles acted as nuclei round which small drops of water condense
much as dust particles serve the same purpose.

"In dust-free air," says Professor Thompson, "as Aitken showed, it is very difficult to get a fog
when damp air is cooled, since there are no nuclei for the drops to condense round. If there are
charged particles in dust-free air, however, the fog will be deposited
round these by super-saturation far less than that required to produce
any appreciable fog when no charged particles are present."

Thus, in sufficiently supersaturated damp air a cloud is deposited on these charged particles and they
are thus rendered visible. The
noise died down. The Salvation Army captain began instantly: "Lord, all these Thou wilt make
Thine own. We thank Thee, Lord, that Thou wilt lead them all into Thy host! We thank Thee,
Lord, that it is granted to us to lead them to Thee!"

The crowd hissed, howled, screamed. It was as if all those throats had been tickled by a sharp
knife. It was as if the people had been afraid to be won over, as if they had forgotten that
they had come there of their own will.

But the woman continued, and it was her sharp, piercing voice which conquered. They had to hear.

"You shout and scream; the old serpent within you is twisting and raging. But that is just
the sign. Blessings on the old serpent's roarings! It shows that he is tortured, that he is
afraid. Laugh at us! Break our windows! Drive us away from the platform! To-morrow you will
belong to us. We shall possess the earth. How can you withstand us? How can you withstand God?"

Then the captain commanded one of her comrades to come forward and make her confession. She
came smiling. She stood brave and undaunted and told the story of her sin and her conversion
to the mockers. Where had that kitchen-girl learned to stand smiling under all that scorn?
Some of those who had come to scoff grew pale. Where had these women found their courage and
their strength? Some one stood behind them.

The third woman stepped forward. She was a beautiful child, daughter of rich parents, with
a sweet, clear voice. She did not tell of herself. Her testimony was one of the usual songs.

It was like the shadow of a victory. The audience forgot itself and listened. The child was
lovely to look at, sweet to hear. But when she ceased, the noise became even more dreadful.
Down by the door they built a platform of benches, climbed up and confessed.

It became worse and worse in the hall. The stove became red hot, devoured air and belched heat.
The respectable women on the front benches looked about for a way to escape, but there was
no possibility of getting out. The soldiers on the platform perspired and wilted. They cried
and prayed for strength. Suddenly a breath came through the air, a whisper reached their ear.
They knew not from where, but they felt a change. God was with them. He fought for them.

To the struggle again! The captain stepped forward and lifted the Bible over her head. Stop,
stop! We feel that God is working among us. A conversion is near. Help us to pray! God will
give us a soul.

They fell on their knees in silent prayer. Some in the hall joined in the prayer. All felt
an intense expectation. Was it true? Was something great taking place in a fellow-creature's
soul, here, in their midst? Should it be granted to them to see it? Could it be influenced
by these women?

For the moment the crowd was won. They were now just as eager for a miracle as lately for blasphemy.
No one dared to move. All panted from excitement, but nothing happened. "O God, Thou forsakest
us! Thou forsakest us, O God!"

The beautiful salvation soldier began to sing. She chose the mildest of melodies: "Oh, my beloved,
wilt Thou not come soon?"

Touching as a praying child, the song entered their souls--like a caress, like a blessing.

The crowd was silent, wrapped in those notes. "Mountains and forests long, heaven and earth
languish. Man, everything in the world, thirsts that you shall open your soul to the light.
Then glory will spread over the earth, then the beasts will rise up from their degradation.

"Oh, my beloved, wilt thou not come soon?"

"It is not true that thou dost linger in lofty halls. In the dark wood, in miserable hovels
thou dwellest. And thou wilt not come. My bright heaven does not tempt thee.

"Oh, my beloved, wilt thou not come soon?"

In the hall more and more began to sing the burden. Voice after voice joined in. They did not
rightly know what words they used. The tune was enough. All their longing could sing itself
free in those tones. They sang, too, down by the door. Hearts were bursting. Wills were subdued.
It no longer sounded like a pitiful lament, but strong, imperative, commanding.

"Oh, my beloved, wilt thou not come soon?"

Down by the door, in the worst of the crowd, stood Matts Wik. He looked much intoxicated, but
that evening he had not drunk. He stood and thought. "If I might speak, if I might speak!"

It was the strangest room he had ever seen, the most wonderful chance. A voice seemed to say
to him: "These are the rushes to which you can whisper, the waves which will bear your voice."

The singers started. It was as if they had heard a lion roar in their ears. A mighty, terrible
voice spoke dreadful words.

It scoffed at God. Why did men serve God? He forsook all those who served him. He had failed
his own son. God helped no one.

The voice grew louder, more like a roar every minute. No one could have believed that human
lungs could have such strength. No one had ever heard such ravings burst from bruised heart.
All bent their heads like wanderers in the desert, when the storm beats on them.

Terrible, terrible words! They were like thundering hammer strokes against God's throne. Against
Him who had tortured Job, who had let the martyrs suffer, who let those who professed his faith
burn at the stake.

A few had at first tried to laugh. Some of them had thought that it was a joke. If, accordingly,
in a computation of the length of man's life, the hours passed in slumber are carefully deducted,
and considered as forming no part of available time, not even the
medical men dispute the justice of such procedure.

They have but this to say:-- "The stream of life is not strong enough to keep the mill of action
always going; we must therefore periodically shut down the gate and allow the waters to accumulate;
and he ever loses more than he gains who attempts any avoidance of
this natural necessity."

As
medical men, they are not required, perhaps, to say more; and we will be grateful to them for
faithfully urging this,-- especially when we consider, that, under
the sage arrangements now existing, all that the physician does for
the general promotion of health is done in defiance of his own interests.

We, however, have further questions to ask. Why is not the life-stream more affluent? Sleep
is needful,-- but wherefore? The physician vindicates the sleeper; but the philosopher must vindicate
Nature.

It is surely one step toward an elucidation of this matter to observe that the necessity here
accused is not one arbitrarily laid upon us by Nature, but one existing
in Nature herself, and appertaining to the very conception of existence.

The elucidation, however, need not pause at this point.

The assumption that sleep is a piece of waste, as being a mere restorative for the body, and not
a service or furtherance to the mind,-- this must be called in question and examined closely; for
it is precisely in this assumption, as I deem, that the popular judgment goes astray. Is sleep
any such arrest and detention of the mind?

That it is a shutting of those outward gates by which impressions flow in upon the soul is sufficiently
obvious; but who can assure us that it is equally a closing of those inward and skyward gates
through which come the reinforcements of faculty, the strength that
masters and uses impression?

I persuade myself, on the contrary, that it is what Homer called it, divine,-- able, indeed,
to bring the blessing of a god; and that hours lawfully passed under the pressure of its heavenly
palms are fruitful, not merely negatively, but positively, not only as recruiting exhausted
powers, and enabling us to be awake again, but by direct contribution to the resources of the
soul and the uses of life; that, in fine, one awakes farther on in
life, as well as farther on in time, than he was at falling asleep. At last, at last they caught a glimpse of green. And just outside
of the town, where the road wound over flat, moist fields, where the song of the lark sounded
loudest, where the clover steamed with honey, there lay the first of those left behind; heads
in the moss, noses in the grass. Bodies bathed in sunshine and fragrance, souls refreshed with
idleness and rest.

On the way to the wood toiled bicyclists and bearers of luncheon baskets. Boys came with trowels
and shiny knapsacks. Girls danced in clouds of dust. Sky and banners and children and trumpets.
Mechanics and their families and crowds of laborers. The rearing horses of an omnibus waved
their forelegs over the crowd. For almost half a century we have been able to keep to the path
of peace.

The attempts to attribute a warlike temperament to Germany and to circumscribe its position in
the world have often put to severe tests the patience of our people. With unswerving honesty,
my Government, even in provoking circumstances, has pursued as its highest aim the development
of all moral, spiritual, and economic powers. The world has been witness how tirelessly we
strove in the first rank during the pressure and confusion of the last few years to spare the
nations of Europe a war between the great powers.

The very grave dangers which had arisen owing to the events in the Balkans appeared to have been
overcome, but then the murder of my friend, the Archduke Francis Ferdinand, opened up a great
abyss. My high ally, the Emperor and King Francis Joseph, was compelled to take up arms to defend
the security of his empire against dangerous intrigues from a neighboring State. In the pursuit
of her proper interests the Dual Monarchy has found her path obstructed by the Russian Empire.
Not only our duty as an ally calls us to the side of Austria-Hungary, but on us falls also the mighty
task of defending the ancient community of culture of the two kingdoms and our own position
in the world against the attack of hostile powers. With a heavy heart I have been compelled to
mobilize my army against a neighbor with whom it has fought side
by side on so many fields of battle.

With sincere sorrow I saw a friendship broken of which Germany had given faithful proofs.
The Imperial Russian Government, yielding to the pressure of an insatiable nationalism, has
taken sides with a State which by encouraging criminal attacks has
brought on the evil of this war.

That France, also, placed herself on the side of our enemies could not surprise us. Too often have
our efforts to arrive at friendlier relations with the French Republic come in collision with
old hopes and ancient malice.

Honored Sirs: What human insight and power could do to arm a people
against the last extremities has been done with your patriotic help.

The hostility which has been smouldering for a long time in the East and in the West has now
burst into bright flames. The present situation did not proceed from transient conflicts of interest
or diplomatic entanglements, it is the result of an ill will which has for many years been active
against the strength and the prosperity of the German Empire.

We are not incited by lust for conquest, we are inspired by the unyielding determination to
keep for ourselves and all future generations the place which God
has given us.

From the proofs which have been given you, you will see how my Government, and especially my
Chancellor, strove up to the last moment to avert the worst. We grasp the sword in compulsory
self-defense, with clean hands and a clean conscience.

To the peoples and races of the German Empire my call goes forth to defend with all their strength
and in brotherly co-operation with our ally that which we have created by peaceful labor. After
the example of our fathers, firmly and faithfully, sincerely and
with chivalry, humbly before God and battling joyfully before the
enemy, let us place our trust in the eternal Omnipotence, and may
He strengthen our defense and bring it to a good end!

To you, honored sirs, the whole German people, assembled about its Princes and its leaders,
look this day. Make your decision unanimously and quickly. That is
my heartfelt wish.

Gentlemen (addressing the Deputies directly): You have read what I said to my people the other
day from the balcony of my castle.

I repeat now that I no longer know any parties. I know only Germans. And in order to testify
that you are firmly resolved without distinction of party to stand by my side through danger
and death, I call upon the leaders of the different parties in this House to come forward and
lay their hands in mine as a pledge.***** TO THE GERMAN ARMY AND
NAVY.

Proclamation
by Kaiser Wilhelm II.

After three and forty years of peace I call the men of Germany to
arms.

It has
become necessary to protect our most sacred possessions, the Fatherland,
our very hearths against ruthless destruction.

Enemies
on every hand! That is the situation. A mighty struggle, a great sacrifice confronts
us.

 He walked among serpents and scorpions. He thirsted and hungered. He saw
caravans drag their dark length through the sands. He did not join them. He dared not seek
strangers. He, who bears a royal letter, must go alone. He saw at eventide the white tents
of shepherds. He was tempted, as if by his wife's smiling dwelling. He thought he saw white
veils waving to him. He turned away from the tents out into solitude. Woe to him if they had
stolen the letter of his king!

He hesitates when he sees searching brigands pursuing him. He thinks of the king's letter.
He reads it in order to then destroy it. He reads it, and finds new courage. Stand up, warrior
of Judah! He does not destroy the letter. He does not give himself up to the robbers. He fights
and conquers. And so onward, onward! He bears his sentence of death through a thousand dangers. ...

It is so God's will shall be obeyed through tortures unto death. ...

While Wik spoke, his divorced wife stood and listened to him. She had gone out to the wood
that morning, beaming and contented on her husband's arm, most matron-like, respectable in
every fold. Her daughter and the apprentice carried the luncheon basket. The maid followed
with the youngest child. There had been nothing but content, happiness, calm.

There they had lain in a thicket. And even then the effect is most elusive; for the surface of the
water, which you are looking up to from below, mirrors the contents of the tanks so perfectly
that it is difficult to tell where the reality ends and the image
begins, were it not that the duplicated creatures move about with
their backs downward in a scene all topsy-turvy.

The effect is most fantastic.

More than that, it is most beautiful as well. You are, in effect, at the bottom of the ocean-- or
rather, at the bottom of many oceans in one. No light comes to you except through the grottos
about you-- grottos haunted by weird forms of the deep, from graceful
to grotesque, from almost colorless to gaudy-hued.

To your dilated pupils the light itself has the weird glow of unreality. It is all like the wonders
of the Arabian Nights made tangible or like a strange spectacular dream. If one were in a great
diving-bell at the bottom of the veritable ocean he could hardly feel more detached from the
ordinary aerial world of fact.

As one recovers his senses and begins to take definite note of things about him he sees that each
one of the many grottos has a different set of occupants, and that
not all of the creatures there are as unfamiliar as at first they
seemed.

Many of the fishes, for example, and the lobsters, crabs, and the like, are familiar enough under
other conditions, but even these old acquaintances look strange under these changed circumstances.
But for the rest there are multitudes of forms that one had never seen or imagined, for the
sea hides a myriad of wonders which we who sail over its surface,
and at most glance dimly a few feet into its depths, hardly dream of.

Even though one has seen these strange creatures "preserved" in museums, he does not know
them, for the alleged preservation there has retained little enough of essential faciès of the
real creature, which the dead shell can no more than vaguely suggest.

Here, however, we see the real thing. Each creature lives and moves in a habitat as nearly
as may be like that which it haunted when at liberty, save that tribes that live at enmity with
one another are here separated, so that the active struggle for existence, which plays so large
a part in the wild life of sea as well as land, is not represented.

For the rest the creatures of the deep are at home in these artificial grottos, and disport
themselves as if they desired no other residence. For the most part they pay no heed whatever to
the human inspectors without their homelike prisons, so one may watch their activities under
the most favorable conditions.

It is odd to notice how curiously sinuous are all the movements, not
alone of the fish, but of a large proportion of the other forms of
moving life of the waters.

The curve, the line of beauty, is the symbol of their every act; there are no angles in their
world. They glide hither and yon, seemingly without an effort, and
always with wavy, oscillating gracefulness.

The acme of this sinuosity of movement is reached with those long-drawn-out fishes the eels.
Of these there are two gigantic species represented here-- the conger, a dark-skinned, rather ill-favored
fellow, and the beautiful Italian eel, with a velvety, leopard-spotted
skin.

These creatures are gracefulness itself. They are ribbon-like in tenuousness, and to casual
glance they give the impression of long, narrow pennants softly waving in a gentle breeze.
The great conger-- five or six feet in length-- has, indeed, a certain
propensity to extend himself rigidly in a fishlike line and lie immovable,
but the other species is always true to his colors, so to say-- his
form is always outlined in curves.

The eels attract their full share of attention from the visitors, but there is one family of
creatures which easily holds the palm over all the others in this
regard.

These are the various representatives of the great cult of squids and cuttle-fishes. The cuttle-fish
proper-- who, of course, is no fish at all-- is shaped strangely like a diminutive elephant, with
a filmy, waving membrane along its sides in lieu of legs.

Like the other members of his clan, he can change his color variously. Sometimes he is of a
dull brown, again prettily mottled; then, with almost kaleidoscopic suddenness, he will assume
a garb beautifully striped in black and white, rivalled by nothing but the coat of the zebra.
The cuttle-fish is a sluggish creature, seeking out the darker corners
of his grotto, and often lying motionless for long periods together.

But not so the little squid. He does not thrive in captivity, and incessantly wings his way back
and forth, with slow, wavy flappings of his filmy appendages, until he wears himself out and
dies unreconciled.

In marked contrast with both cuttle-fish and squid is their cousin
the octopus-- a creepy, crawly creature, like eight serpents in one--
at once the oddest and the most fascinating creature in the entire
aquarium.

You will find a crowd almost always before his grotto watching his
curious antics.

Usually slow and deliberate in movement, he yet has capacity for a certain agility. Now and again
he dives off suddenly, head first, through the water, with the directness if not quite with
the speed of an arrow.

A moment later, tired of his flight, he sprawls his eight webbed
legs out in every direction, breaking them seemingly into a thousand
joints, and settles back like an animated parachute awreck.

Then perchance he perches on a rock knowingly, with the appearance of owl-like wisdom, albeit
his head looks surprisingly like a frog's. Anon he holds his head erect and stretches out his
long arms in what is most palpably a yawn. Then, for pure diversion, he may hold himself half
erect on his umbrella frame of legs and sidle along a sort of quadrille--
a veritable "eight hands in round."

But all the while he conveys distinctly the impression of a creature
to the last degree blasé.

Even when a crab is let down into his grotto by an attendant for the edification of the visitors
the octopus seems to regard it with only lukewarm interest. If he deigns to go in pursuit, it
is with the air of one who says, "Anything to oblige," rather than of eagerness for a morsel
of food. Yet withal, even though unhurried, he usually falls upon the victim with surprising sureness
of aim, encompassing it in his multiform net. Or perhaps, thinking the game hardly worth so
much effort, he merely reaches out suddenly with one of his eight
arms-- each of which is a long-drawn-out hand as well-- and grasps the
victim and conveys it to his distensible maw without so much as changing
his attitude.

All this of the giant octopus-- brown and warty and wrinkled and
blasé.

But the diminutive cousin in the grotto with the jellyfishes is a bird of quite another feather.
Physically he is constructed on the same model as the other, but
his mentality is utterly opposed.

No grand rôles for him; his part is comedy. He finds life full of interest. He is satisfied
with himself and with the world.

He assumes an aspect of positive rakishness, and intelligence, so to say, beams from his every
limb. All day long he must be up and doing.

For want of better business he will pursue a shrimp for hours at
a time with the zest of a true sportsman.

Now he darts after his intended prey like a fox-hound. Again he resorts to finesse, and sidles
off, with eyes fixed in another direction, like a master of stratagem. To be sure, he never catches
the shrimp-- but what of that? The true sportsman is far removed from
the necessity for mere material profit.

I half suspect that little octopus would release the shrimp if once he caught him, as the true
fisherman throws back the excess of his catch. It is sport, not game,
that he covets.

THE LABORATORY AND ITS FOUNDER When one has made the circuit of the
aquarium he will have seen and marvelled at some hundreds of curious
creatures utterly unlike anything to be found above water.

Brightly colored starfishes, beautiful sea-urchins, strange stationary ascidians, and flower-like
sea-anemones, quaint sea-horses, and filmy, fragile jellyfishes and their multiform kin-- all seem
novel and wonderful as one sees them in their native element. Things
that appear to be parts of the rocky or sandy bed of the grottos startle
one by moving about, and thus discovering themselves as living creatures,
simulating their environment for purposes of protection.

Or perhaps what seems to be a giant snail suddenly unfurls wings from its seeming shell, and goes waving
through the water, to the utter bewilderment of the beholder. Such freaks as this are quite the
rule among the strange tribes of the deep, for the crowding of population
there makes the struggle for existence keen, and necessitates all
manner of subterfuges for the preservation of species.

Each and every one of the thirty-odd grottos will repay long observation, even on the part of
the most casual visitor, and when one has seen them all, he will know more at first hand of the
method of life of the creatures of the sea than all the books could teach him. He will depart
fully satisfied, and probably, if he be the usual sight-seer, he will
never suspect that what he has seen is really but an incidental part
of the institution whose building he has entered.

Even though he note casually the inscription "Stazione Zoôlogica" above the
entrance, he may never suspect that the aquarium he has just visited
is only an adjunct-- the popular exhibit, so to speak-- of the famous
institution of technical science known to the English-speaking world
as the Marine Biological Laboratory at Naples.

Yet such is the fact. The aquarium seems worthy enough to exist by and for itself. It is a
great popular educator as well as amuser, yet its importance is utterly insignificant compared with
the technical features of the institution of which it is an adjunct. This technical department, the biological
laboratory proper, has its local habitation in the parts of the building
not occupied by the aquarium-- parts of which the general public, as a
rule, sees nothing. There is, indeed, little to see that would greatly
interest the casual inspector, for in its outward aspects one laboratory
is much like another, a seeming hodgepodge of water-tanks, glass jars
of specimens, and tables for microscopes.

The real status of a laboratory is not determined by the equipment. And yet it will not do
to press this assertion too far, for in one sense it is the equipment of the Naples laboratory that
has made it what it is.

Not, however, the equipment in the sense of microscopes and other working paraphernalia. These, of
course, are the best of their kind, but machinery alone does not
make a great institution, any more than clothes make the man.

The all-essential and distinctive equipment of the laboratory reveals itself in its personnel.
In the present case, as always in a truly great institution of any kind,
there is one dominating personality, one moving spirit.

This is Dr. Anton Dohrn, founder of the laboratory, and still its
controller and director, in name and in fact.

More than twenty-five years ago Dr. Dohrn, then a young man fresh
from the universities of his native Germany, discovered what he felt
to be a real need in the biological world.

He was struck with the fact that nowhere in the world could be found an establishment affording
good opportunities for the study of marine life. Water covers three-fifths of the earth's surface,
as everybody knows, and everywhere this water teems with life, so that a vast preponderance of
the living things of the globe find their habitat there. Yet the student who might desire to make special
studies of this life would find himself balked at the threshold for
want of opportunity.

It was no great thing to discover this paucity, which, indeed, fairly beckoned the discoverer.
The great thing was to supply the deficiency, and this was what Dr.
Dohrn determined to do.

He selected Naples as the best location for the laboratory he proposed to found, because of its
climate and its location beside the teeming waters of the Mediterranean. He organized a laboratory;
he called about him a corps of able assistants; he made the Marine Biological Laboratory at Naples
famous, the Mecca of all biological eyes throughout the world.

It was not all done in a day. It was far enough from being done without opposition and discouragement;
but these are matters of history which Dr. Dohrn now prefers not to dwell upon. Suffice it
that the result aimed at was finally achieved, and in far greater measure than could at first be
hoped for.

And from that day till this Naples has been the centre of that branch of biological inquiry which
has for its object the investigation of problems best studied with material gathered from the
sea. And this, let me hasten to add, includes far more than a mere study
of the life histories of marine animals and plants as such. It includes
problems of cell activity, problems of heredity, life problems of
many kinds, having far wider horizons than the mere question as to
how a certain fish or crustacean lives and moves and has its being.

Dr. Dohrn's chief technical associates are all Germans, like their leader, but, like him also,
all gifted with a polyglot mastery of tongues that has stood them in
good stead in their intercourse with the biologists of many nationalities
who came to work at the laboratory.

I must not pause to dwell upon the personnel of the staff in general,
but there is one other member who cannot be overlooked even in the
most casual survey of the work of the institution.

One might almost as well forget Dr. Dohrn himself as to overlook Signor Lo Bianco, chief of the
collecting department. Signor Bianco it is who, having expert knowledge of the haunts and habits
of every manner of marine creature, can direct his fishermen where to
find and how to secure whatever rare specimen any worker at the laboratory
may desire.

He it is, too, who, by studying old methods and inventing new ones, has learned how to preserve the
delicate forms for subsequent study in lifelike ensemble that no one else can quite equal.
Signor Bianco it is, in short, who is the indispensable right-hand
man of the institution in all that pertains to its practical working
outside the range of the microscope.

Each night Signor Lo Bianco directs his band of fishermen as to what particular specimens are
most to be sought after next day to meet the needs of the workers in the laboratory. Before sunrise
each day, weather permitting, the little scattered fleet of boats is far out on the Bay of Naples;
for the surface collecting, which furnishes a large share of the
best material, can be done only at dawn, as the greater part of the
creatures thus secured sink into the retirement of the depths during
the day, coming to the surface to feed only at night.

You are not likely to see the collecting party start out, therefore, but if you choose you may
see them return about nine or ten o'clock by going to the dock not far from the laboratory. The boats
come in singly at about this hour, their occupants standing up to row, and pushing forward with
the oars, after the awkward Neapolitan fashion. Many of the fishermen are quaint enough in appearance;
some of them have grown old in the service of the laboratory.

The morning's catch is contained in glass jars placed in baskets especially constructed for the
purpose. The baskets have handles, but these are quite superfluous except to lift them from the
boats, for in the transit to the laboratory the baskets are carried, as almost everything else
is carried in Naples, on the head. To the novitiate it seems a striking risk to pile baskets of
fragile glass and even more fragile specimens one above another, and attempt to balance the whole
on the head, but nothing could be easier, or seemingly more secure, for these experts. Arrived
at the laboratory, the jars are turned over to Signer Lo Bianco and
his assistants, who sort the material, and send to each investigator
in the workrooms whatever he may have asked for.

Of course surface-skimming is not the only method of securing material for the laboratory. The institution
owns a steam-launch named the Johannes Müller, in honor of the great physiologist, which operates
a powerful dredge for securing all manner of specimens from the sea-bottom. Then ordinary lines and
nets are more or less in requisition for capturing fish. And in
addition to the regular corps of collectors, every fisherman of the
neighborhood has long since learned to bring to the laboratory all rare
specimens of any kind that he may chance to capture.

So in one way and another the institution makes sure of having in tribute all that the richly
peopled waters of the Mediterranean can offer. And this well-regulated
system of collecting, combined with the richness of the fauna and
flora of the Bay of Naples, has no small share in the success of the
marine laboratory.

But these, of course, were factors that Dr. Dohrn took into account from the beginning. Indeed,
it was precisely with an eye to these important factors that Naples
was selected as the site of the future laboratory in the days when
the project was forming.

The Bay of Naples is most happily located for the needs of the zoologist. It is not too far
south to exclude the fauna of the temperate zone, yet far enough south to furnish a habitat
for many forms of life almost tropical in character. It has, in short, a most varied and abundant
fauna. And, on the other hand, the large colony of Neapolitan fishermen made it certain that skilled
collectors would always be at hand to make available the wealth of
material.

It requires no technical education to appreciate the value of this to
the original investigator, particularly to the student of life problems.
A skilful worker may do much with a single specimen, as, for example,
Johannes Mûller did half a century ago with the one available specimen
of amphioxus, the lowest of vertebrates, then recently discovered.

What Mûller learned from that one specimen seems almost miraculous. But what if he had had a bucketful
of the little boneless creatures at his disposal, as the worker at
Naples now may have any day for the asking? He began to wonder and to be amazed. Was it possible, was it possible that no
one wished to receive him?

Then all at once he saw himself. He saw how miserable and degraded he was, and he understood
that he was odious to people. "It is the end of me," he thought. "No more copying of music,
no more flute-playing. No one on earth needs me; no one has compassion on me."

The storm whirled and played, tore apart the drifts and piled them up again, took a pillar
of snow in its arms and danced out into the plain, lifted one flake up to the clouds and chased
another down into a ditch. "It is so, it is so," said little Ruster; "while one dances and
whirls it is play, but when one must be buried in the drift and forgotten, it is sorrow and
grief." But down they all have to go, and now it was his turn. To think that he had now come
to the end!

He no longer asked where the man was driving him; he thought that he was driving in the land
of death.

Little Ruster made no offerings to the gods that night. He did not curse flute-playing or the
life of a pensioner; he did not think that it had been better for him if he had ploughed the
earth or sewn shoes. But he mourned that he was now a worn-out instrument, which pleasure could
no longer use. He complained of no one, for he knew that when the horn is cracked and the guitar
will not stay in tune, they must go. He became all at once a very humble man. He understood
that it was the end of him, on this Christmas Eve. Hunger and cold would destroy him, for he
understood nothing, was good for nothing and had no friends.

The sledge stops, and suddenly it is light about him, and he hears friendly voices, and there
is some one who is helping him into a warm room, and some one who is pouring warm tea into
him. His coat is pulled off him, and several people cry that he is welcome, and warm hands
rub life into his benumbed fingers.

He was so confused by it all that he did not come to his senses for nearly a quarter of an
hour. He could not possibly comprehend that he had come back to Löfdala. He had not been at
all conscious that the stable-boy had grown tired of driving about in the storm and had turned
home.

Nor did he understand why he was now so well received in Liljekrona's house. He could not know
that Liljekrona's wife understood what a weary journey he had made that Christmas Eve, when
he had been turned away from every door where he had knocked. She felt such compassion on him
that she forgot her own troubles.

Liljekrona went on with the wild playing up in his room; he did not know that Ruster had come.
The latter sat meanwhile in the dining-room with the wife and the children. The servants, who
used also to be there on Christmas Eve, had moved out into the kitchen away from their mistress's
trouble.

The mistress of the house lost no time in setting Ruster to work. "You hear, I suppose," she
said, "that Liljekrona does nothing but play all the evening, and I must attend to setting
the table and the food. The children are quite forsaken. You must look after these two smallest."

Children were the kind of people with whom little Ruster had had least intercourse. He had
met them neither in the bachelor's wing nor in the campaign tent, neither in wayside inns nor
on the highways. He was almost shy of them, and did not know what he ought to say that was
fine enough for them.

He took out his flute and taught them how to finger the stops and holes. There was one of four
years and one of six. They had a lesson on the flute and were deeply interested in it. "This
is A," he said, "and this is C," and then he blew the notes. Then the young people wished to
know what kind of an A and C it was that was to be played.

Ruster took out his score and made a few notes.

"No," they said, "that is not right." And they ran away for an A B C book.

Little Ruster began to hear their alphabet. They knew it and they did not know it. What they
knew was not very much. Ruster grew eager; he lifted the little boys up, each on one of his
knees, and began to teach them. Liljekrona's wife went out and in and listened quite in amazement.
It sounded like a game, and the children were laughing the whole time, but they learned.

Ruster kept on for a while, but he was absent from what he was doing. He was turning over the
old thoughts from out in the storm. It was good and pleasant, but nevertheless it was the end
of him. He was worn .out. He ought to be thrown away. And all of a sudden he put his hands
before his face and began to weep.

Liljekrona's wife came quickly up to him.

"Ruster," she said, "I can understand that you think that all is over for you. You cannot make
a living with your music, and you are destroying yourself with brandy. But it is not the end,
Ruster."

"Yes," sobbed the little flute-player.

"Do you see that to sit as to-night with the children, that would be something for you? If
you would teach children to read and write, you would be welcomed everywhere. That is no less
important an instrument on which to play, Ruster, than flute and violin. Look at them, Ruster!"

She placed the two children in front of him, and he looked up, blinking as if he had looked
at the sun. It seemed as if his little, blurred eyes could not meet those of the children,
which were big, clear and innocent.

"Look at them, Ruster!" repeated Liljekrona's wife.

"I dare not," said Ruster, for it was like a purgatory to look through the beautiful child
eyes to the unspotted beauty of their souls.

Liljekrona's wife laughed loud and joyously. "Then you must accustom yourself to them, Ruster.
You can stay in my house as schoolmaster this year."

Liljekrona heard his wife laugh and came out of his room.

"What is it?" he said. "What is it?"

"Nothing," she answered, "but that Ruster has come again, and that I have engaged him as schoolmaster
for our little boys."

Liljekrona was quite amazed. "Do you dare?" he said, "do you dare? Has he promised to give up-"

"No," said the wife; "Ruster has promised nothing. But there is much about which he must be
careful when he has to look little children in the eyes every day. If it had not been Christmas,
perhaps I would not have ventured; but when our Lord dared to place a little child who was
his own son among us sinners, so can I also dare to let my little children try to save a human
soul."

Liljekrona could not speak, but every feature and wrinkle in his face twitched and twisted
as always when he heard anything noble.

Then he kissed his wife's hand as gently as a child who asks for forgiveness and cried aloud:
"All the children must come and kiss their mother's hand."

They did so, and then they had a happy Christmas in Liljekrona's house.

UNCLE REUBEN

There was once, nearly eighty years ago, a little boy who went out into the market-place to
spin his top. I am wonderful, but tired from so much work;'tis really immense what I have done; in
the South Sea book I have fifty pages copied fair, some of which has been four times, and all
twice written, certainly fifty pages of solid scriving inside a fortnight,
but I was at it by seven a. m. till lunch, and from two till four or
five every day; between whiles, verse and blowing on the flageolet;
never outside.

If you could see this place! but I don't want any one to see it till my clearing is done, and
my house built. It will be a home for angels.

So far I wrote after my bit of dinner, some cold meat and bananas,
on arrival.

Then out to see where Henry and some of the men were clearing the garden; for it was plain there
was to be no work to-day indoors, and I must set in consequence to farmering. I stuck a good
while on the way up, for the path there is largely my own handiwork,
and there were a lot of sprouts and saplings and stones to be removed.

Then I reached our clearing just where the streams join in one; it had a fine autumn smell of
burning, the smoke blew in the woods, and the boys were pretty merry and busy. Now I had a private
design:-[Map which cannot be reproduced] The Vaita'e I had explored
pretty far up; not yet the other stream, the Vaituliga (g= nasal n,
as ng in sing); and up that, with my wood knife, I set off alone.

It is here quite dry; it went through endless woods; about as broad
as a Devonshire lane, here and there crossed by fallen trees; huge
trees overhead in the sun, dripping lianas and tufted with orchids,
tree ferns, ferns depending with air roots from the steep banks, great
arums-I had not skill enough to say if any of them were the edible
kind, one of our staples here!-hundreds of bananas-another staple-and
alas!

I had skill enough to know all of these for the bad kind that bears no fruit. My Henry moralised
over this the other day; how hard it was that the bad banana flourished
wild, and the good must be weeded and tended; and I had not the heart
to tell him how fortunate they were here, and how hungry were other
lands by comparison.

The ascent of this lovely lane of my dry stream filled me with delight. I could not but be reminded of old
Mayne Reid, as I have been more than once since I came to the tropics; and I thought, if Reid had
been still living, I would have written to tell him that, for, me,
IT HAD COME TRUE; and I thought, forbye, that, if the great powers
go on as they are going, and the Chief Justice delays, it would come
truer still; and the war-conch will sound in the hills, and my home
will be inclosed in camps, before the year is ended.

And all at once-mark you, how Mayne Reid is on the spot-a strange thing happened. I saw a liana
stretch across the bed of the brook about breast-high, swung up my knife to sever it, and-behold,
it was a wire! On either hand it plunged into thick bush; to-morrow I shall see where it goes and
get a guess perhaps of what it means. To-day I know no more than-there it is. A little higher the brook
began to trickle, then to fill. At last, as I meant to do some work upon the homeward trail,
it was time to turn. I did not return by the stream; knife in hand, as long as my endurance lasted,
I was to cut a path in the congested bush. At first it went ill with me; I got badly stung as high
as the elbows by the stinging plant; I was nearly hung in a tough liana-a
rotten trunk giving way under my feet; it was deplorable bad business.
And an axe-if I dared swing one-would have been more to the purpose
than my cutlass.

Of a sudden things began to go strangely easier; I found stumps, bushing out again; my body
began to wonder, then my mind; I raised my eyes and looked ahead; and, by George, I was no longer
pioneering, I had struck an old track overgrown, and was restoring an old path. So I laboured till
I was in such a state that Carolina Wilhelmina Skeggs could scarce have found a name for it.
Thereon desisted; returned to the stream; made my way down that stony
track to the garden, where the smoke was still hanging and the sun
was still in the high tree-tops, and so home. Her husband
died and she worked in care and want. But the children had so strong a faith in their mother's
grief for the little three-year-old boy, that they were convinced that if he had lived she
would not have mourned over her misfortunes. And every time they saw their mother weep, they
thought that it was because Brother Reuben was dead, or because they were not like Brother
Reuben. Soon enough an ever-growing desire was born in them to rival their little dead brother
in their mother's affection. There was nothing that they would not have done for her, if she
had only cared as much for them as for him. And it was on account of that longing, I think,
that Brother Reuben did more good than any of the other children.

Fancy that when the eldest brother had earned his first money by rowing a stranger over the
river, he came and gave it to his mother without reserving a penny! Then his mother looked
so happy that he swelled with pride, and could not help betraying how ambitious beyond measure
he had been. 

An Arab lady who met us in a wide valley of the desert of Mount Sinai, went out of the way, gave
her camel to be led by her servant, and walked on foot till we were passed; another, who met
us in a narrow way, and who was on foot, sat down, and turned her
back towards us.

"We see by the above, the importance attached to this part of female
dress in the East.

The females of the Jewish nation, as referred to above, in the case
of Rebekah, wore the veil as a token of modesty, reverence, or subjection
to their husbands.

Chardin also says, (Voyage en Perse) speaking of a peculiar sort of veil," Only married women
wear it; and it is the mark by which it is known that they are under
subjection or power.

"I
will not enlarge further upon the subject, but leave it to your readers
to draw their own conclusions.

JOSEPH TEMPLE E---- K.***** THE SKETCH-BOOK.***** A NIGHT IN A SEDAN
CHAIR.

From the German of Theodore Koerner.

(For the Mirror.) I came from a party where the wine had not been
spared, and the guests had but just separated, in a state of tolerable
elevation.

It was a drear and stormy autumn night.

On reaching the door of my abode, I first became aware that I had
forgotten the key.

As I could not imagine that any one would be awake at this late hour,--
for it now drew near twelve-- and, besides, as I lived on the fourth
story, I had humanity enough not to alarm the whole street, by ringing
and shouting, for admittance.

As this was a circumstance of no very infrequent occurrence, I was
not long perplexed for a shelter; but directed my steps, as usual,
towards the sedan stand, at the market place, where of course I still
met with society, though fast locked in the fetters of sleep.

In the hall, lay stretched and snoring, the whole corps of the honourable company of sedan chairmen;
and on a bench near the wall, lay, as usual, the sleeping guardian of the night. Without troubling
myself much about my companions, I gently opened a sedan-- crept
into the corner-- and slept much the sooner for" the good wine having
done its good office "on me.

I had slept but a very short time when I heard it strike twelve; the watchman now arose, and
blew a blast upon his horn that thrilled through my every nerve, and
sang:-- List-- Christians list!-- the passing bell Of twelve, has
just now told its knell, And midnight is, when evil sprites, Scare
the tired sense, with wild affrights.

Now close your eyes in peace, and rest Till morning rays illume the west: Praise God the Lord! A second
time he blew his horn, and the sound re-echoed fearfully through the old Town House; the storm
howled terrifically, and the rain pattered against the panes of my
dwelling.

In spite of the injunction of the watchman, I opened my eyes, and beheld him advancing towards the other
end of the market-place, where he stopped to repeat his song; and
again occasionally from street to street, till his voice died away
in the distance.

At this moment I was seized with an indefinable sensation of dread. I would have run after the watchman,
but the rain deterred me. He, too, might have sung of something else
than exactly of that fearful hour of night--"

When tombs do yawn and graves yield up their dead. "I did not feel at
all comfortable. I was, notwithstanding, just about to nestle myself up
again in the corner, and once more close my eyes, when they lighted
on two, tall, meagre forms, whom I immediately recognised by their
garb as chairmen.

The boy stood up instantly when he heard her speak of Uncle Reuben, but he felt a chill in
his very heart. How could mamma talk about Uncle Reuben when her little boy was in such distress!
Axel had no objection to his sitting and dying wherever he pleased, but now it seemed as if
he wished to take his own mamma away from him, and that Axel could not bear. So he learned
to hate Uncle Reuben.

High up on the stairway in Axel's home was a stone railing, which was dizzily beautiful to
sit on. Far below lay the stone floor of the hall, and he who sat astride up there could dream
that he was being borne along over abysses. Axel called the balustrade the good steed Grane.
On his back he bounded over burning ramparts into an enchanted castle. There he sat proud and
bold with his long curls waving, and fought Saint George's fight with the dragon. And as yet
it had not occurred to Uncle Reuben to want to ride there.

But of course he came. Just as the dragon was writhing in the agony of death and Axel sat in
lofty consciousness of victory, he heard his nurse call: "Little Axel, do not sit there! Think
of Uncle Reuben, who died when he was eight years old, just as you are now, because he sat
and rode on a stone railing. You must never sit there again."

Such a jealous old pudding-head, that Uncle Reuben! He could not bear it, of course, because
Axel was killing dragons and rescuing princesses. If he did not look out, he, Axel, would show
that he could win glory too. If he should jump down to that stone floor and dash his brains
out, he would feel himself thrown into the shade, that big liar.

Poor Uncle Reuben! The poor, good little boy who went to play top out in the sunny market-place!
Now he was to learn what it was to be a great man.

It was in the country at Uncle Ivan's. A number of the cousins had gathered in the beautiful
garden. Axel was there, filled with his hatred of his Uncle Reuben. He was longing to know
if he was tormenting any other besides himself, but there was something which made him afraid
to ask. It was as if he was going to commit some sacrilege.

At last the children were left to themselves. No big people were present. Then Axel asked if
they had ever heard of Uncle Reuben.

He saw how all the eyes flashed and that many small fists were clenched, but it seemed as if
the little mouths had been taught respect for Uncle Reuben. "Hush!" said the whole crowd.

"No!" said Axel; "I want to know if there is any one else whom he tortures, for I think he
is the most troublesome of all uncles."

That one brave word broke the dam which had held in the indignation of those tormented childhearts.
There was a great murmuring and shouting. So must a crowd of nihilists look when they revile
an autocrat.

The poor, great man's register of sins was unrolled. Uncle Reuben persecuted the children of
all his brothers and sisters. Uncle Reuben died wherever he chose. Uncle Reuben was always
the same age as the child whose peace he wished to disturb.

And they had to show respect to him, although he was quite plainly a liar. They might hate
him in the most silent depths of their heart, but overlook him or show him disrespect, no,
then they were stopped.

What an air the old people put on when they spoke of him! Had he ever really done anything
so wonderful? To sit down and die was nothing so surprising. And whatever great thing he may
have done, it was certain that he was now abusing his power. He opposed the children in everything
that they wanted to do, the old scarecrow. He drove them from a noonday nap in the grass. He
had discovered their best hiding places in the park and forbidden them to go there. His last
performance was to ride on barebacked horses and to drive in the hay-rigging.

They were all sure that the poor thing had never been more than three years old. And now he
fell upon the big children of fourteen and insisted that he was their age. It was the most
provoking thing.

It was perfectly incredible what came to light about him. He had fished from the dam; he had
rowed in the little flat-bottomed boat; he had climbed up in the willow which hangs over the
water, and in which it was so nice to sit; yes, he had even slept on the powder-horn.

But they were all certain that there was no escape from his tyranny. It was a relief to have
spoken out, but not a remedy. They could not rebel against Uncle Reuben.

You never would have believed it, but when these children grew to be big and had children of
their own, they immediately began to make use of Uncle Reuben, just as their parents had done
before them.

And their children again, the young people who are growing up now, have learned their lesson
so well, that it happened one summer out in the country that a five-year-old boy came up to
his old grandmother Berta, who had sat down on the steps while waiting for the carriage:--

"Grandmother once had a brother whose name was Reuben."

"You are quite right, my little boy," grandmother said, and stood up instantly.

That was as much of a sign to the young people as if they had seen an old Royalist bow before
King Charles's portrait. It made them understand that Uncle Reuben always must remain great,
however he abused his position, only because he had been so deeply loved.

In these days, when all greatness is so carefully examined, he has to be used with greater
moderation than formerly. In other words, if a little over two pounds of material from infinity
were to fall into each square yard of the sun's surface each hour,
his observed heat would be accounted for; whereas almost seven tons
per square yard of stationary fuel would be required each hour to
produce the same effect.

In view of the pelting which our little earth receives, it seemed not an excessive requisition
upon the meteoric supply to suppose that the requisite amount of matter may fall into the
sun, and for a time this explanation of his incandescence was pretty
generally accepted.

But soon astronomers began to make calculations as to the amount of matter which this assumption
added to our solar system, particularly as it aggregated near the sun in the converging radii,
and then it was clear that no such mass of matter could be there without interfering demonstrably
with the observed course of the interior planets.

So another source of the sun's energy had to be sought. It was found forthwith by that other
great German, Helmholtz, who pointed out that the falling matter
through which heat may be generated might just as well be within the
substance of the sun as without-- in other words, that contraction
of the sun's heated body is quite sufficient to account for a long-sustained
heat-supply which the mere burning of any known substance could not
approach.

Moreover the amount of matter thus falling towards the sun's centre being enormous-- namely, the
total substance of the sun-- a relatively small amount of contraction
would be theoretically sufficient to keep the sun's furnace at par,
so to speak.

At first sight this explanation seemed a little puzzling to many laymen
and some experts, for it seemed to imply, as Lord Kelvin pointed out,
that the sun contracts because it is getting cooler, and gains heat
because it contracts.

But this feat is not really as paradoxical as it seems, for it is not implied that there is any
real gain of heat in the sun's mass as a whole, but quite the reverse. All that is sought is
an explanation of a maintenance of heat-giving capacity relatively unchanged for a long, but not
an interminable, period. Indeed, exactly here comes in the novel and startling feature of. Helmholtz's
calculation. According to Mayer's meteoric hypothesis, there were no data at hand for any estimate
whatever as to the sun's permanency, since no one could surmise what might be the limits of the
meteoric supply. But Helmholtz's estimate implied an incandescent body cooling-- keeping up
a somewhat equable temperature through contraction for a time, but for a limited time only;
destined ultimately to become liquid, solid; to cool below the temperature of incandescence-- to
die.

Not only so, but it became possible to calculate the limits of time within which this culmination
would probably occur. It was only necessary to calculate the total amount of heat which could
be generated by the total mass of our solar system in falling together to the sun's centre from
"infinity" to find the total heat-supply to be drawn upon. Assuming, then, that the present observed
rate of heat-giving has been the average maintained in the past, a simple division gives the
number of years for which the original supply is adequate. The supply will be exhausted, it will
be observed, when the mass comes into stable equilibrium as a solid body, no longer subject to
contraction, about the sun's centre-- such a body, in short, as our
earth is at present.

This calculation was made by Lord Kelvin, Professor Tait, and others, and the result was one
of the most truly dynamitic surprises of the century. For it transpired that, according to
mathematics, the entire limit of the sun's heat-giving life could
not exceed something like twenty-five millions of years.

The publication of that estimate, with the appearance of authority,
brought a veritable storm about the heads of the physicists.

The entire geological and biological worlds were up in arms in a trice. Two or three generations
before, they hurled brickbats at any one who even hinted that the
solar system might be more than six thousand years old; now they jeered
in derision at the attempt to limit the life-bearing period of our
globe to a paltry fifteen or twenty millions.

The controversy as to solar time thus raised proved one of the most curious and interesting scientific
disputations of the century.

The scene soon shifted from the sun to the earth; for a little reflection made it clear that
the data regarding the sun alone were not sufficiently definite. Thus Dr. Croll contended that
if the parent bodies of the sun had chanced to be "flying stars"
before collision, a vastly greater supply of heat would have been
engendered than if the matter merely fell together.

Again, it could not be overlooked that a host of meteors are falling into the sun, and that this
source of energy, though not in itself sufficient to account for all the heat in question, might
be sufficient to vitiate utterly any exact calculations. Yet again, Professor Lockyer called
attention to another source of variation, in the fact that the chemical
combination of elements hitherto existing separately must produce
large quantities of heat, it being even suggested that this source
alone might possibly account for all the present output.

On the whole, then, it became clear that the contraction theory of the sun's heat must itself
await the demonstration of observed shrinkage of the solar disk, as viewed by future generations
of observers, before taking rank as an incontestable theory, and that computations as to time
based solely on this hypothesis must in the mean time be viewed askance.

But the time controversy having taken root, new methods were naturally found for testing it. The
geologists sought to estimate the period of time that must have been required for the deposit of
the sedimentary rocks now observed to make up the outer crust of the earth. The amount of sediment
carried through the mouth of a great river furnishes a clew to the rate of denudation of the area
drained by that river. Thus the studies of Messrs. Humphreys and Abbot, made for a different
purpose, show that the average level of the territory drained by
the Mississippi is being reduced by about one foot in six thousand
years.

The sediment is, of course, being piled up out in the Gulf at a proportionate rate. If, then,
this be assumed to be an average rate of denudation and deposit in the past, and if the total
thickness of sedimentary deposits of past ages were known, a simple calculation would show the
age of the earth's crust since the first continents were formed.

But unfortunately these "ifs" stand mountain-high here, all the essential factors being indeterminate.
Nevertheless, the geologists contended that they could easily make out a case proving that the
constructive and destructive work still in evidence, to say nothing of anterior revolutions, could
not have been accomplished in less than from twenty-five to fifty
millions of years.

This computation would have carried little weight with the physicists had it not chanced that another
computation of their own was soon made which had even more startling results. This computation,
made by Lord Kelvin, was based on the rate of loss of heat by the earth. It thus resembled the
previous solar estimate in method.

But the result was very different, for the new estimate seemed to prove that a period of from
one hundred to two hundred millions of years has elapsed since the
final crust of the earth formed.

With
this all controversy ceased, for the most grasping geologist or biologist
would content himself with a fraction of that time.

But the case for the geologist was to receive yet another prop from the studies of radio-activity,
which seem to prove that the atom of matter has in store a tremendous, supply of potential
energy which may be drawn on in a way to vitiate utterly all the
computations to which I have just referred.

Thus a particle of radium is giving out heat incessantly in sufficient quantity to raise its
own weight of water to the boiling-point in an hour. The demonstrated wide distribution of radio-active
matter-- making it at least an open question whether all matter does not possess this property
in some degree-- has led to the suggestion that the total heat of the sun may be due to radio-active
matter in its substance.

Obviously, then, all estimates of the sun's age based on the heat-supply must for the present
be held quite in abeyance. What is more to the point, however, is the fact, which these varying estimates
have made patent, that computations of the age of the earth based on any data at hand are little
better than rough guesses. Long before the definite estimates were undertaken, geologists had proved
that the earth is very, very old, and it can hardly be said that the attempted computations
have added much of definiteness to that proposition. They have, indeed, proved that the period
of time to be drawn upon is not infinite; but the nebular hypothesis, to say nothing of common-sense,
carried us as far as that long ago.

If the computations in question have failed of their direct purpose, however, they have been
by no means lacking in important collateral results. To mention but one of these, Lord Kelvin
was led by this controversy over the earth's age to make his famous computation in which he proved
that the telluric structure, as a whole, must have at least the rigidity
of steel in order to resist the moon's tidal pull as it does.

Hopkins had, indeed, made a somewhat similar estimate as early as 1839, proving that the earth's
crust must be at least eight hundred or a thousand miles in thickness; but geologists had utterly
ignored this computation, and the idea of a thin crust on a fluid interior had continued to be
the orthodox geological doctrine. Since Lord Kelvin's estimate was made, his claim that the
final crust of the earth could not have formed until the mass was solid throughout, or at
least until a honeycomb of solid matter had been bridged up from centre to circumference, has
gained pretty general acceptance. It still remains an open question, however, as to what proportion
the lacunas of molten matter bear at the present day to the solidified
portions, and therefore to what extent the earth will be subject to
further shrinkage and attendant surface contortions.

That some such lacunae do exist is demonstrated daily by the phenomena
of volcanoes.

So, after all, the crust theory has been supplanted by a compromise theory rather than completely
overthrown, and our knowledge of the condition of the telluric depths is still far from definite.
If so much uncertainty attends these fundamental questions as to the earth's past and present, it
is not strange that open problems as to her future are still more
numerous.

We have seen how, according to Professor Darwin's computations, the moon threatens to come back
to earth with destructive force some day.

Yet Professor Darwin himself urges that there are elements of fallibility in the data involved
that rob the computation of all certainty. Much the same thing is true of perhaps all the estimates
that have been made as to the earth's ultimate fate. Thus it has been suggested that, even should the
sun's heat not forsake us, our day will become month-long, and then
year-long; that all the water of the globe must ultimately filter
into its depths, and all the air fly off into space, leaving our earth
as dry and as devoid of atmosphere as the moon; and, finally, that
ether-friction, if it exist, or, in default of that, meteoric friction,
must ultimately bring the earth back to the sun.

But in all these prognostications there are possible compensating factors that vitiate the estimates
and leave the exact results in doubt. The last word of the cosmic science of our generation
is a prophecy of evil-- if annihilation be an evil. But it is left for the science of another
generation to point out more clearly the exact terms in which the prophecy is most likely
to be fulfilled.

PHYSICAL PROBLEMS In regard to all these cosmic and telluric problems,
it will be seen, there is always the same appeal to one central rule
of action-- the law of gravitation.

When we turn from macrocosm to microcosm it would appear as if new forces of interaction were
introduced in the powers of cohesion and of chemical action of molecules and atoms. But Lord
Kelvin has argued that it is possible to form such a conception of the forms and space relations
of the ultimate particles of matter that their mutual attractions may be explained by invoking
that same law of gravitation which holds the stars and planets in their course. What, then, is this
all-compassing power of gravitation which occupies so central a position in the scheme of mechanical
things? The simple answer is that no man knows. The wisest physicist of to-day will assure you that
he knows absolutely nothing of the why of gravitation-- that he can
no more explain why a stone tossed into the air falls back to earth
than can the boy who tosses the stone.

But while this statement puts in a nutshell the scientific status of explanations of gravitation,
yet it is not in human nature that speculative scientists should refrain
from the effort to explain it. Such efforts have been made; yet, on
the whole, they are surprisingly few in number; indeed, there are
but two that need claim our attention here, and one of these has hardly
more than historical interest.

One of these is the so-called ultramundane-corpuscle hypothesis of Le Sage; the other is based on
the vortex theory of matter. The theory of Le Sage assumes that the entire universe is filled
with infinitely minute particles flying in right lines in every direction with inconceivable rapidity.
Every mass of tangible matter in the universe is incessantly bombarded by these particles, but any
two non-contiguous masses (whether separated by an infinitesimal
space or by the limits of the universe) are mutually shielded by one
another from a certain number of the particles, and thus impelled
towards one another by the excess of bombardment on their opposite
sides.

What applies to two masses applies also, of course, to any number of masses-- in short, to all the
matter in the universe.

To make the hypothesis workable, so to say, it is necessary to assume
that the "ultramundane" particles are possessed of absolute elasticity,
so that they rebound from one another on collision without loss of
speed.

It is also necessary to assume that all tangible matter has to an almost unthinkable degree
a sievelike texture, so that the vast proportion of the coercive particles
pass entirely through the body of any mass they encounter-- a star or
world, for example-- without really touching any part of its actual
substance. This assumption is necessary because gravitation takes
no account of mere corporeal bulk, but only of mass or ultimate solidarity.

Thus a very bulky object may be so closely meshed that it retards relatively few of the corpuscles,
and hence gravitates with relative feebleness-- or, to adopt a more familiar mode of expression,
is light in weight. This is certainly heaping hypotheses together in a reckless way, and it
is perhaps not surprising that Le Sage's conception did not at first arouse any very great amount
of interest. It was put forward about a century ago, but for two or three generations remained practically
unnoticed. The philosophers of the first half of our century seem to have despaired of explaining
gravitation, though Faraday long experimented in the hope of establishing
a relation between gravitation and electricity or magnetism. Then she falls asleep and starts up again, and in her ears rings an old saying:--

            "A dog stood on a mountain-top,
             He barked aloud and would not stop.
             His name was you, His name was I,
             His name was all in Earth and Sky.
             What was his name?
             His name was why."

The saying had irritated her many a time. Oh, how stupid she had thought the dog was! But now
half asleep, she confuses the dog "What" with Maurits and she thinks that the dog has his white
forehead. Then she laughs. She laughs as easily as she cries. She has inherited that from her
father.

II

How has "it" come? That which she dares not call by name?

"It" has come like the dew to the grass, like the color to the rose, like the sweetness to
the berry, imperceptibly and gently without announcing itself beforehand.

It is also no matter how "it" came or what "it" is. Were it good or evil, fair or foul, still
it is forbidden; that which never ought to exist. "It" makes her anxious, sinful, unhappy.

"It" is that of which she never wishes to think. The silence of the night was now shattered by
the shouts of the men of Tunstall, as they galloped hither and thither, hunting fugitives;
and Dick broke boldly through the underwood and ran straight before him like a deer. The silver
clearness of the moon upon the open snow increased, by contrast, the obscurity of the thickets; and
the extreme dispersion of the vanquished led the pursuers into wildly divergent paths. Hence,
in but a little while, Dick and Joanna paused, in a close covert, and heard the sounds of the
pursuit, scattering abroad, indeed, in all directions, but yet fainting
already in the distance.

"An I had but kept a reserve of them together," Dick cried, bitterly,
"I could have turned the tables yet!

Well, we live and learn; next time it shall go better, by the rood."

"Nay, Dick," said Joanna, "what matters it? Here we are together once
again."

He looked at her, and there she was-- John Matcham, as of yore, in hose and doublet. But now he
knew her; now, even in that ungainly dress, she smiled upon him, bright with love; and his heart
was transported with joy.

"Sweetheart," he said, "if ye forgive this blunderer, what care I? Make we direct for Holywood;
there lieth your good guardian and my better friend, Lord Foxham. There shall we be wed; and
whether poor or wealthy, famous or unknown, what, matters it? This day, dear love, I won my
spurs; I was commended by great men for my valour; I thought myself the goodliest man of war in
all broad England. Then, first, I fell out of my favour with the great; and now have I been well
thrashed, and clean lost my soldiers.

There was a downfall for conceit! But, dear, I care not-- dear, if ye still love me and will
wed, I would have my knighthood done away, and mind it not a jot."

"My Dick!" she cried. "And did they knight you?"

"Ay, dear, ye are my lady now," he answered, fondly; "or ye shall, ere noon to-morrow-- will ye
not?"

"That will I, Dick, with a glad heart," she answered.

"Ay, sir? Methought ye were to be a monk!" said a voice in their
ears.

"Alicia!" cried Joanna.

"Even so," replied the young lady, coming forward. "Alicia, whom ye left for dead, and whom
your lion-driver found, and brought to life again, and, by my sooth,
made love to, if ye want to know!"

"I'll not believe it," cried Joanna. "Dick!"

"Dick!" mimicked Alicia. "Dick, indeed!

Ay, fair sir, and ye desert poor damsels in distress," she continued,
turning to the young knight.

"Ye leave them planted behind oaks. But they say true-- the age of
chivalry is dead."

"Madam," cried Dick, in despair, "upon my soul I had forgotten you
outright.

Madam, ye must try to pardon me. Ye see, I had new found Joanna!"

"I did not suppose that ye had done it o'purpose," she retorted. "But I will be cruelly avenged.
I will tell a secret to my Lady Shelton-- she that is to be," she added, curtseying. "Joanna,"
she continued, "I believe, upon my soul, your sweetheart is a bold fellow in a fight, but he
is, let me tell you plainly, the softest-hearted simpleton in England.

Go to-- ye may do your pleasure with him!

And now, fool children, first kiss me, either one of you, for luck and kindness; and then kiss
each other just one minute by the glass, and not one second longer; and then let us all three set forth
for Holywood as fast as we can stir; for these woods, methinks, are full of peril and exceeding
cold."

"But did my Dick make love to you?" asked Joanna, clinging to her
sweetheart's side.

"Nay, fool girl," returned Alicia; "it was I made love to him. I offered to marry him, indeed;
but he bade me go marry with my likes. These were his words. Nay,
that I will say: he is more plain than pleasant.

But now, children, for the sake of sense, set forward. Shall we go once more over the dingle,
or push straight for Holywood?"

"Why," said Dick, "I would like dearly to get upon a horse; for I
have been sore mauled and beaten, one way and another, these last
days, and my poor body is one bruise.

But how think ye? If the men, upon the alarm of the fighting, had fled away, we should have
gone about for nothing.'Tis but some three short miles to Holywood direct; the bell hath
not beat nine; the snow is pretty firm to walk upon, the moon clear; how if we went even as
we are?"

"Agreed," cried Alicia; but Joanna only pressed upon Dick's arm.

Forth, then, they went, through open leafless groves and down snow-clad alleys, under the white
face of the winter moon; Dick and Joanna walking hand in hand and in a heaven of pleasure; and their
light-minded companion, her own bereavements heartily forgotten, followed a pace or two behind,
now rallying them upon their silence, and now drawing happy pictures of their future and united
lives.

Still, indeed, in the distance of the wood, the riders of Tunstall might be heard urging their
pursuit; and from time to time cries or the clash of steel announced the shock of enemies. But
in these young folk, bred among the alarms of war, and fresh from such a multiplicity of dangers,
neither fear nor pity could be lightly wakened. Content to find the sounds still drawing farther
and farther away, they gave up their hearts to the enjoyment of the
hour, walking already, as Alicia put it, in a wedding procession;
and neither the rude solitude of the forest, nor the cold of the freezing
night, had any force to shadow or distract their happiness.

At length, from a rising hill, they looked below them on the dell
of Holywood.

The great windows of the forest abbey shone with torch and candle;
its high pinnacles and spires arose very clear and silent, and the
gold rood upon the topmost summit glittered brightly in the moon.

All about it, in the open glade, camp-fires were burning, and the ground was thick with huts;
and across the midst of the picture the frozen river curved.

"By the mass," said Richard, "there are Lord Foxham's fellows still encamped. The messenger
hath certainly miscarried. Well, then, so better. We have power at
hand to face Sir Daniel."

But
if Lord Foxham's men still lay encamped in the long holm at Holywood, it was from a different
reason from the one supposed by Dick. They had marched, indeed, for Shoreby; but ere they were
half way thither, a second messenger met them, and bade them return
to their morning's camp, to bar the road against Lancastrian fugitives,
and to be so much nearer to the main army of York.

For Richard of Gloucester, having finished the battle and stamped out his foes in that district,
was already on the march to rejoin his brother; and not long after
the return of my Lord Foxham's retainers, Crookback himself drew rein
before the abbey door.

It was in honour of this august visitor that the windows shone with lights; and at the hour of Dick's
arrival with his sweetheart and her friend, the whole ducal party was being entertained in
the refectory with the splendour of that powerful and luxurious monastery.

Dick, not quite with his good will, was brought before them.

Gloucester, sick with fatigue, sat leaning upon one hand his white
and terrifying countenance; Lord Foxham, half recovered from his wound,
was in a place of honour on his left.

"How, sir?" asked Richard. "Have ye brought me Sir Daniel's head?" "My lord duke," replied Dick,
stoutly enough, but with a qualm at heart, "I have not even the good
fortune to return with my command.

I have been, so please your grace, well beaten."

Gloucester looked upon him with a formidable frown. "I gave you fifty
lances,{ 3} sir," he said. "My lord duke, I had but fifty men-at-arms,"
replied the young knight.

"How is this?" said Gloucester. "He did ask me fifty lances."

"May it please your grace," replied Catesby, smoothly, "for a pursuit
we gave him but the horsemen."

"It is well," replied Richard, adding, "Shelton, ye may go."

"Stay!" said Lord Foxham. "This young man likewise had a charge from
me.

It may be he hath better sped. Say, Master Shelton, have ye found
the maid?"

"I praise the saints, my lord," said Dick, "she is in this house." "Is
it even so?

Well, then, my lord the duke," resumed Lord Foxham, "with your good
will, to-morrow, before the army march, I do propose a marriage.

This young squire--" "Young knight," interrupted Catesby. "Say ye so, Sir William?" cried Lord Foxham.
"I did myself, and for good service, dub him knight," said Gloucester.

"He hath twice manfully served me.

It is not valour of hands, it is a man's mind of iron, that he lacks. He will not rise, Lord Foxham.'Tis
a fellow that will fight indeed bravely in a mellay, but hath a capon's
heart.

Howbeit, if he is to marry, marry him in the name of Mary, and be
done!"

"Nay, he is a brave lad-- I know it," said Lord Foxham.

"Content ye, then, Sir Richard.

I have compounded this affair with Master Hamley, and to-morrow ye shall wed." Whereupon Dick
judged it prudent to withdraw; but he was not yet clear of the refectory, when a man, but
newly alighted at the gate, came running four stairs at a bound,
and, brushing through the abbey servants, threw himself on one knee
before the duke.

"Victory, my lord," he cried.

And before Dick had got to the chamber set apart for him as Lord Foxham's
guest, the troops in the holm were cheering around their fires; for
upon that same day, not twenty miles away, a second crushing blow
had been dealt to the power of Lancaster.

CHAPTER VII-- DICK'S REVENGE The next morning Dick was afoot before
the sun, and having dressed himself to the best advantage with the
aid of the Lord Foxham's baggage, and got good reports of Joan, he
set forth on foot to walk away his impatience.

For some while he made rounds among the soldiery, who were getting to arms in the wintry twilight
of the dawn and by the red glow of torches; but gradually he strolled further afield, and at length
passed clean beyond the outposts, and walked alone in the frozen
forest, waiting for the sun.

His thoughts were both quiet and happy.

His brief favour with the Duke he could not find it in his heart to mourn; with Joan to wife,
and my Lord Foxham for a faithful patron, he looked most happily upon the future; and in the
past he found but little to regret.

As he thus strolled and pondered, the solemn light of the morning
grew more clear, the east was already coloured by the sun, and a little
scathing wind blew up the frozen snow.

He turned to go home; but even as he turned, his eye lit upon a figure behind, a tree. "Stand!"
he cried. "Who goes?" The figure stepped forth and waved its hand like a dumb person. It was
arrayed like a pilgrim, the hood lowered over the face, but Dick,
in an instant, recognised Sir Daniel.

He strode up to him, drawing his sword; and the knight, putting his hand in his bosom, as if to seize
a hidden weapon, steadfastly awaited his approach. "Well, Dickon," said
Sir Daniel, "how is it to be? Do ye make war upon the fallen?" "I made
no war upon your life," replied the lad; "I was your true friend
until ye sought for mine; but ye have sought for it greedily."

"Nay-- self-defence," replied the knight. "And now, boy, the news of this battle, and the presence
of yon crooked devil here in mine own wood, have broken me beyond all
help. I go to Holywood for sanctuary; thence overseas, with what I
can carry, and to begin life again in Burgundy or France."

"Ye may not go to Holywood," said Dick. "How! May not?" asked the
knight. "Look ye, Sir Daniel, this is my marriage morn," said Dick; "and
yon sun that is to rise will make the brightest day that ever shone
for me.

Your life is forfeit-- doubly forfeit, for my father's death and
your own practices to meward.

But I myself have done amiss; I have brought about men's deaths;
and upon this glad day I will be neither judge nor hangman.

An ye were the devil, I would not lay a hand on you.

An ye were the devil, ye might go where ye will for me. Seek God's forgiveness; mine ye have freely.
But to go on to Holywood is different.

I carry arms for York, and I will suffer no spy within their lines.
Hold it, then, for certain, if ye set one foot before another, I will
uplift my voice and call the nearest post to seize you."

"Ye mock me," said Sir Daniel. "I have no safety out of Holywood."
"I care no more," returned Richard.

"I let you go east, west, or south; north I will not. Holywood is
shut against you. Go, and seek not to return.

For, once ye are gone,
I will warn every post about this army, and there will be so shrewd
a watch upon all pilgrims that, once again, were ye the very devil,
ye would find it ruin to make the essay." "Ye doom me," said Sir
Daniel, gloomily. "I doom you not," returned Richard.

"If
it so please you to set your valour against mine, come on; and though
I fear it be disloyal to my party, I will take the challenge openly
and fully, fight you with mine own single strength, and call for none
to help me.

So shall I avenge my father, with a perfect conscience."

"Ay,"
said Sir Daniel, "y'have a long sword against my dagger." "I rely
upon Heaven only," answered Dick, casting his sword some way behind
him on the snow. "Now, if your ill-fate bids you, come; and, under the
pleasure of the Almighty, I make myself bold to feed your bones to foxes."
"I did but try you, Dickon," returned the knight, with an uneasy semblance
of a laugh. "I would not spill your blood." "Go, then, ere it be
too late," replied Shelton. "In five minutes I will call the post.
I do perceive that I am too long-suffering. Had but our places been reversed,
I should have been bound hand and foot some minutes past." "Well, Dickon,
I will go," replied Sir Daniel. "When we next meet, it shall repent you
that ye were so harsh."

And with
these words, the knight turned and began to move off under the trees.

Dick watched
him with strangely-mingled feelings, as he went, swiftly and warily,
and ever and again turning a wicked eye upon the lad who had spared him,
and whom he still suspected. There was upon one side of where he went
a thicket, strongly matted with green ivy, and, even in its winter
state, impervious to the eye. Herein, all of a sudden, a bow sounded
like a note of music.

An
arrow flew, and with a great, choked cry of agony and anger, the
Knight of Tunstall threw up his hands and fell forward in the snow.

Dick bounded to his side and raised
him. His face desperately worked; his whole body was shaken by contorting
spasms. "Is the arrow black?" he gasped. "It is black," replied Dick,
gravely. And then, before he could add one word, a desperate seizure
of pain shook the wounded man from head to foot, so that his body
leaped in Dick's supporting arms, and with the extremity of that pang
his spirit fled in silence.

The young
man laid him back gently on the snow and prayed for that unprepared
and guilty spirit, and as he prayed the sun came up at a bound, and
the robins began chirping in the ivy.

When he
rose to his feet, he found another man upon his knees but a few steps
behind him, and, still with uncovered head, he waited until that prayer
also should be over. It took long; the man, with his head bowed and
his face covered with his hands, prayed like one in a great disorder
or distress of mind; and by the bow that lay beside him, Dick judged
that he was no other than the archer who had laid Sir Daniel low.

At length he, also, rose, and showed the countenance of
Ellis Duckworth.



For never, never in the world shall it come to pass that Maurits leaves his house with her
at his side while Uncle Theodore stands on the steps and wishes them a pleasant journey.

Is it a possibility to let her go at all, since she has filled the house for three days with
merry chirping, since she in her quiet way has accustomed them to be cared for and petted by
her, since they have all grown used to seeing that soft, supple little creature roving about
everywhere. Uncle Theodore says to himself that it is not possible. He cannot live without her.

Just then he strikes against a dandelion which has gone to seed, and, like men's resolutions
and men's promises, the white ball of down is scattered, its white floss flies out and is dispersed.

The night is not cold as the nights generally are in that part of the country. The warmth is
kept in by the grey cloud blanket. The winds show themselves merciful for once and do not blow.

Uncle Theodore sees her, Downie. She is weeping because Maurits has forsaken her. But he draws
her to him and kisses away her tears.

Soft and fine, the white down falls from the great ripe clusters of the trees,--so light that
the air will scarcely let them fall, so fine and delicate that they hardly show on the ground.

Uncle Theodore laughs to himself when he thinks of Maurits. In thought he goes in to him the
next morning while he is still lying in his bed. "Listen, Maurits," he means to say to him.
"I do not wish to inspire you with false hopes. If you marry this girl, you need not expect
a penny from me. I will not help to ruin your future."

"Do you think so badly of her, uncle?" Maurits will say.

"No, on the contrary; she is a nice girl, but still not the one for you. You shall have a woman
like Elizabeth Westling. Be sensible, Maurits; what will become of you if you break off your
studies and go into trade for that child's sake. You are not suited to it, my boy. Something
more is needed for such work than to be able to lift your hat gracefully from your head and
to say: 'Thank you, my children!' You are cut out and made for a civil official. You can become
minister."

"If you have such a good opinion of me," Maurits will answer, "help me with my examination
and let us afterwards be married!"

"Not at all, not at all. What do you think would become of your career if you had such a weight
as a wife? The horse which drags the bread wagon does not go fast ahead. Think of the girl
from the bakery as a minister's wife! No, you ought not to engage yourself for at least ten
years, not before you have made your place. What would the result be if I helped you to be
married? Every year you would come to me and beg for money. You and I would both weary of that."

"But, uncle, I am a man of honor. I have engaged myself."

"Listen, Maurits! Which is better? For her to go and wait for you for ten years, and then find
that you will not marry her, or for you to break it off now? No, be decided, get up, take the
chaise and go home before she wakes. It will never do at any rate for a betrothed couple to
wander about the country by themselves. I will take care of the girl if you only give up this
madness. My old friend will go home with her. You shall be supported by me so that you do not
need to worry about your future. Now be sensible; you will please your parents by obeying me.
Go now, without seeing her! I will talk to her. She will not stand in the way of your happiness.
Do not try to see her before you leave, then you could grow soft-hearted, for she is sweet."

And at those words Maurits makes an heroic decision and goes his way.

And when he has gone, what will happen then?

"Scoundrel," sounds in the garden, loud and threateningly, as if to a thief. Uncle Theodore
looks about him. Is it no one else? Is it only he calling so at himself?

What will happen afterwards? Oh, he will prepare her for Maurits's departure; show her that
Maurits was not worthy of her; make her despise him. And then when she has cried her heart
out on his breast, he shall so carefully, so skilfully make her understand what he feels, lure
her, win her.

The down still falls. Uncle Theodore stretches out his big hand and catches a bit of it.

So fine, so light, so delicate! He stands and looks at it.

It falls about him, flake after flake. What will become of them? They will be driven by the
wind, soiled by the earth, trampled upon by heavy feet.

He begins to feel as if that light down fell upon him with the heaviest weight. Who will be
the wind; who will be the earth; who will be the shoe when it is a question of such defenceless
little things?

And as a result of his extraordinary knowledge of Nösselt's "Popular Stories," an episode from
one of them occurred to him like what he had just been thinking.

It was an early morning, not falling night as now. It was a rocky shore, and down by the sea
sat a beautiful youth with a panther skin over his shoulder, with vine leaves in his hair,
with thyrsus in his hand. Who was he? Oh, the god Bacchus himself.

And the rocky shore was Naxos. It was the seas of Greece the god saw. The ship with the black
sails swiftly sailing towards the horizon was steered by Theseus and in the grotto, the entrance
of which opened high up in a projection of the steep cliff, slept Ariadne.

During the night the young god had thought: "Is this mortal youth worthy of that divine girl!"
And to test Theseus he had in a dream frightened him with the loss of his life, if he did not
instantly forsake Ariadne. It is interesting to reflect what would be the comment on such a procedure
in London, for example, where the underground railway trains even
must stop running during the hours of morning service.

But Jena is not London, and, as Professor Haeckel says, "In Jena
one is free.

It pleases us to have our Sabbath service in our tabernacle of science."

All questions of time aside, it is a favored body of young men who occupy the benches in the
laboratory during Professor Haeckel's unique Sunday-morning service.

Each student has before him a microscope and a specimen of the particular animal that is the subject
of the morning's lesson.

Let us say that the subject this morning is the crawfish.

Then in addition to the specimens with which the students are provided, and which each will dissect
for himself under the professor's guidance, there are scattered about the room, on the various
tables, all manner of specimens of allied creatures, such as crabs,
lobsters, and the like.

There are dissected specimens also of the crawfish, each preparation showing a different set
of organs, exhibited in preserving fluids.

Then there are charts hung all about the room illustrating on a magnified scale, by diagram
and picture, all phases of the anatomy of the subjects under discussion. The entire atmosphere
of the place this morning smacks of the crawfish and his allies.

The session begins with a brief off-hand discussion of the general characteristics and affinities
of the group of arthropoda, of which the crawfish is a member.

Then, perhaps, the professor calls the students about him and gives a demonstration of the curious
phenomena of hypnotism as applied to the crawfish, through which
a living specimen, when held for a few moments in a constrained attitude,
will pass into a rigid "trance," and remain standing on its head or
in any other grotesque position for an indefinite period, until aroused
by a blow on the table or other shock.

Such are some of the little asides, so to speak, with which the virile
teacher enlivens his subject and gives it broad, human interest.

Now each student turns to his microscope and his individual dissection, and the professor passes
from one investigator to another with comment, suggestion, and criticism; answering questions,
propounding anatomical enigmas for solution-- enlivening, vivifying,
inspiring the entire situation.

As the work proceeds, Professor Haeckel now and again calls the attention of the entire class
to some particular phase of the subject just passing under their
individual observation, and in the most informal of talks, illustrated
on blackboard and chart, clears up any lurking mysteries of the anatomy,
or enlivens the subject with an incursion into physiology, embryology,
or comparative morphology of the parts under observation.

Thus by the close of the session the student has something far more than a mere first-hand knowledge
of the anatomy of the crawfish-- though that in itself were much. He has an insight also into
a half-dozen allied subjects. He has learned to look on the crawfish as a link in a living chain--
a creature with physiological, psychological, ontological affinities that give it a human interest
not hitherto suspected by the novitiate. And when the entire series of Sunday-morning "services"
has been carried through, one order after another of the animal kingdom being similarly made tribute,
the favored student has gone far towards the goal of a truly philosophical
zoology, as different from the old-time dry-bones anatomy as the living
crawfish is different from the dead shell which it casts off in its
annual moulting time. The night is seized with a trembling dread. It is no
longer the little flakes which are falling, but round about him rustle great and small wings.
He hears something flying but does not know whither. 

From Cabinet Order of Kaiser Wilhelm II., Published in Berlin Aug. 23.

The mobilization and concentration of the army is now complete, the
German railways having carried out the enormous transport movements
with unparalleled certainty and punctuality.

With a heart filled with gratitude my first thoughts turn to those who since 1870-71 have worked
quietly upon the development of an organization which has emerged
from its first serious test with such glorious success.

To all who have co-operated with them I wish to express my imperial thanks for their loyal
devotion to duty in making possible in obedience to my call the transportation of armed masses
of German troops against my enemies. The present achievement [near Metz] convinces me that the
railways of the country will be equal to the heaviest demands that might be made upon them
during the course of the gigantic struggle in which we are engaged
for the future of the German Nation.***** THE SPIRIT OF THE MEN.

Kaiser's Telegram from Dresden to the King of Saxony, Oct. 2.

I am very glad to be able to send you the best reports of the Nineteenth
Army Corps and the Twelfth Reserve Corps.

I visited yesterday the Third Army and greeted especially the brave
181st Regiment, to which I expressed my recognition.

I found your third son and your brother Max as well as Laffert and Kirchbach
in the best of health.

The spirit among the men is splendid. With such an army we shall be able to complete victoriously
the rest of our difficult task. To this end may the Almighty stand by us. WILHELM.***** HIS
INDISCRETION WAS "CALCULATED." Interview With Kaiser Wilhelm II., Oct. 28, 1908, and Its Consequences.
An interview between the German Emperor and "a representative Englishman, who long since passed
from public to private life," appeared in The London Telegraph on
Oct. 28, 1908, and was the next day authenticated by the German Foreign
Office in Berlin with the comment that it was "intended as a message
to the English people."

This last expression of the Kaiser toward Great Britain-- until his
declarations on the eve of the present war-- deeply stirred the German
people in protest and resulted in the Kaiser's pledge to Chancellor
von Buelow that henceforth the imperial views would be subject to
the bridle of the Ministry and the Council of the Empire.

Resents a Personal Insult.

How can I convince a nation against its will?

"The Englishman reminded the Kaiser that not only England but the
whole of Europe viewed with disapproval the recent sending of the
German Consul at Algiers to Fez and forestalling France and Spain
by suggesting the recognition of Sultan Mulai Hafid.

The Kaiser made an impatient gesture and exclaimed:" Yes? that is an excellent example of the way German
actions are misrepresented, "and with vivid directness he defended
the aforesaid incident, as the German Government has already done.
Kaiser and the Boer War. Reverting to his efforts to show his friendship
for England, the Kaiser said they had not been confined to words.

It was commonly believed that Germany was hostile to England throughout
the Boer war. Undoubtedly the newspapers were hostile and public opinion
was hostile." But what, "he asked," of official Germany? "Nor was that
all. I did more." Let me add as a curious coincidence that the plan
which I formulated ran very much on the same lines as that actually
adopted by Gen. Roberts and carried by him into successful operation.

Was that the act of one who wished England ill? Let Englishmen be
just and say.

"The German Navy. Touching then upon the English conviction that Germany
is increasing her navy for the purpose of attacking Great Britain,
the Kaiser reiterated the explanation that Chancellor von Bülow and other
Ministers have made familiar, dwelling upon Germany's worldwide commerce,
her manifold interests in distant seas, and the necessity for being
prepared to protect them.

He said:" Patriotic Germans refuse to assign any bounds to their legitimate commercial ambitions.
The Consequences. On Nov. 17 following Prince von Bülow met the Kaiser at Kiel, taking with him evidence
of the feeling in Germany regarding the Emperor's published interview
and setting forth: First, that the Foreign Affairs Committee of the
Bundesrat, or Federal Council, is firm in the opinion formulated at
the meeting held yesterday that it would be wiser for the Emperor
not to express views affecting the relations of the empire with other
countries except through his responsible Ministers. He has taken her hand, kissed her, helped her into the chaise. He has done
it so many times that he believes she is already gone.

He has also wished her happiness. Happiness--Can she be happy with Maurits? She has not looked
happy this morning. Oh yes, certainly she has. She wept with joy.

While he is standing there Maurits suddenly says to Anne-Marie: "What a dunce I am! I am quite
forgetting to speak to Uncle about father's shares."

"I think it would be best if you did not," Downie answers. "Perhaps it is not right."

"Nonsense, Anne-Marie. The shares do not pay anything just now. But who knows if they will
not be better some day? And besides, what does it matter to Uncle? Such a little thing--"

She interrupts with unusual eagerness, almost anxiously. "I beg of you, Maurits, do not do
it. Give in to me this once."

He looks at her, a little offended. "This once!--as if I were a tyrant over you. No, do you
see. I cannot; just for that word I think that I ought not to yield."

"Do not cling to a word, Maurits. This means more than polite phrases. I think it is not well
of you to wish to cheat Uncle now when he has been so good to us."

"Be quiet, Anne-Marie, be quiet! What do you understand of business?" His whole manner is now
irritatingly calm and superior. He looks at her as a schoolmaster looks at a good pupil who
is making a fool of himself at his examination.

"That you do not at all understand what is at stake!" she cries. And she strikes out despairingly
with her hands.

"I really must talk to Uncle now," says Maurits, "if for nothing else, to show him that there
is no question of any deceit. You behave so that Uncle can believe that I and my father are
veritable cheats."

And he comes forward to his uncle and explains to him what these shares which his father wishes
to sell him are. Uncle Theodore listens to him as well as he can. He understands instantly
that his brother has made a bad speculation and wishes to protect himself from loss. But what
of it, what of it? He is accustomed to render to the whole family connection such services.
But he is not thinking of that, but of Downie. He wonders what is the meaning of that look
of resentment she casts upon Maurits. It was not exactly love.

And so in the midst of his despair over the sacrifice he has to make, a faint glimmer of hope
begins to rise up before him. Vailima Letters CHAPTER I IN THE MOUNTAIN, APIA, SAMOA, MONDAY, NOVEMBER
2ND, 1890 MY DEAR COLVIN,-This is a hard and interesting and beautiful
life that we lead now.

For near a fortnight I did not go beyond the verandah; then I found
my rush of work run out, and went down for the night to Apia; put
in Sunday afternoon with our consul,'a nice young man,'dined with
my friend H. J. Moors in the evening, went to church-no less-at the
white and half-white church-I had never been before, and was much
interested; the woman I sat next LOOKED a full-blood native, and it
was in the prettiest and readiest English that she sang the hymns;
back to Moors', where we yarned of the islands, being both wide wanderers,
till bed-time; bed, sleep, breakfast, horse saddled; round to the
mission, to get Mr. Clarke to be my interpreter; over with him to
the King's, whom I have not called on since my return; received by
that mild old gentleman; have some interesting talk with him about
Samoan superstitions and my land-the scene of a great battle in his
(Malietoa Laupepa's) youth-the place which we have cleared the platform
of his fort-the gulley of the stream full of dead bodies-the fight
rolled off up Vaea mountain-side; back with Clarke to the Mission;
had a bit of lunch and consulted over a queer point of missionary
policy just arisen, about our new Town Hall and the balls there-too
long to go into, but a quaint example of the intricate questions which
spring up daily in the missionary path.

Then off up the hill; Jack very fresh, the sun (close on noon) staring
hot, the breeze very strong and pleasant; the ineffable green country
all round-gorgeous little birds (I think they are humming birds, but
they say not) skirmishing in the wayside flowers.

About a
quarter way up I met a native coming down with the trunk of a cocoa
palm across his shoulder; his brown breast glittering with sweat
and oil:'Talofa'-'Talofa, alii-You see that white man?

He speak for you.'' White man he gone up here?'-'Ioe (Yes)'-'Tofa, alii'-'Tofa,
soifua!'I put on Jack up the steep path, till he is all as white
as shaving stick-Brown's euxesis, wish I had some-past Tanugamanono,
a bush village-see into the houses as I pass-they are open sheds scattered
on a green-see the brown folk sitting there, suckling kids, sleeping
on their stiff wooden pillows-then on through the wood path-and here
I find the mysterious white man (poor devil!) with his twenty years'certificate
of good behaviour as a book-keeper, frozen out by the strikes in
the colonies, come up here on a chance, no work to be found, big hotel
bill, no ship to leave in-and come up to beg twenty dollars because
he heard I was a Scotchman, offering to leave his portmanteau in pledge.
Settle this, and on again; and here my house comes in view, and a war
whoop fetches my wife and Henry (or Simele), our Samoan boy, on the
front balcony; and I am home again, and only sorry that I shall have
to go down again to Apia this day week. I could, and would, dwell here
unmoved, but there are things to be attended to. Never say I don't
give you details and news. That is a picture of a letter. I have been
hard at work since I came; three chapters of THE WRECKER, and since
that, eight of the South Sea book, and, along and about and in between,
a hatful of verses. Some day I'll send the verse to you, and you'll
say if any of it is any good. His heart flies wide
open to receive her as she now screams and runs into his arms, runs there without hesitation
or consideration, quite as if there were no other place on earth to which to run.

"Uncle, he will strike me!"

And she presses close, close to him.

But Maurits is now calm again. "Forgive my impetuosity, Anne-Marie," he says. "It hurt me to
hear you speak in such a childish way in Uncle's presence. But Uncle must also understand that
you are only a child. Still I grant that not even the most just wrath gives a man the right
to strike a woman. Come here now and kiss me. You need not seek protection from me with anybody."

She does not move, does not turn, only clings more closely.

"Downie, shall I let him take you?" whispers Uncle Theodore.

She answers only with a shudder, which quivers through him also.

Uncle Theodore feels so strong, so inspired. He, too, no longer sees his perfect nephew as
before in the bright light of his perfection. He dares to jest with him.

"Maurits," he says, "you surprise me. Love makes you weak. Can you so promptly forgive her
having called you a scoundrel? Thus it is that substances which attack one another eagerly at
ordinary temperatures will lie side by side, utterly inert, at the
temperature of liquid air.

Under
certain conditions, however, most interesting chemical experiments have been made in which the
liquefied gases, particularly oxygen, are utilized.

Thus Olzewski found that a bit of wood lighted and thrust into liquid oxygen burns as it would
in gaseous oxygen, and a red-hot iron wire thrust into the liquid
burns and spreads sparks of iron.

But more novel still was Dewar's experiment of inserting a small
jet of ignited hydrogen into the vessel of liquid oxygen; for the
jet continued to burn, forming water, of course, which was carried
away as snow.

The idea of a gas-jet burning within a liquid, and having snow for smoke, is not the least anomalous
of the many strange conceptions that the low-temperature work has
made familiar.

PRACTICAL RESULTS AND ANTICIPATIONS Such are some of the strictly
scientific results of the low-temperature work.

But there are other results of a more directly practical kind-- neither more important nor more interesting
on that account, to be sure, but more directly appealing to the generality
of the non-scientific public. Of these applications, the most patent
and the first to be made available was the one forecast by Davy from
the very first-- namely, the use of liquefied gases in the refrigeration
of foods.

Long before the more resistant gases had been liquefied, the more manageable ones, such as ammonia
and sulphurous acid, had been utilized on a commercial scale for refrigerating
purposes.

To-day every brewery and every large cold-storage warehouse is supplied with such a refrigerator plant,
the temperature being thus regulated as is not otherwise practicable. Many large halls are cooled
in a similar manner, and thus made comfortable in the summer. Ships
carrying perishables have the safety of their cargoes insured by a refrigerator
plant.

In all large cities there are ice manufactories using the same method, and
of late even relatively small establishments, hotels, and apartment
houses have their ice-machine.

It seems probable that before long all such buildings and many private
dwellings will be provided with a cooling apparatus as regularly
as they are now equipped with a heating apparatus.

The exact details of the various refrigerator machines of course vary, but all of them utilize the principles
that the laboratory workers first established.

Indeed, the entire refrigerator industry, now assuming significant proportions, may be said to be
a direct outgrowth of that technical work which Davy and Faraday
inaugurated and prosecuted at the Royal Institution-- a result which
would have been most gratifying to the founder of the institution
could he have forecast it.

The usual means of distributing the cooling fluids in the commercial plants
is by the familiar iron pipes, not dissimilar in appearance (when
not in operation) to the familiar gas, water, and steam pipes.

When operating, however, the pipes themselves are soon hidden from
view by the thick coating of frost which forms over them. In a moist
beer-cellar this coating is often several inches in thickness, giving
a very characteristic and unmistakable appearance. Another commercial
use to which refrigerator machines are now put is in the manufacture
of various drugs, where absolute purity is desirable.

As different substances congeal at different temperatures, but the same
substances at uniform pressure always at the same temperature, a means
is afforded of freeing a drug from impurities by freezing, where
sometimes the same result cannot be accomplished with like thoroughness
by any other practicable means.

Indeed, by this means impurities have been detected where not previously suspected. And Professor
Ramsay has detected some new elementary substances even, as constituents
of the air, which had previously not been dissociated from the nitrogen
with which they are usually mixed.

Such applications of the refrigerator principles as these, however, though
of vast commercial importance, are held by many enthusiasts to be
but a bagatelle compared with other uses to which liquefied gases
may some time be put.

Their expectations are based upon the enormous potentialities that are demonstrably stored
in even a tiny portion of, say, liquefied air. These are, indeed,
truly appalling.
From the soft, green leaves it sawed out a neat little oval with its sharp jaws, rolled it
together as one rolls up a real carpet, and with the precious burden pressed to it, it fluttered
away to the park and lighted on an old tree stump. There it burrowed down through dark passage-ways
and mysterious galleries, until at last it reached the bottom of a perpendicular shaft. In
its unknown depths, where neither ant nor centipede ever had ventured, it spread out the green
leaf roll and covered the uneven floor with the most beautiful carpet. And when the floor was
covered, the bee came back for new leaves to cover the walls of the shaft, and worked so quickly
and eagerly, that there was soon not a leaf in the rose hedge that did not have an oval hole
which bore testimony that it had been forced to assist in the adorning of the old tree-stump.

One fine day the little bee changed its occupation. It bored deep in among the ragged petals
of the full-blown roses, sucked and drank all it could in those beautiful larders, and when
it had got its fill, it flew quickly away to the old stump to fill the freshly-papered chambers
with brightest honey. 

Here, fondly supposing my long day was over, I rubbed down; exquisite agony; water spreads the
poison of these weeds; I got it all over my hands, on my chest, in my eyes, and presently, while
eating an orange, A LA Raratonga, burned my lip and eye with orange juice. Now, all day, our
three small pigs had been adrift, to the mortal peril of our corn, lettuce, onions, etc., and
as I stood smarting on the back verandah, behold the three piglings issuing from the wood just
opposite. Instantly I got together as many boys as I could-three, and got the pigs penned against the
rampart of the sty, till the others joined; whereupon we formed a cordon, closed, captured the
deserters, and dropped them, squeaking amain, into their strengthened barracks
where, please God, they may now stay!

Perhaps you may suppose the day now over; you are not the head of a plantation, my juvenile friend.
Politics succeeded: Henry got adrift in his English, Bene was too cowardly to tell me what he was after:
result, I have lost seven good labourers, and had to sit down and write to you to keep my temper.
Let me sketch my lads.-Henry-Henry has gone down to town or I could
not be writing to you-this were the hour of his English lesson else, when
he learns what he calls'long expessions'or'your chief's language'for
the matter of an hour and a half-Henry is a chiefling from Savaii; I
once loathed, I now like and-pending fresh discoveries-have a kind of respect
for Henry.

He does good work for us; goes among the labourers, bossing and watching; helps Fanny; is
civil, kindly, thoughtful; O SI SIC SEMPER! But will he be'his sometime
self throughout the year'? But during the whirling the threads that held it
fast twisted ever more tightly, till the tension became so great that they broke, and the bee
fell to the ground. Yes, that was what the spider had wished, of course.

And that performance could they repeat, those two, day after day as long as the bee had work
in the rose-bushes. Never could the little bee learn to look out for the spider-web, and never
did the spider show anger or impatience. I liked them both; the little, eager, furry worker,
as well as the big, crafty, old hunter.

Very few great events happened in the garden of the climbing roses. Between the espaliers one
could see the little lake lying and twinkling in the sunlight. And it was a lake which was
too little and too shut in to be able to heave in real waves, but at every little ripple on
the gray surface thousands of small sparkles that glistened and played on the waves flew up;
it seemed as if its depths had been full of fire that could not get out. The same complete candor
of expression has marked every stage of the unfolding of Professor Haeckel's philosophical pronouncements.
This fact is the more remarkable because Professor Haeckel is, so
far as I am aware, the only scientist of our generation who has felt
at liberty to announce, absolutely without reserve, the full conclusions
to which his philosophy has carried him, when these conclusions ran
counter to the prevalent prejudices of his time.

Some one has said that the German universities are oases of freedom. The remark is absolutely
true of Jena. It is not true, I believe, in anything like the same degree of any other German
university, or of any other university in the world.

One thing before others that has endeared Jena to Haeckel, and kept him there in the face of
repeated flattering calls to other universities, is that full liberty of spirit has been accorded
him there, as he knew it would not be accorded elsewhere. "When a man comes into the atmosphere
of Jena," says Professor Haeckel, "he perforce begins to think-- there is no escape from it. And
he is free to let his thoughts carry him whithersoever they honestly may. My beliefs," he added,
"are substantially the beliefs of my colleagues in science everywhere,
as I know from private conversations; but they, unlike myself, are
not free to speak the full truth as they see it.

I myself would not be tolerated elsewhere, as I am well aware. Had I desired to remain in Berlin,
for example, I must have kept silent. But here in Jena one is free."

And he smiles benignly as he says it. The controversies through which he has passed and the calumnies of
which he has been the target have left no scars upon this broad,
calm spirit.

HAECKEL AS MAN AND TEACHER It is indeed a delightful experience to
meet Professor Haeckel in the midst of his charming oasis of freedom,
his beloved Jena.

To reach his laboratory you walk down a narrow lane, past Schiller's house, and the garden where
Schiller and Goethe used to sit and where now the new observatory
stands.

Haeckel's laboratory itself is a simple oblong building of yellowish brick, standing on a jutting
point of land high above the street-level.

And my bee, my own little, industrious bee, bad flown about with such a yellow hanger-on in
its down. As the radium is brought closer and closer these sparks increase in number, until, as
Sir William Crookes says, we seem to be witnessing a bombardment of flying atoms hurled from
the radium against the surface of the blende.

When the little bee came again, its humming was like a hymn to life.

"Oh, thou beauteous life," it said. She never played the wild and noisy plays of common children,
but busied herself in making altars and shrines, which she adorned
with the prettiest flowers of the gardens, and at which she worked
hour after hour in the quietest and happiest earnestness. Oh, thou beauteous life, thou glorious existence!"

