There are people who can do all fine and heroic things but one! keep
from telling their happinesses to the unhappy.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

After visits to Maryborough and some other Australian towns, we presently took passage for
New Zealand.  If it would not look too much like showing off, I would tell the reader where
New Zealand is; for he is as I was; he thinks he knows.  And he thinks he knows where Hertzegovina
is; and how to pronounce pariah; and how to use the word unique without exposing himself to
the derision of the dictionary.  But in truth, he knows none of these things.  There are but
four or five people in the world who possess this knowledge, and these make their living out
of it.  They travel from place to place, visiting literary assemblages, geographical societies,
and seats of learning, and springing sudden bets that these people do not know these things.
Since all people think they know them, they are an easy prey to these adventurers.  Or rather
they were an easy prey until the law interfered, three months ago, and a New York court decided
that this kind of gambling is illegal, "because it traverses Article IV, Section 9, of the
Constitution of the United States, which forbids betting on a sure thing."  This decision was
rendered by the full Bench of the New York Supreme Court, after a test sprung upon the court
by counsel for the prosecution, which showed that none of the nine Judges was able to answer
any of the four questions.

All people think that New Zealand is close to Australia or Asia, or somewhere, and that you
cross to it on a bridge.  But that is not so.  It is not close to anything, but lies by itself,
out in the water.  It is nearest to Australia, but still not near. Mr. Roth was known Green Even
as a lengthy haters, who remembered even with the latest Examinibus those who had displeased him
once. Asmus and several others were secretly against this procedure. This was "unmanly. You should
send a delegation to Mr. Roth green and about his Teaching complain.

"Yes, you want to do that?" Cried some scorn.

"I'm going with," said Asmus.

But the others did not, and since Asmus said: "But will I do not.

"

"Semper wants to play like a child," scoffed one.

"You're an ass," said Asmus. "I will not trample. But I do wear with
the consequences.

"

III. Chapter.

As the eyes of Asmus centuries of history and how the things of the
living The world saw, and how he had a question to this eye doctor.

The next history lesson appeared, and Mr. Roth Green began: "Tiglath Pileser"?

"740," said the host, and then a tramp went through the class, which,
like rumbling Thunder sounded.

Mr. Roth was green, white.

"What's that?" He said.

No answer.

"What's that?"

Stony silence.

     "It will surely have a courage
     to stand up and say what you mean?" Shouted
     the teacher.
     
     No one moved.

"Well, all I had no alternative but to report to Director grain that through an inexplicable
noise have been disturbed in the classroom. "

But Mr. Roth Green reported to the Director no message, for he knew that the one very direct
conclusion would lead to his teaching. The director stood by the principle: "Teach only good,
then the respect of students comes by itself" Also, said Mr. Red green the "unexplained noise"
very quickly and correctly, and he immediately began to tell; This time he told of course still
deficient, because he uses the substance only in some reminiscences dominated, but the next
hour to excellent, because if he wanted to, he's able Perhaps best of all teachers of the institution.

History
hear or read history, which gave Asmus always special joys. Not that he believed in the story
could have been, - he believed the secular history any more than the Bible. From his "Faust"-reading,
he knew very well:

"The times of the past We are a closed book. What do the spirit of the times is, This is basically
the 'spirit, In it the times reflected. "

and he agreed wholeheartedly. To really know, you had to by all the princes, Generals and priests,
had to know in particular on the amount of people, what they in their
actions, thought, felt, intended and wanted, and it could be heard
as well nothing. Scarcely once by a lucky chance a ray of light in
this ever sunk World was like a ray of sunshine in a chamber of a
buried city. And people history were to him as the formation of a
crude woodcut, the human Form can hardly recognize subtle intimations.
That we learn something from history could he not believe it. But
for a long time concerning the history shaped him into huge Wonderful
images of violence, and he sank into these images with open eyes and
hark final soul when he heard and read. He looked a century, since
silent monks in silent Cell and sat by Virgil or Cassiodorus views
collected through the window fully faithful Hope looked across vast,
unsettled German country, however, another, the cross in the hand,
walked through unexplored forests and serene clearing a church or
A chapel built. He looked a century full of incense and vestments,
as royal Fathers before atoning unnatural sons knelt and long list
of sins, the priest singing Tones read known, and the entire ninth
century it was the "lies" field. Then there was a long time, whose
presence in the colorful glow of the East, looked up and flashing
Dark knight and monks, men and women, old men and children in age-long
trains migrate to the eternal saw traces of the Nazarene.  Lawson was a perfect encyclopedia of abstruse learning;
but now in this hour of our need, it turned out that he did not know any useful thing.

"We consulted.  He saw that the reputation of the University was in very real peril, and he
walked the floor in anxiety, talking, and trying to think out some way to meet the difficulty.
Presently he decided that we must try the rest of the Faculty--some of them might know about
New Zealand.  So we went to the telephone and called up the professor of astronomy and asked
him, and he said that all he knew was, that it was close to Australia, or Asia, or somewhere,
and you went over to it on----

"We shut him off and called up the professor of biology, and he said that all he knew was that
it was close to Aus----.

"We shut him off, and sat down, worried and disheartened, to see if we could think up some
other scheme.  We shortly hit upon one which promised well, and this one we adopted, and set
its machinery going at once.  It was this.  Lawson must give the dinner.  The Faculty must
be notified by telephone to prepare. And then I have in my College as my friends
found that I could separate myself from them reluctantly - "

"Well, when do non-Se - cried grain at half upset," for Se to see how you feel tolerated with the
Drögemüller.

Mit'm Kopp through the wall can not, and must be jefallen we all
want some.

So do I. Adieu! "

"Goodbye, Mr. School Board. Thank you! "

Asmus left the building of regional education authority with the happy feeling that there are
men who all hierarchical rank order does not apply where there was a question of law and equity.
He was firmly convinced that the world was ever set up in such a
way and that, if one not only the injustice, calm on last had to find
the place where the right in emerald Shell was dug and kept as the
sacred blood of the world.

He looked with faith and Fair in the beautiful spring day, while
was at home on his table and the fate waited for him to beat the nails
into the flesh.

XLIV. Chapter.

Two letters, and every blow.

     He had his parents
     said nothing about
     the subpoena before the Board of Education, in order not to worry;
He also told them nothing of the exits, because his mother would still
remarks about have made his "hothead." Just because she was so hot-headed,
they condemned all hot-headedness.

»In auf'm table are two letters
for you," said Mrs. Rebecca.

He hastily went inside, opened the one
of the letters and read:

Hilde Chavonne Herman Kiefer Fiancée.  Yes,
it is fair to claim that.  In fact, erudition is a pale name for it.  New Zealand was the only
subject; and it was just beautiful to hear us ripple it out.  And with such an air of unembarrassed
ease, and unostentatious familiarity with detail, and trained and seasoned mastery of the subject-and
oh, the grace and fluency of it!

"Well, finally somebody happened to notice that the guest was looking dazed, and wasn't saying
anything.  So they stirred him up, of course. Then that man came out with a good, honest, eloquent
compliment that made the Faculty blush.  He said he was not worthy to sit in the company of
men like these; that he had been silent from admiration; that he had been silent from another
cause also--silent from shame--silent from ignorance! It was the
first Jew, came in with Asmus more personal touch, and this meeting was him so interesting
and gratifying that he invited the new friends to visit him. Rosenberg came, Asmus said the visit,
and the most lively manner arose now a relation of friendship should exceed almost all former friendships
in Asmussen's durability.

When Rosenberg was the first time at the young woman and Semper Semper only fleetingly had seen,
as he had, as he later admitted, in quiet thought: He could so young should not marry. At the second
visit, he learned to think differently and still saw the young Woman
at all.

And all had good reasons.

When Rosenberg got his second visit, it was another May Day, the day before Pentecost, and finished
in gray dawn of that day had Hilde awakened her husband and asked him that he fetch the midwife.
And then came a day, for Asmus probably not much easier than for Hilden. He moved restlessly
in his room and down and in the afternoon he was so far it loud Add to speak to himself: "I would
rather have a child - if they suffer not only . Needs "a terrible storm broke out, just above
the house there was an incessant Flames and crashing, and every blow struck him, because he thought,
as they are frightened needed. He had offered her to be with her, but she wanted to be alone
with the nurse. And only by 7 clock of the evening he heard the cries of a child; Isolde Semper
was born come.

When the nurse of the young mother was the child, she cried: "Oh, that's Mother Rebecca, "and sank
back into the pillows.

On tiptoe Asmus had come in, he leaned over and kissed her softly, softly on the forehead. She
opened her eyes, large, moist eyes and whispered, "You poor man, now I can not take care of you.
"

"You foolish angel," he whispered, "Do you want the same silence and sleep?" And kissed her your
eyes. But she opened them again and looked at him with a look of superhuman Happiness. Then she
gently lifted the blanket from the child that lay in her arms.

"Does not she look just like mother Semper," she whispered. He nodded "yes", although nothing
looked like, not he thought of the child: he thought only of her. The wise woman assured him
that everything went well, as he slipped out, took his hat and went into the street. He had
to see heaven on himself.

When he returned home after half an hour, Rosenberg had been there. The young mother had someone
had come to hear, heard who it was, and told the nurse: "Please provide ensure that the Lord
will get a refreshment. And Rosenberg was told by the nurse that the Semper young woman had become
less than an hour before her mother and that even the trunk for I
told him. Because he thought. "This must be a rare woman," He never
forgot her this Trunk, and it was at a next visit when they hosted
it themselves, he thought, "He not too soon married. "

In the following
months and guards came Asmussen his education by the tobacco room
where he studied under incessant calls and sounds the most subtle
things, had excellent good stead. The voice was audible Isolde and
persistent. She did services against which the game appears as an
episode of Wagner's Isolde. But that did not bother him.

Another scheme was to drive the natives into a corner of the island and fence them in by a
cordon of men placed in line across the country; but the natives managed to slip through, constantly,
and continue their murders and arsons.

The governor warned these unlettered savages by printed proclamation that they must stay in
the desolate region officially appointed for them!  The proclamation was a dead letter; the
savages could not read it.  Afterward a picture-proclamation was issued.  It was painted up
on boards, and these were nailed to trees in the forest.  Herewith is a photographic reproduction
of this fashion-plate.  Substantially it means:

1.  The Governor wishes the Whites and the Blacks to love each other;

2.  He loves his black subjects;

3.  Blacks who kill Whites will be hanged;

4.  Whites who kill Blacks will be hanged.

Upon its several schemes the Government spent L30,000 and employed the labors and ingenuities
of several thousand Whites for a long time with failure as a result.  Then, at last, a quarter
of a century after the beginning of the troubles between the two races, the right man was found.
No, he found himself.  This was George Augustus Robinson, called in history "The Conciliator."
He was not educated, and not conspicuous in any way.  He was a working bricklayer, in Hobart
Town.  But he must have been an amazing personality; a man worth traveling far to see.  It
may be his counterpart appears in history, but I do not know where to look for it. "My wife is hoping that by nachbleibt
what the ice - namely, it nibbles, but we are responsible for their health; It may not remain.
"

Then the gentle woman threatened her husband smiling with his finger
and pushed the ice cream cake Asmussen with a gleam in their eyes
as they care for the young seminarians in their desired child.

How different it was going "to City Council for". As Asmus was right
the first time in addition to a to sit pompous lady, her name was
"woman" Senator, and he was sort of their table sir.  On its
face it was the dream of a madman.

