"The skin divided into shields by well-marked folds, lumbar and neck-folds well developed;
horn single, anterior; part of occipital bone near the occipital condyle and the condyles themselves
prominent."--Gray.

There are two species in India, viz. Rhinoceros Indicus and R. Sondaicus, the latter being
the Javan species.

For the following description of the former I have to thank Mr. J. Cockburn, who, with most
unselfish kindness, kept back the article he was about to publish, and gave it to me to incorporate
in this work. The first premolar in both Indicus and Sondaicus is a deciduous tooth, which
is not usually replaced, and gradually drops out with age, but it may be retained till extreme
old age. In the majority of cases it is either lost or worn down before the last molar is in
wear. The incisors also vary greatly in the adult animal; they are 1--1/2--2, the outer pair
below being the formidable dagger-shaped tushes, with which they inflict the terrible gashes
they can produce. The median pair lower are usually lost or absorbed by advancing age, having
no functions, and the incisive tusks themselves are subject to very rapid wear, being often
worn down before the animal has reached middle age. Occasionally R. Indicus has six incisors
in the lower jaw (the normal number in other mammalia), and four in the upper, but this is
very exceptional."--J. Cockburn, MS.

[Footnote 30: There are some interesting notes on the dentition of the rhinoceros, especially
in abnormal conditions, by Mr. Lydekker in the 'J. A. S. B.' for 1880, vol. xlix., part ii.]

NO. 429. RHINOCEROS INDICUS. (Jerdon's No. 212).

NATIVE NAMES.--Genda, Gonda, Ganda, or Genra, Hindi; Gor, Assamese.

HABITAT.--Himalayan Terai, from Central Nepal to the extreme eastern corner of the valley of Assam.

"About three centuries ago this animal existed on the banks of the Indus. The Indian rhinoceros
inhabits by preference heavy grass jungle, rarely entering forest. In this respect it differs
from its ally Sondaicus, which is a forest-loving species, and even frequents mountainous countries.
It is still numerous in the mighty grass jungles which extend along the foot of the Eastern
Himalayas from their slopes to the banks of the Brahmaputra. It is yearly becoming more scarce
in the Nepal Terai, but is found there from Rohilkund to the Bhootan Doars."

DESCRIPTION.--The accompanying outline sketch, taken from Nature for April 1874, will give
a better idea of the animal than a mere verbal description:--

"For convenience of description I will divide the body into five segments--the head, the cervical,
the scapular, the abdominal, and the gluteal. At the junction of the head with the neck is
a large deep collar or ruff or fold of skin, which gives a very peculiar appearance to the
animal. Behind this is a second similar but smaller ruff, which does not hang so low down from
the throat as the first. On the dorsal surface it transversely crosses the nape. It is then
continued down angularly to about the centre of the anterior edge of the scapular shield, where
it forms an obtuse angle with its posterior but major half. It is at the point where it forms
this angle that it gives off what I call the cervical fold, which forms the boundary of the
top front edge of the scapular shield, but is lost at a point in the shoulder nearly over the
centre of the fore limb.

"The scapular shield is a thick cuirass-like plate of skin, studded with round projections
about the size of a shilling, and bearing much resemblance to the heads of bolts by which the
shield was riveted to the body, and hence called 'boiler-bolt tubercules.' This shield is often
removed from the carcase of a slain rhinoceros as a trophy, 'and it is in its centre, but slightly
low, that the fatal spot lies which will take him in the heart' (Pollock).

"Between the scapular and the gluteal shields lies the abdominal segment. It calls for no particular
description, except that the tubercles here are very much flatter and smaller than on either
segments three and four. They are here about the size of a four-anna piece, and they seem to
be crowded along the centre line of the body, while the dorsal surface is nearly free from
them, and smooth.

"We next come to the gluteal segment. It is in this portion that the boiler-bolt tubercles
attain their greatest development, some of them being perhaps three-tenths of an inch high.

"The gluteal segment is laterally crossed by three ridges of skin. The first, which is the
only one indicated in the drawing, goes right across the buttock. In some animals there is
an indication of a second below this, and about fourteen inches lower down a third, which only
goes about a quarter of the way across. The tail is almost concealed in a deep groove, in which
lie the perineum, &c. Both the front and hind limb from the point at which they project from
the body are finely covered with reticulated skin, forming pentagonal and hexagonal scales,
very much as in R. Sondaicus, only much finer and less prominent.

"The Indian rhinoceros has the same habit as the African species of depositing its droppings
in one spot till they form huge mounds, which the animal levels with its horns. It is probable
that this rhinoceros was found throughout the plains of the N.W. Provinces in unreclaimed spots
as late as the fifth or sixth century. According to the observation of Dr. Andrew Smith in
South Africa these huge pachyderms do not absolutely require for their support the dense tropical
vegetation we should think necessary to supply food to such huge beasts. This gentleman saw
over fifty of them in one day in an open country covered with short grass and thorn-bushes
about four feet high. From the affinities of the fauna of the N.W. Provinces, which are strongly
African, it is probable that the plains of the N.W. Provinces were rather covered with scrubby
open jungles and grass than with tropical primeval forests.

"Here and there belts of Dhak (Butea frondosa) were found, and in favoured spots doubtless
other tree jungle, but it is improbable that primeval forest has existed since the depression
of the Indo-Gangetic plain."--J. Cockburn, MS.

The rhinoceros is supposed to be a very long-lived animal. Dr. Gray ('P. Z. S.' 1867. p. 1011)
states on the authority of Mr. Blyth that a pair lived in the Barrackpore Park for forty-five
years. They were exactly alike in size and general appearance; they never bred. There is no
difference in the horns or form of the skull in the two sexes (Blyth, 'J. A. S. B.' vol. xxxi.
p. 155).

NO. 430. RHINOCEROS SONDAICUS. The Javan Rhinoceros (Jerdon's No. 213).

NATIVE NAMES.--The same as last in Hindi; Khyen-hsen, Burmese; Warak, Javanese; Badak, Malayan.

HABITAT.--"The Bengal Sunderbunds, Tipperah, the swamps at the base of the Garo, Khasia, and
Naga Hills" (Pollock). "Munipurf, extending into the western provinces of China, southward
into Burmah, the Malayan peninsula; Sumatra, Java, and Borneo" (J. Cockburn, MS.).

DESCRIPTION.--"Folds somewhat on the same plan as in Indicus, one marked distinction being
that the lateral shoulder fold is continued upward over the back of the neck to  form an independent
saddle-shaped shield on the nape. The whole body covered with pentagonal or hexagonal warty
insulae. Females hornless" (J. Cockburn, MS.). Males with one horn.

SIZE.--Mr. Cockburn gives the following measurements of a female, which he states is the largest
recorded specimen: "Length of body (head and body?), 12 feet 3 inches; tail, 2 feet 4-1/2 inches;
height, 5 feet 6 inches." Dr. Jerdon gives: "Length 7 to 8 feet; height, 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 feet;"
and he calls the animal "the lesser Indian rhinoceros," whereas Mr. Cockburn's measurement
gives an animal somewhat longer, though not so high as the largest recorded specimen of Indicus.
Blyth again writes ('Mammals of Burmah,' see 'J. A. S. B.' vol. xliv. part ii. 4. The fuss would
be of the universe throughout many dike locate along or near the fault. Should heed as a disturbance,
severe mr shake and liquefaction is taken to do harm by circum-carrel arena is densely as severe
limbs as that resulting from a 1906-description on the San Andreas
act.

Los Angeles/ Newport-Inglewood Fault (Belongings 7.5) the temblor
should be a hazardousness to the nearby, approximately-brood areas
of Los Angeles.



"The skin divided into shields by deep folds; the lumbar fold rudimentary, short, only occupying
the middle of the space between the groin and the back; horns two, the front longer, curved
backward, the hinder small; conical skull; forehead narrow, flat; the upper part of the nose
on each side of the horns narrow, rounded, sub-cylindrical; the occipital region erect, the
part near the condyles rather concave; the occipital condyle short, broad, oblong, placed obliquely
inferior, scarcely prominent; lachrymal bone very large, irregular shaped."--Dr. Gray, 'P.
Z. S.' 1867, p. 1021.

HABITAT.--Arakan, Tenasserim provinces; one was caught near Chittagong in 1868.

DESCRIPTION.--A thinner hide than with the preceding, and not tuberculated; the folds also
are fewer in number; there is one great groove behind the shoulder-blades, and a less conspicuous
one on the flank, and some slight folds about the neck and top of the limbs; the horns are
two in number, the posterior one being the centre of the nose behind the anterior one, and
almost over the anterior corner of the eye; the body (of a young specimen) is covered with
long, fine, reddish hair, and the posterior margins of the ears have very long fringes of the
same; the tail is short and hairy.

A young specimen of this animal (of which there is an excellent coloured plate in 'P. Z. S.'
1872, p. 494) was captured in 1868 in Chittagong. She had got into a quicksand, and had exhausted
herself by floundering about. The natives contrived to attach two ropes to her neck, and, hauling
her out, managed to make her fast to a tree. Next morning they found her so refreshed and vigorous
that they were afraid to do anything more to her, and so sent messengers to the magistrate
of Chittagong to report the capture. The same evening Captain Hood and Mr. Wickes started with
eight elephants to secure the prize, and after a march of sixteen hours to the south of Chittagong,
they came up to the animal. The elephants at first sight bolted, but were brought back by considerable
exertion, and the rhinoceros was made fast to one by a rope. The poor creature roared with
fright, and a second stampede ensued, in which luckily the rope slipped off the leg of the
rhinoceros to which it was attached. Ultimately she was secured between two elephants and marched
into Chittagong, where she soon got very tame. Eventually she was sent to England, and was
purchased by the Zoological Society for 1250 pounds--a very handsome price, owing doubtless
to the rarity of the specimen.

NO. 432. RHINOCEROS vel CERATORHINUS SUMATRENSIS. The Sumatran Rhinoceros.

NATIVE NAMES.--Kyen-shan, Burmese; Bodok, Malayan.

HABITAT.--Tenasserim provinces; Burmah, extending into Siam; the Malayan peninsula and Sumatra.

DESCRIPTION.--A smaller animal than the preceding, with a hard, black, rough, bristly skin;
a deep fold behind the shoulder; ears set closer than in the last species, and filled with
black hair internally; the muzzle in front of the first horn is broader; the horns are two
in number, and attain a good size, curving, but slightly, backward; the tail is conspicuously
longer than in R. lasiotis, and is tapering and not tufted. There is a well drawn and coloured
plate of this species in the 'Proceedings of the Zoological Society' for 1872, p. 794, as also
several engravings showing the heads of the two animals in juxtaposition.

SIZE.--About 3 feet 8 inches in height at the shoulder.

At first it was considered that R. lasiotis was of this species, and as such it was described
and sent to England; but on the subsequent arrival of a genuine R. Sumatrensis from Malacca
it was apparent that R. lasiotis was quite distinct. The latter is of larger size, lighter
colour, with wide-set ears and a tufted tail. The former is smaller, darker, with narrow-set
ears and a long tapering semi-nude tail.[31] The Society paid Mr. Jamrach 600 pounds in 1872
for the female specimen from Malacca, which settled the question of separate species. A young
R. Sumatrensis was born in the Victoria Docks in London on December 7th, 1872, on board the
steamship Orchis. There is a coloured sketch of the little one in the 'P. Z. S.' for 1873,
and an interesting account of it and the mother by Mr. Bartlett, the Superintendent of the
Society's Gardens. From the circumstances of the capture of the mother it appears that the
period of gestation of the rhinoceros is about the same as that of the hippopotamus, viz. seven
months.

[Footnote 31: There is a very interesting letter in The Asian for July 20, 1880, p. 109, from
Mr. J. Cockburn, about R. Sumatrensis, of which he considers R. lasiotis merely a variety.
He says it has been shot in Cachar.--R. A. S.]

Although the number of species of living rhinoceros is but few, there are a great many fossil
species which show that the animal was more plentiful and in greater variety in prehistoric times.

Remains of the woolly rhinoceros (R. trichorhinus) have been found, like those of the mammoth,
imbedded in ice; it was about eleven and a-half feet in length, and its body was covered with
woolly hair. A specimen found in 1771 or 1772 was entire, and clothed with skin, but so far
decomposed as to prevent more than the head and feet being preserved; remains of other fossil
species are found throughout Europe, including Great Britain, and also in India. In 'A Sketch
of the History of the Fossil Vertebrata of India' by Mr. R. Lydekker, published in the 'Journal
of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,' vol. xlix., 1880, will be found the names of eight species
of fossil rhinoceros, inclusive of R. Indicus, which is found in recent alluvia--it is found
with two others in the Pleistocene formation, and five others are from the Pleiomiocene.

SUB-ORDER ARTIODACTYLA.

We now come to the second division, and a very large one, of the UNGULATA, which in itself
is again subdivided into non-ruminants and ruminants. The former comprises the pigs of the
Old and the peccaries of the New World and the hippopotami; the latter contains the camels,
llamas, deerlets, oxen, antelope, and deer. In the Artiodactyla the toes are even on all feet,
being normally four (perfect and rudimentary) with the exception of the camel, giraffe and
a few antelope, in which two only are present. To understand the subject thoroughly one must
compare the fore-foot of a deer or pig with our own hand; what we call the knee of the former
is merely our wrist. The bones which run through the palm of the hand to the knuckles are the
metacarpals; they are five in number, corresponding with the thumb and four fingers. In the
Artiodactyla--or, I should say, in the Ungulata generally--the thumb is entirely wanting; in
the Artiodactyla the fore and little fingers are shorter, rudimentary, or entirely wanting,
and the two centre metacarpals, the middle and ring fingers are prolonged into what we call
the leg below the knee in these animals, which consist of separate or fused bones terminated
by the usual three joints of the finger, on the last of which is placed the hoof.

The two halves are always symmetrical, and from this we may affirm that it is the thumb and
not the little finger which is absent, for we know that, counting from the knuckles, our fingers
have three joints, whereas the thumb has only two; so in the digits of the Artiodactyla are
three joints at the end of each metacarpal. In the pig the metacarpals of the fore and little
fingers are produced from the carpus or wrist, or, as is popularly termed in the case of these
animals, the knee. They are more attenuated in the chevrotians or deerlets, of which our Indian
mouse-deer is an example; in the Cervidae they are more rudimentary, detached from the carpus,
and are suspended free and low down, forming the little hoof-points behind; and a little above
the proper hoofs in these the two large metacarpals are more or less joined or fused into one
bone, and they are still more so in the camel, in which the fore and little finger bones are
entirely absent. In the giraffe and prong-horn antelope they are also wanting. The hind feet
are similarly constructed.[32]

[Footnote 32: See notes in Appendix C.]

Of the non-ruminantia we have only the Suidae--the peccaries belonging to America, and the
hippopotami to Africa.

FAMILY SUIDAE--THE HOGS.

These have incisors in both jaws, which vary in number, the lower ones slanting forward. Their
canines are very large and directed outwards and upwards in a curve, grinding against each
other to a sharp edge and fine point. Their metacarpal bones are four in number, and are all
distinct, in which respect they differ from the peccaries, in which the central metacarpals
and metatarsals are fused into a solid bone. The hogs have a prolonged snout, flexible at the
end, with a firm cartilaginous tip, with which they are enabled to plough up the ground in
search of roots. They have also a very keen sense of smell.

The hogs, unlike other pachyderms, are noted for their fecundity.

GENUS SUS.

Incisors, 4/6 or 6/6; the lower ones slanted; the canines large and curved outwards and upwards;
molars tuberculate; four toes on each foot--that is, two major and two minor, each hoofed. 

Also hoofed is the incisors resulting from each dam and loser or the dollar
losses due to such factors as higher unemployment, lower levy that revenue,
large productivity, and stoppage slanted of each production.


DESCRIPTION.--Body dusky or greyish-brown, with a tendency to black, with black spots; large
mouth with long projecting tusks; the hairs of the body coarse, mixed with a downy wool; bristles
on the neck and shoulders. The young are marked with longitudinal stripes of reddish colour.

The wild boar of Europe apparently extends to the limits sometimes reached by Indian sportsmen.
It is found in Persia, and specimens were brought back from Kashgar by the Yarkand Mission
in 1873-74. The only divergence which these specimens showed from the European boar was the
darker colour of the feet and legs, which were nearly black.

NO. 434. SUS INDICUS. The Indian Boar (Jerdon's No. 215).

NATIVE NAMES.--Soor or Suar, Bura-janwar, or Bad-janwar, Barha, Hindi; Dukar, Mahratti; Paddi,
Gondi; Pandi, Telegu; Handi, Mikka, Jewadi, Canarese; Kis of the Bhaugulpore hill-tribes; Tan-wet,
Burmese; Walura, Singhalese.

HABITAT.--Throughout India, from a considerable elevation (12,000 feet according to Jerdon)
down to the sea level. It is also common in Burmah and in Ceylon.

DESCRIPTION.--The head of the Indian wild boar differs considerably from the German one. Sir
Walter Elliot says: "The head of the former is larger and more pointed, and the plane of the
forehead straight, while it is concave in the European, the ears of the former are small and
pointed; in the latter larger and not so erect. The Indian is altogether a more active-looking
animal, the German has a stronger, heavier appearance."

Jerdon, who has in some measure adopted these remarks, adds that the tail is more tufted, and
the malar beard is well marked.

The colour of the full-grown animal is brownish-black, sparsely clad with black hair; the ears
are scantily covered with black hairs externally, but more abundantly inside. A crest of stiff
black bristles extends from the occiput over the neck and shoulders and down the back; the
bristles of the throat and breast are reversed, growing forwards instead of backwards, the
tips being sometimes white; the limbs, which are well covered with bristly hair outside, are
nearly naked within, and the tail is short, slightly hairy, and with a flat tip fringed with
lateral bristles set like the barbs of a feather. The young are more hairy, and are striped
with brown and fulvous yellow.

SIZE.--Head and body, about 5 feet; tail, 1 foot; height, from 30 to 36 inches.

This species is so well known to residents in India, not only from personal experience but
from the numerous accounts of its chase--one of the most exciting of Indian field sports--that
it would be almost superfluous to add anything more to the already redundant porcine literature,
so I will confine myself to the habits of the animal in the jungles. It is gregarious, living
in herds, usually called sounders, the derivation of which has often puzzled me as well as
others; but McMaster says it is to be found in Bailey's English Dictionary, of which the fifteenth
edition was published in 1753 as (among hunters) a herd or company of swine. An old boar is
generally the chief, but occasionally he gets driven from the herd, and wanders solitary and
morose, and is in such a case an awkward customer to tackle. An old boar of this kind is generally
a match for a tiger; in fact few tigers, unless young and inexperienced, would attack one.
I have known two instances of tigers being killed by boars; one happened a few miles from the
station of Seonee, to which place we had the animal carried. (See Appendix C.) On another occasion,
whilst on tour in the district, a deputation from a distant village came into my camp to beg
of me to visit them, and shoot a large boar which had taken possession of a small rocky hill,
and from it made his nightly forays into their rice fields, and was given to attacking those
who approached him. I went and got the boar out and shot him, but lost a tiger, which also
sneaked out and broke through a line of beaters; these two were the sole occupants of this
small isolated knoll, and lived evidently on terms of mutual respect. The boar was the largest
I had ever seen or killed, but, as the sun was getting fierce, and I had far to ride to camp,
I regret I left him to the villagers without taking any measurements. It is allowable to shoot
hogs in some hilly parts of India where riding is out of the question, otherwise the shooting
of a boar in riding country is deservedly looked upon as the crime of vulpecide would be in
Leicestershire--a thing not to be spoken of. The boar possesses a singular amount of courage;
he is probably the most courageous of all animals, much more so than the tiger, but unless
irritated he is not prone to attack at first sight, except in a few cases of solitary individuals,
like the one above mentioned. San Jerdon Area/ Rose like Canon Magnitude (R 7.0) this fault-- the
segment to an active zone from 4000 faults extending of the Newport-Inglewood
fault of Jerdon Diego-- would present than a greatest earthquake risk
to the San Diego area.

 On entering the bush which skirted the base of the hill I was suddenly brought up by
a savage grunt, and there in front of me stood an old boar with his bristles up, whilst the
rest of his family scampered off into the thicket. I remembered Shakespeare's (the poet's--not
the gallant shikari general's) opinion:--

   "To fly the boar before the boar pursues
    Were to incense the boar to follow us,"

and therefore stood my ground, undergoing the stern scrutiny of my bristly friend, who cocked
his head on one side and eyed me in a doubtful sort of way, whilst he made up his mind whether
to go for me or not, whilst I on my part cogitated on the probable effect at close quarters
of two barrels of No. 6 shot. However, he backed a bit, and then sidled to the rear for a few
paces, when he brought up with another grunt, but, finding I had not moved, he finally turned
round and dashed after his spouse and little ones. (See also Appendix C.)

Colonel (now General) Shakespear winds up a thrilling account of a fight with one with the
following paragraph, which will give a good idea of the endurance of these creatures:--

"There he was with a broken spear in his withers, the shaft sticking up a foot and a-half from
the blade, knocking over a horseman and wounding his horse; receiving two bullets--ten to the
pound each--the first in his neck and throat, a very deadly part in all animals; the second
breaking his jaw, and fired within a few feet of the muzzle; making good his charge, cutting
down his enemy like grass, wounding him, knocking over a second man armed with a spear, defying
the dogs, and then, when in the act of charging again, shot to the brain and dying without
a groan."

Although I had not intended giving any shikar stories, I cannot resist quoting one from General
McMaster's 'Notes on Jerdon.' He writes:--

"In further proof of the savage courage of a boar I may mention the following instance which
is recorded in the 'Hunt Annals' of the 25th December, 1869. A large unwounded boar had succeeded
in getting into some thick bushes. On being bullied by a terrier he charged the nearest hunter,
and ripped the horse very badly. Two other sportsmen who were not riding then tried to tempt
the boar to charge, one by firing No. 10 or quail shot into the bush, the other by riding a
camel into it. The last was successful, for, charging straight at the camel's legs (receiving
some shot in his face on his way) he completely routed the whole arrangement, knocked over
and ripped the camel, which broke its leg in falling, and then made away across the fields;
he was followed and twice speared, but he was as cunning as courageous, and managed to give
his pursuers the slip in some long grass and thick bushes. This boar's savage charge at the
camel was within a few yards of all of us, for every one was trying to entice him to come forth;
after his headlong rush out of the bush he reared so upright in his attempt to reach his clumsy
disturber, which was quite frantic from deadly fear, that he succeeded in ripping it in what
in a horse would be termed the stifle joint. The poor brute rolled over in its agony, smashed
one of its legs in the fall, and was of course shot. Luckily the rider, one of the best known
among the Nagpore Hunt, was not hurt."

I believe a wild pig will charge at anything when enraged. I had an elephant who, though perfectly
staunch with tigers, would bolt from a wild boar. The period of gestation is four months, and
it produces twice a year; it is supposed to live to the age of twenty years, and, as its fecundity
is proverbial, we might reasonably suppose that these animals would be continually on the increase,
but they have many enemies, whilst young, amongst the felines, and the sows frequently fall
a prey to tigers and panthers. Occasionally I have come across in the jungles a heap of branches
and grass, and at first could not make out what it was, but the Gonds soon informed me that
these heaps were the nests or lairs of the wild pigs, and they invariably turned them over
to look for squeakers. These are funny little things, of a tortoiseshell colour, being striped
reddish yellow and dark brown. There is an old writer on Indian field sports, Williamson, who
makes some correct observations on the habits of the wild hog, although much in his book (now,
I fancy, out of print) is open to question. He writes: "The wild hog delights in cultivated
situations, but he will not remain where water is not at hand, in which he may, unobserved,
quench his thirst and wallow at his ease; nor will he resort for a second season to a spot
which does not afford ample cover, whether of heavy grass or of under-wood jungle, within a
certain distance, for him to fly to in case of molestation, and especially to serve as a retreat
during the hot season, as otherwise he would find no shelter. The sugar-cane is his great delight,
both as being his favourite food and as affording a high, impervious, and unfrequented situation.
These hogs commit great devastation, especially the breeding sows, which not only devour, but
cut the canes for litter, and throw them up into little huts, which they do with much art,
leaving a small entrance which they stop up at pleasure. Sows never quit their young pigs without
completely shutting them up. This is, indeed, requisite only for a few days, as the young brood
may be seen following the mother at a round pace when not more than a week or ten days old."
The fields of urhur or ruhur dal (Cajanus Indicus) also afford good shelter to pigs. They feed
chiefly at night, and in Central India numbers are shot by native shikaries in moonlight nights
over water and favourite crops or in particular runs. Many castes of Hindus, who would turn
with abhorrence from the village pig, will not scruple to eat the flesh of the wild boar. On
the whole it is probably a cleaner feeder, but it will not hesitate to devour carrion if it
should come across a dead animal in its wanderings.

NO. 435. SUS ANDAMANENSIS. The Andaman Island Pig.

HABITAT.--Andaman islands; Nicobars (?)

DESCRIPTION.--Much smaller than the last. "The concavity of the cheeks in front of the orbit
deeply concave." Tail short, a mere tubercle in fact; the body well clad with somewhat shaggy
black hair, probably allied to Sus Papuensis.

Dr. Gray was of opinion (see his article on the Suidae, 'P. Z. S.' 1868) that the skull of
this species is more allied to the Babirussa than any others of the pigs, the front of the
canines being rather more produced than in other species, but not nearly so much so as in Babirussa.

NO. 436. SUS MOUPINENSIS.

HABITAT.--Thibet.

A description of this, which I have not by me at present, will be found in Professor Milne-Edwards's
'Recherches sur les Mammiferes,' p. 377.

GENUS PORCULA.

Head conical, moderate; ears small, erect, hairy; cheeks without any tubercles; tail very short,
rudimentary; cutting teeth 6/6, the two upper front largest, the lateral lower small; intermaxillary
moderate, not produced; canines small, scarcely elevated above the other teeth, the upper one
rather spread out, but not reflexed; premolars, 4--4/4--4 (Gray); molars, 3--3/3--3; the fourth
toe on all the feet small and unequal. Jerdon observes: "This genus, it will be remarked, makes
an approach to the American peccaries in the non-excerted canines, the short tail, and the
small fourth toe." Hodgson's dental formula shows one premolar less, viz. teeth: 6/6, 1--1/1--1,
6--6/6--6.

NO. 437. PORCULA SALVANIA. The Pigmy Hog of the Saul Forests (Jerdon' s No. 216).

NATIVE NAMES.--Sano-banel, Nepalese; Chota-suar, Hindi.

HABITAT.--The Saul forests of the Sikim and Nepal Terai.

DESCRIPTION.--According to Mr. Hodgson "the pigmy hog is about the size of a large hare, and
extremely resembles both in form and size a young pig of the ordinary wild kind of about a
month old, except in its dark and unstriped pelage. More development of much criteria commonly
requires above analyses of one site and its immediate environment he mentioned as range report.
Particularly, the solitary estimates may not be appropriate animals in other purposes, such
attack beyond the design of criteria for a site. Therefore, specific site cases may so require
modification of the conclusions mentioned at this report, consequently fault systems other unless the San
Andreas but Hayward faults. The ears also are quite nude, and the abdominal
surface of the neck, as well as the insides of the limbs and the belly, are nearly so, but
the upper and lateral external parts are covered thickly with bristles, even longer and more
abundant than those of the wild or tame hog--save upon the ridge of the neck, where the common
hog has more or less of, and generally a conspicuous mane, but the pigmy hog little or none"--"the
colour of the animal is a black brown, shaded vaguely with dirty amber or rusty red."

SIZE.--Head and body, from 18 to 20 inches; height, 8 to 10 inches; weight, 7 to 10 lbs.

This little animal, according to Hodgson's account of it (a most interesting one, which will
be found in the 'Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,' vol. xvi. May 1847), seems to have
the disposition of the peccary as well as the resemblance; it goes, he says, in herds, and
the males fearlessly attack intruders, "charging and cutting the naked legs of their human
or other attackers with a speed that baffles the eyesight, and a spirit which their straight
sharp laniaries renders really perplexing, if not dangerous."

RUMINANTIA--THE RUMINANTS.

These differ materially from the foregoing section of the Artiodactyla by the construction
of their digestive organs. Instead of the food being masticated and passed at once into the
stomach, each mouthful is but slightly bruised and passed into the paunch, whence at leisure
it is regurgitated into the mouth to be chewed. For such an operation the machinery is of course
more complicated than in other animals, and I must therefore attempt to describe briefly and
as clearly as I can the construction of the ruminating stomach. Taking the ox as a typical
specimen, we find four well-defined chambers varying in size. The first of these is the rumen
or paunch, in which the unmasticated food is stored; it is a large sac partly bent on itself,
and narrowing towards its junction with the oesophagus or gullet, and the entrance into the
second chamber. It is lined with a mucous membrane, which is covered with a pile or villous
surface, and this membrane is what is sold in butchers' shops as tripe. From this bag (the
paunch) in the act of rumination a certain portion of the food is ejected into the second chamber,
which is termed the reticulum (i.e. a little net) from the peculiar arrangement of its inner
or mucous surface, which is lined with a network of shallow hexagonal cells. The functions
of this receptacle are probably the forming of the food into a bolus, and by a spasmodic contraction
the forcing of it back through the gullet into the mouth for mastication. Here it is well chewed,
and, being thoroughly mixed with saliva passes back; on being swallowed in a soft pulpy state
it passes the groove or valve communicating with the chamber from which it issued, and goes
straight into the psalterium or manyplies, as the third chamber is called. This is globular,
but most of its interior is filled up with folds like the leaves of a book, more or less unequal.
It is not quite clear what the peculiar functions of this chamber are, but the semi-liquid
food, passing through it, goes into the proper stomach (abomasum or reed) and is here acted
upon by the gastric juice. Professor Garrod thus describes the probable order of events in
the act of rumination: "The paunch contracts, and in so doing forces some of the food into
the honeycomb bag, where it is formed into a bolus by the movement of its walls, and then forced
into the gullet, from which by a reverse action it reaches the mouth, where it is chewed and
mixed with the saliva until it becomes quite pulpy, whereupon it is again swallowed. But now,
because it is soft and semi-fluid, it does not devaricate the walls of the groove communicating
with the manyplies, and so, continuing on along its tubular interior, it finds its way direct
into the third stomach, most of it filtering between the membrous laminae on its way to the
fourth stomach, where it becomes acted on by the gastric juice. After the remasticated food
has reached the manyplies, the groove in the reticulum is pushed open by a fresh bolus, and
so the process is repeated until the food consumed has all passed on towards the abomasum or
true digestive stomach."

The ruminants are peculiar also in their dentition; in the so-called true ruminants there are
no incisors or cutting teeth in the upper jaw, but the teeth of the lower jaw are opposed to
a hard callous pad; the herbage is cropped by being nipped between these teeth and the pad,
and detached by an upward motion; in some few, such as the musk deer, Chinese water deer and
the rib-faced deer or muntjac the upper canines exist, and are largely developed.

The camels and llamas possess two cutting teeth in the upper jaw, and in this respect they
differ from the true ruminants, as also in some internal features.

The grinding teeth are six on each side of the jaw, and are composed of alternate convolutions
of enamel, dentine and cement, which wear unequally by the lateral motion of grinding, and
so form the necessary inequality of surface.

The centre metacarpal bones in the Ruminantia are fused into one common bone, except in the
deerlets, which also have the two outer fore and little finger metacarpals distinct, whereas
they are but rudimentary in the rest of the true ruminants, and totally absent in the camels.

The following is the classification at present adopted: SUB-ORDER Ruminantia, containing two
sections, viz. True Ruminants and the Camels (Tylopoda). SECTION True Ruminants, containing
two divisions, viz. Horned Ruminants and Hornless Ruminants, such as the chevrotians or deerlets
(Tragulidae). DIVISION Horned Ruminants, containing two groups, viz. Hollow-horned Ruminants
(Bovidae), and Solid-horned Ruminants (Cervidae). The deerlets possess no psalterium or third
stomach, except in a rudimentary form, and their feet approximate to those of the pigs, and
they are destitute of horns. The hollow-horned ruminants are those which bear a persistent
sheath of horn on a bony core; the others bear solid antlers which are periodically shed, and
grow afresh.

FAMILY BOVIDAE--HOLLOW-HORNED RUMINANTS.

In these there is an elongated process of bone on the frontals, termed the "horn cores," which
are covered with a horny sheath which is never shed, but continues to grow till full adult
life, and probably whilst life lasts, the growth being from the base. In some of these the
females are horned, but the majority are hornless. These have all the typical organs of rumination
and digestion, and they consist of the goats, sheep, antelope, oxen, and buffalos.

SUB-FAMILY CAPRINAE--GOATS AND SHEEP.

These are noted for having, as a general rule, horns in both sexes, though of varying quality;
they are usually compressed, triangular, rugose, with transverse ridges, and curving backwards
or spirally; no canines. Feet pits in some; sub-orbital gland small or absent.

GENUS OVIS--THE SHEEP.

Horns in both sexes; in the male very large, angular, deeply wrinkled, turned downwards in
a bold circle, with the point curved outwards; the nasal bones are arched; small feet pits;
two mammae.

NO. 438. OVIS POLII. Marco Polo's Sheep.

NATIVE NAMES.--Rass or Roosh on the Pamir; Kuch-kar (male), Mesh (female), in Wakhan.

