As far as I could gather, a Moorish woman does not think for herself until she is divorced.
Her father, mother, or brother marries her to whomsoever he or she chooses; but when once she
is divorced, she is free to marry after her own heart, and no one can interfere with her. Divorce
was of course allowed by Mohammed. It is so common that no wife is surprised at being divorced
a year after marriage, or six months, even a week. If she does not get up in time in the morning,
her husband can divorce her, or if she becomes ill, or for a hundred petty reasons. Therefore
upon the marriage-lines is always entered the sum of money which a wife brings her husband;
a poor woman will bring from thirty shillings to three pounds, a rich woman from a hundred
to three hundred pounds; and whatever the sum be, the husband must refund it to the wife when
he divorces her. The actual getting of the divorce is simplicity itself. Man and wife go before
the deputy of the governor of the city or province and state their case. The deputy will probably
say, "Very well. Pay the woman such-and-such a sum mentioned in the agreement, and go your
several ways."

A man, however, often changes his mind, and marries the woman whom he has divorced; and perhaps
they are divorced a second time and married a third time. But he may not marry her the third
time unless she has meanwhile been married by another man and divorced from him.

Many of the Moorish husbands leave their wives--the Riffis, for instance, going back into the
Riff. If they are away over a year and send no money to the wife, she can claim a divorce:
going before the deputy with a witness or two, it is soon arranged; she then probably marries
a second husband. Were it not for this arrangement, Tetuan would be full of deserted wives.

It must be most difficult to try to "preach" either to the men or women. The men would not
have it. I knew one missionary who used to sit in their shops and talk to them, but directly
he veered round within a point of "religion" that talk was over. The women were less difficult
in that respect; they would discuss the point: one woman I heard say something as follows:--

"Why should I turn a Christian? See--I may steal, I may lie, I may commit murder; my sins may
reach as high as from earth to heaven, and at the day of my death God is merciful. He will
forgive me all, because I witness to Mohammed as his Prophet. Your religion is a narrow little
religion; mine covers everything. You go home and go away by yourself and witness to Mohammed
as his Prophet, and all your sins will be forgiven."

It is a sign of their being low down in the intellectual scale when the members of society
talk for the most part of "persons," just as it is a sign of a higher tone when the conversation
runs chiefly upon "ideas." Among the women at Fatima's tea party there was no sort or kind
of exchange of thought of any description, nor was there general conversation. They talked
in a desultory way to each other about their children, their clothes, their food, their money,
and each other--sometimes they included Miss Banks, but never touched an interesting point.

If a woman unable to read or write only meets women also unable to read or write, and knows
but one man, her husband, who feeds her and values her much like a tame doe-rabbit, it is unreasonable
to expect to find in her much intelligence and energy. Wives, when asked if they did not wish
to do more, would not like to read or write or work, only laughed derisively. The idea was
absurd: they could not understand any one wishing to exert herself in a novel and unnecessary way.

On my left, still sat the stoutest woman in the room--the holy Shar[=i]fa. She lost her snuff-box,
and roused herself to hunt all over her enormous person for it--a work of time; but a friend
had borrowed it, and it was passed back to her. She sat on the divan, cross-legged like some
gigantic idol of ancient Egypt, many yards in circumference at the base, her fat little hands
folded across the embroideries and gold-worked buttons and worked edges of the many gorgeous
waistcoats and kaftans, which seemed piled one on top of each other on her immense frame. Her
head, the size of two footballs rolled into one, was swathed in violet and scarlet silk: straight
whiskers of hair, dyed jet-black, were combed a few inches down each cheek, and then cut short.
The whole "idol" sat very still, speaking but rarely, and then in a harsh croak like some oracular
and forbidding bird: "it" had the appearance of being comfortably gorged.

Meanwhile, Fatima signed or murmured to the slaves, and the sweetmeats were carried round,
and the fragile cups refilled; and there went up a great aroma of sweet mint tea.

Through the wide doorway the patio and its colonnades of many pillars lay cool and shaded;
cages of singing canary-birds hung from the ceiling; the fountain rippled in the middle; a
tall girl in green and white sauntered across in her slippered feet, carrying a tray; a gaily
dressed slave passed silently; and the whole thing might have been a dream. . . .

Past the patio lay the courtyard, all one large garden, with tiled walks and red-gold oranges
and heavy foliage set against the blue sky. Broad date-palms, mimosa, and climbing creepers
sometimes shook in a breath of wind. The clear tanks, full of ever-running water and lined
with maiden-hair fern, moved with gold-fish, which matched the oranges; a pet monkey played
amongst the lemons on a lemon-tree; a green parrot nodded to us from a bower of pink almond
blossom.

We wandered round the sleepy, silent courtyard, and in and out the chequered greenery, hot
with windless, sun-filled air, back through the black-and-white courts, until at last the great
outside door shut upon Fatima, her tea party, and the eternal mysticism of the East:--we were
without the gates of Paradise, and in an atmosphere of rude realism once more.

Soon after that afternoon of many calls with Miss Banks, a day up in the Anjera Hills, to the
north of Tetuan, gave some idea of the strip of country which lay between us, and the sea,
and Gibraltar. This country possessed the fascination of being little known. No one troubled
to go up there, except its own wild inhabitants. Our own Consul had never been. The missionaries
had not climbed so high, nor so far, this side the river.

Now the Tetuan sok (market) is greatly dependent upon the country people belonging to the Beni
Salam tribe, who live up in the Anjeras; and from the flat white roof of our garden-house we
had watched through a pair of glasses on market mornings, strings of women, winding by a precipitous
path down the hillside, which is abrupt and mountainous, themselves dropping as it were from
an upper world. They scrambled slowly down, one after the other, descending many hundreds upon
hundreds of feet; then filed slantwise over the slopes, right into the rocky Mussulman cemetery,
across that, and thence into the city by the Báb-el-M`kabar.

The relations of these tribesmen between themselves and the city are more or less friendly,
and it is comparatively safe to wander about the mountains as long as the "enemy," as the Moors
call the sun, has not set. We were most anxious to visit the country whence these market-goers
came, appearing first upon the crest-line, then against the rough hillside, like a string of
industrious white ants crawling down the wall of a house; therefore we engaged a youth with
a downy beard and hairy legs and the big grey donkey--the most active of his race--and set
off one morning at half-past nine, prepared to climb into a Top World, like Jack of the Beanstalk,
by means of a path which was less smooth "going" than his supernatural ladder.

There was a strong north-west wind, and it was hardly an occasion for "aloft"; but there was
no haze; the clouds were scudding away to South Australia; it was a day for a view.

Taking the broken road towards the city, we branched off to the right, crossed a stream, and
began the ascent. No one could ride at this point. R. tried a tow by means of the donkey's
tail, and met with a remonstrating kick. Certainly, if this could be called "one of the Sultan's
highways," it was an odd specimen. We scrambled up the east side of the range of hills, sometimes
by a succession of rocky staircases, sometimes sliding (backwards chiefly) on loose shale:
how the donkey contrived to look after its four feet must remain a problem, but the Morocco
ass is brought up from birth upon stony ground, with naïve and simple notions upon the subject
of paths.

It was a long time before our heads showed up above the top of Jack's Beanstalk (so to speak),
and we met with a gale, at which the donkey's hair stood on end, and which occupied all our
attention for a minute. We had seen Tetuan disappear far below us behind the elbow of a hill;
the topmost point of the Gib. Rock had loomed into sight; Ceuta looked as if one might have
thrown a stone upon it; and the Riff Mountains were next door, clear and blue. We had passed
some red fritillaries and the bee-orchid, a little wild mauve crocus, and some magnificent
clumps of white heath, which smelt of almonds and honey; had seen several pairs of stone-chats
with their white collars; had sat down for many "breathers"; and at last were at the top, in
a wind which flattened every palmetto-bush plumb against the hillside. It was a breezy spot
for riding (and here one could ride, for the grey donkey was on terra firma once more); therefore
we cut short a survey of the country below us, hurried off the crest-line, and followed the
path which led straight away into the heart of the Anjera country. It was a good track when
once the top had been reached, exactly the right width for one individual, and used by thirty
or forty every market day--three times a week. At the time when the cave-men lived in England,
single file was a standing principle in Morocco, and the practice still holds good.

The path was beaten hard, by bare feet, in the rich dark red soil, and had taken a shiny polish;
the wind was held off us by boulders and small hillocks; we got along at a steady pace. On
each side mountains and only mountains were to be seen, peak beyond peak, slope after slope,
covered with short wind-tossed scrub and sharp, hard rock, except at any great height or in
the prevailing wind; there ledge after ledge lay peeled by the weather, blistering in the sun,
the scarified faces of the cliffs worn at the summits into pinnacles of gaunt stone. No mark
of humanity, except the single red path, suggested that civilization ever troubled these heights,
and there was hardly anything worth the notice of a goat in the shape of fodder.

The path rose and fell, skirting now this shoulder and now a gully, but keeping for the most
part on high ground, here and there winding upwards across the sharp spine of a ridge, and,
by way of some awkward staircase, once more landing us on the level. More often than not, the
donkey had only himself to carry; the boy probably thought us mad, but there was no understanding
what the other would fain have said. Except for the wind--and even that dropped--a great silence
lay on the proud heights; they defied man to interfere with their grizzled débris: the birds
had forgotten to sing: all around was that certain awed solemnity, always to be found, in the
companionship of the everlasting hills. But the air was champagne; the heather was mad in the
breeze; the sky where it met the rocks, an intoxicating blue. And how the clouds "travelled"!
Though, in spite of that, the hills never spoke: like the Sphinx, whose repose no dance of
lizards nor flashes of sunlight can disturb, they are "too great to appease, too high to appal,
too far to call." Occasionally a dip in the hollow back of a mountain showed the sea beyond:
there are few seas bluer than the blue Mediterranean can be, and this was one of its days.

The polished track led us on: still no sign of a village, nor any evidences of civilization.
At last from the top of a ridge we looked over and down into a calm green oasis, "a lodge in
some vast wilderness," secluded, sheltered, where it would have been good to pitch a tent and
camp for many moons. We swung along downwards, dropped under the lee of the hill, and our path
skirted the fringe of the green oasis. It was not many acres in extent; it was covered with
short scant grass; it would have made an ideal polo-ground.

Water lay over a small corner of it, and beyond a shadow of doubt it had once been the bottom
of a lake; indeed, the Beni Salam tribe believe that water still lies underneath the turf.
Here the first sign of humanity showed itself: two goatherds drove their flock down to the
water, and one of them carried in the hood of his brown jellab a few hours' old kid; they soon
passed on and disappeared among the boulders and heath.

The long level lines of the green oasis were broken at the edge by diminutive bones of rock
protruding through the grass. Sunk in the hollow of the hills, there was little or no wind;
the sun glowed indolently down on the green lawn, tempting us to stay; but the foot-prints
in the red soil pointed forward, and we turned our backs upon the flat stretches of sunny turf
and left the waveless tarn behind.

No more emerald oasis, but grey-green scrub and stones on the mountain-sides: we were up again
in a stern and desolate defile, waste beyond waste strewn with rocks. The distances were oddly
deceptive in the rare, clear air: a saddle between two peaks looked miles away--we were upon
it in half an hour; again, a turret of rock apparently within a stone's-throw was a weary climb.
And still the red trail snaked on before us. Even the big grey donkey began to lose its interest
and to require "encouragement" from the Moorish boy.

We speculated as to whether we should ever reach a village before it was time to make tracks
for the world below, while the sun was well up. At last, in front of us, a long low saddle
intervened, with rising ground on each side: this we determined to scale, once mounted on top
see all there was to be seen, and go no farther. And toil brought its unexpected and exceeding
great reward. Standing on the crest-line, shading our eyes with our hands, mountain beyond
mountain lay in the distance--the Anjeras, the hills of Spain, the Mediterranean, Gibraltar;
while in the foreground clustered four villages, brown mud-coloured huts upon the brownish
slopes, and only picked out of their surroundings by means of the one little whitewashed spot
of a mosque. Below us a river had carved a gorge in the red soil and tumbled over worn boulders
beside the nearest village, but it was more or less hidden from sight.

Much as we wanted to go on, it was impossible. First, there was not time. Secondly, the donkey
would have had as much as was good for him by the time he got back. Therefore we chose a warm,
sheltered spot, backed by sun-baked rocks and scented with cropped tussocks of yellow gorse;
and there we lunched, the boy and donkey slipping out of sight, and leaving us alone, with
the hills, and the sound of the wind.

It must be a long tramp into Tetuan, even for hill people born to the life of the open road,--four
hours into the city with heavy loads of charcoal, faggots, chickens, eggs, butter, vegetables;
four hours back again with oil, sugar, salt, tea, and every sort of necessary which is not
home grown. And three times a week. And only women. We met a string of them as we set our faces
homewards, like "toiling cattle straining across a thousand hills"; but they all had a word
to say and a smile, as they sloped along at a steady swing.

The sun was setting when we left the good upper world of silence and the winds; by-and-by the
crest-line intervened between ourselves and the strong serene heights--they were seen no more;
and we came "hand over hand down the Beanstalk" which led to the white city below.

CHAPTER IX

    The stream of life runs, ah! so swiftly by,
    A gleaming race 'twixt bank and bank--we fly,
    Faces alight and little trailing songs,
    Then plunge into the gulf, and so good-bye.

ABOUT the month of April, Morocco takes its head from under its wing; the bad weather turns
its back on the country; the tracks dry up and are fit for travellers to take to once more.
The time had come for the sake of which we had borne with the rains, and we longed to be off,
to know something more of this strange and fascinating land.

May is a better month than April, up in the north, for travelling; April is often dashed with
the tail-end of the rains; but our desire was to go down into the far south, and May and June
in the south are both too hot to enjoy camping out. April is quite warm enough; indeed, Morocco
City "stokes up" early in April; therefore we made it the middle of March when we said good-bye
to Jinan Dolero and set our faces Tangier-wards, there to await some steamer which should take
us down the coast. The odds and ends which had furnished us at Tetuan and were not wanted had
to be sold--a very simple matter. The day before we left our white garden-house, S`lam and
some mesdames, as in his best French he always spoke to us of his ragged countrywomen, carried
them into the sok, as they were, on their backs; and they were sold to the highest bidder among
the market-goers.

To transport ourselves and our belongings over to Tangier, a Jew muleteer was requisitioned,
who provided men and mules for the two days' journey. After long consultations we decided to
take S`lam with us on our travels in the capacity of personal servant and head cook--partly
because he could cook, partly because, in spite of the Tahara-and-bottle-of-water-or-poison
episode, we liked him, and he had been a good servant according to his lights. After all, he
was probably as trustworthy, and more so, than any man we could pick up in a hurry down south--at
least, everybody warned us that they were a set of rascals there, of whom we were to beware.
Finally, he was used to us and we were used to him. So S`lam set out with our cavalcade, and
we proposed to keep him while we were at Tangier, take him by boat to Mogador, and after our
march was over return him to Tetuan. But, while "man proposes----"

I was sorry for Tahara. She was left behind with her old enemy--S`lam's mother. He left the
mother money, but Tahara not one flus. He said, too, that when he came back from Morocco City
he should go straight off to the Riff and get work there; and Tahara would be left again. Such
is the custom of the country: the husband may go off for a year, at intervals returning to
his wife, whom he leaves generally under some sort of supervision. So poor little Tahara, who
had no voice in her marriage, but had wept all the way to Tetuan under the escort of her bridegroom
and brother, was left penniless in the old mother's clutches. She had no relatives near to
help her, otherwise I have no doubt that she would have got a divorce. We could only ask Z----
to keep an eye on her, for interference in the Moorish domestic hearth on the part of a European
would be a fool's work indeed.

It was March 19 when we began to wander once more, having handed the keys of Jinan Dolero back
to its owner and cleared out the little white house. Unfortunately we pitched on the Aid-el-Kebeer
(the Great Feast), starting the very day before it was due; and, in consequence of the Mohammedan-World
being upside-down with joyful anticipation, could get no good mules, nor induce any one but
a Jew to leave Tetuan at such a time. S`lam looked forward to feasting with his brother at
Tangier, and started off with a good grace. A more serious miss than either Moorish servants
or reliable mounts was perhaps a tent. There was none to be had in Tetuan at just that time,
and a night had to be passed upon the way. However, there was no help for it: we set off as
we were, and arrived towards sunset at the half-way caravanserai, the little white-walled fondâk
on the top of the hills, where we passed such a windy night, on our way over from Tangier in
December, under canvas.

It was a good ride, and our mules travelled badly: saddles and bridles were tumbling to pieces
too. For the last mile or so we both walked and sent the baggage on ahead. From a bend round
the crest of a hill we said farewell to an uneven white streak set at the foot of the distant
hills--Tetuan--and saw it no more. The fondâk was in front of us, four lonely walls exposed
to every change of weather, and no life stirring outside. We walked through the arched gateway
into the square, which is surrounded with Norman arches, and found a company of mules and donkeys,
of owners and drivers, taking shelter for the night: our own baggage animals were already hobbled
in a line in front of the arches, under which the muleteers sit, and drink, and smoke, and
sleep the hours away, till the first streak of dawn.

We scrambled up an uneven stone staircase at the corner of the square, and investigated the
two little rooms at the disposal of travellers. One look: there were suggestions of the insect
world in both. We recrossed the thresholds and sought further: the flat white roof above the
arches round the square, if windswept, was too airy to be anything but fresh and wholesome,--it
should meet all our demands. Here then, out in the open, under the sky, our two beds were arranged,
in the lee of a few yards of parapet which had been built to shelter the west corner of the
roof. S`lam had a small pan of charcoal also up on the roof in our corner, over which to get
something hot for us to eat; and as soon as the odd little meal was finished we turned in.

The precipitous twilight had shadowed down sufficiently to undress in more or less privacy
even upon a housetop; over our beds we spread a thin woollen carpet to keep off the dew; the
moon, which was beginning its last quarter, faced us full, in a sky picked out with a few stars,
against which the dark outline of the hills was cut clear; there was hardly a fleck of cloud
in that best roof under which a man can sleep.

Below, down in the square, the picketed mules stamped and munched barley; the muleteers' voices,
back under the arches in the colonnade, arose and fell, round a fire where green tea was brewing
and much kif was in course of being smoked; occasionally an owl hooted. Waking from time to
time, the moon was always staring down (I shall never forget that moon); but at each interval
it had moved farther round overhead. At last it sank behind the field of vision, and up "in
that inverted bowl we call the sky" the remote and passionless stars had it all to themselves.

About half-past three in the morning we were awakened suddenly by the patter of rain on our
faces, great single drops, which quickened into a hurrying shower; while gusts of wind from
the south-west rose and swept round the corner of the low parapet against which we had put
the heads of the beds. One glance showed that the sky was overcast; it was very dark, most
of the stars were hidden, and there was an ominous sound of rain in the wind. The fondâk is
notably a wet resting-place, for it lies on the top of the watershed which divides the plains
of Tetuan and Tangier, and it draws the clouds like a magnet.

One of us put up a sun-umbrella, which had been useful on the hot ride the day before; it kept
an end of one bed more or less dry, and fortunately the shower did not last long, while underneath
warm bedding it was possible to keep dry for a time. The wind rose, however, and forced itself
in at every fold of the bedclothes. We had carefully arranged all our kit under the parapet
close to the beds, partly to prevent its being stolen, which sometimes happens if left out
of the owner's reach, partly to prevent its rolling or blowing off the unprotected edge of
the roof.

The sunset of the night before had not foretold wind; but wind there began rapidly to be, and
by-and-by the lid of one of our cooking-pots bowled along the roof, fell over the edge, and
rattled on the stones in the square below: a cloth belonging to the cuisine took flight next
over the outer wall, and was seen no more. We lay speculating on what might follow. Then another
shower began; but the clouds were lifting a little, and it was short if it was sharp; while
underneath the blankets there was not much to complain of.

At four o'clock a sound of life began down below; the muleteers were all up and stirring in
the square. Lights were lit, for since the moon and stars had been obscured, the night had
turned from brilliant light into one of shadows and blackness. Was there to be more rain? Nothing
else mattered. In this fine interval--for the last shower was stopping--it seemed wise to get
up and dress and have our bedding rolled together: neither of us was going to move into the
rooms. Certainly dressing was a chilly opportunity. The evening before had been warm; but the
rain freshened the air, and the wind made it still more brisk. It was darker than ever--too
windy to have kept a light going; and clothes, discovered with some difficulty in the shadows
in hiding-places under rugs and pillows where they had been stowed the evening before to escape
the dew, were hurried into in the dark anyhow and any way, half blown inside-out in the wind.

At half-past four S`lam came up on to the roof-top with a light (which was promptly extinguished)
and a pail of cold fresh water, in which we had an acceptable wash. He rolled up our bedding,
and brought an earthenware pan of burning charcoal, which was stowed away in a corner of the
stone stairway out of the wind, and on which the kettle soon began to boil. At this point two
remaining stars were put out by the advancing dawn--a wan and shivering dawn. Sitting in the
lee of the parapet, five o'clock saw us ready, and supplied with hot tea and eggs. Not long
after, the rain-clouds blew over and the day broke clear.

Meanwhile, the muleteers had loaded up and vanished with the first streak of daylight, in order
to be in Tetuan in time for the great feast that day; the inner square of the caravanserai
was deserted; our own five mules were all that was left. It was not a long business loading
them: the last rope was knotted, and the muleteers drove them off. We followed, riding out
under the gateway, whereon is written in Arabic a sentence to the effect that Mulai Abdurrahman
built the fondâk in 1256, according to Mohammedan reckoning of time.

The sky was grey and menacing: too many of the little single clouds called "wet dogs" drifted
across it. Having started at half-past five, not till three o'clock that afternoon did we reach
Tangier; halting once on the march, at ten o'clock, and that only for half an hour for lunch.
A heavy storm cut that halt short, for the rest of the day the "wet dogs" were true to themselves,
and we were deluged. Vivid lightning flashed and cracking peals of thunder rolled over the
plain; it was one of those March days which make March no month for camping out in Northern
Morocco. Added to that, the track was in a shocking state--up to the girths in mud and water
and clay of a sticky and treacherous nature. The mules slipped back at every step. We had many
small rivulets to cross, and were obliged to make great detours in order to circumvent them
at all. Even then our baggage was in the greatest peril, for the mules could barely keep their
feet; and once down in some of the deepest quagmires, there would have been the utmost difficulty
in getting them up again, or in rescuing our unfortunate kit. And the rain came through everything,
bedding and all being fairly drenched. The mules which carried the baggage were of course much
the best of our beasts: R.'s and my mounts were indeed sorry for themselves. The last hour
was the darkest, during which R.'s mule fell down for the sixth or seventh time--it was slippery
and rough--and we had the worst piece of country of all to cross, where we found one unfortunate
mule bogged in a sort of mud stream. Though a soaking does not greatly signify when dry clothes
and a roof lie at the journey's end, nine hours at a foot's pace, through mud and water, wet
and weary, will take the heart out of most people. We tailed into Tangier, a dilapidated, worn
string of bedraggled vagrants, and rode to the Continental. An hour later, clean and dry, in
comfortable chairs, with hot coffee, there was content.

Meanwhile, S`lam was not at all fulfilling our expectations; and since we left the fondâk,
far from distinguishing himself on the march, he failed over and over again to rise to the
occasion, excellent servant though he had been in the garden-house near his own city. While
the muleteers walked all the way from Tetuan, driving the baggage-mules and urging on our own,
S`lam by arrangement rode on the top of a light load; and there he sat, huddled up on the mule,
wet and discontented, dawdling behind, last of all, in the cavalcade, and anything but living
up to his character of soldier-servant and escort. By virtue of his late service in the Algerian
army and his rifle, he should have been admirably adapted to fill that capacity; but less like
a soldier, and more like a whimpering dog, man never looked. Nor did he look after our things,
allowing them to be badly exposed to the rain, and taking no precautions for protecting anything.
In the face of condemnation he sulked.

Arrived at Tangier, nearly a week elapsed before a Hungarian boat put in, by which we could
sail for Mogador. S`lam was of course due daily at the hotel to report himself and to execute
orders. It was on one of these occasions, upon the very morning before we were due to start
for Mogador, that he sprung upon us his intention of going straight back to Tetuan. This announcement
came rather like a bolt from the blue. We had congratulated ourselves upon taking down into
the interior a more or less tried and faithful knave, where knaves of such a description were
proverbially scarce; and now our henchman announced that he had no longer any wish or any intention
of accompanying us to Morocco City.

The reasons or excuses which he gave were: first, that his wages were insufficient; and, secondly,
that "a courier" had been sent over to him from Tetuan to tell him that his mother and his
wife were quarrelling to such a degree that Tahara had threatened to go back to her native
Riff country with her brother unless S`lam returned, and if she took that step it would mean
a divorce.

His wages had been already raised considerably, because the post he was now to fill had more
duties connected with it: they might have been further increased. The other excuse may or may
not have been true; but as the two women had never done anything else except quarrel, the situation
was a foregone conclusion. The old mother may have been trying to poison Tahara again. But
would S`lam trouble to prevent that? Whatever his motive, it was more than annoying that at
the last moment he should throw us over, leaving no time in which to look out for a new man,
and a reliable man, without whom, in a country as lawless as Morocco, it would be a little
rash, on the part of two people only, to travel.

But an unwilling servant is not to be endured. We gave S`lam his release, stipulating only
that he should return the dollars advanced him for his wife and mother not many days before.

To this he protested that he had no money, not a peseta left--every coin had either been spent
at the feast or had been left at Tetuan.

In this case, the best plan would be, we said, for S`lam to take with him a letter to the Consul
at Tetuan explaining to him what had happened; then as S`lam earned money, he might pay it
into the Consul's hands for us, until he had made good the sum advanced him. At this S`lam
looked blank: he said such a letter would mean prison for him. We stood firm. It was a rude
shock to our faith when his hand found its way into the leather bag at his side under his jellab,
and he pulled out and threw on the table two-thirds of the money which had been given him.

It was suggested that he should pay the whole sum.

No! he was penniless.

Then in that case he could sell the new jellab he had just bought.

He scoffed at the idea.

In reply to our order to come to the hotel the first thing the following morning and see our
baggage safely on board the steamer, he said that he should leave Tangier at daybreak, and
that it was quite impossible for him to attend upon us, evidently expecting that his prepaid
wages would be amicably allowed to slide. But not in the face of this final desertion. We reiterated
the former course--a letter to the Consul at Tetuan; again he pleaded abject poverty; but meeting
only with inclemency, once more plunged his hand into his bag, and pulled out dollars amounting
exactly to the sum which he had been advanced.

So much for his poverty. We were now, he explained, "quits." "All was right between us." He
"would not like to leave us with a trace of ill feeling remaining between us and himself."

He did leave us, however, with his tail fairly between his legs, and, if he had been kicked
out of the hotel, could not have gone forth more sadly.

What motive he had for going back to Tetuan, or what whim seized him in Tangier, remained a
mystery. Impulsive as a child, he had been at first madly keen, so he said, to go with us to
the world's end; then, as the time approached, in the same ratio his ardour evaporated; until,
finally, he had no more desire left, and on the march over to Tangier grew more indifferent
and morose at every step. While we were in Tangier he was like a fish out of water. And yet
he had been once to Fez and to Morocco City: he was a travelled man. Possibly he had a more
remunerative billet in view, or was homesick, or jealous about Tahara. After all, whatever
the reason, his line of conduct was only distinctly Moorish, and characteristic of a race in
which, as a whole, no wise man places great reliance. A Moorish servant will not rob his European
master: perquisites are a sine qua non, of course. Probably his lies are no blacker than those
of European servants; but the Moor, in place of that quality of faithfulness which can ennoble
an English rascal, has a cold-blooded current in his veins. His manners may be charming--he
is a plausible devil; but lean upon him, and he turns out to be as jerry-built as his own crumbling
whitewashed walls.

It is with somewhat of a feeling of banishment into the unknown, that the passenger by the
little coast-steamer takes his departure from Tangier, and sees first its white houses and
yellow sands, and last of all Spartel lighthouse, disappear as the boat ploughs southwards.
Once upon a time Gibraltar had constituted in our minds the outposts, so to speak, of civilization;
but since we had spent three months in such an unexplored spot as the Tetuan vale and mountains,
without society of the conventional type, or library, or church, or any other adjuncts, Tangier,
when we came back to it, appeared in the light of a Paris. And now Tangier was again to be
left behind; and on one of the little coasting-steamers, which deliver cargo at ports on the
way, we meant to travel down to Mogador. To have marched the same distance would have meant
perhaps a month on the road, going by Fez and taking it easily; therefore we saved much time
by taking the steamer. Though by all report it was not likely to be at all a comfortable journey,
it could only last four days at most; and few travellers but can stand four days' discomfort.

We did not start without a few warnings and cautions from various friends, who seemed inclined
to think that we were doing an unprecedented thing in thus setting off alone into the interior
without even a reliable servant, which since the desertion of S`lam was the case. That could
not be helped. We hoped for the best as regarded finding men in Mogador.

Sir Arthur Nicolson had provided us with letters of introduction to the British Consul in Mogador,
and to a Moor in Morocco City, where it is unnecessary to say there are no representatives
of the English Government. I had written to him on the subject of getting up to Glaouia, in
the Atlas Mountains, and had received the following reply:--

    "DEAR MISS SAVORY,--

     "As the Court is away from Morocco City, I hardly think it would
     be wise for you to attempt a visit to Glaouia. Matters are never
     very stable when the seat of Government is away, and I do not
     think the Government would be disposed to give you a permit at
     present. There would, however, be no objection whatever to your
     going to Morocco City, and I think you will find the journey
     interesting.

    "Yours very truly,
    "A. NICOLSON."

This letter was a blow. But when we finally reached Morocco City we found that the thing could
be done--that we could get up to Glaouia either under the protection of the English missionaries
or with a certain Jewish trader who lives in Morocco City. The fact of the matter is, that
to travel "officially," as it were, in Morocco is a fatal mistake. It means a written permission
from the Sultan, an army of followers, a commotion wherever a halt is made, and a great deal
of hospitality. The Sultan does not encourage Europeans to travel out of the ordinary line
of route, on account of the superstitious and fanatical spirit of his people, which would be
roused to wrath against him, were he to countenance the invasion of their sacred land by infidels.
Consequently, when he gives a permit, he writes upon the document to the effect that the Christian
is committed to the care of Kaid So-and-so, and Kaid So-and-so is to see that no ill happens
to him.

When the Christian traveller arrives at the district belonging to this kaid, through which
he wishes to pass, he goes to the castle and delivers the permit. The kaid reads it, and knows
what it means: the Sultan only wishes the Christian to be kept to frequented roads. Therefore
the Christian is offered every hospitality, and the kaid almost weeps as he explains that it
is impossible for the traveller to proceed--the tribesmen are dangerous, are in revolt along
the line the Christian wishes to go. The traveller says he will take his chance. His servants,
primed by the kaid, refuse to go with him on the score of the danger. If he manages to get
away with one trusty follower, the kaid sends soldiers after them, fetches them back to the
castle--to save their lives, he says, and his own life, which would be forfeited if a hair
of their heads was injured. The Christian, after his rebellious conduct, may be forced to return
discomforted to the coast towns, or he may be allowed to march on in another direction, keeping
on the beaten track. Thus the Moorish Government will politely frustrate enterprising spirit
on the part of the infidel. But if the traveller is content with other than a royal progression
through the country, if he will travel quietly and without ostentation, dressed according to
the habits of the people, and be prepared to "rough it," the chances are, that he may get to
places which he could never have reached while impeded by a Government escort.

But the way above all others to travel in Morocco is to secure the help of a missionary and
to go with him. Medicine is the golden key which opens every gate; and a Moor will do anything
for a tabiba (doctor), which is what a missionary practically is to him. The missionary arrives
at a remote village, and the countryside flocks to him to have its teeth pulled out, its sores
doctored, its fevers cured; and if the tabiba wishes to go on farther, by whatever path, who
shall gainsay him, while he carries life and health in his hands? He understands their dialect
a little, he dresses as they do, and he brings no overbearing servants to eat up their substance.
Nor is he a spy, but only some harmless fanatic, some quaint Nazarene, who thinks to win heaven
by thus walking the earth and doing good.

Thus several missionaries have penetrated to places in Morocco, from entering which, Europeans
are debarred: they have not "advertised" themselves nor written books upon what they have seen.
But the thing has been done, and not only by men. Women missionaries have been where no Christian
is supposed to be allowed. Indeed, it should be easier for women, in one way, to travel in
forbidden territory than men, because their sex is not credited with the sense which could
do harm; and the idea of a woman spying, or thinking to exploit the country, discover mines,
and so on, would be absolutely laughable to a Moor. Probably women, with a large stock of medicines
and a knowledge of the country dialect, could travel in the unknown "Beyond" with comparatively
little risk.

There is one other way for the Englishman to see something of the less-known districts of Morocco,
and that is to travel under the protection of a holy Shar[=i]f. Shar[=i]fs are, like the Sultan,
descendants of Mohammed, and they possess the holy baraka--that is, the birthright of the Shar[=i]fian
line. They are little gods, and they have immunity from the laws of God and man. Their advice
is sought for and followed by the ordinary country people on every question, and their decision
is invariably accepted as final. There is no such thing as an aristocratic class or nobility
in Morocco; and yet the Shar[=i]fs answer in a way to the same idea, for they possess a religious
authority which sets them far above their countrymen, and constitutes them, in a sense, lords
over the people. Besides, they act greatly as mediums between the secular governors and the
tribes, and judge upon various matters. It is possible for a holy Shar[=i]f to sin, but quite
impossible for him to be punished, the obvious argument being that "the fire of hell cannot
touch a saint in whose veins runs the blood of the holy Prophet."

The Shar[=i]fian families form an entire class by themselves. They are fed and clothed and
housed by a convenient system of religious taxation, and large presents are made them, while
after death their tombs become objects of visit to all devout Mohammedans.

A holy Shar[=i]f generally rides a horse, and he dresses in white, with a blue cloth cloak,
or else a white woollen over-garment. He wears a pair of yellow slippers, or perhaps riding-boots,
called temag, buttoned all up the back with green silk buttons, and embroidered down the side
with silk and silver thread. A scarlet fez and a white turban complete him.

Shar[=i]fs never shave under the chin, since the days when a certain sultan was being shaved
thus by a barber who had it in his mind to cut the royal throat. But a little boy passing saw
the evil design in the barber's eye. With great presence of mind he rushed into the shop, crying
to the Sultan, "O Most Holy One! the Great Mosque has fallen down!" Both sultan and barber
leapt up and rushed out: the boy explained matters to the sultan, and the barber was killed.

But neither Shar[=i]f nor missionary-doctor had we any hope of meeting at Mogador, able and
willing to travel into the Atlas Mountains with us. We started with plenty of chances open
in front, but with nothing certain whereon to rely. Telegraph station and all such vanities
were left behind us at Tangier: letters could not reach us till we ourselves reached Morocco
City, ten or twelve days being the time they would take to arrive there from Tangier. Our agents--Cook
& Son--in the latter place, had instructions to open all wires, and in an urgent case to forward
to us by a rekass (a runner), who might do the distance in as short a time as seven or eight
days. A wire sent thus, by a rekass, might cost three or four pounds, according to the time
the man took: the faster he did the journey, the more he should be paid.

In spite of its hotels Tangier does not possess a single shop where English newspapers or books
can be bought. Our literature had by this time reached a low ebb; and on board the Hungarian
boat, at a time when one generally reads omnivorously because there is nothing else to do,
we had but a couple of standard books to fall back upon--a history of the country was one,
the other a volume of Lecky. The history was fairly committed to heart before travelling days
were done.

On the whole, when at last we got off in the little Hungarian steamer, she did not leave much
to be desired. For three days we had hung on at the Continental Hotel, waiting for the hourly
expected arrival of the boat, beginning almost to despair of her ever coming in.

Finally, patience was rewarded, and one afternoon, with all our baggage, we went on board.
We had everything wanted for camping out except tents, and these were to be hired at Mogador.
A great wooden kitchen-box held pots, pans, knives, etc., and a case contained potted meats,
soups, biscuits, and so forth.

R. and myself were the only women on board when we left Tangier: eight men joined us at dinner
that night, at one long table in the small saloon, and we were said to fill the boat. She was
very small, only eighteen hundred tons, and there was not much room for walking about on her;
but we never went out of sight of the coast, and, sitting on a couple of chairs, could see
through the glasses whatever was going on on the beach--which, I must add, was little enough,
at a time when the smallest incidents become of importance. The greater part of the Arpad was
given up to cargo. We landed green tea in quantities at Mazagan, and black-wood, cane-seated
chairs for the Jews and Spaniards living there, as well as bales of goods and casks; but we
took nothing on board, and the Arpad became more and more like an empty egg-shell, with a decided
inclination to roll, on the swell which invariably sets down that coast.

The captain, a small dark Hungarian, when we left Tangier, changed into a thin tweed suit and
straw hat: he did not understand English. There was no stewardess; but the steward, who did
all the waiting at table, spoke a little German. One of our fellow-passengers was an Englishman,
born in Morocco, without any desire to leave it--his horizon Gibraltar: he was Dutch Consul
at Mazagan. Another man was a grain merchant in Mazagan. All were interesting, and could tell
us a great deal about the country. Certainly the coast-line, as seen from the deck of the Arpad,
was monotonous, desolate, uninviting to a degree: a long low shore, kh[=a]ki-coloured, treeless,
without sign of life, did not raise in us regrets that we had come by sea, especially when
told that what we saw, was a fairly correct sample of most of the country we should have ridden
through.

On the entire six hundred miles' length of coast south of Cape Spartel, and down which we were
steaming, there is not a single lighthouse, bell, beacon, or buoy to mark a reef or shoal,
nor is there any harbour, and no steamer dares to lie close in-shore off a port at night. Therefore,
as there are several ports at which cargo has generally to be landed or taken on board, steamers
go on the line of steaming all night, and lying outside a port in the daytime, while boats
carry cargo between them and the shore. Rabat, Casablanca, Mazagan--we stopped at them all,
and got accustomed to the eternal clank of the crane hoisting bales in and out of the boats;
to rolling on to the backs and down into the troughs of the Atlantic combers.

Finally, we reached Mogador early on the morning of Good Friday, 1902, and said good-bye to
the uneasy Arpad and its primitive ménage without regret: irregular, white-walled Mogador,
set in its rock-locked harbour, lay in front of us. It was the hot south--there was no doubt
about that. The Riviera is called "the sunny south," and Tangier is warmer than the Riviera;
but penetrate inland into Africa, go down as far as Mogador, and it is another thing altogether.
Here there is no trace of Europe, but a great sense of being far away in letter and spirit
from England--farther away than Bombay, and many another place, which out-distances it in miles
again and again.

We saw Mogador first in a grey light: heavy thunder-clouds hung above; dim and visionary hills
lay behind; a regiment of camels paraded the wet sands in front, and lay in the sun underneath
the battlemented walls; black flags floated from the mosque-tops, for it was the Mussulman
Sunday. For the rest Mogador is a city of sea and sand--sand, sand, and yet more sand: it takes
two hours' riding to get to anything else except sand.

With the grey waves washing round two sides of it, and two sides blown and sanded by desert
wastes, white-walled Mogador has a somewhat saddened aspect, as of lifeless bleached bones,
apart from the fact that it is so far removed from the outer world.

And infinitely remote, it certainly is. A telegram takes about a fortnight to reach England;
so that an answer by wire to a wire can be expected in about a month. A letter sent by a special
courier to Tangier takes eight days--a distance of four hundred miles: by this means a wire
could be sent to England in nine days. The steamers to Mogador are most irregular, because,
in view of there being no safe anchorage, a boat will not put in in bad weather. Cargo, passengers,
and mails are often and often enough not landed at all, and the inhabitants of the city see
but the stern of the vanished steamer with all their letters on board, not to return perhaps
for a week. When the English Consul married, and his furniture was sent out from England, the
Forward boat, which brought it, came in sight of Mogador, and, being a rough day, went off
to Madeira and on its round by the Canary Isles, back to London again, without touching at
the sad white city at all. In this way things are apt to be lost: it has happened with passengers.

A rowing-boat landed us on green seaweedy rocks, and we walked up the old shell-encrusted water-stairs,
and under the arch of the Water-port Gate, above which is carved in Arabic, "The glorious King,
my lord Mohammed, ordered the building of this gate by his servant Hamed, son of Hammoo, 1184."

Once on a time, Agadir, a city on the coast, much farther south, was the great port and commercial
centre of Southern Morocco; but it was far removed from the Sultan's grasp, the tax-gatherer
could pursue the even tenor of his ways without interruption, and the kaid afford to be dictatorial
and troublesome. Then the heavy hand fell, and the Sultan's armies closed the seaport, offering
its throng of prosperous merchants the alternative of going to prison or of taking up their
abode in Mogador. This they did, and Mogador arose; while to work the lighters (the cargo-boats),
and to generally serve the merchants, a company of Berbers was transported with them from the
Sus and Agadir to the new seaport.

Beyond the Water-port Gate we met a line of heavily laden camels, with a company of athletic
Berber drivers from the Sus, in quaint long tunics of butcher-blue, and lank black hair: many
of the men veiled themselves; they all looked as wild as hawks, different from any type hitherto
seen.

The familiar Hebrew broker, in dark blue or black gabardine and greasy skull-cap, was strongly
en evidence; while as to the state of the dogs we met, of them must the Moorish proverb be
written, "If fasting be a title to Paradise, let the dog walk in first."

Our baggage had all to pass through the Customs House inside the Water-port Gate; and there
we walked, through great white-walled courtyards, whose vistas, of arch beyond arch, suggested
Temple courts. Donkeys laden with skins were hurrying across them. Now and then a train of
camels swung along, carrying gum or wax or argan oil or almonds. In a good almond year as many
as a thousand camels have sometimes come into Mogador in one day. The Customs House officer
was at breakfast, and we awaited his coming by our baggage. At last there was a stir among
the many hands who had carried our things up from the boat, and the most solemn and dignified
individual conceivable slowly sailed upon the scene, way being made for his flowing robes,
which were white as a sheet of best glazed "cream-laid" before the pen marks it. I handed him
our pass-paper from the Customs House officer at Tangier, feeling like a humble subject laying
a petition before a monarch: he slowly unfolded it, and more slowly searched for and produced
a pair of spectacles in a silver case. Lastly, having read the document and reviewed our pile,
he "passed" it with an impressive wave of his hand. He then took a seat, a Moor minion on each
side: we filed solemnly past him, shaking him by the hand. A new-born infant has not such a
guileless face as that bland Arab.

We took up quarters in the Suera Hotel, managed by a capable Scotchwoman and her husband, who
had once farmed on the veldt. Early next day I rode to Palm-tree House on a little horse belonging
to the hotel: out by the Beach Gate, we cantered along the sands close to the sea, crossed
the river, left the patron saint-house of Mogador on our left hand, bore upwards across the
sandy dunes, and struck inland over hard calcareous rock, where, in the teeth of the wind,
the sand never lies. It was blowing, that day, a hot desert wind, which in a naturally hot
place only makes one the hotter: with the wind, came a good deal of fine sand, on a really
windy day making riding almost impossible.

Palm-tree House is a hotel four miles south-east of Mogador, in the loneliest of situations,
with the advantage of a view and an open, wild country all round: it has none of the drawbacks
of the city; it is breezy, wild, and bare. Having reached the top of the dunes, we struck off
in more or less of a bee-line for Palm-tree House, still riding over soft sand, where nothing
but miles upon miles of r`tam (white broom) grew, lovely when in flower, of which we were destined
to see almost more than enough before we left Southern Morocco.

The horses ploughed their way through the white track; two or three butterflies hovered about
the r`tam; chameleons scuttled occasionally over the path; a tortoise crept along. There were
not a few locusts about either, looking like handsome little dragon-flies on the wing.

A last canter along one of the rough rides through the scrub led us up to the house, planted
well on a rising sand-hill, a view of the sea in front, the hills behind.

There are no palm-trees, and there is no garden, nor is there any water, I was told, on the
spot; but for all that, Palm-tree House might have been a satisfactory lodge wherein to put
up. The stunted bush and the sand fringed the very walls. It had the country to itself, and
there was nothing but itself which could spoil that country. It was cool and airy and oddly
quiet. Inside, tiles and open patios and big panelled rooms gave all that could be desired:
outside, there was an impression of simplicity and freedom.

The stables were a great point, and the bobbery pack, which hunt pig for five months all through
the winter, accounted in one season for something like nineteen full-grown boar, ten tuskers,
and nine sows.

Palm-tree House belonged for more than twenty years to a British merchant, who simply provided
accommodation for any sportsman liking to come out and put up for a week or so outside Mogador:
it has still the air of a shooting-box. The host, in breeches and gaiters and a great felt
wideawake, rode up while we were there, and offered us every hospitality--a tall wiry man,
with good hands and seat.

Had time been of no object, we should have moved on into Palm-tree House. It would be a spot
to visit at any season, for the climate scarcely varies all the year round: the difference
between summer and winter is not more than five degrees.

Back again in the city and strolling round it that same afternoon, the conviction was borne
in upon us that of all saddening spots Mogador was possibly the saddest--that is, to the traveller,
from an outside point of view: residents may have another tale to tell. But without vegetation
or cultivation within sight, suggestive of life and change and labour, with the monotonous
roar of the grey breakers beating its seaward walls, and wastes of blown white sand to landward,
Mogador is the picture of a city which has lost all heart, and settled down into grim apathy,
without a vestige of joy or activity outside its walls. The overcrowding of the Jews in the
Mellah is a shocking evil, already stamping the rising generation with disease.

Earlier by three-quarters of an hour than Tetuan at the same time of year, the city gates at
Mogador were shut at six o'clock, and picnic parties of Moorish or European traders were hurried
back in broad daylight. We met the basha gravely pacing the sands on a white mule with scarlet
trappings--of all stout officials, in a country where it is a sin and a shame on the part of
one in office to be thin, the stoutest. His broad body overshadowed the big mule, and his two
little legs might have been a pair of ninepins below a vast cask draped in white.

To the south of Mogador lies first the Sus country and then Wadnoon, dividing the Morocco which
is partly known to Europeans, from the Sahara, which nobody knows. The Sus may be said to be
practically unknown, and it is distinctly "forbidden" land, through which only two or three
travellers have ever passed--Oskar Lenz, Gatell, Gerhard Rohlfs, and possibly a missionary;
but they were all disguised and went in terror of their lives; nor have they left satisfactory
records of their experiences.

And yet the Sus is comparatively close to Mogador, with which it trades; mules from the Sus
were always in the Mogador market; camels were coming in every week with wool, camels' hair,
goat-skins, hides, beeswax, a little gold dust, ostrich feathers, gum-arabic, cattle, and all
the produce of the Sahara; while the Berbers from the Sus were interesting above any Riffis
or tribesmen with whom we had hitherto met.

Their country is supposed to contain rich mines: it is said to be fertile and thickly populated;
it is not loyal--on the contrary, it is ill-affected to its liege lord, the Sultan; it is fanatical
to a degree, and largely swayed by a form of government best expressed by its title--Council
of Forty. In return for their own goods the Berbers from the Sus carry back into their country
all sorts of Manchester goods, powder, tea, sugar, cheap German cutlery, and the like.

These same Berbers, of unknown origin, were, so the Kor[=a]n tells us, packed up by King David,
in olden times, in sacks, and carried out of Syria on camels, since he wished to see them no
more. Arrived somewhere near the Atlas Mountains, their leader called out in the Berber tongue
"Sus!" which means "Let down!" "Empty out!" So the exiles were turned out of their sacks, and
the country in which they settled is called Sus to this day.

Wadnoon trades to a great extent with the Soudan, and Mogador receives an immense amount of
its ostrich feathers: slaves are the most important article of commerce in Wadnoon, and Morocco
is the chief market for this traffic in humanity, the slaves being brought chiefly to Morocco City.

But if a fever lays hold of the traveller for penetrating into the unknown Sus, what must be
felt of the great Sahara, that waveless inland sea of sand, with its eternal stretches of depressionless
wastes reaching on, past horizon after horizon? Perhaps an occasional oasis, green as young
corn; a well; a feathery date-palm; a melon-patch. But rare are these things, and for the most
part the Sahara is an endless desert which few Europeans could cross and live. Its ancient
lore, its mystic traditions, give it a fascination all its own. Imagine the ostrich-hunting
on its borders; picture the natives riding their unequalled breed of horses, the wind-drinkers,
which carry their masters a hundred miles a day, and which, ridden after the birds up-wind,
gradually tire them down, until they can be knocked on the head with a bludgeon; the Arabs
too, themselves, with the unforgettable manners possessed by such as Abraham, and handed down
from time immemorial; last of all, Timbuctoo, the Queen of the Desert, the fabled home of the
voracious cassowary,--does not the picture imperiously summon the traveller "over the hills
and far away"? Very far away; for Timbuctoo is twelve hundred miles from Mogador, and a journey
there would mean at least forty days across the Sahara, through a country belonging to peoples
in no way friendly towards "infidels," where oases are few and far between.

Some day we may know the Sahara under other conditions, for a scheme was started years ago
with the intention of flooding the great desert by means of a canal from the Atlantic Ocean,
which should carry water on to El Joof, an immense depression well below sea-level somewhere
in the centre. Thus, where all is now sand, would lie a vast sea: we should "boat" to Timbuctoo.
So far, however, the scheme has begun and ended in words.

But though the great Sahara is desert pure and simple, it is a mistake to imagine it devoid
of life. Even as there has never yet been found a collection of aborigines without its totem,
neither are there any extensive parts of the globe where life of some sort does not exist.
The Sahara is little known, chiefly because the oases in the centre are occupied by intensely
hostile and warlike tribes, whose animosity is chiefly directed towards the French, whom they
hate with a deadly hatred. But the edges of the great desert have been visited, and on the
northern limits two animals are found--the addax antelope, and Loder's gazelle. The wide-spread
hoofs of the addax antelope enable it to travel over sand at a great pace. It is a large and
ungainly beast with spiral horns. Probably it follows in the wake of the rains wherever they
go; but what happens to it in the dry season is unknown. Similarly with Loder's gazelle: though
more or less a desert animal, it is a mystery how it remains alive through the long rainless
months, in places apparently without water, and on wastes of rolling, wind-drifted sand.

Of the natural inhabitants of desert country, the Sahara is by no means devoid: sand-lizards,
jumping-mice, sand-grouse, sand-vipers, desert-larks, and even a family of snakes belonging
to the boas, are to be found. The kh[=a]ki-coloured sand-grouse are most difficult to see on
the yellow face of the country: the sand-rats and sand-moles all take on the colour of their
surroundings, and thus hide and protect themselves: one and all exist in some marvellous manner
where it would seem that existence could only be miraculous. The skink is met with, beloved
of the Romans, who imported desert-skinks into Rome in Pliny's day, and held them a valuable
remedy for consumption, chopped up into a sort of white wine: the trade was brisk in 1581.
To-day the Arabs consider it a remedy, and eat it as a food. It acts very much in the same
way as do flat-fish in the bottom of the sea, sinking itself under the sand, allowing the sand
to lie over its back and cover it, like a flounder, only leaving its sharp eyes out of cover,
and sometimes the spines on its back.

For the maintenance of all this animal life, it is quite possible that rain may occasionally
fall even upon desert, and disappear with lightning-like rapidity; for on the borders of certain
African deserts in the north a phenomenon very much like the description of the Mosaic manna
occurs when the plains have been wetted with rain. The surface is seen next morning "covered
with little white globes like tiny puff-balls, the size of a bird-cherry, or spilled globes
of some large grain." It is gathered and eaten by the Arabs, but, like an unsubstantial fungus
growth, melts or rots in the course of a day or two.

Enough of the Sahara. Meeting with men in Mogador who had come straight from the mysterious
country, veiled, untamed, and remotely removed from European touch, our interest was naturally
kindled in that Back of the Beyond. There is no need for the traveller to penetrate so far
as either the Sahara or the Sus. Long before he reaches them, and in order to do so, he must
cross the Atlas Mountains by one of the wild passes, and the great chain of the Atlas is still
unsurveyed and practically unknown. Sir Joseph Hooker and Dr. Ball explored a part of its valleys
many years ago: no one since then has made a satisfactory attempt to learn details. The chain
is supposed to be about thirteen thousand feet high, and it is about twenty miles from Morocco
City; but the character of the lawless chiefs and tribesmen who inhabit it, so far prevents
intrusion and exploration.

In a few days we were to see it--the mighty, solitary wall, on which the ancients believed
the world to rest, described by Pliny, rising abruptly out of the plains, snowclad, one of
the world's finest sights: the Atlas had largely brought us to Southern Morocco.

CHAPTER X

     And all this time you (at home) are drinking champagne (well,
     most of it, anyway), and sleeping in soft beds with delicious
     white sheets, and smoking Turkish cigarettes, and wearing clean
     clothes, with nice stiff collars and shirt-cuffs, and having
     great warm baths in marble bath-rooms and sweet-smelling soap . . .
     and sitting side by side at table, first a man and then a
     woman--the same old arrangement, I suppose--knives to the right
     and forks to the left, as usual.

THE hot desert wind in Mogador showed no signs of changing: there was no enlivening sun, and
the sad white seaport could only charm in a morbid manner: to be out under the skies, in the
open, away from the city and sealed houses and the eyes, was a thing to be sought after, and
that quickly. Southern Morocco is like the East in that it is all eyes. The watchful East--it
may be lazy, but nothing escapes its eyes. They gleam between the folds of the veil; they look
from out of a smooth face, mild and yet as little to be read as the deep sea. And who knows
what lies at the bottom of those quiet pools?

There need be no waste of time in Morocco, even as there is no convention: having decided to
start--start. The 31st of March saw us away, leaving Mogador with the intention of marching
to Marrakesh, which is the Moorish name for Morocco City, the southern capital of the empire.
In order to see more of the country we marched by a zigzag route, crossing, but not following,
the beaten track; thus we were once or twice in villages where European women had not been
seen: we met no one, and we camped in odd, out-of-the way corners, objects of huge interest
to the wandering Arabs with whom we fell in.

Mr. Maddon, the British Consul at Mogador, to whom we brought letters of introduction from
Sir Arthur Nicolson, helped us in several ways, and in his turn provided us with letters to
an Arab in Marrakesh. We managed to buy two mules: one was from the Sus, with a backbone like
a sword-fish and every rib showing, but he was as hard as nails, and would pace along all day
without any trouble; the other was a lazy beast, fat and older; but they both of them proved
useful animals, answering our purpose for the time being. We meant to sell, when we left the
country: hiring is expensive work. Of course it was "just a dear time to buy": it always is.
The Jew broker, through whom we bought the mules from the Susi to whom they belonged, asked
seven pounds ten for each of them, but came down to six pounds fifteen. We sold them some weeks
later for five guineas each: hiring would have cost a great deal more. Ordinarily they are
to be bought for five pounds and less in Mogador. No Susi will trade direct with a European,
and every bargain goes through Israel's hands, which means a big percentage pocketed by the Jew.

Our hotel-keeper, the Scotch lady, provided us with reliable servants, one of whom turned out
to be invaluable. Mulai Omar was, as his name indicates, a saint by heredity. Algeria was his
birthplace. He was twenty-four years old; and having lived in a French possession, spoke French,
not like S`lam, but perfectly. He was a well-educated little fellow, enterprising, energetic;
interpreted Arabic and Shillah for us; acted as cook, in which capacity he was first-rate;
generally organized the camp; and was our personal servant. Mulai Omar was quite a man to know,
and a friend to trust. He was unattractive-looking--small, dark, and dirty; wore a red fez,
a short black monkey-jacket, and immense, full, white cotton drawers. Saïd, our second servant,
intended to look after the mules, was a lazy Arab, who acted the fine gentleman, and was never
without a cigarette in his mouth. He helped Omar more or less, and was responsible for much
loss of temper on our parts, before we parted. Another saint by heredity, Mulai Ombach, looked
after our camel, which carried the heavy baggage. Our fourth and last man, Mohammed, drove
a donkey, nominally for the purpose of carrying provender for the mules and camel, but which
often as not bore either Mulai Ombach or Mohammed himself. The two principal servants, Omar
and Saïd, rode two mules, which carried light loads as well.

We hired a couple of Moorish men's saddles for our own use, red-clothed, high-peaked, and well
stuffed; also two big tents--one for the servants, one for ourselves. Our commissariat was
not hard to manage, helped out with stores we had brought from Tangier; for bearing in mind
Napoleon's truism that "the army marches on its stomach," we had laid in an ample supply.

Eleven o'clock saw us finally under way on the morning of the 31st. We had intended to start
at nine; but any one who has ever travelled and camped out knows the difficulty of getting
away upon that first morning--the final wrench between the servants and their old surroundings,
the dozen petty obstacles. In this case one of the mules hired for baggage turned out to be
in a wretched condition when it came to the hotel, and another had to be found in its place--no
easy matter. The camel was started off at half-past ten with our beds, bedding, cuisine necessaries,
part of the tents, and chairs and table; but, to our disgust, Mulai Ombach, its driver, stopped
short at the bazaar, and there we found them both when we rode through the city. They were
hurried up, and the whole party seen safely through the city gates; but once outside, the camel
was so slow that we left them behind, R. and myself jogging ahead with Mulai Omar and Saïd,
trusting that the heavy baggage would catch us up at lunch-time. One more delay--outside the
Jewish cemetery was standing, waiting for us, the wife of Saïd: many tears were flowing, and
sobs to be heard under the haik. Saïd produced some dollars, which were no doubt intended to
last her during her husband's absence: he then rode on without attempting a farewell, and we
were really off at last.

For the first five miles we hugged the coast in a northerly direction, keeping close to the
sea: the tide was high; in one place, where we made a short cut, resulting in rather a nasty
bit of riding, we were actually in the waves, slipping over black rock, with deep pools on
each side. It was a grey day, not hot, and the hard flat sands, across which we rode for the
most part, were excellent going.

The only wayfarers we met, tramped along behind camels. Untrustworthy brutes these animals
are, especially the bubbling ones, out of whose way we most cautiously kept; for though a camel
seldom bites, when he does it is serious. He never forgets an injury. A man in Mogador ill-treated
one badly a few years ago: it went into the interior for a year, and came back to Mogador,
and met and knew the man at once, taking him by the nape of the neck, as is its habit, and
tearing the back of his skull off.

The sandy dunes on our right were covered with r`tam (white broom), slender, waving, silver-green
stems, in seed just then. Only r`tam could grow in such poor soil. When we turned inland we
found ourselves amongst dense undergrowth, a small forest, consisting chiefly of tugga (a sort
of juniper), of myrtle, sidra bushes, and other shrubs, intersected by narrow paths, along
one of which we paced in single file, the limestone which crops up all over the country making
our pace a slow one. It was the middle of the day when we found ourselves in the thick of this
jungle. Omar pointed out a little sandy clearing, and in amongst the bushes, out of earshot
of the track, we halted for lunch. The mules had their packs taken off, and rolled themselves
in the sand. A carpet was spread on a bank; and there, with the sea still to be seen behind
us, the thickets echoing with familiar blackbirds, and every space glowing with thyme, iris,
lavender, and other flowers, we spent the first of many lazy hours of the sort. Alas! our camel
was still behind us, and never turned up: that was a wretched piece of bundobust. But long
before we quitted Morocco we vowed never to have a camel for baggage again.

Only half-an-hour's halt we allowed ourselves; then saddled up, and were off again. Still through
"jungle," and by a sandy path the trail led us, blocked often by stones and rocks, truly one
of those

       . . . sad highways, left at large
    To ruts and stones and lovely Nature's skill,
    Who is no pavior.

The flowers became more interesting at every step; but there was little time to get off and
collect specimens, though the path was so narrow that, riding along, pink climbing convolvulus
and tall lavender could easily be gathered off the bushes. For any unknown specimen some one
dismounted, and it was stowed away in an empty tin kettle for safety.

By-and-by we dropped down into a narrow valley, green and cultivated: a lonely palm-tree or
two stuck up--the "feather duster struck by lightning" of Mark Twain. A fine crop of beans
was growing on our right, Indian corn and barley to the left: the land looked full of heart,
rich, and unlike even the Tetuan country. We came across a man or two working in a dirty white
tunic in the fields, and left behind some wretched huts down by a spring. About this time we
lost Omar's dog, which was to have been our guard--a rather lame lurcher, which thought better
of footing it all the way to Marrakesh.

The country was full of magpies--not nearly so smart as our Warwickshire mags, brownish about
the tail, and with less white; yet they could scarcely have been in bad plumage at that time
of year. In a narrow pathway we stood aside to let a camel pass: since we had left the coast
wayfarers had grown rare for the most part. The place at which we had halted for lunch was
El Faidar, within sight of one of Morocco's countless little white saint-houses--Sidi Bousuktor.
Now, after a long climb over a ridge, we looked down from the top into a valley--Ain-el-Hadger;
and Omar pointed out in the distance the spot he suggested we should camp at for the night.
Descending the ridge was the roughest piece of riding on the road to Marrakesh: the shale gave
way under the mules' feet; great rocks projected on the track. None of us dismounted, however:
Tetuan had hardened our hearts and accustomed us to awkward corners, and the mules were clever.
Slowly we slipped and slid down into the most luxuriant green vale, set in the scrub-covered
hills, carpeted with fields of young corn, olive-trees, gardens, fruit-trees, and flowers abundantly.

To the north, upon our left, lay the Iron Mountains, no very great height, somewhere about
two thousand feet, and famous for iron in the days of the Romans and Carthaginians, who both
probably worked them. Now they are mined no more, and only known as the favourite quarters
of wild boar, signs of whose existence we saw for ourselves, in patches of ground rooted and
torn up.

We rode down through these fruitful acres as the sun was getting low: here and there lay a
little white farmer's house; birds were everywhere--suddenly we heard a cuckoo, then a nightingale.

At a place where three little glens met we passed a tall look-out tower, standing sentry over
each one, from the top of which the Ain-el-Hadger people could easily see an enemy coming.
In England it would have been a ruin: in Morocco it was in active use,--it is still "the Middle
Ages" in Morocco.

Leaving a garden on the left, surrounded by a high tapia wall, we crossed a little streamlet
into the brook which waters the valley, and reached at last a corner surrounded with grey olives,
deep in lush grass, and overlooked by the inevitable quaint white-domed saint-house on the
top of a rocky hillock. It was an ideal spot. Omar and Saïd laid their two guns under a tree
(they rode with them across their knees, ancient flint-locks, and carried bullets in bags at
their sides, Omar possessing a French rifle as well); we off-saddled, unloaded the two men's
mules, and unpacked what there was to unpack, the camel having practically everything. R. and
I strolled about and photographed. A countryman brought us three fowls and some eggs. The sun
set. Still the wretched camel had not come. Dew fell heavily, and Omar made a famous fire and
supplied us with hot green tea. At last there were voices; a great form loomed in the darkness
and swung towards us; the donkey followed. It was not long before the camel was unloaded, our
big tent up, table and chairs and beds put together, and though dinner was late it was the
more acceptable, The Saint proving a chef. A pannierful of bread was part of the camel's luggage,
and intended to last us until we got to Marrakesh: vegetables we had in plenty for the first
two or three days. And Omar worked wonders with the means at his disposal. Early we turned
in: the stars were out; the frogs croaked in the streamlets. With the tent-flap tied back,
and looking out into the quiet night, we slept as sound as tramps on the roadside at home.

I woke at 2 a.m. The guard had stopped talking, and were all asleep and snoring round the tents,
except one old greybeard, who was sitting up by the fire. Four Ain-el-Hadger men had come to
act as guard for the night, bringing their guns and long knives with them. It was oddly light--the
"false dawn" of Omar Khayy[=a]m; but there were no stars.

Such a dawn woke us at five! Every bird for miles around was singing: blackbirds sounded like
England, wood-pigeons cooed, cuckoos insisted, and among them all, strange and Indian, a hoopoe
called. The sun climbed up behind the saint-house and solitary palm; the olives began to cast
shadows; the grass was silver with dew. We breakfasted soon after six, our table out on the
green lawn. Such air and scents of moist earth! It was chilly too. The mules fed busily in
the long wet grass; behind the kitchen-tent the camel lay, chewing; an old sheikh turned up
on a donkey, and joined the servants at breakfast round the fire, at one of those meals which
were all green tea and tobacco.

Just as we were starting a party of fifteen sheikhs and countrymen rode up on their way to
a distant "powder play" at the fête of some saint, two days' journey off. Passing our camp,
they turned into a little three-cornered field of much poppies and little corn, and proceeded
to bivouac for an hour or two. Tailing one after another through a gap in the hedge, on the
finest barbs Southern Morocco can produce, heavy, but handsome in their way (particularly a
white with flowing mane and tail, and two iron-greys), they pulled up underneath some dense
green fig-trees, and dismounted in the shade, leaving their scarlet cloth saddles to match
the poppies.

There was colour running riot indeed. Several of the stately figures, all in white, walked
up to the saint-house to pray: one great man waddled down to the stream (to be great is to
be fat, in Morocco), and a few began to groom their horses. The guns were piled: the sun glinted
on them and on the silver-chased stirrups, and blazed on the snowy garments, on the poppies,
and the saddles, one of which was blue, another yellow. We were in the land of Arabs: the Berbers
were left behind at Mogador, and these tall lean horsemen, burnt coffee-coloured, were all
descendants of the sons of the desert.

By this time the camp was scattered: the camel had risen from its knees and paced off under
its medley load some time before, attended by Mulai Ombach, Mohammed, and the donkey.

The Ain-el-Hadger guard had each received a trifle for his night's services; Saïd had groomed
and brought up our mules; we mounted, and, followed by himself and Omar, perched on the top
of the two packs, their guns sticking out at one side, rode away. The first few miles were
not marked by anything of particular interest: the collections of huts and bare walls which
sometimes adorned the hillsides were far away; the curious piles of stones in the fields, almost
like scarecrows, were only landmarks. But after a time we rode into the country of the argan-tree,
that most interesting and unique specimen, which flourishes in this corner of Morocco, covering
an area about two hundred miles long and forty wide, and growing nowhere else in the known
world. Southern Morocco would be lost indeed without argan oil, which is used for cooking purposes
as a substitute for butter, and of which we had with us a large supply. The oil is extracted
from the fruit of the tree: at the end of March it should be fit to gather, looking much like
a large olive, and possessed of a green fleshy husk, greedily eaten by camels, goats, sheep,
and oxen. Thus, as well as gathering the nuts themselves off the ground, the country people
allow their flocks to feed upon the fruit: having driven them home, the animals chew the cud,
disgorging the argan nuts, which are collected, and eventually cracked by women and children
in order to obtain oil.

The average height of the tree is twenty-five feet, but its rugged side branches will cover
a space of seventy feet. Gnarled and twisted, the bark is a little like crocodile-skin, and
forms in squares: the trunk has a way of folding upon itself, too, as it grows--slowly; for
a large tree may be three hundred years old, and in consequence its wood is immensely hard.
The argan is more or less tropical: though a tree has been known to live against a south wall
in England, it was killed by the first severe winter.

Among the argans, little oxen were ploughing the red rich soil of the vale through which we
rode; it was watered by a brook, and real hedges of pomegranate, out in brilliant flower, divided
the fields. In one of these some Arabs were digging carrots; in another homely potatoes, the
first we had seen, were doing remarkably well.

By this time the camel and attendants had been overtaken and left far behind, and since we
had passed our heavy baggage no other forms of life seemed to be travelling along the same
trail as our own: certainly a countryman joined himself to us, partly to point out our direction,
partly for the sake of company; he held his stick behind his shoulders and stepped out well,
but not for long. And after he had left we only saw a few women in the distance. These were
often on donkeys, and some carried water-pots on their heads; but not one of them was "a beast
of burden" in the sense of the women round Tetuan--not one crouched under an overpowering load
of faggots or charcoal.

As we jogged on, the great barley-fields, all in ear, though still green, might have led us
to believe we were in England, except that in the next sheltered spot a white saint-house would
be found, with its dome and its palm-tree, perhaps a shady olive grove, allowed to flourish
for the sake of the holy place. Yes, it was Africa.

Farther on, an Arab village lay close to the track, no windows in its yellowish flat walls,
apparently no roofs: a stoned arched entrance was filled up with thorn-bushes, and the tops
of the walls piled with the same to prevent outsiders from molesting the inmates. This warlike
tendency was again shown in another watch-tower, built, like the last, at the conjunction of
two valleys.

Meanwhile, the bare and uninteresting-looking Iron Mountains were disappearing from view: another
ridge, which met them at right angles, spotted with argan-trees, looked in the distance like
a tea or coffee plantation on Eastern hills--that too faded from sight; and we rode on--now
through a blaze of flowers, for every hedge flamed pink and yellow, and even the dry thorns
were blotted with colour--now past fields of mauve poppies and scarlet poppies and stretches
of stainless blue. A white saint-house stood out against the colour, its dome like dazzling
chalk, it shadows blue: we looked back at it from under an argan-tree, in the shade of which
we rested for ten minutes, picking up a few nuts, and drinking long and deep out of Omar's
stone water-jar.

Not far from this spot we came upon Sok-el-Had (the Sunday Market)--that is, a place where
every Sunday a country market is held, and to which the whole countryside flocks to do its
marketing. This was Tuesday, and therefore Sok-el-Had was forlorn and deserted, its rows of
little mud huts and its meat-hangers empty, not a soul within miles. They are as old as Morocco,
these places known by the name of the week-day on which the market is held--places so strangely
deserted upon any other day.

Still we rode on for several hours, past Sheikh Boujiman Ben Hamed's white house, while the
sun blazed on the bare path, and the argans stood too far apart to cast consecutive shade.
It was with much satisfaction that we saw our next camping-ground in the distance about one
o'clock: we had started early, and a long lazy afternoon was a good prospect. Sok-el-Tleta
is named once more after its market--Tuesday Market. Even as Sok-el-Had was forlorn, so Sok-el-Tleta
in proportion teemed with life. Held on the open hillside, upon a great bare space worn brown
by cycles of Tuesday markets, the prevailing colour brown and white, hundreds of mules, hundreds
of Arabs, the sight was one not to be forgotten.

We dismounted, and followed Omar into the thick of the fray, surrounded at once by a staring
and interested crowd. It was an extraordinary scene. Streets were formed by rows upon rows
of little mud cubicles, thatched over, inside which, on a mud shelf, the vendor sat, with his
goods spread out for sale round him. Slippers were being mended; blacksmith's work was being
done; cottons and stuffs were selling, sugar, groceries of all sorts, brand-new slippers and
new clothes, vegetables and meat. Meat was the centre of the whirlpool, and round the carcases
and shapeless joints the largest crowd: it hung on upright stakes and branches stuck in the
ground, and the effect was that of a nightmare wood, in which the weird trees were bearing
gory and dreadful fruit. It was all life and stir, that bare hillside; and by half-past one
o'clock the whole thing had melted away, and there was no sign of a human being moving.

Mulai Omar was well known in Sok-el-Tleta, his wife's relatives living there: because he was
a saint his clothes and slippers were kissed by every one who met us as we rode along to our
camp beyond the Tuesday Market. We passed women and children digging for ayerna root: the corn
not being yet ripe, they were short of food. The root of this weed, though eatable, is most
unwholesome, and unless carefully prepared, people grow thinner and more yellow upon it daily.

But all our interest in a few moments was focussed upon a most imposing ruin, a real Windsor
Castle of a rudimentary type, which commanded a hilltop on a table-land on the right, great
walls rearing themselves up to the sky, towers defending every corner, a turreted gate-house
the entrance, and the whole loop-holed, grim-looking enough. Obviously the kaid who built such
a kasbah was a great man: his garden, a beautiful overgrown wilderness, gone like his castle
to rack and ruin, lay below at Sok-el-Tleta, wisely situated, for vegetation would have been
badly exposed upon the hilltop.

About twenty-seven years ago the kaid who built the kasbah--chiefly by forced labour on the
part of all the country people for miles round, though skilled workmen came from Mogador and
were paid--was attacked by the Arab tribes from end to end of his province of Shedma, and after
a six-months' siege was forced to fly to Marrakesh, where he died in prison, the tribesmen
demolishing the castle for hidden treasure, till every wall had yielded its secret. Probably
he oppressed his province like every other kaid, and was well hated. We went inside, and it
was a foregone conclusion that we should camp there upon the grass. The governor's own halls
were in a block in the centre, room after room, most intricate. Our tents were pitched in the
vast sunny courtyard. We wandered about, exploring the odd corners, all the afternoon: not
a vestige of timber or decoration remained. Handsome little red-brown kestrels with grey heads
hovered over us and sat on the old walls, uttering their querulous cry: a beautiful blue jay,
with cinnamon back and black-tipped wings and tail, was nesting in a hole among the bricks,
and let us come close to him. A sib-sib scampered along an old window-ledge, a little animal
like a squirrel, grey with striped back, the stripes running from head to tail: it ruffled
out its tail at will.

The camel turned up at five, having been nine hours on the road. Later on a mona (a present)
was brought us, consisting of butter, in a lordly dish set round with pink roses. So in the
deserted walls of the kasbah we passed the night. Ghosts ought to have haunted those horrible
death-traps, the matamors, of which there are said to be a hundred. The ground seemed riddled
with these "wells," intended for the storage of grain, but used by sheikhs and kaids as their
private prisons, whence at their will they draft on luckless captives to the public gaols:
an old enemy is quite harmless in a matamor, with a square stone over the top, for the rest
of his life.

The wonderful cisterns were another feature of the kasbah, immense tanks underground, concreted
and still water-tight--at the end of every dry season cleaned out and whitewashed, now half
full of stinking rain-water and decay.

We got off at seven the next morning, struck the main road from Mogador, left it, and found
ourselves in quite an agricultural country, green barley-fields, planted all over at intervals
with figs and pomegranates, even hedges of a sort. Then again we were in the argan forest--the
last of it, and the best: beautiful trees, with their knarled, twisted branches. I thought
of yews on the Surrey hills. Here coarse grass grew between, something like a park at home:
goats clambered up into the forks, feasting on the green fruit. But all too soon the argans
came to an end, and we saw this phenomenon of Morocco no more.

Nor was the exchange of the argan forest for the everlasting r`tam (white broom) and a sun-baked,
arid wilderness, a welcome one. It always meant stones and sand and a general grilling, the
r`tam, as it waved like pampas-grass to the far horizon. By-and-by palmetto cropped up, the
fan-shaped dwarf palm, which makes ropes and twine, baskets, mats, dish-covers, leggings, hats,
and girths. Here it grew in the middle of wretched little attempts at corn-fields--a drawback
to farming, though from want of water farming might well have been let alone. Topping a rise,
the whole undulating country was r`tam and palmetto: occasionally a flock of goats moved on
its face, tended by thin mahogany-coloured Arab boys in dirty woollen tunics.

When a single olive-tree appeared, we hailed its shade for lunch. The mules, hobbled together,
grazed: Omar and Saïd lay at a short distance, drinking green tea and smoking near the little
fire they had lit. Botanical specimens had to be dried.

That night we camped outside the kasbah belonging to the most powerful kaid in the whole district:
an immense reddish-yellow pile it was, built of tapia--that is, of mud, gravel, and water principally,
poured into bottomless cases on the wall itself, and left to set. The kasbah had lived through
a siege or two, and looked as if it would "ruin" quickly. From the arched gateway a crowd of
squalid retainers emerged to stare at sun-helmets and Englishwomen: living like mediæval times
within the castle's protecting walls, the "feudal system" practically obtains in Morocco in
the present day.

Alas! the governor, Kaid Mohammed, was at Fez: his khaylifa (lieutenant) received us inside
the filthy and squalid kasbah, seated on a doorstep--a better-dressed man than his retainers,
curtailed perhaps in intellectual allowance, who gave us leave to camp outside.

That evening we watched a blindfolded camel turning a water-wheel, and some wretched prisoners,
with irons on their feet, who shuffled out of the gate and drew water. A black slave brought
Kaid Mohammed's horses to water one by one; then made each roll on a sandy patch of ground,
off which he first carefully picked every stone.

The sun streamed in at our tent door next morning, but we were at breakfast before it had more
than left the horizon, and soon on our way through a rough country of scrub and olives--a capital
country for pig (which are shot in numbers), and practicable for spearing them, one would think.
Jogging along little paths, with a cool breeze in our faces, which invariably went round with
the sun, we came by-and-by to a valley, green and wooded with olives, where barley was growing,
looking as if it had been kept under glass, it was such an even crop, and rooted in the richest
soil. Crack--crack--ping! and a stone whistled over our heads: this meant Arab boys scaring
birds with slings, made of dried grass, and probably after David's pattern.

From out of an Arab village a little black child ran with a bowl of very sour milk, which,
however, Omar and Saïd appreciated: the child wore one filthy whitish garment and a bead necklace,
a little inky-black pigtail completing it.

This was a day of all days, in that we had our first view of the Atlas Mountains--those mountains
which we had come so far to see. There they were, first seen from a certain ridge, mighty peaks,
snow-covered, filling one with an intense desire to travel into their fastnesses: a haze, however,
hid the greater part of the range.

A countryman joined us for a short distance, to whom Omar gave a cigarette-paper and a pinch
of tobacco. Again all cultivation was exchanged for uncompromising plain, stones, stones, and
a soil like iron, on which nothing grew except the thorny zizyphus lotus, with the double row
of thorns, one pointing forward, the other back, out of which the Soudanese make their zarebas.
A colony of bottle-shaped nests, made of dried grass, in these thorn-bushes, tempted me to
try for some eggs. The attempt proved what a barrier the thorny lotus can be. I was extricated
with difficulty by means of Omar's gun-barrels and Saïd's hands; but not without one nest and
eggs--they apparently belonged to a variety of sparrow.

A well with one tree, a spot of shade in the arid plain, intervened farther on. The mules drank.
An Arab rode up, lean, walnut-coloured; slipped off his high-peaked red saddle, hobbled his
mule, and lay down under the tree. Hot as it was, we pushed on. This plain is said to remind
travellers of the stony part of the Sahara. In the air was a scent of burnt grass and flowers--a
honey smell: every time a breeze came we were duly grateful. The mules clattered on over the
stones until Sidi Moktar came in sight--a saint-house of the deepest sanctity, near which a
country market is held one day a week. Up to this cluster of what Omar dignified by the name
of shops we rode, and, dismounting, stooped our heads, and took possession of one of the minute
mud-booths, the servants going into another next door. We could sit upright, though not stand,
and there was shade in the shape of a thatched covering, while after the glare and flare of
the sun outside it was as cool as a cellar.

From one to three we rested there, drank green tea after lunch, studied maps, took notes. But
the sun was as hot as ever when we took to the open road again, plain before us, the Atlas
dimly to be seen. Some oddly formed hills, from four to five hundred feet high, flat-topped,
presently appeared: one, from its contour, is called Hank-el-Jemmel (Camel's Back). We rode
past them. A layer of coarse chalcedony covers the flat summits, which would offer resistance
when, ages ago, the Atlas wall was scooped into ridge and ravine, and the plain below washed
bare, except for isolated remnants, such as these table-hills. We picked up fragments of chalcedony
and small blocks of volcanic rock, or basalt.

About five o'clock we reached an Arab douar, or village, and decided to camp near it for the
night. Twenty or thirty conical huts, made of branches and grass and anything which keeps out
the sun, black camel's hair or a worn-out garment; the whole surrounded by a great hedge, or
zareba, of the thorny lotus, not growing, but piled up, one hole left in the fence for exit,
and closed at night by simply piling extra thorns in the space; a company of howling dogs,--such
is an Arab douar, and it is probably unequalled for filth, though when the parasites become
too many, even the thick-skinned Bedouin moves out, and a new douar is put up somewhere else.
There was no choice as regards camping near such a spot: it may have been unsafe in the open--at
any rate no servants could ever be induced to sleep except under the protection of a village
or a kasbah.

It was five o'clock. An old sheikh or headman came out from between the thorn-barrier, welcomed
us, and led the way inside to a perfectly impossible open space, a dunghill, amongst the huts,
where we might camp; it was overrun with fowls, and covered with filth of every description.
Therefore, though assured that we should be much safer within the zareba, and deeply against
the wishes of the servants, we insisted upon leading the way outside, and choosing a spot as
far removed from the fence as possible, though only too near for our own comfort. As soon as
the tents were pitched and the sun had set, such a noise of goats (which had just been driven
inside the douar) bleating, and donkeys braying, and dogs barking, and children crying, arose,
as we prayed it might not be our lot often to hear at the end of a hard day.

An admiring throng had gathered round us while the tent was in course of erection, and we were
sitting on the grass. One old woman squatted before us, cross-legged, not a yard from our feet,
and gazed; she wore nothing but one woollen garment, apparently a square held together on the
shoulders by steel pins: her skinny arms, legs, and feet were bare, of course. We did not encourage
"the masses," but kept them at arm's-length with sticks.

That was a noisy night: half the douar was apparently being entertained in the servants' tent,
which for safety was pitched all too close to our own, and they talked far on into the small
hours in mumbling undertones, to the sound of which we finally slept, nor waked till a glorious
dawn in a cloudless sky roused us at five o'clock. The herds were then wending their way out
of the douar, filing across the plain, the mysterious delicate light of sunrise on the backs
of the sheep and goats. By seven o'clock the sun was too hot to sit in for choice. We had already
breakfasted in the conical shadow cast by the tent, a group of children watching every operation,
some of them wearing the quaintest necklaces, of argan nuts strung together, and lumps of yellow
sulphur sewn into perforated squares of leather: these were eagerly untied and handed over
to us for a bellune (2½d.).

At eight o'clock we had left the douar behind, and were heading for Sheshaoua, south of the
Camel's Back, along a trail more stony and desert-like than any before: even the few thorn-bushes
did not flourish; perhaps the white snails, with which they were so thickly covered that the
branches looked all in blossom, did not agree with them--snails which are beloved of partridges.
We met no man nor animal, till at last a rekass passed us, a runner carrying the mail to Mogador,
jogging along the two hundred and seventy miles' journey, for which he would be paid, there
and back again, thirteen shillings. His stick was tucked under his clothes, down his back,
for the sake of ventilation; his waistband was tightened; his palm-leaf wallet was on his back,
with letters, possibly some bread, a match or two, and some hemp, inside. He was a long-limbed
fellow, bronzed and bearded, with the vacant, glassy eyes of a kif-smoker; for kif kept him
going often instead of food, and helped him to swing along day after day, untiring, like a
camel, sleeping little, praying occasionally at a saint's tomb, fording the streams, trotting
over the plains, his eyes fixed on the horizon--"eating the miles," as Arabs say. This particular
rekass left Marrakesh on Monday morning at ten, and reached Mogador on Wednesday afternoon
at three, doing his two hundred and seventy miles in forty-nine hours.

When Sir William Kirby Green died suddenly on an embassy in Marrakesh, a rekass carried the
news to Mazagan, a hundred and sixty miles, in thirty-two hours; but the Vice-Consul told me
that upon reaching his office the man fell down--he could not stand to tell the news.

We rode on, praying for a breeze which never came: the sun literally sizzled on the baked desert,
the rocks gave out an oven-like heat, and the rarefied air oscillated over the wastes. It was
too hazy for more than glimpses of the Atlas and their snows: as far as we could see stretched
only illimitable drab-coloured plain, broken by the flat-topped hills. At last we stumbled
along to the top of a ridge; and there, strange and delightful sight, away in the distance
lay a green basin, trees, no mirage, but the valley of Sheshaoua.

Sheshaoua is a district ruled by a powerful governor, whose great kasbah lies somewhere about
the centre, dominating a large village. The district is watered by a stream from the Atlas
Mountains, which accounts for its fertility; for, except where irrigation is possible, there
can be no cultivation in this sahara: wide ditches conduct the stream across the length and
breadth of the province, resulting in a green ribbon upon the face of the plain, the fields
being edged with little hard mud-banks, keeping the water evenly distributed over the surface
when the crops need flooding.

To have lived upon sun-burn is to appreciate the colour green: the march lost its monotony
and some of its heat, when green lay in front and came nearer with every stride. Two hours
and a half were short: the end of that time found us riding between corn-fields, crossing streamlet
after streamlet watering the vegetation, and at last jogging over real turf, instead of clattering
on stones, which had made talking difficult for the last day or two; now the path was actually
soft and earthy. A long string of camels kept pace with us for a time on a parallel trail;
then a douar came into sight, afterwards two saint-houses and a ruined kasbah. That half of
these castles are ruined is not to be wondered at, considering that they are mud-built, and
that tribal disputes and invasions are interminable. Some of those same crumbling tapia walls
which we passed supported immense earthen jars, standing out against the sky--jars which are
stored with corn or butter, and sealed up: nine months' old butter has the reputation of an
old wine.

Shady trees, standing for the most part by the stream, hung over our path, but would have made
damp camping-grounds, and we rode on through a marsh, up one ridge, down the opposite side,
and at last into the principal village of Sheshaoua, not far from which, on a hillside to the
north-east, lay one of the familiar country market-places, with its collection of little shelters
for the sellers, its upright branches on which to hang meat--Thursday's market this. A ruined,
red-walled kasbah faced it, apparently inhabited by storks alone, busy building their great
rough nests: some were in the village.

Sheshaoua was no douar, but a high-walled collection of houses, overlooked by the modern kasbah
on the hill. Thither we rode, up the steep slope, to call on the kaid, Sekassam Belcady, and
ask permission to pitch the tents in one of the gardens which fringed the stream below. This
the khaylifa granted at once (the kaid himself being at Fez with the Sultan), pressing on us
the alternative of putting up inside the kasbah itself; but the open air had stronger attractions,
and we wound our way downhill to the stream, on the other side of which the kaid's own garden
lay. There being no bridge, the stream deep, and the banks steep, the mules were driven over
by themselves, and R. and I followed one by one on Omar's back--on and into a natural garden
fit for the gods, one of Nature's own parterres, and a paradise at that.

On dry ground, underneath orange-trees covered with blossom, we lunched and lay down: of flowers,
except wild ones, there were none, nor any attempt at cultivation; the terraces were dense
in greenery and shade, interlaced with branches, intersected by streamlets, perfumed with orange
flowers; water murmured; nightingales answered each other from every corner; wood-pigeons cooed
content; most musical of all, the bulbul's throbbing, passionate note--not loud--was heard
for the first time. Yes; we might have said: "If there is a heaven upon earth, it is this,
it is this, it is this."

The snake creeps into most paradises: suddenly a thunder-storm invaded ours; heavy rain began
even to penetrate the thick lace of leaves and branches over our heads, and, walking to the
opening at the edge of the wood, it was clear that heavy storms were working up from the north-east;
nor did the day improve. Having sat through two downpours, with every sign of more to follow,
when another pressing invitation came from the khaylifa to spend the night in the kasbah, it
seemed foolish to do other than accept; for bad weather under tents, which like ours did not
claim to be waterproof, has no attractions. Further, the khaylifa had stated that the guest-house
was new, and had never been occupied.

Thither we hurried through the rain. The inside of the "castle" was blocked by a collection
of filthy-looking sheds or rooms, which seemed to be full of Arabs and negroes and women--wives
of the khaylifa--all of them squalid and mannerless: the paths between were littered with refuse.
A country kaid, judging from the state of his kasbah, is possessed of no refinement, and has
less sense of decency and comfort, as European ideas go, than many members of the labouring
class at home.

The appearance of the guest-house was, however, reassuring: the long lofty room into which
we were shown had been newly whitewashed, the ceiling painted red and green; its double doors
and two windows opened into a little courtyard, and rooms beyond housed the servants. A sheep
was being skinned in an adjoining shed: we were to be feasted.

Meantime, few, if any, of the kaid's retainers could have abstained from visiting us, to judge
by the levée which we held for more than an hour: perhaps the black slaves were most interesting,
but they were also hardest to remove, from the scene of such a phenomenon, as two Englishwomen
within their own walls. Probably no such thing had happened within the memory of man; for Sheshaoua
is off the beaten track to Marrakesh, nor do travellers as a rule sleep out of their tents.

While we had tea, under a battery of eyes, and further annoyed by the chatter at the open door
and windows, a mona (a present from the governor) arrived, and was set down at our feet. It
was not the time--just after tea--to eat an immense dish of coos-coosoo, or a steaming pile
of hot mutton and raisins, cooked in oil, which lay on the round trenchers, when the great
beehive-like straw covers were raised: some of the hot cakes accompanying them might be managed,
but the rest was handed over to the expectant servants, to whom coos-coosoo is as roast beef
to the British labourer, though less stimulating, for it only consists of wheat or millet or
maize flour, granulated, steamed, and eaten hot, sometimes crowned with chicken.

Following hard on the mona came a message from the khaylifa asking for medicine. Graphically
answering my question as to what was the matter with him, the messenger stroked his waist:
we found a pill, which was carried off with much gratitude.

A short time elapsed, and then, to our horror, four slaves arrived, carrying great preparations
for tea--brass trays, urn, and the whole paraphernalia--mint and sweetness filling the room.
Again the servants benefited; and even a third time, after we were actually in bed; for the
door was bombarded, and three women came in, and laid a great almond pudding, of much delicacy,
covered with stripes of grated cinnamon, at our feet.

That night was the one bad experience of our time in Morocco. Though the guest-room was new
and apparently clean, some matting had been laid on the floor, which we had not removed, and
with the darkness its occupants came out in such numbers that, in spite of "Keating" round
the legs of each bed, the long hours were taken up in warfare, and we never slept. Next day
the room was scoured out, and the lively matting ejected, while we were strolling round Sheshaoua
between heavy showers of rain, which reduced the clay country to a state of quagmire. However,
Sunday, after a peaceful night both inside and out of doors, broke fresh and clear: all the
great loose thunder-clouds had packed themselves into long cloudlets with ruled horizontal
bases; and in clear, rarefied air, standing up almost unearthly in their beauty, the Atlas
range from end to end, was to be seen at last. Chiselled peak after peak, upon which no traveller
has ever set foot, glistened in the sun, apparently about ten miles off, in reality more like
thirty or forty. It was one of those mornings which have been thoroughly washed, and the swirling
pea-soup river bore witness to the operation as surely as the air of purity which the whole
country wore. All was radiant: down below, the orange grove of our arrival rang with nightingales
and bulbuls; there was a scent of heaven, an undertone of racing waters.

Just as we were packed up to start, the khaylifa sent and expressed thanks for our medicine,
and asked that as a favour we would see his wives, one of whom was ill. They were found in
mud rooms, dark and dirty, most uninteresting in themselves. One stout "lady" had a swelled
neck, the other had cataract: both wished to be prescribed for. I recommended, through Omar,
bathing the swelled neck: it was necessary from a cleanliness point of view. From the same
point of view I shook hands hurriedly and departed, climbed into the saddle, and was soon far
away from the kasbah at Sheshaoua.

CHAPTER XI

    "We who are old, old and gay,
           O so old!
     Thousands of years, thousands of years,
           If all were told:

     Give to these children, new from the world,
           Rest far from men.
     Is anything better, anything better?
           Tell us it then:

     Us who are old, old and gay,
           O so old!
     Thousands of years, thousands of years,
           If all were told."

    W. B. YEATS.

WE were once more upon the march; and yet all links with the kasbah were not broken, for we
had gone but a short way when a servant ran after us, carrying a familiar dish, known from
afar--a parting mona. Laid at our feet, we tasted, as courtesy demanded, a coos-coosoo made
of grated almonds, powdered sugar, and cream--a sweet which cloys at an early hour in the day,
though to Moorish servants, at any and every moment of their lives, it is as caviare to the
few. A circle was formed round the dish: in two minutes, all that was left, was "an aching
china blank."

Quantity rather than quality distinguishes Moorish cookery. The rich man's dishes are more
or less like the poor man's, only that he has six times as many; indeed, there are said to
be dishes of coos-coosoo which seven men can barely carry. The Sultan's own cuisine is quite
simple, better served, and more of it perhaps, than his subjects', but otherwise exactly the same.

Having disposed of the mona, our cavalcade started, and we rode down to the Sheshaoua River,
still in heavy flood, but fordable since the fine night. The waters roared past between the
crumbling banks: we saw in one place waggon-loads of red soil suddenly subside with a vast
noise into the cataract which had undermined it. Upon the brink the men stripped themselves;
then, wading into the torrent, hauled across mules, camel, and donkey one by one: we took our
feet out of the stirrups, and managed to keep dry; the camel behaved admirably.

It was an uneventful day, across a bleak and stony country. Towards evening we passed a ruined
kasbah, rose-red in the sunset. Riding due east, our long sharp shadows pointed ahead: there
was a peace over all things. The shadowed heights on the right, scooped into blue gullies and
mighty crests, carried a veil of cloud on their tops: the good little red path we were on,
was without a stone. As the sun dropped we swung along into a dim grey beyond, to the muffled
tramp, tramp of the mules' hoofs, shuffle-shuffle through the night, while a cool breeze got
up, and a flight of birds high above us called aloud as they passed over. Ah! but how good
it was!--no telegrams, no conventionalities, no possessions worth worry or consideration. Strange,
the influence which such a simple life has upon the mind: letters, and newspapers, and the
topics of the day, and the world in general, have little interest for the time being, and get
buried in the wastepaper-basket of trivialities, while the weather, and the state of the track,
and little things in Nature, assume gigantic proportions and fill the mind.

We camped that night near another red ruined kasbah, whose long line of crumbling tapia walls
against the Atlas Mountains stretched itself out like a watch-dog beside the forbidden hills.
In the morning Arabs were more importunate than ever, one woman thrusting her head between
the flaps of the canvas while we were dressing. A deal, meantime, went on in the kitchen-tent
over a lamb, Omar feeling its neck and tail, and subsequently buying it for five shillings,
after which it was silently dispatched on the far side, skinned, cut up; and the donkey bore
a pannierful of meat that day.

Our blue jay of the ruined kasbah at Sok-el-Tleta turned up again on the march, beautiful as
ever, and no less tame; but all the birds shared that distinction, and were of a confiding
nature delightful to see.

Before Frouga, one of our next camping-grounds, was reached, we passed a kasbah which six years
ago was in the possession of a kaid, who may or may not be still alive, in prison. His province,
at any rate, rose against him to a man at the late Sultan's death, and wrecked his castle,
the Government disposing of him after he had escaped to Marrakesh. The orchards of almond-trees,
with thriving beans planted underneath them, and the fat fields of barley, spoke volumes for
the prosperity of his days. It takes much provocation to induce country people to rise and
rebel against their kaid; for rebellion, if unsuccessful, brings down such awful vengeance
on the heads of the tribesmen: therefore his hard case was probably just punishment.

Another river, the Asif-el-Mel, had to be forded on the same day. It was a bad crossing, we
were warned by one sheikh not to attempt it, and neither of our men knew the ford; but some
Arabs turned up, and they helped to get the mules safely across. R. and I had each four men
with us: we tied our boots, stockings, camera and glasses round our necks, and rode over, careful
not to look down at the race of the torrent, which has turned horsemen giddy often enough,--a
raging river rather more than breast-high is not a thing to be trifled with. On the banks beyond
lay a large and flourishing village, chiefly remarkable on account of its Mellah (Jews' Quarter),--a
strange thing to find so far from civilization; and yet it was not, for the interior of Morocco
is full of wandering Israelites, who, living and dying in remote Arab and Berber settlements,
become naturalized to a certain extent, yet ever "keep themselves to themselves," housed only
in their own "quarter," under lock and key after sundown, and subjected to a few irksome regulations.
Some of them become rich on the profits of the "middle man," buying skins and produce of all
sorts from the country people, and passing them through to the coast towns: such men may be
worth from £3,000 to £5,000.

It is hard to conceive a race settling from choice amongst the squalor and filth of the lowest
type of Arab, but as a matter of fact, the Jewish Quarter violated, over and above all the
rest of the village put together, every tradition of cleanliness. The Berber villages of the
north, dirty enough in all conscience, absolutely shone in comparison with the Arab douars
in the south, or with their larger settlements, those semi-villages, whose flat-roofed huts
were stacked with earthen or basket-work jars. These bottle-shaped jars, full of what Mohammed
calls "the liquor of the bee," cream-cheese, barley, etc., were plastered with mud, and waterproof:
when they occurred in twos and threes on every roof, the effect was striking.

It would have been a monotonous ride to Frouga except for the Atlas Mountains on our right,
which we had been steadily nearing for days: now comparatively close, their gleaming snow-peaks
were never without interest, and Omar told tales of travellers' experiences up in one or two
of the passes. The principal roads across the chain to Taroudant, Ras-el-Ouad, and the Sus,
pass through Frouga, and make it an important place. It possesses an inzella, or sort of fondâk,
where men and transport are safe for the night under the protection of the kaid of the district.

We pitched our tents among little fields of beans and barley, planted with olive-trees, close
to a mosque, and awoke when es-sbar (sunrise) was called in sonorous tones from the top of
the dome: a cuckoo answered the mueddzin, and a pair of little doves began to coo persistently.

The gardens of Frouga are celebrated--full of vines planted like hop-gardens, of prickly pear,
figs, pears, apricots, and corn, in between the fruit-trees. And yet the owners are not rich:
the governors of the district see to that; for supposing a man becomes richer than the governor,
X., he goes to the Government and says, "If you make me governor instead of X., I will bring
you more money than he does, and here is a present at the same time." The Government accepts
the bribe, and gives the man a letter stating that he is made governor instead of X. The man
collects his friends and ousts X., perhaps imprisoning him for life. A governor, therefore,
never allows a man under him to possess capital. He may be rich in cattle and gardens, but
he will have to pay the governor out of his profits from thirty to ninety shillings at stated
times all the year round, and never have any "spare cash." If he refuses to pay, he is turned
out of his own home and acres, which fall into the governor's hands. Naturally he prefers to
cling to his gardens.

Beyond Frouga lay some of the most fertile land in Morocco. We passed wonderful crops of barley
and wheat, which in an average year, for every bushel sown, yield forty bushels. Moors say
that corn in Morocco is known to yield, not forty, but a hundred-fold. In England fifteen-fold
is considered an average crop. Morocco grows two crops each year: there is a spring harvest
and an autumn harvest. It would seem, therefore, that if agriculture were encouraged, and light
railways laid down to the coast, money would pour into the country--especially supposing that,
instead of wheat, such a crop as linseed was grown. Russian and American competition would
probably diminish the profits to be made out of wheat, but a soil and a climate like Morocco
might grow anything and everything. At present fraud and dishonesty seem the soul of trade:
the Jew brokers cheat the Moors; the Moors sand their sheep's wool to make it heavy, mix paraffin
candles with their beeswax, put all manner of things into oil, and so on. But a single example
shows the spirit of the country. A friend of ours found his horses becoming poor, yet he saw
their corn taken out to them every evening: he examined it; it was quite good. After a time
it occurred to him to look inside the horses' mouths, and he found the gums cut and lacerated
in order to prevent their eating their barley, which, after it had lain a certain time on the
ground untouched, was confiscated by the servants.

Meanwhile, each day as we marched on, brought us nearer to our bourn, and at last we found
ourselves on a wide flat plain, unbroken, except by the trail which we followed, consisting
of six or eight narrow paths, winding on side by side like railway rails--a splendid "high
road" for Morocco. Truly it is a spare-room country. The snaking track might take up acres
and acres of rich land. What matter! There is room.

It was still very hot: smoked spectacles kept off a certain amount of glare, and I wore two
hats, a straw on top of a felt, having neglected to bring a solar topi; but even so the sun
was unnecessarily generous, glowing on the splendid polish which some of the Arabs carried
on their sepia-coloured skulls, and making it impossible to follow the crested larks, singing
their heads off, up in the brilliant sky.

At last we felt a breeze, topped a low rise: an old greybeard all in white jogged up towards
us on a donkey, a man running behind; a village lay below; but our eyes only went to one spot
in the wide blue plain, which was spread out like a praying-carpet before us. That spot lay
twenty-five miles off--a single tower, the Kutobea in Morocco City.

"Marrakesh!" cried Omar and Saïd simultaneously.

We rode on, across dry plain, over old river-beds, through patches of olive-trees, pink oleander,
and castor-oil plant; leaving Arab douars behind; meeting with white cow-birds which recalled
Tetuan; passing men with merchandise on camels and donkeys, strings of country people, and
wanderers of all sorts; stopping to rest near wells where swallows were building in the brickwork
and donkeys stood asleep in the shade; watching Arabs beating out corn with sticks, men ploughing,
until we were once more amongst "greenery" and in a fertile stretch of country. Surely there
was a river near. We passed fine crops of maize; onions were doing famously; fields of bearded
wheat rustled in a life-giving breeze. And then the Wad-el-Nyfs, the largest river we had to
cross, came into sight. Saïd at the outset precipitated himself into a great hole, and was
well ducked: eventually we all landed safely on the other side, though the start was far from
reassuring, some Arabs on the bank telling us it was "not good" to cross, and wading down into
the torrent, for us to see that the water took them up to their necks almost at once, sweeping
them down-stream. Before we rode into the water every man divested himself of each particle
of clothing which he wore; and R. got across with two dark-skinned individuals clinging on
to her legs, one on each side of the mule, a third hanging on to its bridle, and a fourth at
its tail; while I followed also with four attendants. Not long ago, a party of missionaries
was fording one of these very rivers, and neglected to have men at the mules' heads, one of
which stumbled and threw its rider into the rapid stream: she was drowned. It was not deep
at the time, or more precaution would have been taken: on the other hand, the stream is always
like a mill-race, an accident can happen in a moment, and therefore a rule should be made,
and never under any circumstances broken, to the effect that every rider have a man at the
mule's head, and more than one, according to the state of the river.

We had a long hot ride to Tamsloect: the breeze, which was westerly, was useless to us; the
track led over stony yellow hills; now and again we caught glimpses of the Kutobea standing
up very far away; and all the time the great snow-fields, on the vast mountains, close upon
our right, looked tantalizingly near and cold. Occasionally we watered the mules at a stream:
tortoises were swimming about in one of these. But on the whole it was a singularly uneventful
and a very sultry ride, until at last long lines of red mud walls, many gardens, three mosque
towers, and some tall, dark, green cypress-trees proclaimed Tamsloect--an important village,
possessing a Friday market, an unequalled view of the Atlas, and a saint, Mulai Abdullah Ben Hassi.

An Arab, Hadj Cadour, is one of the great men in Tamsloect; and to him, having an introduction,
we went. The best hours spent in Morocco were those lived with certain of the Moors themselves,
sharing for a short time their simple and yet fantastic life, learning something of their innate
courtesy and generous hospitality. Hadj Cadour was a host of the old aristocratic school. He
was out at his garden-house when we reached the village, entertaining friends at a tea party;
and upon our message reaching him, he sent back a man on a white horse to point out another
of his gardens close at hand, where he suggested that the tents should be pitched, while R.
and I rode out and joined his tea party.

Leaving Omar to superintend the camp, we started off after the rider on the white horse: he
led the way through the village, finally into a labyrinth of gardens, where we brushed through
bearded wheat such as I have never seen before nor since, which luxuriated with olives, fruit-trees
of all sorts, and pale pink monthly roses. Presently in the midst of the semi-wilderness a
little white house intervened, half buried in trees, and close to it, in the shade, under an
olive, was gathered Hadj Cadour's tea party, six or eight dignified Arabs, in those perfectly
washed and blanched garments which so fit their solemn, dignified manners, their sad and intellectual
type of faces: not that Moors are necessarily either of the two last; but they look it--that
is all.

A great tea-kettle, as usual, loomed in the background; carpets and thick red Morocco leather
cushions made seats for the members of the charmed circle: we reclined there with the rest,
talking, as far as a few Arabic words would carry us, of our starting-point, our destination,
the road, the rivers, the weather, Hadj Cadour helping us out, one and all interested and anxious
to be understood and to understand. Our host dispensed sherrub de minat, the wine of the country,
made from grapes; the little dome-shaped pewter teapot was there, with its fond associations
of Morocco, together with the copper tray and circle of diminutive painted glasses; a gorgeous
indolent sun poured down beyond the patch of shade; the hum and hover of insects vibrated in
the air; and presently musicians were summoned--girls wearing pale green jellabs and silver
ornaments, with yellow handkerchiefs twisted round their heads, men in bright colours. Sitting
down between us, each was given a glass of sherrub de minat, and by-and-by they began to play.
Weird and wild music it was, that of the tareegea, the gimbi, and the tahr, quaint native instruments
of the roughest construction, and yet, as music, possessing fascination not a little.

The long kif-pipes were lighted, green tea and wine were sipped, the white figures stretched
themselves on the cushions, and a great and dreamy content came over the faces under the white
turbans. There was nowhere a trace of boredom such as mars so many European entertainments--rather
the thing was loved for itself, and every man felt it and entered into its spirit. Now and
then the musicians broke into a strange song, and the guests beat their hands and murmured
in chorus; then again they would seem half intoxicated, in a harmless fashion, with kif and
wine and music, and would appear to be absent in a world of their own. The music had a lilt
in it, and often a suggestion of something half tamed, desperate, swung along with the cadences;
and thin wreaths of smoke from the long pipes blew up through the olive branches, and an Arabic
sentence dropped now and again on the ear: the hot, slow, sleepy afternoon waned. . . .

Poetry bulks so largely in the Arabic nature. Emotional and yet simple, that nature is, to
a certain extent, appealed to by the refined. The sordid and vulgar have no attractions for
it. There is no language more poetical than the Arabic language, where "snow" is called "hair
of the mountain" and "rainbow" is "bride of the rain." "Red mullet" is "the sultan of fishes":
"maiden-hair fern" is translated by "little cane of the well." Ordinary Arabic words show an
extraordinary gift of description: the word for "secretly" means literally "under the matting,"
and "never" is expressed thus, "when the charcoal takes root and the salt buds."

Uncontrolled ascendency of imagination marks the Arab, and endows his nature with a fascination
all its own: an outdoor life is his heritage, and the things of Nature are a part of himself.
"Spring" he calls "grass"; "summer" is "gleaning"; "autumn" is "fruit"; "winter" is "rainy."

If only he could keep pure his race, Morocco had never stood among the nations where she stands
now. The steady infusion of African blood is becoming her ruin: the sensual negro type, spreading
rapidly, is eating its way into the heart of the people. When it is remembered that thousands
upon thousands of slaves are imported into Morocco from the interior of Africa every year,
that they become eventually "free," their children inheriting equal rights with other children,
it is no longer a matter of wonder that the Moorish race shows signs of deterioration, that
its people are effete. It is after meeting with men such as Hadj Cadour and many others, who
hark back to the old type of chief and horseman and the desert life, touched with the old vein
of poetry and chivalry, that one regrets the things which are. But we had spent an afternoon
which was one worth recollecting; and when we had parted from that little circle under the
shady olive, and were jogging back to our tents, it was to remember that there are still good
things in Morocco.

The tents we found ready for us in a delightful spot enclosed by a wall: a tank lay in the
centre of the garden, around it a few paths, and a great deal of mint. But a terrible ordeal
awaited us--green tea and a great spread, provided by the brother of Hadj Cadour, who had also
arranged carpets as seats around the tank. Again next morning, just after we had finished breakfast,
this hospitable individual sent into our tent two steaming hot chickens fried brown in argan
oil, with half a dozen round cakes of fine flour; and when, immediately afterwards, we rode
to his house to say farewell and tender our thanks, he proffered green tea once more.

Heavy drops of rain awoke us in the middle of the night; but just as an ominous patter was
coming through the old canvas and sounding on the bed-clothes, the shower stopped. Again later
it came on, with thunder. Omar changed the smart clothes which he had put on in view of a triumphal
entry into Marrakesh; we packed and got off as quickly as we could, expecting more rain; many
good-byes were said; Hadj Cadour sent a servant with us to the gates; and we rode out of Tamsloect.

Outside, towards the east, its gardens were numerous: great black poplars and palms grew freely.
For an hour we rode alongside a district which belonged entirely to Mulai el Hadj, the great
man of Tamsloect, and a holy Shar[=i]f to boot. This man is rich, and because he is a holy
Shar[=i]f he can never be dispossessed of his wealth. His white house and cypress-trees stand
out prominently in the village we had just left; throughout his gardens he has built a succession
of water-towers, which irrigate his land; he is British-protected, and as important a man in
the south as the French-protected Wazeer of Wazan is in the north.

All this time we were riding steadily towards Marrakesh, interest increasing with every step
as we neared the city, to visit which we had left Mogador about ten days before.

That last day's march was not an interesting one: the great Atlas, upon which we had now turned
our backs, were no longer to be seen, on account of clouds which the last night's storm had
brought upon them; the plain over which we rode possessed a deadly monotony, for we were not
entering Marrakesh upon its best side, where gardens upon gardens of palm-trees stretch beyond
the city gates for miles and miles, but our road from Tamsloect was prosaic and dull. Certainly
we crossed some of the wonderful underground canals, which carry water five and ten miles,
from springs in the country, into the city--about whose origin nothing whatever is known, tradition
remaining silent as to any builder. These great works are merely water-ways tunnelled through
the solid earth, not at any great distance from the surface: along their courses the streams
are conducted for great distances. There are openings at intervals which ventilate the tunnels:
these are kept clean and easily examined by means of the same. The whole arrangement is very
rough, very primitive, but perfectly answers the purpose for which it was made.

The crops which we left behind us at every mile looked well, and it was to be hoped would soon
make good the failure of the preceding crop: that failure had accounted for the skinny children
and lean women whom we had met, and was the reason of the country people's continuous digging
for ayerna root, and washing the same by the roadside and in so many villages.

Meanwhile, Marrakesh and its adobe walls, of a sad yellow-pink tone, grew nearer and nearer,
till at last the long line of crumbling tapia was but a short distance off, and the Báb-el-Roub,
a massive gateway, plainly to be seen. Just outside the walls, Mr. Miller, one of the missionaries,
met us: he had one piece of news, which carried with it regret wherever it was heard across
the length and breadth of the British Empire--the death of Cecil Rhodes. Under the Báb-el-Roub
we rode into the city of crumbling walls and silent sandy roadways: somewhat of a deserted
city, the great southern capital appeared to be at first; but then we were nowhere near its
heart, and the half of it is gardens and quiet houses, while a small part only, is wholly full
of vitality: the whole is crumbling to pieces, and strange of all strangest cities ever seen.

We rode straight to Kaid Maclean's house, lent us by Lady Maclean--the best house in Morocco
City, over-looking one of the many market-places, and that open space in which story-tellers
and snake-charmers, surrounded by a dense circle of admirers, cater to an attentive throng.
The house was empty, and we "camped" in several of the rooms, lunching in a long gallery which
looked straight out on to the Atlas Mountains: the mules went into a capacious stable; the
servants made themselves comfortable in the kitchens. It is hard to find house-room in Marrakesh:
of course a hotel is unheard of, nor is camping-ground to be met with easily. There are no
foreign consuls in this far-off city, and no English element beyond the two or three missionaries
who live there. Travellers have generally to depend upon the loan of some house for the time
being, from a holy Shar[=i]f or Moor of some standing; but the house may be anywhere, and comfortable
or otherwise. Since the Sultan was at Fez, his army and his commander-in-chief, Kaid Maclean,
were at Fez too: hence the reason of the Macleans' house standing empty, within which we were
so fortunate as to find ourselves.

Marrakesh cannot be described: it must be seen. It is more suggestive, more intangible, more
elusive--that is to say, its Eastern medley of a population is so, and its crumbling tapia-walled
houses are so--than any other Moorish city. More ghosts should stalk the half-deserted yellow
roadways of Marrakesh, more mysteries be shrouded within the windowless walls, than a man of
Western civilization could conceive.

It is a vast city--other writers have chronicled the number of square miles which it accounts
for--and yet, in spite of its size, the sum-total of souls it contains is not overwhelming.
There are gardens everywhere, stretch after stretch of palm-trees, acre after acre of fruit-trees,
and wedged among them all, lie the flat roofs, swarm the endless throng which spells humanity;
and the oddest, most varied humanity--Arabs and negroes, men from the Sus, from the Sahara,
from Draa, Berber hillmen, tribesmen from the Atlas, a tumultuous multitude, a hive of bees
of whom no census has ever been made. We were among them all, the first time we rode through
the city. No one walks in Marrakesh: as a matter of fact I did later on, often enough, sometimes
alone, getting somewhat jostled in the narrow ways--beyond that in no way inconvenienced. But
every one who can, is on a mule or a long-tailed countrybred, pushing along at a foot's pace,
crying out now and then, and avoiding this pair of black toes, that coffee-coloured bare heel.

Beyond the wall, covered with nails, whereon heads are fastened after rebellions have been
quenched and the time of punishment and warning has come, we rode into the land of little shops.
Here, in another instance, Marrakesh is unique: the narrow streets were in great part entirely
roofed in overhead either by vines or by bamboos; the brilliant sunlight streamed through the
spaces between the vines and canes, and chequered the seething white throng which eternally
passed underneath it. From an open street we plunged into the cool shade of one of these arcades.
And how it moved! Nothing ever stood still in the Marrakesh soks. Life "travels" for ever and
for ever there. Between the shops, themselves teeming with bustle and incident, moved up and
down, the throng of white, draped, dignified figures, calling, heaving, struggling, jostling
sometimes, chattering always, blotched with shifting yellow sunlight and black shadow cast
by the lattice roof overhead. It was a transformation scene; it was a weird dream--weird to
the point of seeming unreal, unlike men and the haunts of men, though all the time rampant
with humans.

THE KUTOBEA, MARRAKESH.

[To face p. 328.]

When the Sultan went to Fez, a party of soldiers and goldsmiths and craftsmen of all sorts
went with him from the city of Marrakesh, in number over forty thousand souls. But the exodus
made no appreciable difference in the soks. Not only the numbers, but the types of the stream
of faces between which we rode were all striking, and each one so far removed from anything
at all European. Humanity can indeed be separated from humanity by gulfs impassable, or gulfs
which may alone be bridged over by a violation of nature, on the part of the man upon the east
bank or upon the west bank.

The palm-trees wave above Marrakesh, turtle-backed mosques and tall towers rise among the gardens
and gleam in the sun, but above and beyond every other feature of the far-away fantastic southern
capital one watch-tower rises over everything and rears itself into the sky--the Kutobea, built,
according to tradition, by Fabir for the Sultan El Mansur. It stands in a vast empty space
close to the Great Mosque: few people pass that way--their footfalls are almost unheard in
the soft sand; and the lonely tower cuts the clear quiet sky. The Kutobea is built of dark
red stone. There is a pattern, alternately raised and sunk, on the faces of the minaret, the
sunk part cut deep, the raised part carved and standing out. A broad band of wonderful black
and green iridescent tiles, snakes round the top like some opulent spotted serpent. Part of
it has dropped away: the gilded brass balls, the cupola, are here and there tarnished; but
the sun sets, and his indulgent rays swamp every defect, burnish and polish and gild corner-stone
and fretted marble and emerald-green tile alike, until the "to-day" of the Kutobea is as triumphant
as its "yesterday" of many hundred years. The design of the tower itself--the minaret--is said
to have come from Constantinople, as did the Giralda at Seville, which it so resembles.

Of the mosque, beside the Kutobea, nothing was to be seen except its walls, and through an
open door avenues of pillars. The huge building has an Arabic name meaning "The Mosque of the
Books"; for what reason--who can tell?--tradition is silent.

Marrakesh itself is supposed to have been built upon the site of an immensely old structure,
the ancient Martok. As it is now, Yusuf-ibn-Tachfin founded it in 1072, a city which covers
almost as much ground as Paris--a purely African city. Fez, Tetuan, Tangier, have Spanish blood
in them: Marrakesh is African to the core. Arabs here are in a minority: the spare Saharowi
type, the shaved lip and cheeks and pointed chin-tuft of the Berber race, men from the mysterious
sandy steppes below Cape Bojador, Soudanese blacks, men from Wadnoon--one and all congregate
in this city. Even the music and songs are, naturally enough, all African, with the strange
interval, the rhythm which halts and races where no European music ever halted or raced; and
the tom-tom, the gimbri, the ear-piercing Moorish flute, all fall upon the English ear as things
intensely strange and strongly fascinating.

Marrakesh boasts no aristocracy: it is a city of the people. It has few Shar[=i]fs: it is a
land of "traders," speculating, toiling, intriguing; between its yellow adobe walls, and its
whitewashed dazzling walls, amidst its dense metallic semi-tropical vegetation, up and down
its sandy silent ways, they live and die. Its fountains are beautiful: Shrab-u-Schuf (Drink
and admire) is inscribed on one of them. But it is not by its architecture that Marrakesh stands
and falls; rather by a personality all its own--by its many ruined walls, by its deserted streets,
by the hot pulse of life throbbing imperiously through its arteries crowded to suffocation
with humanity, by its flaring African sunlight, by the figures which can never be other than
picturesque, by a thousand impressions which can never die. And by reason of all this Marrakesh
is great.

Once upon a time it was impossible for an Englishman to see the Slave Market. Owing partly
to the radical hatred of Europeans, partly to the suspicious and seclusive nature of the Moor,
the presence of foreigners in the sacred Slave Market was tabooed. Not that the Nazarene was
"taken up" or turned back if he showed his face inside the courtyard: on the contrary, he was
allowed to walk in, and apparently no eye was aware of his presence. And yet in a few moments
he would find himself alone. The Slave Market had vanished, had melted away: a line of disappearing
backs was all which was to be seen. Supposing a Moor had connived at this attempt on the part
of a Nazarene to see slaves being sold, that Moor disappeared, by order of the Sultan, and
there was a funeral later on in the day.

However, while we were in Marrakesh, less rigorous orders were in vogue. Having come prepared
to see the market disguised in native dress if necessary, we found that we were able to go
there without much difficulty, and only escorted by one of the missionaries and a servant.
Though slaves are bought and sold through the length and breadth of Morocco, it is not possible
in any other city than Marrakesh for the European to see or know much about it. In the coast
towns the sales are conducted privately. In Fez it is probable that they might be attended
by others than Moors; but at the time of writing I take it that no wise European, if such should
be there at all in these unquiet times, would venture to put himself into a position likely
to attract all the bullets and knives in Fez in his direction.

Just at sunset--6.30, I think--the Slave Market in Marrakesh opens, and we went in. To some
ears it would no doubt have sounded the strangest anomaly, that prayer to the Most High God,
with which the sale was prefaced; but a Mussulman hallows every action, right or wrong, with
a petition; besides which slavery is lawful and good in his eyes, is approved of and permitted
by Mohammed in the written book of the Kor[=a]n; is, in short, a part of the scheme of Nature
which it were a serious mistake not to use and enjoy. So the line of auctioneers formed up,
held out their hands, prayed, invoked a blessing over the proceedings, mumbling in sonorous
tones for a few moments. Then silence. It was over: the sale began. There is nothing more easy
than to be theatrical and emotional in describing scenes of this sort--one has read of them
scores of times: words such as "degrading" and "harrowing" rise up in the mind's eye, coupled
with violent epithets and stinging clauses. And yet, finding oneself in the centre of another
just such a scene, one realized how impossible the thing was, to understand, or to feel, beforehand,
and how curiously it played upon the emotions. Walking into the market with a sobriety, with
a cold, critical interest such as a Nero may have felt towards his victims, one divined early
in the proceedings that the scene tended unduly to intensify emotion. Truly no men think alike:
a vast chasm yawns between the natures of the slave-trader and the European: that chasm is
a universal education. To realize all which separates a native of Africa from a Frenchman or
an Englishman, and the difficulties which lie in the way of promoting an understanding between
the two, visit such a place as the Slave Market in Marrakesh.

Groups of slaves, more or less gorgeously dressed, some in rags where nothing better could
be afforded, were sitting far back in little covered-in recesses which lined the square. All
round the square stood, or sat upon their heels, intending purchasers, for the most part middle-aged
elderly men, sleek and fat, in turbans and soft linen, white beyond reproach. Each auctioneer,
the prayer over, advanced to the groups of slaves, and led out one or perhaps two or three,
and paraded them round and round the square under the eyes of the buyers. At last a bid was
made: the auctioneer walked on, pushing the slaves in front of him, and calling out the amount
of the bid. A higher bid was made: he shouted out that bid, and still walked on. Then a purchaser
signed to him that he wished to look at the slaves. The auctioneer at once marshalled the women
or woman slave (there were many more women than men) up to the Moor who wished to examine her.
She squatted in front of him, while he looked at her teeth, felt her arms, neck, and legs,
and in a low voice asked her a string of private questions. After a time the woman was allowed
to get up, the auctioneer called out the latest bid for her, and walked her on. Probably some
one else would examine her "points," and another and another; and her price would go up till
the auctioneer should have got what he wanted, and the woman would be handed over to her new
master.

Some of the slaves walked round with a profoundly indifferent air--none of them looked in wild
spirits; but, on the other hand, it was "Kismet" rather than misery which was written on their
faces. It is a rare thing for any slave to object violently or to make any scene: as a rule
they knelt down obediently enough in front of the fat Mohammedans, who thrust their fingers
into their mouths, took them by the chin, and treated them with great familiarity. But, oddly
enough, on one of the nights we attended the market a scene did occur. A middle-aged woman,
absolutely refused to walk round--we were told probably because she had been parted from her
child, and could not bear to be sold. The poor creature wept wildly, and hid her face in the
red cloth round her head. She was, however, in the end forced along like a recalcitrant mule,
her cloth torn off, herself made to kneel down at the bidding of a group of traders, and undergo
the usual examination. Some of the young girls looked shame-faced, shuffling along behind or
in front of the auctioneers with bent heads. The sad middle-aged woman fetched in the end seven
pounds ten shillings. A little child was going for three pounds ten. A girl of thirteen--that
is, at her very best--was selling for fifteen pounds: she was of course unusually attractive.

The slave trade of Africa receives an apparent stamp of legality from the fact that religious
warfare and the taking of prisoners in war and making them slaves are looked upon as Divine
institutions. There is no obligation on the Mussulman to release slaves, and as long as wars
and raids last, the mass of slaves in Mohammedan countries tends rather to increase than otherwise,
their progeny ever adding to the original number. There is no restriction as to the number
of slaves or concubines which a Moor may have: it entirely depends upon his purse. His women
are his luxury, and an expensive one. A concubine may be sold at any moment, and the position
is thus precarious and varied: it has one saving clause, which I have already explained--the
woman who bears a son to her master is free, and at his death his property will be divided
between the sons of concubines equally with the sons of his wife and wives. Mussulman raids
still continue against the negroes of Central Africa, against tribes in Persia, in Afghanistan,
and other parts of the world; indeed, as long as Mohammedanism lasts, there is very little
chance of the abolition of slavery.

THE WAD-EL-AZELL.

[To face p. 334.]

One afternoon we went over the garden belonging to the late basha of Marrakesh--Ben Dowd--almost
the only garden I have ever seen in Morocco which had in it flowers; and these were roses from
Spain, valuable and beautiful, the pride of the basha. There was a charming summer-house half
built, and a conservatory nearly finished, in different parts of the garden. In the midst of
his prosperity, only eight months before, Ben Dowd had been arrested and put into prison. It
was the old tale of jealousy. The Grand Wazeer was afraid of the basha, and in order to secure
himself from harm succeeded in having Ben Dowd deposed and put entirely out of harm's way.
Though an explanation is always forthcoming for violent proceedings such as the above, it would
be unwise to assume in Morocco that the explanation had a grain of truth in it. Wheels within
wheels; intrigue after intrigue; lie, topped by lie, make up the sum of Moorish diplomacy,
and render the coil of politics in that country an absolutely fascinating study, not because
it is so surreptitious, but because it is clever as well as cunning, and all the time involves
bigger interests than ever appear on the tapis--interests which concern France, Austria, England,
Germany, and other Powers, all of whom struggle for a finger in the seething pie.

To return to Ben Dowd. He was "detained" in a house--not ignominiously committed to the common
gaol, an unusual respite--allowed twelve shillings a day, and his wife's company. He was in
Fez with these restrictions at the time we were looking over his gardens; and half of his wives
were left behind at his own house, costing him a pound a day, we were told, in the face of
which his allowance seemed inadequate.

When the Government seized him, no money was found in his house; but three hundred thousand
dollars' worth of goods in the shape of carpets, mirrors, gilt bedsteads, etc., were confiscated.
His post, however, is still vacant: he is a good man, and possibly the Government will repent
of its hasty step, and in due time restore such a valuable servant to favour. On the other
hand, Ben Dowd may be ruined for life.

The bashas and kaids of Morocco were all gnashing their teeth, while we were at Marrakesh,
over the new system of taxation, which the Sultan and a certain progressive member of his Government,
are endeavouring to introduce into the country. The main idea in these new regulations is,
that governors will be paid specified salaries by the Government--that they will collect taxes
as usual, but send the amount of money collected intact to Court, not, as has been the custom
hitherto, docking off the half, it may be, and pocketing it as their own pay. Again, each province
has been lately inspected by a certain number of trustworthy men, who have fixed its rate of
taxation. The countryman is to pay so much upon his possessions--for example, ninepence for
a cow, three shillings for a horse, twopence-halfpenny for an olive-tree, three shillings for
a camel, no more and no less--instead of having the utmost squeezed out of him, which has been
the practice of the governors up till now.

The scheme sounds excellent. A letter has been read aloud in every city and country market-place,
apprising the people of the new law, and they are delighted in proportion, but scarcely believe
that the Government will be strong enough to enforce it. Indeed, it is hardly probable that
the new taxation system can succeed unless two important steps are first taken--the tribes
must be disarmed, and a new set of governors be appointed to take the place of the old. As
long as the tribesmen are armed, there can never be law and order, any more than there can
be settled peace upon the Indian frontier under the same conditions. At one moment the tribes
will side with the Government, at another they will take the part of a governor, at another
they will attack a neighbouring tribe. It is all very well to tax such men justly and to treat
them like civilized beings, instead of trampling them underfoot, preventing their becoming
rich, and holding them to be ignorant devils; but they are not civilized, unfortunately--they
have not sufficient education to know when they are well off and to profit by it. Every man
of them has a gun, and bloodshed and plunder are life itself to him. Treat him well, he bides
his time, grows rich with the rest of his tribe; together they descend upon their neighbours,
avenge an old wrong, loot to their hearts' content, perhaps attack the Sultan himself. But
disarm one and all such men, and in the far future a peaceable agricultural folk may reign
in their stead. It would be a work of time, but it has been effected before in the annals of
history.

The second condition, which would go far towards the working of the new system of taxation,
is the appointment of new governors. The salary which the governors are to receive, is a comparatively
small one, compared with the vast sums which they have been in the habit of accumulating, by
means of extortion and by defrauding the Government. It is hardly fair to expect a man to cut
down his expenses, give up half his wives, sell his slaves, and fall in the estimation of those
under him. The thing must assuredly lead to dispute, born of peculation, and fighting must
be the inevitable result. But if, on the other hand, new men are appointed, who from the first
suit their expenditure to their means, a more peaceful working basis will be established.

The old Oriental policy of the "balance of jealousies" will doubtless play its useful part:
that is to say, each governor will watch his next-door neighbour like a cat watching a mouse;
and if he detect any underhand dealings, or evasions, or infringements of the new law, he will
report at once to the Sultan, and thereby gain kudos, perhaps a substantial reward, for himself.
In this way the Government may receive support at the hands of the men whom it is keeping in order.

THE great Thursday Market is one of those things in Marrakesh which, once seen, is stamped
deeper than a hundred other memories upon the mind. It is held in a sun-baked open space outside
the Gate of the Thursday Market, just beyond the city walls, within view of the plains and
a distant low range of mountains. Thousands and thousands of tall palms, groves of them, wave
in the wind all over the surrounding country: a few great watercourses, worn and eaten out
of the red soil, burrow between the forests on their way down to the great river.

To reach the market we rode out along a road thronged with people selling all sorts of goods,
from splendid old flintlock guns from the Sus chased with silver and gold and going at three
pounds, to striped carpets strong and violent in colouring at seven-and-sixpence each, and
second-hand clothes of the most varied description. At last, topping a little hill, we rode
down into the market: it is, more correctly speaking, a horse fair,--mules were also for sale.
The horses down in the south are without doubt very different from the poor little ponies bred
up in the north; but even these, in comparison, for instance, with a thoroughbred hunter at
home, fell far short of what my defective imagination had led me to expect of Arab stallions
in Morocco. For the most part there was nothing for sale except great heavy brutes with small
heads and proud arched necks. Every one of them fell away in the hindquarters.

As usual the sale was prefaced by a prayer: hard bargaining, sharp practice, and much or little
swindling, inseparable from horse-dealing, must all of it, first of all, be watered by prayer.
Therefore the horsemen formed into a line; the central figure chanted some verses from the
Kor[=a]n; the rest held out their hands palms upwards, then joined in a sort of Amen, the instant
afterwards sticking their spurs into their horses and dashing forward, charging in a line over
the plain between two rows of spectators, and pulling the horses up on to their haunches at
the end, red with spur-marks and white with foam. This was repeated two or three times, the
short space in which the riders pulled up out of a full gallop being sometimes almost incredible;
then a great circle was formed of would-be purchasers and onlookers, and the horses were ridden
into the circle and then round and round to display themselves, each rider at the same time
auctioning his own horse, yelling out the bids for it, as they rose, at the top of his voice.
When the last bid was made, and he could get no more, the rider, after shouting the price,
added that he "would not consult the absent one," meaning thereby that the owner of the horse,
whether himself or not, would raise no objection to the animal's being sold for that price.
Unless this sentence had been pronounced, the purchaser could not have been certain that the
owner would not say afterwards he did not intend to sell for that sum. Most of the horses fetched
from three pounds twelve to four pounds ten.

Mules were sold in the same way--the prayer, the parade round the circle, each rider seated
almost on his mule's tail, urging him on, with hands and heels, to pace his best, the mule's
nose up in the heavens. Some of them were splendid animals, which I would have given anything
to have possessed--perfectly made, looking more intelligent than many humans, and full of pluck
and staying power: these fetched rather more than double, what the best horse in the whole
market sold for. But in criticising the horses, I speak of what I saw on this occasion: there
may be, and no doubt are, fine arabs to be had in Southern Morocco--at least so I am told--but
I came across only what may be called "a cart-horse stamp."

And yet they look very fine, these same sensible-looking beasts, with their great eyes, and
flowing manes and tails, and proud carriage. There is something, too, eternally fascinating
in the beautiful seat of an Arab on his horse--not of a fat sheikh or a rich basha or a thriving
merchant, but that of the lean and wiry Arab horseman born and bred, who, as he thunders past
at full gallop, puts himself into a dozen positions, is at home in them all, shoots behind
him, above him, below him, without drawing rein, turning in any direction, while he makes the
whole air ring with his wild cries. The Moorish saddle of course helps his grip; but beyond
that, there is something cat-like in the lithe swing of his body, and it is that body's right
and natural function to be upon a horse. The white turban, the flowing white garments, the
gorgeously coloured saddle, the great silvered stirrups, are all part of the whole--and an
attractive whole--born of the limitless desert, the great far-reaching sky, the pure wind:
it is Arabian, that is all--and so much.

Meanwhile, camels were selling in another corner of the market, being made to lie down and
rise and generally show themselves off: they were fetching from three pounds ten upwards. Cows,
goats, and sheep were less interesting; but the throng of men which filled up the fair was,
as ever, more than a study. Above and beyond all, stood out the wild inhabitants of the Atlas,
and men from the Sus, wearing black camel's-hair jellabs with a great russet-red or saffron-yellow
patch let into the backs of them. The origin of this striking "badge" is not known, but the
jellabs themselves looked absolutely in keeping with the lawless ruffians, on whose shoulders
they hung, and the wild blotch of bizarre colour was "just themselves."

Bay, is the colour which in a horse the Moor chooses first--the pearl of colours, sober and
most hardy; while a light chestnut brings ill luck, though a dark chestnut is the colour of
the wind, can "travel," and was Mohammed's favourite. A horse must have the colour of its saddle
in harmony with itself--an apple-green saddle for a black horse, scarlet for a white, the whole
beautifully worked and embossed in silk, and when on the horse's back, should be set, perhaps,
upon as many as nine different coloured saddle-cloths, one on top of each other.

THE SULTAN'S GARDEN.

[To face p. 344.]

Of all filthy quarters in the filthiest of cities, I think the Jewish Quarter in Marrakesh
has a fair chance of ranking first,--outside it, rubbish, a manure-heap eighty feet high, which
no one troubles to remove; inside the walls, black mud, feet deep, streets which are sewers,
collections of dead dogs, rotting vegetables, refuse of all sorts; amongst it all, a dirty
people, callous beyond belief as regards sanitation, with sore heads, sore eyes, matted rags.
Not a butcher's shop which is not black with flies and "high" with rotten meat: flies lie upon
every article of food.

And in the very vortex of this muck-heap--astounding to the traveller--are content to live
wealthy Jews, happy to flourish all their lives shoulder to shoulder with unutterable squalor.

We went over a house belonging to a Jew millionaire, well built, lavishly decorated, as luxurious
as money and Morocco would permit, evidently the pride of the whole family. Probably few of
them went far outside the city walls: they were born to the Mellah. His success as a trader
might have given the head of the house a country place in England, shady lawns, a carriage
and pair to drive in: he preferred his own muck-heap. But I cannot conceive upon what he spent
his money, other than the glorification of the inside of his house.

The Sultan's palace looked deserted: it is long, however, since he left it, and high time he
was in Fez again; for Fez is more in touch with Europe--Fez means a shade more progression
and civilization than life in Morocco City. Round the palace lay bales of goods which had been
ordered by him and sent out from England--things such as waggons, motor-cars possibly, which
are supposed so much to shock his narrow-minded subjects. They imagine that his Shar[=i]fian
Majesty wastes vast sums of money; whereas for a great monarch, the ruler of an empire, his
private bills are probably absurdly small. He may have fireworks let off every night for ten
minutes, horrifying Marrakesh; but the cost of his amusements, considering his position, must
be curiously reasonable: so one considered, as one looked at the "parcels" awaiting his return
to the capital, which lay in the immense courtyard outside his palace, where "powder play"
is held, and where he receives foreign ambassadors, marching through the great gateway which
leads to his own private rooms, over which is inscribed in Arabic an odd sentence; it reads
literally, "What God wills: there is no power but God."

The days passed, and our time in Marrakesh drew to an end. In spite of all that had been told
us in Tangier, of the difficulties and dangers which would attend an expedition into the Atlas
Mountains, in spite of the verdict that we should not be given a permit, should be "stopped
and not allowed to continue the journey," we found that, once upon the scene of action, there
would have been little difficulty in getting at least as far as Glaouia, and in pushing up
through one or two other passes.

The ride to Glaouia might take five or six days: there were several other places and a district
or two which would have been worth visiting ten times over. The missionaries in Marrakesh were
willing to make all arrangements: one of them would have gone with us, and under that escort
it would have been possible to travel into the Atlas without risk. We should have gone "privately,"
without troubling any one, without formality; and in all probability no one would have troubled
about us: that, after all, is the only way to travel satisfactorily in Morocco, not with half
a dozen soldiers and a vast noise.

But for this year at any rate our travels in Morocco had reached their limit. R. was not strong
enough to face more marching: the hot sun, long rides, and general "roughing it" had told upon
her, and the responsibility of taking her on farther afield, into remote regions of uncertain
climate, was too great.

THE RIVER TENSIF OUTSIDE MARRAKESH.

[To face p. 346.]

Early one morning we set forth upon our last march, back again to the coast, by the track which
leads eventually to Mazagan, a seaport some distance farther north than Mogador. Here we hoped
to pick up a steamer, and proceed, viâ Tangier, across to Gibraltar, where it would be possible
to get a P. & O. boat and head for home.

The march to Mazagan was easy, and contained little incident. After leaving the plains of Marrakesh
and its waving palm-trees, and seeing the tall Kutobea disappear at last, we found ourselves
in the "Little Mountains," and along the rough road began to fall in continually with parties
of tribesmen, Arab country people, all mounted, who had been commandeered to accompany the
Sultan as far as Fez, and who were now coming back to their homes. Splendid bronzed fellows
they were, dark brick-dust colour, wrapped in long white cloaks, with the hood of an under
garment pulled down over their faces: sometimes a white cloth swathed their heads; their chins
were hidden in soft folds which reached up to their hawk-eyes, veiling the face, like true
sons of the desert, as a protection against sun and wind. Guns were slung across their shoulders:
they wore long yellow riding-boots and spurs, with half a dozen saddle-cloths; and all rode
horses, strong little beasts, well groomed, some hog-maned, but usually with great locks of
hair sweeping over their necks, and their tails almost touching the ground behind. On grey
or white countrybreds as a rule, they wound along the mountain path in single file, these tall
white-cloaked horsemen, in nowise differing from their ancestors of a thousand years ago--Arabs
of unbroken descent: as they emerged from between the wild hills it would have been hard to
find a more picturesque sight.

One of the few peaceful camping-grounds between Marrakesh and Mazagan was at a little distance
outside an Arab village of about thirty little pointed thatched huts, enclosed within a zareba
of thorn-bushes: it was called Smeera.

We camped near some trees and water: the fig-trees were full of crows, which came in to roost
in thousands, and The Little Owl (Athene noctua) haunted the place. In the early half-light
of the morning this wise-looking little bird was found, when we awoke, to be sitting upon the
edge of the flap of the tent in the doorway, gazing in upon us with round yellow eyes; nor
was it the least nervous.

I recollect how, the evening before, there sat outside Smeera, as so often may be seen outside
the like villages, away beyond the huts and the zareba, where it was very quiet, upon some
flat grey stones, eight or twelve village men--Arabs. Sitting there in the sunset, wrapped
in their white hooded mantles, this conclave of wise white owls, easily to be mistaken for
grey stones, so rigid are their backs--of what do they talk as the hours go by? There is no
joke nor song nor a drop of liquor going, as in a "public," where our labourers at home would
naturally congregate. But this charmed circle sits on, staring into the west: the tall bearded
wheat rustles in the wind close to them; the illimitable plain stretches away to the horizon,
flat as their own uneventful lives; the sun drops behind the soft straight line of Earth; they
do not move,--wondrous picturesque figures, long white folds, peaked hoods, sitting, their
knees drawn up to their chins, for how long? What is time to an Arab?

One evening our camel never turned up, and we fully expected to have had to sleep without beds
or any other of the night's usual adjuncts. We had started that morning at seven, had ridden
till twelve, had halted for an hour and a half, starting again at half-past one, and riding
till half-past five; and all the way, after a mile out of Sok-el-Tleta, where we watered the
mules at a pond and the trail forked, we were on the wrong road.

Only the man with the camel knew the Mazagan line of march thoroughly well: he had explained
it beforehand to Omar. Omar made a mistake, and the camel and attendants were behind ourselves.
However, news travels oddly fast in uncivilized countries, and the camel-driver heard after
a time that the "advance squadron" was on the wrong trail. He set out after us, and ran and
walked, and caught us at three o'clock in the afternoon. The wretched camel followed his steps
all the way, with Mulai Ombach in charge of our baggage, three donkeys, and a boy, who were
afraid of being cut off from us, and dared not risk a night by themselves. The camel-driver
put us right, Omar and Saïd were well cursed, and we began a toilsome journey across rough
country, hoping to hit the right trail in time.

We found ourselves in the wildest and dirtiest of Arab encampments now and again, where infuriated
dogs, unaccustomed to visitors, rushed out and almost bit us upon our mules, amidst a hail
of stones from Omar and Saïd. A valley luxuriating knee-deep in flowers--the Flower Valley
we called it--was the one redeeming feature of that march. There are certain times for seeing
the wild flowers in Morocco--perhaps April in the south is the best month: so far we had not
been as much struck by them as report would lead one to expect. And yet they were most beautiful.
Picture corn-fields full of love-in-a-mist; orchards of fig-trees, with the grass ablaze with
golden pyrethrums; red mallow standing up in the barley; the ground carpeted with blue-and-white
convolvulus; masses of carmine-coloured convolvulus densely festooned over the thorn-hedges;
on the barest, stoniest of soil stretches of cistus, pale pink to faded mauve; asphodels everywhere;
sometimes the wild spring form of the cultivated artichoke, the small variety of the ice-plant,
the larkspur, the lupin, and several varieties of lavender. All these we met with, over and
over again: rarer plants were to be found for the looking. R. collected specimens of them all,
to be classified by the authorities at Kew Gardens on our return.

The Flower Valley yielded one or two which we had not seen before, and we would have lingered
there, but that time was precious and we had no notion of our exact whereabouts. It was a case
of going on and on and meeting no one: evening began to draw near, and still we were off the
right track, while our baggage might be anywhere. There was nothing for it but to push forward
and trust to luck: in time we cut into innumerable little paths, which snaked side by side
in the same direction across the plain, pointing towards the coast, and these we surmised to
be the trail to Mazagan, which proved to be correct. But at that moment, though we were anything
but certain, it had become absolutely necessary to halt for the night. It was dark, and the
mules were done. An Arab village lay on a hillside not far off, and we made for it.

Omar and Saïd had with them on their mules our tent and two or three necessaries for cooking:
we had therefore a roof over our heads, and in time a fire was made, odds and ends were scraped
up, and we ate a meal of sorts sitting on the ground beside a candle stuck on a stone. The
night grew very cold: there was, however, a bit of thin carpet, which we proposed to wrap ourselves
in to sleep. Now and then one of us looked out between the flaps of the tent into the darkness
and watched--a case of "Sister Ann! Sister Ann! do you see any one coming?"

We had, however, grown tired of looking out, and were just arranging ourselves on the ground,
when familiar noises sounded outside, and Omar's voice crying joyfully, "Le chameau arrive!"

Perhaps, above all else which was interesting on the road to Mazagan, the little Arab settlements,
composed entirely of tents, interested us most. In them, was lived the truly nomad, gipsy life
of the wandering Arab, who is a herdsman by heritage, and in following that vocation a roamer
par excellence. They live, these Arabs, in tents: the sides are made of straw and wattle hurdles;
over the top is stretched an immense piece of brown or black camel's-hair cloth. The tents
are barely five feet high in the middle, less at the edges: squat brown mushrooms they look,
or something like the keels of boats turned bottom upwards. All of them were open in front,
"very public" the world would say; which primitive and open-air mode of living was indeed their
great feature. Some of them were divided off down the middle by a hurdle, thus forming two
"rooms": the hurdles were occasionally faggots, without straw. Around the tents lay the flocks,
chewing the cud or browsing on the scanty grass-land: children ran out to us with bowls of
milk: when the grass gave out within reach all round, the tents were taken down, the hillsides
deserted, and the families wandered in search of pastures new, carrying a few chickens, some
pots and pans, two or three bundles of rags, and leaving behind a good many parasites and a
bare patch.

Thus Arab life in Southern Morocco--a thriftless, desultory existence, yet with the charm of
continual change and of living with the earth. "To take no thought for the morrow" is the practice
of all Moors, whether Arabs or Berbers: no Moor spends money on anything which will not bring
him in immediate profit, and this accounts for the fact that trees and forests are never planted,
or schemes started for working mines, or roads made, or bridges built; even if the capital
were forthcoming, what would be the use of spending money only to be repaid little by little,
year by year?--a man may die before he profits for all his trouble!

After all, argues the Moor, who could wish to alter Morocco? Is it not perfect as it is?--veritably,
"the tail of the peacock," the sun of the universe!

Its very imperfections are among those things which in this fanatical Mohammedan land so fascinate
the traveller. Its sad colours, its air steeped in mystery, its courtly unknowable people,
its wild tribes, its white shut houses, its concealed women, its mad fanaticism, its magnificent
stoicism--one and all are sufficient to hold the European, and to call him back again long
after El Moghreb has forgotten his face. Another of those chains has been forged which bind
certain places and certain countries to a soul, each henceforth belonging the one to the other,
and each gaining a little something thereby; nor can the links of these chains be broken, since
unseen possessions, such as they, are among those things which no power on earth can touch,
which can neither be given nor taken away.

              It's North you may run to the rime-ringed sun,
                Or South to the blind Horn's hate;
              Or East all the way into Mississippi Bay,
                Or West to the Golden Gate,
              Where the blindest bluffs hold good, dear lass,
                And the wildest tales are true,
    And the men bulk big on the old trail, our own trail, the out trail;
    And life runs large on the Long Trail--the trail that is always new.

Printed by Hazell, Watson & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.

A SELECTION FROM MESSRS. HUTCHINSON & CO.'S NEW BOOKS.

A Work on Arctic Exploration of International Importance.

ON THE "POLAR STAR" IN THE ARCTIC SEA.

By H.R.H. the DUKE OF THE ABRUZZI.

The Story of the First Italian Expedition to the North Pole.

Translated by WILLIAM LE QUEUX.

In 2 handsome volumes, with over 200 Illustrations in the Text, and with Full-page Photogravure
Plates, Panoramas, Maps, etc., 42s. net.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Important New Work by a Most Successful Biographer.

THE SAILOR KING: William IV., his Court and his Subjects.

By FITZGERALD MOLLOY.

Author of "The Queen's Comrade," "The Gorgeous Lady Blessington," etc.

In 2 volumes, cloth gilt, with 16 Full-page Illustrations, including 2 Photogravure Plates,
24s. net.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Deeply Interesting and Superbly Illustrated Work.

WARWICK CASTLE AND ITS EARLS.

From Saxon Times to the Present Day.

By the COUNTESS OF WARWICK.

In 2 large volumes, cloth gilt and gilt top, 32s. net. With about 150 Illustrations, including
Photogravure Portraits of the present Earl and Countess of Warwick.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Biography of a Great Diplomatist.

THE LIFE OF THE MARQUESS OF DUFFERIN AND AVA.

By C. E. BLACK.

In 1 large handsome volume, cloth gilt, fully illustrated, 16s. net.

       *       *       *       *       *

CELEBRITIES AND I.

By HENRIETTE CORKRAN.

In cloth gilt, 16s. net.

     "Hardly one of the 362 pages lacks its illuminative anecdote. A
     delightful browsing field."--Outlook.

     "Written in a bright vivacious manner. Her criticisms and
     appreciations are shrewd and spontaneous. The volume forms very
     agreeable reading."--Daily Telegraph.

     "Decidedly entertaining, and, moreover, not without a certain
     measure of instructiveness."--Globe.

     "Will be drawn upon for its many anecdotes at hundreds of dinner
     tables during the winter."--Leeds Mercury.

     "Miss Henriette Corkran shows the way as a writer of
     reminiscences. A charming volume."--World.

     "Possesses in a high degree the power to charm and
     attract."--Liverpool Courier.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Famous Writer and her Work.

MARIE CORELLI:

The Writer and the Woman.

By T. F. G. COATES,

Author of "The Life of Lord Rosebery,"

AND

R. S. WARREN BELL,

Author of "Bachelorland," etc.

In cloth gilt and gilt top, with numerous Illustrations, 6s.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMOIRS OF A SOCIAL ATOM

By W. E. ADAMS.

In 2 large handsome volumes, cloth gilt, 24s. net.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIDE LIGHTS ON THE COURT OF FRANCE.

By LT.-COL. ANDREW C. P. HAGGARD, D.S.O.

In 1 handsome cloth gilt volume, 12s.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL PALACES AND THEIR MEMORIES.

By SARAH A. TOOLEY.

In 1 large handsome volume, cloth gilt, 16s. net.

With 48 Full-page Plates and a Photogravure Frontispiece.

     "Mrs. Tooley serves up her vast amount of information in a most
     attractive manner. The book is sent out in a beautiful dress, and
     the printing is in keeping with the cover."--St. James's
     Gazette.

     "The scheme of the work is distinctly a good one, and it has been
     carried out with a persevering industry and careful research
     which entitle the author to no small measure of praise. An
     extremely handsome and profusely illustrated volume."--World.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WOBURN LIBRARY OF NATURAL HISTORY.

Edited by his Grace the DUKE OF BEDFORD, K.G.

(President of the Zoological Society of London).

Each volume in crown 4to, handsome cloth gilt and gilt top, fully illustrated with Coloured
and other Plates, 12s. 6d. net.

THE FIRST VOLUME NOW READY.

WILD FRUITS OF THE COUNTRY SIDE.

By F. E. HULME, F.L.S., F.S.A.,

Author of "Familiar Wild Flowers," etc.

With 36 Fine Coloured Plates by the Author.

     "A charming book, illustrated with very attractive drawings. A
     very pleasing and interesting volume."--Spectator.

       *       *       *       *       *

OTHER VOLUMES IN THE PRESS.

BRITISH MAMMALS.

By Sir HARRY JOHNSTON, G.C.M.G.,

Author of "The Uganda Protectorate."

With 16 Coloured Plates from Drawings by the Author, and with many other Illustrations from
the Author's Drawings and from Photographs.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRITISH FRESH-WATER FISH.

By the Right Hon. Sir HERBERT MAXWELL, Bart., F.R.S.,

Author of "Salmon and Sea Trout."

With numerous Coloured Plates and other Illustrations.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW SIX-SHILLING NOVELS.

Each in cloth gilt.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALAIN TANGER'S WIFE. By J. H. VOXALL, M.P.

     "The interest is infectious; there is no denying the charm of the
     story."

     DAILY MAIL.

FERELITH. By LORD KILMARNOCK.

     "An entirely new plot, and assuredly one of the most startling
     ones ever invented. The tale itself is told with a quiet dignity
     and restraint."--Newcastle Leader.

SOULS. By "RITA."

     "Brightly and cleverly written; full of amusing episodes and
     dialogue."--Daily Telegraph.

THE SEVEN SECRETS. By WM. LE QUEUX.

     "No reader can fail to admire the ingenuity with which Mr. W. Le
     Queux has constructed the plot of his latest novel, the secret of
     which is admirably preserved."--Manchester Guardian.

THE GOLDEN KINGDOM. By ANDREW BALFOUR.

     "Mr. Balfour proves himself in 'The Golden Kingdom' to be a
     capital storyteller. He is a Stevensonian both in matter and in
     manner, but with considerable ingenuity of his own in devising
     situations, and considerable ability in the developing and
     setting forth of a tale of romantic adventure."--Athenæum.

THE LADY OF THE CAMEO. By TOM GALLON.

THE ETERNAL WOMAN. By DOROTHEA GERARD.

CHASMA. By H. W. G. HYRST.

A PARSON'S LASS. By GODFREY BURCHETT.

THE VICE-CHANCELLOR'S WARD. By CHRISTIAN TEARLE.

THE MAN WITH THE WOODEN FACE. By MRS. FRED REYNOLDS.

LONDON: HUTCHINSON & CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.

1. Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

2. This text contains diacritical marks and symbols, where possible these are represented in
the text by the following symbols.

Diacritical mark              above  below --------------------------   ------  ------ macron
(straight line)         [=x]   [x=]

3. List of corrections:

Page 24, "colourness" changed to "colourless"

Page 37, "venalty" changed to "venality"

Page 57, "matresses" changed to "mattresses"

Page 58, "exemple" changed to "example"

Page 70, "Hillali" changed to "Hilalli"

Page 94, "a.m." changed to "p.m."

Page 187, "Morocoo" changed to "Morocco"

Page 197, "trumpter" changed to "trumpeter"

Page 255, "farthur" changed to "farther"

Page 262, "staple" changed to "stable"

Page 324, "floor" changed to "flour"

Page 345, "votex" changed to "vortex"

Page 346, "dozon" changed to "dozen"