"I rather think not. I knew what that mare was, well enough. A dealer would have had three
hundred and fifty pounds for her. I could have got the money easily if I had taken her down
into the shires, and ridden her a day or two myself."

"I gave you what you asked."

"Yes, you did. It isn't often that I take less than I ask. But the fact is, about horses, I
don't know whether I shouldn't do better if I never owned an animal at all but those I want
for my own use. When I am dealing with a man I call a friend, I can't bear to make money of
him. I don't think fellows give me all the credit they should do for sticking to them."

The Major, as he said this, leaned back in his chair, put his hand up to his moustache, and
looked sadly away into the vacancy of the room, as though he was meditating sorrowfully on
the ingratitude of the world.

"I suppose it's all right about Cream Cheese?" asked the Lord.

"Well; it ought to be." And now the Major spoke like an oracle, leaning forward on the table,
uttering his words in a low voice, but very plainly, so that not a syllable might be lost.
"When you remember how he ran at the Craven with 9 st. 12 lb. on him, that it took Archbishop
all he knew to beat him with only 9 st. 2 lb., and what the lot at Chester are likely to be,
I don't think that there can be seven to one against him. I should be very glad to take it
off your hands, only the figures are a little too heavy for me."

"I suppose Sunflower'll be the best animal there?"

"Not a doubt of it, if he's all right, and if his temper will stand. Think what a course Chester
is for an ill-conditioned brute like that! And then he's the most uncertain horse in training.
There are times he won't feed. From what I hear, I shouldn't wonder if he don't turn up at all."

"Solomon says he's all right."

"You won't get Solomon to take four to one against him, nor yet four and a half. I suppose
you'll go down, my Lord?"

"Well, yes; if there's nothing else doing just then. I don't know how it may be about this
electioneering business. I shall go and smoke upstairs."

At the Beargarden there were,--I was going to say, two smoking-rooms; but in truth the house
was a smoking-room all over. It was, however, the custom of those who habitually played cards,
to have their cigars and coffee upstairs. Into this sanctum Major Tifto had not yet been introduced,
but now he was taken there under Lord Silverbridge's wing. There were already four or five
assembled, among whom was Mr. Adolphus Longstaff, a young man of about thirty-five years of
age, who spent very much of his time at the Beargarden. "Do you know my friend Tifto?" said
the Lord. "Tifto, this is Mr. Longstaff, whom men within the walls of this asylum sometimes
call Dolly." Whereupon the Major bowed and smiled graciously.

"I have heard of Major Tifto," said Dolly.

"Who has not?" said Lord Nidderdale, another middle-aged young man, who made one of the company.
Again the Major bowed.

"Last season I was always intending to get down to your country and have a day with the Tiftoes,"
said Dolly. "Don't they call your hounds the Tiftoes?"

"They shall be called so if you like," said the Major. "And why didn't you come?"

"It always was such a grind."

"Train down from Paddington every day at half-past ten."

"That's all very well if you happen to be up. Well, Silverbridge, how's the Prime Minister?"

"How is he, Tifto?" asked the noble partner.

"I don't think there's a man in England just at present enjoying a very much better state of
health," said the Major pleasantly.

"Safe to run?" asked Dolly.

"Safe to run! Why shouldn't he be safe to run?"

"I mean sure to start."

"I think we mean him to start, don't we, Silverbridge?" said the Major.

There was something perhaps in the tone in which the last remark was made which jarred a little
against the young lord's dignity. At any rate he got up and declared his purpose of going to
the opera. He should look in, he said, and hear a song from Mdlle Stuffa. Mdlle Stuffa was
the nightingale of the season, and Lord Silverbridge, when he had nothing else to do, would
sometimes think that he was fond of music. Soon after he was gone Major Tifto had some whisky-and-water,
lit his third cigar, and began to feel the glory of belonging to the Beargarden. With Lord
Silverbridge, to whom it was essentially necessary that he should make himself agreeable at
all times, he was somewhat overweighted as it were. Though he attempted an easy familiarity,
he was a little afraid of Lord Silverbridge. With Dolly Longstaff he felt that he might be
comfortable,--not, perhaps, understanding that gentleman's character. With Lord Nidderdale
he had previously been acquainted, and had found him to be good-natured. So, as he sipped his
whisky, he became confidential and comfortable.

"I never thought so much about her good looks," he said. They were talking of the singer, the
charms of whose voice had carried Lord Silverbridge away.

"Did you ever see her off the stage?" asked Nidderdale.

"Oh dear yes."

"She does not go about very much, I fancy," said someone.

"I dare say not," said Tifto. "But she and I have had a day or two together, for all that."

"You must have been very much favoured," said Dolly.

"We've been pals ever since she has been over here," said Tifto, with an enormous lie.

"How do you get on with her husband?" asked Dolly,--in the simplest voice, as though not in
the least surprised at his companion's statement.

"Husband!" exclaimed the Major; who was not possessed of sufficient presence of mind to suppress
all signs of his ignorance.

"Ah," said Dolly; "you are not probably aware that your pal has been married to Mr. Thomas
Jones for the last year and a half." Soon after that Major Tifto left the club,--with considerably
enhanced respect for Mr. Longstaff.

CHAPTER VII

Conservative Convictions

Lord Silverbridge had engaged himself to be with his father the next morning at half-past nine,
and he entered the breakfast-room a very few minutes after that hour. He had made up his mind
as to what he would say to his father. He meant to call himself a Conservative, and to go into
the House of Commons under that denomination. All the men among whom he lived were Conservatives.
It was a matter on which, as he thought, his father could have no right to control him. Down
in Barsetshire, as well as up in London, there was some little difference of opinion in this
matter. The people of Silverbridge declared that they would prefer to have a Conservative member,
as indeed they had one for the last Session. They had loyally returned the Duke himself while
he was a commoner, but they had returned him as being part and parcel of the Omnium appendages.
That was all over now. As a constituency they were not endowed with advanced views, and thought
that a Conservative would suit them best. That being so, and as they had been told that the
Duke's son was a Conservative, they fancied that by electing him they would be pleasing everybody.
But, in truth, by so doing they would by no means please the Duke. He had told them on previous
occasions that they might elect whom they pleased, and felt no anger because they had elected
a Conservative. They might send up to Parliament the most antediluvian old Tory they could
find in England if they wished, only not his son, not a Palliser as a Tory or Conservative.
And then, though the little town had gone back in the ways of the world, the county, or the
Duke's division of the county, had made so much progress, that a Liberal candidate recommended
by him would almost certainly be returned. It was just the occasion on which a Palliser should
show himself ready to serve his country. There would be an expense, but he would think nothing
of expense in such a matter. Ten thousand pounds spent on such an object would not vex him.
The very contest would have given him new life. All this Lord Silverbridge understood, but
had said to himself and to all his friends that it was a matter in which he did not intend
to be controlled.

The Duke had passed a very unhappy night. He had told himself that any such marriage as that
spoken of was out of the question. He believed that the matter might be so represented to his
girl as to make her feel that it was out of the question. He hardly doubted but that he could
stamp it out. Though he should have to take her away into some further corner of the world,
he would stamp it out. But she, when this foolish passion of hers should have been thus stamped
out, could never be the pure, the bright, the unsullied, unsoiled thing, of the possession
of which he had thought so much. He had never spoken of his hopes about her even to his wife,
but in the silence of his very silent life he had thought much of the day when he would give
her to some noble youth,--noble with all gifts of nobility, including rank and wealth,--who
might be fit to receive her. Now, even though no one else should know it,--and all would know
it,--she would be the girl who had condescended to love young Tregear.

His own Duchess, she whose loss to him now was as though he had lost half his limbs,--had not
she in the same way loved a Tregear, or worse than a Tregear, in her early days? Ah yes! And
though his Cora had been so much to him, had he not often felt, had he not been feeling all
his days, that Fate had robbed him of the sweetest joy that is given to man, in that she had
not come to him loving him with her early spring of love, as she had loved that poor ne'er-do-well?
How infinite had been his regrets. How often had he told himself that, with all that Fortune
had given him, still Fortune had been unjust to him because he had been robbed of that. Not
to save his life could he have whispered a word of this to any one, but he had felt it. He
had felt it for years. Dear as she had been, she had not been quite what she should have been
but for that. And now this girl of his, who was so much dearer to him than anything else left
to him, was doing exactly as her mother had done. The young man might be stamped out. He might
be made to vanish as that other young man had vanished. But the fact that he had been there,
cherished in the girl's heart,--that could not be stamped out.

He struggled gallantly to acquit the memory of his wife. He could best do that by leaning with
the full weight of his mind on the presumed iniquity of Mrs. Finn. Had he not known from the
first that the woman was an adventuress? And had he not declared to himself over and over again
that between such a one and himself there should be no intercourse, no common feeling? He had
allowed himself to be talked into an intimacy, to be talked almost into an affection. And this
was the result!

And how should he treat this matter in his coming interview with his son;--or should he make
an allusion to it? At first it seemed as though it would be impossible for him to give his
mind to that other subject. How could he enforce the merits of political Liberalism, and the
duty of adhering to the old family party, while his mind was entirely preoccupied with his
daughter? It had suddenly become almost indifferent to him whether Silverbridge should be a
Conservative or a Liberal. But as he dressed he told himself that, as a man, he ought to be
able to do a plain duty, marked out for him as this had been by his own judgment, without regard
to personal suffering. The hedger and ditcher must make his hedge and clean his ditch even
though he be tormented by rheumatism. His duty by his son he must do, even though his heart
were torn to pieces.

During breakfast he tried to be gracious, and condescended to ask his son a question about
Prime Minister. Racing was an amusement to which English noblemen had been addicted for many
ages, and had been held to be serviceable rather than disgraceful, if conducted in a noble
fashion. He did not credit Tifto with much nobility. He knew but little about the Major. He
would much have preferred that his son should have owned a horse alone, if he must have anything
to do with ownership. "Would it not be better to buy the other share?" asked the Duke.

"It would take a deal of money, sir. The Major would ask a couple of thousand, I should think."

"That is a great deal."

"And then the Major is a very useful man. He thoroughly understands the turf."

"I hope he doesn't live by it?"

"Oh no; he doesn't live by it. That is, he has a great many irons in the fire."

"I do not mind a young man owning a horse, if he can afford the expense,--as you perhaps can
do; but I hope you don't bet."

"Nothing to speak of."

"Nothing to speak of is so apt to grow into that which has to be spoken of." So much the father
said at breakfast, hardly giving his mind to the matter discussed,--his mind being on other
things. But when their breakfast was eaten, then it was necessary that he should begin. "Silverbridge,"
he said, "I hope you have thought better of what we were talking about as to these coming elections."

"Well, sir;--of course I have thought about it."

"And you can do as I would have you?"

"You see, sir, a man's political opinion is a kind of thing he can't get rid of."

"You can hardly as yet have any very confirmed political opinion. You are still young, and
I do not suppose that you have thought much about politics."

"Well, sir; I think I have. I've got my own ideas. We've got to protect our position as well
as we can against the Radicals and Communists."

"I cannot admit that at all, Silverbridge. There is no great political party in this country
anxious either for Communism or for revolution. But, putting all that aside for the present,
do you think that a man's political opinions should be held in regard to his own individual
interests, or to the much wider interests of others, whom we call the public?"

"To his own interest," said the young man with decision.

"It is simply self-protection then?"

"His own and his class. The people will look after themselves, and we must look after ourselves.
We are so few and they are so many, that we shall have quite enough to do."

Then the Duke gave his son a somewhat lengthy political lecture, which was intended to teach
him that the greatest benefit of the greatest number was the object to which all political
studies should tend. The son listened to it with attention, and when it was over, expressed
his opinion that there was a great deal in what his father had said. "I trust, if you will
consider it," said the Duke, "that you will not find yourself obliged to desert the school
of politics in which your father has not been an inactive supporter, and to which your family
has belonged for many generations."

"I could not call myself a Liberal," said the young politician.

"Why not?"

"Because I am a Conservative."

"And you won't stand for the county on the Liberal interest?"

"I should be obliged to tell them that I should always give a Conservative vote."

"Then you refuse to do what I ask?"

"I do not know how I can help refusing. If you wanted me to grow a couple of inches taller
I couldn't do it, even though I should be ever so anxious to oblige you."

"But a very young man, as you are, may have so much deference for his elders as to be induced
to believe that he has been in error."

"Oh yes; of course."

"You cannot but be aware that the political condition of the country is the one subject to
which I have devoted the labour of my life."

"I know that very well; and, of course, I know how much they all think of you."

"Then my opinion might go for something with you?"

"So it does, sir; I shouldn't have doubted at all only for that little. Still, you see, as
the thing is,--how am I to help myself?"

"You believe that you must be right,--you, who have never given an hour's study to the subject!"

"No, sir. In comparison with a great many men, I know that I am a fool. Perhaps it is because
I know that, that I am a Conservative. The Radicals are always saying that a Conservative must
be a fool. Then a fool ought to be a Conservative."

Hereupon the father got up from his chair and turned round, facing the fire, with his back
to his son. He was becoming very angry, but endeavoured to restrain his anger. The matter in
dispute between them was of so great importance, that he could hardly be justified in abandoning
it in consequence of arguments so trifling in themselves as these which his son adduced. As
he stood there for some minutes thinking of it all, he was tempted again and again to burst
out in wrath and threaten the lad,--to threaten him as to money, as to his amusements, as to
the general tenure of his life. The pity was so great that the lad should be so stubborn and
so foolish! He would never ask his son to be a slave to the Liberal party, as he had been.
But that a Palliser should not be a Liberal,--and his son, as the first recreant Palliser,--was
wormwood to him! As he stood there he more than once clenched his fist in eager desire to turn
upon the young man; but he restrained himself, telling himself that in justice he should not
be angry for such offence as this. To become a Conservative, when the path to Liberalism was
so fairly open, might be the part of a fool, but could not fairly be imputed as a crime. To
endeavour to be just was the study of his life, and in no condition of life can justice be
more imperatively due than from a father to his son.

"You mean to stand for Silverbridge?" he said at last.

"Not if you object, sir."

This made it worse. It became now still more difficult for him to scold the young man.

"You are aware that I should not meddle in any way."

"That was what I supposed. They will return a Conservative at any rate."

"It is not that I care about," said the Duke sadly.

"Upon my word, sir, I am very sorry to vex you; but what would you have me do? I will give
up Parliament altogether, if you say that you wish it."

"No; I do not wish that."

"You wouldn't have me tell a lie?"

"No."

"What can I do then?"

"Learn what there is to learn from some master fit to teach you."

"There are so many masters."

"I believe it to be that most arrogant ill-behaved young man who was with me yesterday who
has done this evil."

"You mean Frank Tregear?"

"I do mean Mr. Tregear."

"He's a Conservative, of course; and of course he and I have been much together. Was he with
you yesterday, sir?"

"Yes, he was."

"What was that about?" asked Lord Silverbridge, in a voice that almost betrayed fear, for he
knew very well what cause had produced the interview.

"He has been speaking to me--" When the Duke had got so far as this he paused, finding himself
to be hardly able to declare the disgrace which had fallen upon himself and his family. As
he did tell the story, both his face and his voice were altered, so that the son, in truth,
was scared. "He has been speaking to me about your sister. Did you know of this?"

"I knew there was something between them."

"And you encouraged it?"

"No, sir; just the contrary. I have told him that I was quite sure it would never do."

"And why did you not tell me?"

"Well, sir; that was hardly my business, was it?"

"Not to guard the honour of your sister?"

"You see, sir, how many things have happened all at once."

"What things?"

"My dear mother, sir, thought well of him." The Duke uttered a deep sigh and turned again round
to the fire. "I always told him that you would never consent."

"I should think not."

"It has come so suddenly. I should have spoken to you about it as soon as--as soon as--" He
had meant to say as soon as the husband's grief for the loss of his wife had been in some degree
appeased, but he could not speak the words. The Duke, however, perfectly understood him. "In
the meantime, they were not seeing each other."

"Nor writing?"

"I think not."

"Mrs. Finn has known it all."

"Mrs. Finn!"

"Certainly. She has known it all through."

"I do not see how it can have been so."

"He told me so himself," said the Duke, unwittingly putting words into Tregear's mouth which
Tregear had never uttered. "There must be an end of this. I will speak to your sister. In the
meantime, the less, I think, you see of Mr. Tregear the better. Of course it is out of the
question he should be allowed to remain in this house. You will make him understand that at
once, if you please."

"Oh, certainly," said Silverbridge.

CHAPTER VIII

"He Is a Gentleman"

The Duke returned to Matching an almost broken-hearted man. He had intended to go down into
Barsetshire, in reference to the coming elections;--not with the view of interfering in any
unlordly, or rather unpeerlike fashion, but thinking that if his eldest son were to stand for
the county in a proper constitutional spirit, as the eldest son of so great a county magnate
ought to do, his presence at Gatherum Castle, among his own people, might probably be serviceable,
and would certainly be gracious. There would be no question of entertainment. His bereavement
would make that impossible. But there would come from his presence a certain savour of proprietorship,
and a sense of power, which would be beneficial to his son, and would not, as the Duke thought,
be contrary to the spirit of the constitution. But all this was now at an end. He told himself
that he did not care how the elections might go;--that he did not care much how anything might
go. Silverbridge might stand for Silverbridge if he so pleased. He would give neither assistance
nor obstruction, either in the county or in the borough. He wrote to this effect to his agent,
Mr. Morton;--but at the same time desired that gentleman to pay Lord Silverbridge's electioneering
expenses, feeling it to be his duty as a father to do so much for his son.

But though he endeavoured to engage his thoughts in these parliamentary matters, though he
tried to make himself believe that this political apostasy was the trouble which vexed him,
in truth that other misery was so crushing, as to make the affairs of his son insignificant.
How should he express himself to her? That was the thought present to his mind as he went down
to Matching. Should he content himself with simply telling her that such a wish on her part
was disgraceful, and that it could never be fulfilled; or should he argue the matter with her,
endeavouring as he did so to persuade her gently that she was wrong to place her affections
so low, and so to obtain from her an assurance that the idea should be abandoned?

The latter course would be infinitely the better,--if only he could accomplish it. But he was
conscious of his own hardness of manner, and was aware that he had never succeeded in establishing
confidence between himself and his daughter. It was a thing for which he had longed,--as a
plain girl might long to possess the charms of an acknowledged beauty;--as a poor little fellow,
five feet in height, might long to have a cubit added to his stature.

Though he was angry with her, how willingly would he take her into his arms and assure her
of his forgiveness! How anxious he would be to make her understand that nothing should be spared
by him to add beauty and grace to her life! Only, as a matter of course, Mr. Tregear must be
abandoned. But he knew of himself that he would not know how to begin to be tender and forgiving.
He knew that he would not know how not to be stern and hard.

But he must find out the history of it all. No doubt the man had been his son's friend, and
had joined his party in Italy at his son's instance. But yet he had come to entertain an idea
that Mrs. Finn had been the great promoter of the sin, and he thought that Tregear had told
him that that lady had been concerned with the matter from the beginning. In all this there
was a craving in his heart to lessen the amount of culpable responsibility which might seem
to attach itself to the wife he had lost.

He reached Matching about eight, and ordered his dinner to be brought to him in his own study.
When Lady Mary came to welcome him, he kissed her forehead and bade her come to him after his
dinner. "Shall I not sit with you, papa, whilst you are eating it?" she asked; but he merely
told her that he would not trouble her to do that. Even in saying this he was so unusually
tender to her that she assured herself that her lover had not as yet told his tale.

The Duke's meals were not generally feasts for a Lucullus. No man living, perhaps, cared less
what he ate, or knew less what he drank. In such matters he took what was provided for him,
making his dinner off the first bit of meat that was brought, and simply ignoring anything
offered to him afterwards. And he would drink what wine the servant gave him, mixing it, whatever
it might be, with seltzer water. He had never been much given to the pleasures of the table;
but this habit of simplicity had grown on him of late, till the Duchess used to tell him that
his wants were so few that it was a pity he was not a hermit, vowed to poverty.

Very shortly a message was brought to Lady Mary, saying that her father wished to see her.
She went at once, and found him seated on a sofa, which stood close along the bookshelves on
one side of the room. The table had already been cleared, and he was alone. He not only was
alone, but had not even a pamphlet or newspaper in his hand.

Then she knew that Tregear must have told the story. As this occurred to her, her legs almost
gave way under her. "Come and sit down, Mary," he said, pointing to the seat on the sofa beside
himself.

She sat down and took one of his hands within her own. Then, as he did not begin at once, she
asked a question. "Will Silverbridge stand for the county, papa?"

"No, my dear."

"But for the town?"

"Yes, my dear."

"And he won't be a Liberal?"

"I am afraid not. It is a cause of great unhappiness to me; but I do not know that I should
be justified in any absolute opposition. A man is entitled to his own opinion, even though
he be a very young man."

"I am so sorry that it should be so, papa, because it vexes you."

"I have many things to vex me;--things to break my heart."

"Poor mamma!" she exclaimed.

"Yes; that above all others. But life and death are in God's hands, and even though we may
complain we can alter nothing. But whatever our sorrows are while we are here, we must do our
duty."

"I suppose he may be a good Member of Parliament, though he has turned Conservative."

"I am not thinking about your brother. I am thinking about you." The poor girl gave a little
start on the sofa. "Do you know--Mr. Tregear?" he added.

"Yes, papa; of course I know him. You used to see him in Italy."

"I believe I did; I understand that he was there as a friend of Silverbridge."

"His most intimate friend, papa."

"I dare say. He came to me, in London yesterday, and told me--! Oh Mary, can it be true?"

"Yes, papa," she said, covered up to her forehead with blushes, and with her eyes turned down.
In the ordinary affairs of life she was a girl of great courage, who was not given to be shaken
from her constancy by the pressure of any present difficulty; but now the terror inspired by
her father's voice almost overpowered her.

"Do you mean to tell me that you have engaged yourself to that young man without my approval?"

"Of course you were to have been asked, papa."

"Is that in accordance with your idea of what should be the conduct of a young lady in your
position?"

"Nobody meant to conceal anything from you, papa."

"It has been so far concealed. And yet this young man has the self-confidence to come to me
and to demand your hand as though it were a matter of course that I should accede to so trivial
a request. It is, as a matter of course, quite impossible. You understand that; do you not?"
When she did not answer him at once, he repeated the question. "I ask you whether you do not
feel that it is altogether impossible?"

"No, papa," she said, in the lowest possible whisper, but still in such a whisper that he could
hear the word, and with so much clearness that he could judge from her voice of the obstinacy
of her mind.

"Then, Mary, it becomes my duty to tell you that it is quite impossible. I will not have it
thought of. There must be an end of it."

"Why, papa?"

"Why! I am astonished that you should ask me why."

"I should not have allowed him, papa, to go to you unless I had,--unless I had loved him."

"Then you must conquer your love. It is disgraceful and must be conquered."

"Disgraceful!"

"Yes. I am sorry to use such a word to my own child, but it is so. If you will promise to be
guided by me in this matter, if you will undertake not to see him any more, I will,--if not
forget it,--at any rate pardon it, and be silent. I will excuse it because you were young,
and were thrown imprudently in his way. There has, I believe, been someone at work in the matter
with whom I ought to be more angry than with you. Say that you will obey me, and there is nothing
within a father's power that I will not do for you, to make your life happy." It was thus that
he strove not to be stern. His heart, indeed, was tender enough, but there was nothing tender
in the tone of his voice or in the glance of his eye. Though he was very positive in what he
said, yet he was shy and shamefaced even with his own daughter. He, too, had blushed when he
told her that she must conquer her love.

That she should be told that she had disgraced herself was terrible to her. That her father
should speak of her marriage with this man as an event that was impossible made her very unhappy.
That he should talk of pardoning her, as for some great fault, was in itself a misery. But
she had not on that account the least idea of giving up her lover. Young as she was, she had
her own peculiar theory on that matter, her own code of conduct and honour, from which she
did not mean to be driven. Of course she had not expected that her father would yield at the
first word. He, no doubt, would wish that she should make a more exalted marriage. She had
known that she would have to encounter opposition, though she had not expected to be told that
she had disgraced herself. As she sat there she resolved that under no pretence would she give
up her lover;--but she was so far abashed that she could not find words to express herself.
He, too, had been silent for a few moments before he again asked her for her promise.

"Will you tell me, Mary, that you will not see him again?"

"I don't think that I can say that, papa."

"Why not?"

"Oh papa, how can I, when of all the people in the world I love him the best?"

It is not without a pang that any one can be told that she who is of all the dearest has some
other one who to her is the dearest. Such pain fathers and mothers have to bear; and though,
I think, the arrow is never so blunted but that it leaves something of a wound behind, there
is in most cases, if not a perfect salve, still an ample consolation. The mother knows that
it is good that her child should love some man better than all the world beside, and that she
should be taken away to become a wife and a mother. And the father, when that delight of his
eyes ceases to assure him that he is her nearest and dearest, though he abandon the treasure
of that nearestness and dearestness with a soft melancholy, still knows that it is as it should
be. Of course that other "him" is the person she loves the best in the world. Were it not so
how evil a thing it would be that she should marry him! Were it not so with reference to some
"him", how void would her life be! But now, to the poor Duke the wound had no salve, no consolation.
When he was told that this young Tregear was the owner of his girl's sweet love, was the treasure
of her heart, he shrank as though arrows with sharp points were pricking him all over. "I will
not hear of such love," he said.

"What am I to say, papa?"

"Say that you will obey me."

Then she sat silent. "Do you not know that he is not fit to be your husband?"

"No, papa."

"Then you cannot have thought much either of your position or of mine."

"He is a gentleman, papa."

"So is my private secretary. There is not a clerk in one of our public offices who does not
consider himself to be a gentleman. The curate of the parish is a gentleman, and the medical
man who comes here from Bradstock. The word is too vague to carry with it any meaning that
ought to be serviceable to you in thinking of such a matter."

"I do not know any other way of dividing people," said she, showing thereby that she had altogether
made up her mind as to what ought to be serviceable to her.

"You are not called upon to divide people. That division requires so much experience that you
are bound in this matter to rely upon those to whom your obedience is due. I cannot but think
you must have known that you were not entitled to give your love to any man without being assured
that the man would be approved of by--by--by me." He was going to say, "your parents," but
was stopped by the remembrance of his wife's imprudence.

She saw it all, and was too noble to plead her mother's authority. But she was not too dutiful
to cast a reproach upon him, when he was so stern to her. "You have been so little with me, papa."

"That is true," he said, after a pause. "That is true. It has been a fault, and I will mend
it. It is a reason for forgiveness, and I will forgive you. But you must tell me that there
shall be an end to this."

"No, papa."

"What do you mean?"

"That as I love Mr. Tregear, and as I have told him so, and as I have promised him, I will
be true to him. I cannot let there be an end to it."

"You do not suppose that you will be allowed to see him again?"

"I hope so."

"Most assuredly not. Do you write to him?"

"No, papa."

"Never?"

"Never since we have been back in England."

"You must promise me that you will not write."

She paused a moment before she answered him, and now she was looking him full in the face.
"I shall not write to him. I do not think I shall write to him; but I will not promise."

"Not promise me,--your father!"

"No, papa. It might be that--that I should do it."

"You would not wish me so to guard you that you should have no power of sending a letter but
by permission?"

"I should not like that."

"But it will have to be so."

"If I do write I will tell you."

"And show me what you write?"

"No, papa; not that; but I will tell you what I have written."

Then it occurred to him that this bargaining was altogether derogatory to his parental authority,
and by no means likely to impress upon her mind the conviction that Tregear must be completely
banished from her thoughts. He began already to find how difficult it would be for him to have
the charge of such a daughter,--how impossible that he should conduct such a charge with sufficient
firmness, and yet with sufficient tenderness! At present he had done no good. He had only been
made more wretched than ever by her obstinacy. Surely he must pass her over to the charge of
some lady,--but of some lady who would be as determined as was he himself that she should not
throw herself away by marrying Mr. Tregear.

"There shall be no writing," he said, "no visiting, no communication of any kind. As you refuse
to obey me now, you had better go to your room."

CHAPTER IX

"In Medias Res"

Perhaps the method of rushing at once "in medias res" is, of all the ways of beginning a story,
or a separate branch of a story, the least objectionable. The reader is made to think that
the gold lies so near the surface that he will be required to take very little trouble in digging
for it. And the writer is enabled,--at any rate for a time, and till his neck has become, as
it were, warm to the collar,--to throw off from him the difficulties and dangers, the tedium
and prolixity, of description. This rushing "in medias res" has doubtless the charm of ease.
"Certainly, when I threw her from the garret window to the stony pavement below, I did not
anticipate that she would fall so far without injury to life or limb." When a story has been
begun after this fashion, without any prelude, without description of the garret or of the
pavement, or of the lady thrown, or of the speaker, a great amount of trouble seems to have
been saved. The mind of the reader fills up the blanks,--if erroneously, still satisfactorily.
He knows, at least, that the heroine has encountered a terrible danger, and has escaped from
it with almost incredible good fortune; that the demon of the piece is a bold demon, not ashamed
to speak of his own iniquity, and that the heroine and the demon are so far united that they
have been in a garret together. But there is the drawback on the system,--that it is almost
impossible to avoid the necessity of doing, sooner or later, that which would naturally be
done at first. It answers, perhaps, for half-a-dozen chapters;--and to carry the reader pleasantly
for half-a-dozen chapters is a great matter!--but after that a certain nebulous darkness gradually
seems to envelope the characters and the incidents. "Is all this going on in the country, or
is it in town,--or perhaps in the Colonies? How old was she? Was she tall? Is she fair? Is
she heroine-like in her form and gait? And, after all, how high was the garret window?" I have
always found that the details would insist on being told at last, and that by rushing "in medias
res" I was simply presenting the cart before the horse. But as readers like the cart the best,
I will do it once again,--trying it only for a branch of my story,--and will endeavour to let
as little as possible of the horse be seen afterwards.

"And so poor Frank has been turned out of heaven?" said Lady Mabel Grex to young Lord Silverbridge.

"Who told you that? I have said nothing about it to anybody."

"Of course he told me himself," said the young beauty. I am aware that, in the word beauty,
and perhaps, also, in the word young, a little bit of the horse is appearing; and I am already
sure that I shall have to show his head and neck, even if not his very tail. "Poor Frank! Did
you hear it all?"

"I heard nothing, Lady Mab, and know nothing."

"You know that your awful governor won't let him stay any longer in Carlton Terrace?"

"Yes, I know that."

"And why not?"

"Would Lord Grex allow Percival to have his friends living here?" Earl Grex was Lady Mabel's
father, Lord Percival was the Earl's son;--and the Earl lived in Belgrave Square. All these
are little bits of the horse.

"Certainly not. In the first place, I am here."

"That makes a difference, certainly."

"Of course it makes a difference. They would be wanting to make love to me."

"No doubt. I should, I know."

"And therefore it wouldn't do for you to live here; and then papa is living here himself. And
then the permission never has been given. I suppose Frank did not go there at first without
the Duke knowing it."

"I daresay that I had mentioned it."

"You might as well tell me all about it. We are cousins, you know." Frank Tregear, through
his mother's family, was second cousin to Lady Mabel; as was also Lord Silverbridge, one of
the Grexes having, at some remote period, married a Palliser. This is another bit of the horse.

"The governor merely seemed to think that he would like to have his own house to himself--like
other people. What an ass Tregear was to say anything to you about it."

"I don't think he was an ass at all. Of course he had to tell us that he was changing his residence.
He says that he is going to take a back bedroom somewhere near the Seven Dials."

"He has got very nice rooms in Duke Street."

"Have you seen him, then?"

"Of course I have."

"Poor fellow! I wish he had a little money; he is so nice. And now, Lord Silverbridge, do you
mean to say that there is not something in the wind about Lady Mary?"

"If there were I should not talk about it," said Lord Silverbridge.

"You are a very innocent young gentleman."

"And you are a very interesting young lady."

"You ought to think me so, for I interest myself very much about you. Was the Duke very angry
about your not standing for the county?"

"He was vexed."

"I do think it is so odd that a man should be expected to be this or that in politics because
his father happened to be so before him! I don't understand how he should expect that you should
remain with a party so utterly snobbish and down in the world as the Radicals. Everybody that
is worth anything is leaving them."

"He has not left them."

"No, I don't suppose he could; but you have."

"I never belonged to them, Lady Mab."

"And never will, I hope. I always told papa that you would certainly be one of us." All this
took place in the drawing-room of Lord Grex's house. There was no Lady Grex alive, but there
lived with the Earl a certain elderly lady, reported to be in some distant way a cousin of
the family, named Miss Cassewary, who, in the matter of looking after Lady Mab, did what was
supposed to be absolutely necessary. She now entered the room with her bonnet on, having just
returned from church. "What was the text?" asked Lady Mab at once.

"If you had gone to church, as you ought to have done, my dear, you would have heard it."

"But as I didn't?"

"I don't think the text alone will do you any good."

"And probably you forget it."

"No, I don't, my dear. How do you do, Lord Silverbridge?"

"He is a Conservative, Miss Cass."

"Of course he is. I am quite sure that a young nobleman of so much taste and intellect would
take the better side."

"You forget that all you are saying is against my father and my family, Miss Cassewary."

"I dare say it was different when your father was a young man. And your father, too, was, not
very long since, at the head of a government which contained many Conservatives. I don't look
upon your father as a Radical, though perhaps I should not be justified in calling him a Conservative."

"Well; certainly not, I think."

"But now it is necessary that all noblemen in England should rally to the defence of their
order." Miss Cassewary was a great politician, and was one of those who are always foreseeing
the ruin of their country. "My dear, I will go and take my bonnet off. Perhaps you will have
tea when I come down."

"Don't you go," said Lady Mabel, when Silverbridge got up to take his departure.

"I always do when tea comes."

"But you are going to dine here?"

"Not that I know of. In the first place, nobody has asked me. In the second place, I am engaged.
Thirdly, I don't care about having to talk politics to Miss Cass; and fourthly, I hate family
dinners on Sunday."

"In the first place, I ask you. Secondly, I know you were going to dine with Frank Tregear,
at the club. Thirdly, I want you to talk to me, and not to Miss Cass. And fourthly, you are
an uncivil young--young,--young,--I should say cub if I dared, to tell me that you don't like
dining with me any day of the week."

"Of course you know what I mean is, that I don't like troubling your father."

"Leave that to me. I shall tell him you are coming, and Frank too. Of course you can bring
him. Then he can talk to me when papa goes down to his club, and you can arrange your politics
with Miss Cass." So it was settled, and at eight o'clock Lord Silverbridge reappeared in Belgrave
Square with Frank Tregear.

Earl Grex was a nobleman of very ancient family, the Grexes having held the parish of Grex,
in Yorkshire, from some time long prior to the Conquest. In saying all this, I am, I know,
allowing the horse to appear wholesale;--but I find that he cannot be kept out. I may as well
go on to say that the present Earl was better known at Newmarket and the Beaufort,--where he
spent a large part of his life in playing whist,--than in the House of Lords. He was a grey-haired,
handsome, worn-out old man, who through a long life of pleasure had greatly impaired a fortune
which, for an earl, had never been magnificent, and who now strove hard, but not always successfully,
to remedy that evil by gambling. As he could no longer eat and drink as he had used to do,
and as he cared no longer for the light that lies in a lady's eye, there was not much left
to him in the world but cards and racing. Nevertheless he was a handsome old man, of polished
manners, when he chose to use them; a staunch Conservative and much regarded by his party,
for whom in his early life he had done some work in the House of Commons.

"Silverbridge is all very well," he had said; "but I don't see why that young Tregear is to
dine here every night of his life."

"This is the second time since he has been up in town, papa."

"He was here last week, I know."

"Silverbridge wouldn't come without him."

"That's d---- nonsense," said the Earl. Miss Cassewary gave a start,--not, we may presume,
because she was shocked, for she could not be much shocked, having heard the same word from
the same lips very often; but she thought it right always to enter a protest. Then the two
young men were announced.

Frank Tregear, having been known by the family as a boy, was Frank to all of them,--as was
Lady Mabel, Mabel to him, somewhat to the disgust of the father and not altogether with the
approbation of Miss Cass. But Lady Mabel had declared that she would not be guilty of the folly
of changing old habits. Silverbridge, being Silverbridge to all his own people, hardly seemed
to have a Christian name;--his godfathers and godmothers had indeed called him Plantagenet;--but
having only become acquainted with the family since his Oxford days he was Lord Silverbridge
to Lady Mabel. Lady Mabel had not as yet become Mabel to him, but, as by her very intimate
friends she was called Mab, had allowed herself to be addressed by him as Lady Mab. There was
thus between them all considerable intimacy.

"I'm deuced glad to hear it," said the Earl when dinner was announced. For, though he could
not eat much, Lord Grex was always impatient when the time of eating was at hand. Then he walked
down alone. Lord Silverbridge followed with his daughter, and Frank Tregear gave his arm to
Miss Cassewary. "If that woman can't clear her soup better than that, she might as well go
to the d----," said the Earl;--upon which remark no one in the company made any observation.
As there were two men-servants in the room when it was made the cook probably had the advantage
of it. It may be almost unnecessary to add that though the Earl had polished manners for certain
occasions he would sometimes throw them off in the bosom of his own family.

"My Lord," said Miss Cassewary--she always called him "My Lord"--"Lord Silverbridge is going
to stand for the Duke's borough in the Conservative interest."

"I didn't know the Duke had a borough," said the Earl.

"He had one till he thought it proper to give it up," said the son, taking his father's part.

"And you are going to pay him off for what he has done by standing against him. It's just the
sort of thing for a son to do in these days. If I had a borough Percival would go down and
make radical speeches there."

"There isn't a better Conservative in England than Percival," said Lady Mabel, bridling up.

"Nor a worse son," said the father. "I believe he would do anything he could lay his hand on
to oppose me." During the past week there had been some little difference of opinion between
the father and the son as to the signing of a deed.

"My father does not take it in bad part at all," said Silverbridge.

"Perhaps he's ratting himself," said the Earl. "When a man lends himself to a coalition he
is as good as half gone."

"I do not think that in all England there is so thorough a Liberal as my father," said Lord
Silverbridge. "And when I say that he doesn't take this badly, I don't mean that it doesn't
vex him. I know it vexes him. But he doesn't quarrel with me. He even wrote down to Barsetshire
to say that all my expenses at Silverbridge were to be paid."

"I call that very bad politics," said the Earl.

"It seems to me to be very grand," said Frank.

"Perhaps, sir, you don't know what is good or what is bad in politics," said the Earl, trying
to snub his guest.

But it was difficult to snub Frank. "I know a gentleman when I see him, I think," he said.
"Of course Silverbridge is right to be a Conservative. Nobody has a stronger opinion about
that than I have. But the Duke is behaving so well that if I were he I should almost regret it."

"And so I do," said Silverbridge.

When the ladies were gone the old Earl turned himself round to the fire, having filled his
glass and pushed the bottles away from him, as though he meant to leave the two young men to
themselves. He sat leaning with his head on his hand, looking the picture of woe. It was now
only nine o'clock, and there would be no whist at the Beaufort till eleven. There was still
more than an hour to be endured before the brougham would come to fetch him. "I suppose we
shall have a majority," said Frank, trying to rouse him.

"Who does 'We' mean?" asked the Earl.

"The Conservatives, of whom I take the liberty to call myself one."

"It sounded as though you were a very influential member of the party."

"I consider myself to be one of the party, and so I say 'We.'"

Upstairs in the drawing-room Miss Cassewary did her duty loyally. It was quite right that young
ladies and young gentlemen should be allowed to talk together, and very right indeed that such
a young gentleman as Lord Silverbridge should be allowed to talk to such a young lady as Lady
Mabel. What could be so nice as a marriage between the heir of the house of Omnium and Lady
Mabel Grex? Lady Mabel looked indeed to be the elder,--but they were in truth the same age.
All the world acknowledged that Lady Mabel was very clever and very beautiful and fit to be
a Duchess. Even the Earl, when Miss Cassewary hinted at the matter to him, grunted an assent.
Lady Mabel had already refused one or two not ineligible offers, and it was necessary that
something should be done. There had been at one time a fear in Miss Cassewary's bosom lest
her charge should fall too deeply in love with Frank Tregear;--but Miss Cassewary knew that
whatever danger there might have been in that respect had passed away. Frank was willing to
talk to her, while Mabel and Lord Silverbridge were in a corner together.

"I shall be on tenterhooks now till I know how it is to be at Silverbridge," said the young lady.

"It is very good of you to feel so much interest."

"Of course I feel an interest. Are not you one of us? When is it to be?"

"They say that the elections will be over before the Derby."

"And which do you care for the most?"

"I should like to pull off the Derby, I own."

"From what papa says, I should think the other event is the more probable."

"Doesn't the Earl stand to win on Prime Minister?"

"I never know anything about his betting. But,--you know his way,--he said you were going to
drop a lot of money like a-- I can't quite tell you what he likened you to."

"The Earl may be mistaken."

"You are not betting much, I hope."

"Not plunging. But I have a little money on."

"Don't get into a way of betting."

"Why:--what difference does it make,--to you?"

"Is that kind, Lord Silverbridge?"

"I meant to say that if I did make a mess of it you wouldn't care about it."

"Yes, I should. I should care very much. I dare say you could lose a great deal of money and
care nothing about it."

"Indeed I could not."

"What would be a great deal of money to me. But you would want to get it back again. And in
that way you would be regularly on the turf."

"And why not?"

"I want to see better things from you."

"You ought not to preach against the turf, Lady Mab."

"Because of papa? But I am not preaching against the turf. If I were such as you are I would
have a horse or two myself. A man in your position should do a little of everything. You should
hunt and have a yacht, and stalk deer and keep your own trainer at Newmarket."

"I wish you'd say all that to my father."

"Of course I mean if you can afford it. I like a man to like pleasure. But I despise a man
who makes a business of his pleasures. When I hear that this man is the best whist-player in
London, and that man the best billiard-player, I always know that they can do nothing else,
and then I despise them."

"You needn't despise me, because I do nothing well," said he, as he got up to take his leave.

"I do so hope you'll get the seat,--and win the Derby."

These were her last words to him as she wished him good-night.

CHAPTER X

"Why Not Like Romeo If I Feel Like Romeo?"

"That's nonsense, Miss Cass, and I shall," said Lady Mabel. They were together, on the morning
after the little dinner-party described in the last chapter, in a small back sitting-room which
was supposed to be Lady Mabel's own, and the servant had just announced the fact that Mr. Tregear
was below.

"Then I shall go down too," said Miss Cassewary.

"You'll do nothing of the kind. Will you please to tell me what it is you are afraid of? Do
you think that Frank is going to make love to me again?"

"No."

"Or that if I chose that he should I would let you stop me? He is in love with somebody else,--and
perhaps I am too. And we are two paupers."

"My lord would not approve of it."

"If you know what my lord approves of and what he disapproves you understand him a great deal
better than I do. And if you mind what he approves or disapproves, you care for his opinion
a great deal more than I do. My cousin is here now to talk to me,--about his own affairs, and
I mean to see him,--alone." Then she left the little room, and went down to that in which Frank
was waiting for her, without the company of Miss Cassewary.

"Do you really mean," she said after they had been together for some minutes, "that you had
the courage to ask the Duke for his daughter's hand?"

"Why not?"

"I believe you would dare do anything."

"I couldn't very well take it without asking him."

"As I am not acquainted with the young lady I don't know how that might be."

"And if I took her so, I should have to take her empty-handed."

"Which wouldn't suit;--would it?"

"It wouldn't suit for her,--whose comforts and happiness are much more to me than my own."

"No doubt! Of course you are terribly in love."

"Very thoroughly in love, I think, I am."

"For the tenth time, I should say."

"For the second only. I don't regard myself as a monument of constancy, but I think I am less
fickle than some other people."

"Meaning me!"

"Not especially."

"Frank, that is ill-natured, and almost unmanly,--and false also. When have I been fickle?
You say that there was one before with you. I say that there has never really been one with
me at all. No one knows that better than yourself. I cannot afford to be in love till I am
quite sure that the man is fit to be, and will be, my husband."

"I doubt sometimes whether you are capable of being in love with any one."

"I think I am," she said, very gently. "But I am at any rate capable of not being in love till
I wish it. Come, Frank; do not quarrel with me. You know,--you ought to know,--that I should
have loved you had it not been that such love would have been bad for both of us."

"It is a kind of self-restraint I do not understand."

"Because you are not a woman."

"Why did you twit me with changing my love?"

"Because I am a woman. Can't you forgive as much as that to me?"

"Certainly. Only you must not think that I have been false because I now love her so dearly."

"I do not think you are false. I would do anything to help you if there were anything I could
do. But when you spoke so like a Romeo of your love--"

"Why not like a Romeo, if I feel like a Romeo?"

"But I doubt whether Romeo talked much to Rosaline of his love for Juliet. But you shall talk
to me of yours for Lady Mary, and I will listen to you patiently and encourage you, and will
not even think of those former vows."

"The former vows were foolish."

"Oh,--of course."

"You at least used to say so."

"I say so now, and they shall be as though they had been never spoken. So you bearded the Duke
in his den, and asked him for Lady Mary's hand,--just as though you had been a young Duke yourself
and owned half a county?"

"Just the same."

"And what did he say?"

"He swore that it was impossible.--Of course I knew all that before."

"How will it be now? You will not give it up?"

"Certainly not."

"And Lady Mary?"

"One human being can perhaps never answer for another with perfect security."

"But you feel sure of her?"

"I do."

"He, I should think, can be very imperious."

"And so can she. The Pallisers are all obstinate."

"Is Silverbridge obstinate?" she asked.

"Stiff-necked as a bull if he takes it into his head to be so."

"I shouldn't have thought it."

"No;--because he is so soft in his manner, and often finds it easier to be led by others than
to direct himself."

Then she remained silent for a few seconds. They were both thinking of the same thing, and
both wishing to speak of it. But the words came to her first. "I wonder what he thinks of me."
Whereupon Tregear only smiled. "I suppose he has spoken to you about me?"

"Why do you ask?"

"Why!"

"And why should I tell you? Suppose he should have said to me in the confidence of friendship
that he thinks you ugly and stupid."

"I am sure he has not said that. He has eyes to see and ears to hear. But, though I am neither
ugly nor stupid, he needn't like me."

"Do you want him to like you?"

"Yes, I do. Oh yes; you may laugh; but if I did not think that I could be a good wife to him
I would not take his hand even to become Duchess of Omnium."

"Do you mean that you love him, Mabel?"

"No; I do not mean that. But I would learn to love him. You do not believe that?" Here he smiled
again and shook his head. "It is as I said before, because you are not a woman, and do not
understand how women are trammelled. Do you think ill of me because I say this?"

"No, indeed."

"Do not think ill of me if you can help it, because you are almost the only friend that I can
trust. I almost trust dear old Cass, but not quite. She is old-fashioned and I shock her. As
for other women, there isn't one anywhere to whom I would say a word. Only think how a girl
such as I am is placed; or indeed any girl. You, if you see a woman that you fancy, can pursue
her, can win her and triumph, or lose her and gnaw your heart;--at any rate you can do something.
You can tell her that you love her; can tell her so again and again even though she should
scorn you. You can set yourself about the business you have taken in hand and can work hard
at it. What can a girl do?"

"Girls work hard too sometimes."

"Of course they do;--but everybody feels that they are sinning against their sex. Of love,
such as a man's is, a woman ought to know nothing. How can she love with passion when she should
never give her love till it has been asked, and not then unless her friends tell her that the
thing is suitable? Love such as that to me is out of the question. But, as it is fit that I
should be married, I wish to be married well."

"And you will love him after a fashion?"

"Yes;--after a very sterling fashion. I will make his wishes my wishes, his ways my ways, his
party my party, his home my home, his ambition my ambition,--his honour my honour." As she
said this she stood up with her hands clenched and head erect, and her eyes flashing. "Do you
not know me well enough to be sure that I should be loyal to him?"

"Yes;--I think that you would be loyal."

"Whether I loved him or not, he should love me."

"And you think that Silverbridge would do?"

"Yes, I think that Silverbridge would do. You, no doubt, will say that I am flying high?"

"Not too high. Why should you not fly high? If I can justify myself, surely I cannot accuse you."

"It is hardly the same thing, Frank. Of course, there is not a girl in London to whom Lord
Silverbridge would not be the best match that she could make. He has the choice of us all."

"Most girls would think twice before refusing him."

"Very few would think twice before accepting him. Perhaps he wishes to add to his wealth by
marrying richly,--as his father did."

"No thought on that subject will ever trouble him. That will be all as it happens. As soon
as he takes a sufficient fancy to a girl he will ask her straight off. I do not say that he
might not change afterwards, but he would mean it at the time."

"If he had once said the word to me, he should not change. But then what right have I to expect
it? What has he ever said about me?"

"Very little. But had he said much I should not tell you."

"You are my friend,--but you are his too; and he, perhaps, is more to you than I am. As his
friend it may be your duty to tell him all that I am saying. If so, I have been wrong."

"Do you think that I shall do that, Mabel?"

"I do not know. Men are so strong in their friendships."

"Mine with you is the older, and the sweeter. Though we may not be more than friends, I will
say that it is the more tender. In my heart of hearts I do not think that Silverbridge could
do better."

"Thanks for that, Frank."

"I shall tell him nothing of you that can set him against you."

"And you would be glad to see me his wife?" she said.

"As you must be somebody's wife, and not mine."

"I cannot be yours, Frank; can I?"

"And not mine," he repeated. "I will endeavour to be glad. Who can explain his feelings in
such a matter? Though I most truly love the girl I hope to marry, yet my heart goes back to
former things and opens itself to past regrets."

"I know it all," she whispered.

"But you and I must be too wise to permit ourselves to be tormented by such foolish melancholy."
As he said this he took her hand, half with the purpose of bidding her good-bye, but partly
with the idea of giving some expression to the tenderness of his feelings. But as he did so,
the door was opened, and the old Earl shambled into the room.

"What the deuce are you doing here?" he said.

"I have been talking to Lady Mabel."

"For about an hour."

"Indeed I do not know for how long."

"Papa, he is going to be married." When she said this Frank Tregear turned round and looked
at her almost in anger.

"Going to be married, is he? Who is the fortunate woman?"

"I don't think he will let me tell you."

"Not yet, I think," said Frank, gloomily. "There is nothing settled."

The old Earl looked puzzled, but Lady Mabel's craft had been successful. If this objectionable
young second-cousin had come there to talk about his marriage with another young woman, the
conversation must have been innocent. "Where is Miss Cassewary?" asked the Earl.

"I asked her not to come down with me because Frank wished to speak to me about his own affairs.
You have no objection to his coming, papa?"

There had been objections raised to any intimacy with Frank Tregear; but all that was now nearly
two years since. He had been assured over and over again by Miss Cassewary that he need not
be afraid of Frank Tregear, and had in a sort of way assented to the young man's visits. "I
think he might find something better to do with his time than hanging about here all day."
Frank, shrugging his shoulders, and having shaken hands both with the daughter and father,
took his hat and departed. "Who is the girl?" asked the Earl.

"You heard him say that I was not to tell."

"Has she got money?"

"I believe she will have a great deal."

"Then she is a great fool for her pains," said the Earl, shambling off again.

Lady Mabel spent the greater part of the afternoon alone, endeavouring to recall to her mind
all that she had said to Frank Tregear, and questioning herself as to the wisdom and truth
of her own words. She had intended to tell the truth,--but hardly perhaps the whole truth.
The life which was before her,--which it was necessary that she should lead,--seemed to her
to be so difficult! She could not clearly see her way to be pure and good and feminine, and
at the same time wise. She had been false now;--so far false that she had told her friend that
she had never been in love. But she was in love;--in love with him, Frank Tregear. She knew
it as thoroughly as it was possible for her to know anything;--and had acknowledged it to herself
a score of times.

But she could not marry him. And it was expected, nay, almost necessary that she should marry
someone. To that someone, how good she would be! How she would strive by duty and attention,
and if possible by affection, to make up for that misfortune of her early love!

And so I hope that I have brought my cart in to its appointed place in the front, without showing
too much of the horse.

CHAPTER XI

"Cruel"

For two or three days after the first scene between the Duke and his daughter,--that scene
in which she was forbidden either to see or to write to her lover,--not a word was said at
Matching about Mr. Tregear, nor were any steps taken towards curtailing her liberty of action.
She had said she would not write to him without telling her father, and the Duke was too proud
of the honour of his family to believe it to be possible that she should deceive him. Nor was
it possible. Not only would her own idea of duty prevent her from writing to her lover, although
she had stipulated for the right to do so in some possible emergency,--but, carried far beyond
that in her sense of what was right and wrong, she felt it now incumbent on her to have no
secret from her father at all. The secret, as long as it had been a secret, had been a legacy
from her mother,--and had been kept, at her lover's instance, during that period of mourning
for her mother in which it would, she thought, have been indecorous that there should be any
question of love or of giving in marriage. It had been a burden to her, though a necessary
burden. She had been very clear that the revelation should be made to her father, when it was
made, by her lover. That had been done,--and now it was open to her to live without any secrecy,--as
was her nature. She meant to cling to her lover. She was quite sure of that. Nothing could
divide her from him but his death or hers,--or falseness on his part. But as to marriage, that
would not be possible till her father had assented. And as to seeing the man,--ah, yes, if
she could do so with her father's assent! She would not be ashamed to own her great desire
to see him. She would tell her father that all her happiness depended upon seeing him. She
would not be coy in speaking of her love. But she would obey her father.

She had a strong idea that she would ultimately prevail,--an idea also that that "ultimately"
should not be postponed to some undefined middle-aged period of her life. As she intended to
belong to Frank Tregear, she thought it expedient that he should have the best of her days
as well as what might be supposed to be the worst; and she therefore resolved that it would
be her duty to make her father understand that though she would certainly obey him, she would
look to be treated humanely by him, and not to be made miserable for an indefinite term of years.

The first word spoken between them on the subject,--the first word after that discussion,--began
with him and was caused by his feeling that her present life at Matching must be sad and lonely.
Lady Cantrip had again written that she would be delighted to take her;--but Lady Cantrip was
in London and must be in London, at any rate when Parliament should again be sitting. A London
life would perhaps, at present, hardly suit Lady Mary. Then a plan had been prepared which
might be convenient. The Duke had a house at Richmond, on the river, called The Horns. That
should be lent to Lady Cantrip, and Mary should there be her guest. So it was settled between
the Duke and Lady Cantrip. But as yet Lady Mary knew nothing of the arrangement.

"I think I shall go up to town to-morrow," said the Duke to his daughter.

"For long?"

"I shall be gone only one night. It is on your behalf that I am going."

"On my behalf, papa?"

"I have been writing to Lady Cantrip."

"Not about Mr. Tregear?"

"No;--not about Mr. Tregear," said the father with a mixture of anger and solemnity in his
tone. "It is my desire to regard Mr. Tregear as though he did not exist."

"That is not possible, papa."

"I have alluded to the inconvenience of your position here."

"Why is it inconvenient?"

"You are too young to be without a companion. It is not fit that you should be so much alone."

"I do not feel it."

"It is very melancholy for you, and cannot be good for you. They will go down to The Horns,
so that you will not be absolutely in London, and you will find Lady Cantrip a very nice person."

"I don't care for new people just now, papa," she said. But to this he paid but little heed;
nor was she prepared to say that she would not do as he directed. When therefore he left Matching,
she understood that he was going to prepare a temporary home for her. Nothing further was said
about Tregear. She was too proud to ask that no mention of his name should be made to Lady
Cantrip. And he when he left the house did not think that he would find himself called upon
to allude to the subject.

But when Lady Cantrip made some inquiry about the girl and her habits,--asking what were her
ordinary occupations, how she was accustomed to pass her hours, to what she chiefly devoted
herself,--then at last with much difficulty the Duke did bring himself to tell the story. "Perhaps
it is better you should know it all," he said as he told it.

"Poor girl! Yes, Duke; upon the whole it is better that I should know it all," said Lady Cantrip.
"Of course he will not come here."

"Oh dear; I hope not."

"Nor to The Horns."

"I hope he will never see her again anywhere," said the Duke.

"Poor girl!"

"Have I not been right? Is it not best to put an end to such a thing at once?"

"Certainly at once, if it has to be put an end to,--and can be put an end to."

"It must be put an end to," said the Duke, very decidedly. "Do you not see that it must be
so? Who is Mr. Tregear?"

"I suppose they were allowed to be together."

"He was unfortunately intimate with Silverbridge, who took him over to Italy. He has nothing;
not even a profession." Lady Cantrip could not but smile when she remembered the immense wealth
of the man who was speaking to her;--and the Duke saw the smile and understood it. "You will
understand what I mean, Lady Cantrip. If this young man were in other respects suitable, of
course I could find an income for them. But he is nothing; just an idle seeker for pleasure
without the means of obtaining it."

"That is very bad."

"As for rank," continued the Duke energetically, "I do not think that I am specially wedded
to it. I have found myself as willing to associate with those who are without it as with those
who have it. But for my child, I would wish her to mate with one of her own class."

"It would be best."

"When a young man comes to me who, though I believe him to be what is called a gentleman, has
neither rank, nor means, nor profession, nor name, and asks for my daughter, surely I am right
to say that such a marriage shall not be thought of. Was I not right?" demanded the Duke persistently.

"But it is a pity that it should be so. It is a pity that they should ever have come together."

"It is indeed, indeed to be lamented,--and I will own at once that the fault was not hers.
Though I must be firm in this, you are not to suppose that I am angry with her. I have myself
been to blame." This he said with a resolution that,--as he and his wife had been one flesh,--all
faults committed by her should, now that she was dead, be accepted by him as his faults. "It
had not occurred to me that as yet she would love any man."

"Has it gone deep with her, Duke?"

"I fear that all things go deep with her."

"Poor girl!"

"But they shall be kept apart! As long as your great kindness is continued to her they shall
be kept apart!"

"I do not think that I should be found good at watching a young lady."

"She will require no watching."

"Then of course they will not meet. She had better know that you have told me."

"She shall know it."

"And let her know also that anything I can do to make her happy shall be done. But, Duke, there
is but one cure."

"Time, you mean."

"Yes; time; but I did not mean time." Then she smiled as she went on. "You must not suppose
that I am speaking against my own sex if I say that she will not forget Mr. Tregear till someone
else has made himself agreeable to her. We must wait till she can go out a little into society.
Then she will find out that there are others in the world besides Mr. Tregear. It so often
is the case that a girl's love means her sympathy for him who has chanced to be nearest to her."

The Duke as he went away thought very much of what Lady Cantrip had said to him;--particularly
of those last words. "Till some one else has made himself agreeable to her." Was he to send
his girl into the world in order that she might find a lover? There was something in the idea
which was thoroughly distasteful to him. He had not given his mind much to the matter, but
he felt that a woman should be sought for,--sought for and extracted, cunningly, as it were,
from some hiding-place, and not sent out into a market to be exposed as for sale. In his own
personal history there had been a misfortune,--a misfortune, the sense of which he could never,
at any moment, have expressed to any ears, the memory of which had been always buried in his
own bosom,--but a misfortune in that no such cunning extraction on his part had won for him
the woman to whose hands had been confided the strings of his heart. His wife had undergone
that process of extraction before he had seen her, and his marriage with her had been a matter
of sagacious bargaining. He was now told that his daughter must be sent out among young men
in order that she might become sufficiently fond of some special one to be regardless of Tregear.
There was a feeling that in doing so she must lose something of the freshness of the bloom
of her innocence. How was this transfer of her love to be effected? Let her go here because
she will meet the heir of this wealthy house who may probably be smitten by her charms; or
there because that other young lordling would make a fit husband for her. Let us contrive to
throw her into the arms of this man, or put her into the way of that man. Was his girl to be
exposed to this? Surely that method of bargaining to which he had owed his own wife would be
better than that. Let it be said,--only he himself most certainly could not be the person to
say it,--let it be said to some man of rank and means and fairly good character: "Here is a
wife for you with so many thousand pounds, with beauty, as you can see for yourself, with rank
and belongings of the highest; very good in every respect;--only that as regards her heart
she thinks she has given it to a young man named Tregear. No marriage there is possible; but
perhaps the young lady might suit you?" It was thus he had been married. There was an absence
in it of that romance which, though he had never experienced it in his own life, was always
present to his imagination. His wife had often ridiculed him because he could only live among
figures and official details; but to her had not been given the power of looking into a man's
heart and feeling all that was there. Yes;--in such bargaining for a wife, in such bargaining
for a husband, there could be nothing of the tremulous delicacy of feminine romance; but it
would be better than standing at a stall in the market till the sufficient purchaser should
come. It never occurred to him that the delicacy, the innocence, the romance, the bloom might
all be preserved if he would give his girl to the man whom she said she loved. Could he have
modelled her future course according to his own wishes, he would have had her live a gentle
life for the next three years, with a pencil perhaps in her hand or a music-book before her;--and
then come forth, cleaned as it were by such quarantine from the impurity to which she had been
subjected.

When he was back at Matching he at once told his daughter what he had arranged for her, and
then there took place a prolonged discussion both as to his view of her future life and as
to her own. "You did tell her then about Mr. Tregear?" she asked.

"As she is to have charge of you for a time I thought it best."

"Perhaps it is. Perhaps--you were afraid."

"No; I was not afraid," he said angrily.

"You need not be afraid. I shall do nothing elsewhere that I would not do here, and nothing
anywhere without telling you."

"I know I can trust you."

"But, papa, I shall always intend to marry Mr. Tregear."

"No!" he exclaimed.

"Yes;--always. I want you to understand exactly how it is. Nothing you can do can separate
me from him."

"Mary, that is very wicked."

"It cannot be wicked to tell the truth, papa. I mean to try to do all that you tell me. I shall
not see him, or write to him,--unless there should be some very particular reason. And if I
did see him or write to him I would tell you. And of course I should not think of--of marrying
without your leave. But I shall expect you to let me marry him."

"Never!"

"Then I shall think you are--cruel; and you will break my heart."

"You should not call your father cruel."

"I hope you will not be cruel."

"I can never permit you to marry this man. It would be altogether improper. I cannot allow
you to say that I am cruel because I do what I feel to be my duty. You will see other people."

"A great many perhaps."

"And will learn to,--to,--to forget him."

"Never! I will not forget him. I should hate myself if I thought it possible. What would love
be worth if it could be forgotten in that way?" As he heard this he reflected whether his own
wife, this girl's mother, had ever forgotten her early love for that Burgo Fitzgerald whom
in her girlhood she had wished to marry.

When he was leaving her she called him back again. "There is one other thing I think I ought
to say, papa. If Lady Cantrip speaks to me about Mr. Tregear, I can only tell her what I have
told you. I shall never give him up." When he heard this he turned angrily from her, almost
stamping his foot upon the ground, when she quietly left the room.

Cruel! She had told him that he would be cruel, if he opposed her love. He thought he knew
of himself that he could not be cruel,--even to a fly, even to a political opponent. There
could be no cruelty without dishonesty, and did he not always struggle to be honest? Cruel
to his own daughter!

CHAPTER XII

At Richmond

The pity of it! The pity of it! It was thus that Lady Cantrip looked at it. From what the girl's
father had said to her she was disposed to believe that the malady had gone deep with her.
"All things go deep with her," he had said. And she too from other sources had heard something
of this girl. She was afraid that it would go deep. It was a thousand pities! Then she asked
herself whether the marriage ought to be regarded as impossible. The Duke had been very positive,--had
declared again and again that it was quite impossible, had so expressed himself as to make
her aware that he intended her to understand that he would not yield whatever the sufferings
of the girl might be. But Lady Cantrip knew the world well and was aware that in such matters
daughters are apt to be stronger than their fathers. He had declared Tregear to be a young
man with very small means, and intent on such pleasures as require great means for their enjoyment.
No worse character could be given to a gentleman who had proposed himself as a son-in-law.
But Lady Cantrip thought it possible that the Duke might be mistaken in this. She had never
seen Mr. Tregear, but she fancied that she had heard his name, and that the name had been connected
with a character different from that which the Duke had given him.

Lady Cantrip, who at this time was a young-looking woman, not much above forty, had two daughters,
both of whom were married. The younger about a year since had become the wife of Lord Nidderdale,
a middle-aged young man who had been long about town, a cousin of the late Duchess, the heir
to a marquisate, and a Member of Parliament. The marriage had not been considered to be very
brilliant; but the husband was himself good-natured and pleasant, and Lady Cantrip was fond
of him. In the first place she went to him for information.

"Oh yes, I know him. He's one of our set at the Beargarden."

"Not your set, now, I hope," she said laughing.

"Well;--I don't see so much of them as I used to do. Tregear is not a bad fellow at all. He's
always with Silverbridge. When Silverbridge does what Tregear tells him, he goes along pretty
straight. But unfortunately there's another man called Tifto, and when Tifto is in the ascendant
then Silverbridge is apt to get a little astray."

"He's not in debt, then?"

"Who?--Tregear? I should think he's the last man in the world to owe a penny to any one."

"Is he a betting man?"

"Oh dear no; quite the other way up. He's a severe, sarcastic, bookish sort of fellow,--a chap
who knows everything and turns up his nose at people who know nothing."

"Has he got anything of his own?"

"Not much, I should say. If he had had any money he would have married Lady Mab Grex last year."

Lady Cantrip was inclined from what she now learned to think that the Duke must be wrong about
the young man. But before Lady Mary joined her she made further inquiry. She too knew Lady
Mabel, and knowing Lady Mabel, she knew Miss Cassewary. She contrived to find herself alone
with Miss Cassewary, and asked some further questions about Mr. Tregear. "He is a cousin of
my Lord's," said Miss Cass.

"So I thought. I wonder what sort of a young man he is. He is a good deal with Lord Silverbridge."

Then Miss Cassewary spoke her opinion very plainly. "If Lord Silverbridge had nobody worse
about him than Mr. Tregear he would not come to much harm."

"I suppose he's not very well off."

"No;--certainly not. He will have a property of some kind, I believe, when his mother dies.
I think very well of Mr. Tregear;--only I wish that he had a profession. But why are you asking
about him, Lady Cantrip?"

"Nidderdale was talking to me about him and saying that he was so much with Lord Silverbridge.
Lord Silverbridge is going into Parliament now, and, as it were, beginning the world, and it
would be a thousand pities that he should get into bad hands." It may, however, be doubted
whether Miss Cassewary was hoodwinked by this little story.

Early in the second week in May the Duke brought his daughter up to The Horns, and at the same
time expressed his intention of remaining in London. When he did so Lady Mary at once asked
whether she might not be with him,--but he would not permit it. The house in London would,
he said, be more gloomy even than Matching.

"I am quite ashamed of giving you so much trouble," Lady Mary said to her new friend.

"We are delighted to have you, my dear."

"But I know that you have been obliged to leave London because I am with you."

"There is nothing I like so much as this place, which your father has been kind enough to lend
us. As for London, there is nothing now to make me like being there. Both my girls are married,
and therefore I regard myself as an old woman who has done her work. Don't you think this place
very much nicer than London at this time of the year?"

"I don't know London at all. I had only just been brought out when poor mamma went abroad."

The life they led was very quiet, and must probably have been felt to be dull by Lady Cantrip,
in spite of her old age and desire for retirement. But the place itself was very lovely. May
of all the months of the year is in England the most insidious, the most dangerous, and the
most inclement. A greatcoat cannot be endured, and without a greatcoat who can endure a May
wind and live? But of all months it is the prettiest. The grasses are then the greenest, and
the young foliage of the trees, while it has all the glory and all the colour of spring vegetation,
does not hide the form of the branches as do the heavy masses of the larger leaves which come
in the advancing summer. And of all villas near London The Horns was the sweetest. The broad
green lawn swept down to the very margin of the Thames, which absolutely washed the fringe
of grass when the tide was high. And here, along the bank, was a row of flowering ashes, the
drooping boughs of which in places touched the water. It was one of those spots which when
they are first seen make the beholder feel that to be able to live there and look at it always
would be happiness enough for life.

At the end of the week there came a visitor to see Lady Mary. A very pretty carriage was driven
up to the door of The Horns, and the servant asked for Lady Mary Palliser. The owner of that
carriage was Mrs. Finn. Now it must be explained to the reader that there had never been any
friendship between Mrs. Finn and Lady Cantrip, though the ladies had met each other. The great
political intimacy which had existed between the Duke and Lord Cantrip had created some intimacy
also between their wives. The Duchess and Lady Cantrip had been friends,--after a fashion.
But Mrs. Finn had never been cordially accepted by those among whom Lady Cantrip chiefly lived.
When therefore the name was announced, the servant expressly stating that the visitor had asked
for Lady Mary, Lady Cantrip, who was with her guest, had to bethink herself what she would
do. The Duke, who was at this time very full of wrath against Mrs. Finn, had not mentioned
this lady's name when delivering up the charge of his daughter to Lady Cantrip. At this moment
it occurred to her that not improbably Mrs. Finn would cease to be included in the intimacies
of the Palliser family from the time of the death of the Duchess,--that the Duke would not
care to maintain the old relations, and that he would be as little anxious to do it for his
daughter as for himself. If so, could it be right that Mrs. Finn should come down here, to
a house which was now in the occupation of a lady with whom she was not on inviting terms,
in order that she might thus force herself on the Duke's daughter? Mrs. Finn had not left her
carriage, but had sent in to ask if Lady Mary could see her. In all this there was considerable
embarrassment. She looked round at her guest, who had at once risen from her chair. "Would
you wish to see her?" asked Lady Cantrip.

"Oh yes; certainly."

"Have you seen her since,--since you came home from Italy?"

"Oh dear, yes! She was down at Matching when poor mamma died. And papa persuaded her to remain
afterwards. Of course I will see her." Then the servant was desired to ask Mrs. Finn to come
in;--and while this was being done Lady Cantrip retired.

Mrs. Finn embraced her young friend, and asked after her welfare, and after the welfare of
the house in which she was staying,--a house with which Mrs. Finn herself had been well acquainted,--and
said half-a-dozen pretty little things in her own quiet pretty way, before she spoke of the
matter which had really brought her to The Horns on that day.

"I have had a correspondence with your father, Mary."

"Indeed."

"And unfortunately one that has been far from agreeable to me."

"I am sorry for that, Mrs. Finn."

"So am I, very sorry. I may say with perfect truth that there is no man in the world, except
my own husband, for whom I feel so perfect an esteem as I do for your father. If it were not
that I do not like to be carried away by strong language I would speak of more than esteem.
Through your dear mother I have watched his conduct closely, and have come to think that there
is perhaps no other man at the same time so just and so patriotic. Now he is very angry with
me,--and most unjustly angry."

"Is it about me?"

"Yes;--it is about you. Had it not been altogether about you I would not have troubled you."

"And about--?"

"Yes;--about Mr. Tregear also. When I tell you that there has been a correspondence I must
explain that I have written one long letter to the Duke, and that in answer I have received
a very short one. That has been the whole correspondence. Here is your father's letter to me."
Then she brought out of her pocket a note, which Lady Mary read,--covered with blushes as she
did so. The note was as follows:

   The Duke of Omnium understands from Mrs. Finn's letter
   that Mrs. Finn, while she was the Duke's guest at
   Matching, was aware of a certain circumstance affecting
   the Duke's honour and happiness,--which circumstance she
   certainly did not communicate to the Duke. The Duke thinks
   that the trust which had been placed in Mrs. Finn should
   have made such a communication imperative. The Duke feels
   that no further correspondence between himself and Mrs.
   Finn on the matter could lead to any good result.

"Do you understand it?" asked Mrs. Finn.

"I think so."

"It simply means this,--that when at Matching he had thought me worthy of having for a time
the charge of you and of your welfare, that he had trusted me, who was the friend of your dear
mother, to take for a time in regard to you the place which had been so unhappily left vacant
by her death; and it means also that I deceived him and betrayed that trust by being privy
to an engagement on your part, of which he disapproves, and of which he was not then aware."

"I suppose he does mean that."

"Yes, Lady Mary; that is what he means. And he means further to let me know that as I did so
foully betray the trust which he had placed in me,--that as I had consented to play the part
of assistant to you in that secret engagement,--therefore he casts me off as altogether unworthy
of his esteem and acquaintance. It is as though he had told me in so many words that among
women he had known none more vile or more false than I."

"Not that, Mrs. Finn."

"Yes, that;--all of that. He tells me that, and then says that there shall be no more words
spoken or written about it. I can hardly submit to so stern a judgment. You know the truth,
Lady Mary."

"Do not call me Lady Mary. Do not quarrel with me."

"If your father has quarrelled with me, it would not be fit that you and I should be friends.
Your duty to him would forbid it. I should not have come to you now did I not feel that I am
bound to justify myself. The thing of which I am accused is so repugnant to me, that I am obliged
to do something and to say something, even though the subject itself be one on which I would
so willingly be silent."

"What can I do, Mrs. Finn?"

"It was Mr. Tregear who first told me that your father was angry with me. He knew what I had
done and why, and he was bound to tell me in order that I might have an opportunity of setting
myself right with the Duke. Then I wrote and explained everything,--how you had told me of
the engagement, and how I had then urged Mr. Tregear that he should not keep such a matter
secret from your father. In answer to my letter I have received--that."

"Shall I write and tell papa?"

"He should be made to understand that from the moment in which I heard of the engagement I
was urgent with you and with Mr. Tregear that he should be informed of it. You will remember
what passed."

"I remember it all."

"I did not conceive it to be my duty to tell the Duke myself, but I did conceive it to be my
duty to see he should be told. Now he writes as though I had known the secret from the first,
and as though I had been concealing it from him at the very moment in which he was asking me
to remain at Matching on your behalf. That I consider to be hard,--and unjust. I cannot deny
what he says. I did know of it while I was at Matching, for it was at Matching that you told
me. But he implies that I knew it before. When you told me your story I did feel that it was
my duty to see that the matter was not kept longer from him;--and I did my duty. Now your father
takes upon himself to rebuke me,--and takes upon himself at the same time to forbid me to write
to him again!"

"I will tell him all, Mrs. Finn."

"Let him understand this. I do not wish to write to him again. After what has passed I cannot
say I wish to see him again. But I think he should acknowledge to me that he has been mistaken.
He need not then fear that I shall trouble him with any reply. But I shall know that he has
acquitted me of a fault of which I cannot bear to think I should be accused." Then she took
a somewhat formal though still an affectionate farewell of the girl.

"I want to see papa as soon as possible," said Lady Mary when she was again with Lady Cantrip.
The reason for her wish was soon given, and then the whole story told. "You do not think that
she should have gone to papa at once?" Lady Mary asked. It was a point of moral law on which
the elder woman, who had had girls of her own, found it hard to give an immediate answer. It
certainly is expedient that parents should know at once of any engagement by which their daughters
may seek to contract themselves. It is expedient that they should be able to prevent any secret
contracts. Lady Cantrip felt strongly that Mrs. Finn having accepted the confidential charge
of the daughter could not, without gross betrayal of trust, allow herself to be the depositary
of such a secret. "But she did not allow herself," said Lady Mary, pleading for her friend.

"But she left the house without telling him, my dear."

"But it was because of what she did that he was told."

"That is true; but I doubt whether she should have left him an hour in ignorance."

"But it was I who told her. She would have betrayed me."

"She was not a fit recipient for your confidence, Mary. But I do not wish to accuse her. She
seems to be a high-minded woman, and I think that your papa has been hard upon her."

"And mamma knew it always," said Mary. To this Lady Cantrip could give no answer. Whatever
cause for anger the Duke might have against Mrs. Finn, there had been cause for much more against
his wife. But she had freed herself from all accusation by death.

Lady Mary wrote to her father, declaring that she was most particularly anxious to see him
and talk to him about Mrs. Finn.

CHAPTER XIII

The Duke's Injustice

No advantage whatever was obtained by Lady Mary's interview with her father. He persisted that
Mrs. Finn had been untrue to him when she left Matching without telling him all that she knew
of his daughter's engagement with Mr. Tregear. No doubt by degrees that idea which he at first
entertained was expelled from his head,--the idea that she had been cognisant of the whole
thing before she came to Matching; but even this was done so slowly that there was no moment
at which he became aware of any lessened feeling of indignation. To his thinking she had betrayed
her trust, and he could not be got by his daughter to say that he would forgive her. He certainly
could not be got to say that he would apologise for the accusation he had made. It was nothing
less that his daughter asked; and he could hardly refrain himself from anger when she asked
it. "There should not have been a moment," he said, "before she came to me and told me all."
Poor Lady Mary's position was certainly uncomfortable enough. The great sin,--the sin which
was so great that to have known it for a day without revealing it was in itself a damning sin
on the part of Mrs. Finn,--was Lady Mary's sin. And she differed so entirely from her father
as to think that this sin of her own was a virtue, and that to have spoken of it to him would
have been, on the part of Mrs. Finn, a treachery so deep that no woman ought to have forgiven
it! When he spoke of a matter which deeply affected his honour,--she could hardly refrain from
asserting that his honour was quite safe in his daughter's hands. And when in his heart he
declared that it should have been Mrs. Finn's first care to save him from disgrace, Lady Mary
did break out. "Papa, there could be no disgrace." "That for a moment shall be laid aside,"
he said, with that manner by which even his peers in council had never been able not to be
awed, "but if you communicate with Mrs. Finn at all you must make her understand that I regard
her conduct as inexcusable."

Nothing had been gained, and poor Lady Mary was compelled to write a few lines which were to
her most painful in writing.

   MY DEAR MRS. FINN,

   I have seen papa, and he thinks that you ought to have
   told him when I told you. It occurs to me that that would
   have been a cruel thing to do, and most unfair to Mr.
   Tregear, who was quite willing to go to papa, and had only
   put off doing so because of poor mamma's death. As I had
   told mamma, of course it was right that he should tell
   papa. Then I told you, because you were so kind to me! I
   am so sorry that I have got you into this trouble; but
   what can I do?

   I told him I must write to you. I suppose it is better
   that I should, although what I have to say is so
   unpleasant. I hope it will all blow over in time,
   because I love you dearly. You may be quite sure of one
   thing,--that I shall never change. [In this assurance the
   writer was alluding not to her friendship for her friend
   but her love for her lover,--and so the friend understood
   her.] I hope things will be settled some day, and then we
   may be able to meet.

   Your very affectionate Friend,

   MARY PALLISER.

Mrs. Finn, when she received this, was alone in her house in Park Lane. Her husband was down
in the North of England. On this subject she had not spoken to him, fearing that he would feel
himself bound to take some steps to support his wife under the treatment she had received.
Even though she must quarrel with the Duke, she was most anxious that her husband should not
be compelled to do so. Their connection had been political rather than personal. There were
many reasons why there should be no open cause of disruption between them. But her husband
was hot-headed, and, were all this to be told him and that letter shown to him which the Duke
had written, there would be words between him and the Duke which would probably make impossible
any further connection between them.

It troubled her very much. She was by no means not alive to the honour of the Duke's friendship.
Throughout her intimacy with the Duchess she had abstained from pressing herself on him, not
because she had been indifferent about him, but that she had perceived that she might make
her way with him better by standing aloof than by thrusting herself forward. And she had known
that she had been successful. She could tell herself with pride that her conduct towards him
had been always such as would become a lady of high spirit and fine feeling. She knew that
she had deserved well of him, that in all her intercourse with him, with his uncle, and with
his wife, she had given much and had taken little. She was the last woman in the world to let
a word on such a matter pass her lips; but not the less was she conscious of her merit towards
him. And she had been led to act as she had done by sincere admiration for the man. In all
their political troubles, she had understood him better than the Duchess had done. Looking
on from a distance she had understood the man's character as it had come to her both from his
wife and from her own husband.

That he was unjust to her,--cruelly unjust, she was quite sure. He accused her of intentional
privity to a secret which it behoved him to know, and of being a party to that secrecy. Whereas
from the moment in which she had heard the secret she had determined that it must be made known
to him. She felt that she had deserved his good opinion in all things, but in nothing more
than in the way in which she had acted in this matter. And yet he had treated her with an imperious
harshness which amounted to insolence. What a letter it was that he had written to her! The
very tips of her ears tingled with heat as she read it again to herself. None of the ordinary
courtesies of epistle-craft had been preserved either in the beginning or in the end. It was
worse even than if he had called her Madam without an epithet. "The Duke understands--" "The
Duke thinks--" "The Duke feels--" feels that he should not be troubled with either letters
or conversation; the upshot of it all being that the Duke declared her to have shown herself
unworthy of being treated like a lady! And this after all that she had done!

She would not bear it. That at present was all that she could say to herself. She was not angry
with Lady Mary. She did not doubt but that the girl had done the best in her power to bring
her father to reason. But because Lady Mary had failed, she, Mrs. Finn, was not going to put
up with so grievous an injury. And she was forced to bear all this alone! There was none with
whom she could communicate;--no one from whom she could ask advice. She would not bring her
husband into a quarrel which might be prejudicial to his position as a member of his political
party. There was no one else to whom she would tell the secret of Lady Mary's love. And yet
she could not bear this injustice done to her.

Then she wrote as follows to the Duke:

   Mrs. Finn presents her compliments to the Duke of Omnium.
   Mrs. Finn finds it to be essential to her that she should
   see the Duke in reference to his letter to her. If his
   Grace will let her know on what day and at what hour he
   will be kind enough to call on her, Mrs. Finn will be at
   home to receive him.

   Park Lane. Thursday, 12th May, 18--.

CHAPTER XIV

The New Member for Silverbridge

Lord Silverbridge was informed that it would be right that he should go down to Silverbridge
a few days before the election, to make himself known to the electors. As the day for the election
drew near it was understood that there would be no other candidate. The Conservative side was
the popular side among the tradesmen of Silverbridge. Silverbridge had been proud to be honoured
by the services of the heir of the house of Omnium, even while that heir had been a Liberal,--had
regarded it as so much a matter of course that the borough should be at his disposal that no
question as to politics had ever arisen while he retained the seat. And had the Duke chosen
to continue to send them Liberals, one after another, when he went into the House of Lords,
there would have been no question as to the fitness of the man or men so sent. Silverbridge
had been supposed to be a Liberal as a matter of course,--because the Pallisers were Liberals.
But when the matter was remitted to themselves,--when the Duke declared that he would not interfere
any more, for it was thus that the borough had obtained its freedom,--then the borough began
to feel Conservative predilections. "If his Grace really does mean us to do just what we please
ourselves, which is a thing we never thought of asking from his Grace, then we find, having
turned the matter over among ourselves, that we are upon the whole Conservative." In this spirit
the borough had elected a certain Mr. Fletcher; but in doing so the borough had still a shade
of fear that it would offend the Duke. The house of Palliser, Gatherum Castle, the Duke of
Omnium, and this special Duke himself, were all so great in the eyes of the borough, that the
first and only strong feeling in the borough was the one of duty. The borough did not altogether
enjoy being enfranchised. But when the Duke had spoken once, twice, and thrice, then with a
hesitating heart the borough returned Mr. Fletcher. Now Mr. Fletcher was wanted elsewhere,
having been persuaded to stand for the county, and it was a comfort to the borough that it
could resettle itself beneath the warmth of the wings of the Pallisers.

So the matter stood when Lord Silverbridge was told that his presence in the borough for a
few hours would be taken as a compliment. Hitherto no one knew him at Silverbridge. During
his boyhood he had not been much at Gatherum Castle, and had done his best to eschew the place
since he had ceased to be a boy. All the Pallisers took a pride in Gatherum Castle, but they
all disliked it. "Oh yes; I'll go down," he said to Mr. Morton, who was up in town. "I needn't
go to the great barrack I suppose." The great barrack was the Castle. "I'll put up at the Inn."
Mr. Morton begged the heir to come to his own house; but Silverbridge declared that he would
prefer the Inn, and so the matter was settled. He was to meet sundry politicians,--Mr. Sprugeon
and Mr. Sprout and Mr. Du Boung,--who would like to be thanked for what they had done. But
who was to go with him? He would naturally have asked Tregear, but from Tregear he had for
the last week or two been, not perhaps estranged, but separated. He had been much taken up
with racing. He had gone down to Chester with Major Tifto, and under the Major's auspicious
influences had won a little money;--and now he was very anxiously preparing himself for the
Newmarket Second Spring Meeting. He had therefore passed much of his time with Major Tifto.
And when this visit to Silverbridge was pressed on him he thoughtlessly asked Tifto to go with
him. Tifto was delighted. Lord Silverbridge was to be met at Silverbridge by various well-known
politicians from the neighbourhood, and Major Tifto was greatly elated by the prospect of such
an introduction into the political world.

But no sooner had the offer been made by Lord Silverbridge than he saw his own indiscretion.
Tifto was very well for Chester or Newmarket, very well perhaps for the Beargarden, but not
very well for an electioneering expedition. An idea came to the young nobleman that if it should
be his fate to represent Silverbridge in Parliament for the next twenty years, it would be
well that Silverbridge should entertain respecting him some exalted estimation,--that Silverbridge
should be taught to regard him as a fit son of his father and a worthy specimen of the British
political nobility. Struck by serious reflections of this nature he did open his mind to Tregear.
"I am very fond of Tifto," he said, "but I don't know whether he's just the sort of fellow
to take down to an election."

"I should think not," said Tregear very decidedly.

"He's a very good fellow, you know," said Silverbridge. "I don't know an honester man than
Tifto anywhere."

"I dare say. Or rather, I don't dare say. I know nothing about the Major's honesty, and I doubt
whether you do. He rides very well."

"What has that to do with it?"

"Nothing on earth. Therefore I advise you not to take him to Silverbridge."

"You needn't preach."

"You may call it what you like. Tifto would not hold his tongue, and there is nothing he could
say there which would not be to your prejudice."

"Will you go?"

"If you wish it," said Tregear.

"What will the governor say?"

"That must be your look-out. In a political point of view I shall not disgrace you. I shall
hold my tongue and look like a gentleman,--neither of which is in Tifto's power."

And so it was settled, that on the day but one after this conversation Lord Silverbridge and
Tregear should go together to Silverbridge. But the Major, when on the same night his noble
friend's altered plans were explained to him, did not bear the disappointment with equanimity.
"Isn't that a little strange?" he said, becoming very red in the face.

"What do you call strange?" said the Lord.

"Well;--I'd made all my arrangements. When a man has been asked to do a thing like that, he
doesn't like to be put off."

"The truth is, Tifto, when I came to think of it, I saw that, going down to these fellows about
Parliament and all that sort of thing, I ought to have a political atmosphere, and not a racing
or a betting or a hunting atmosphere."

"There isn't a man in London who cares more about politics than I do;--and not very many perhaps
who understand them better. To tell you the truth, my Lord, I think you are throwing me over."

"I'll make it up to you," said Silverbridge, meaning to be kind. "I'll go down to Newmarket
with you and stick to you like wax."

"No doubt you'll do that," said Tifto, who, like a fool, failed to see where his advantage
lay. "I can be useful at Newmarket, and so you'll stick to me."

"Look here, Major Tifto," said Silverbridge; "if you are dissatisfied, you and I can easily
separate ourselves."

"I am not dissatisfied," said the little man, almost crying.

"Then don't talk as though you were. As to Silverbridge, I shall not want you there. When I
asked you I was only thinking what would be pleasant to both of us; but since that I have remembered
that business must be business." Even this did not reconcile the angry little man, who as he
turned away declared within his own little bosom that he would "take it out of Silverbridge
for that."

Lord Silverbridge and Tregear went down to the borough together, and on the journey something
was said about Lady Mary,--and something also about Lady Mabel. "From the first, you know,"
said Lady Mary's brother, "I never thought it would answer."

"Why not answer?"

"Because I knew the governor would not have it. Money and rank and those sort of things are
not particularly charming to me. But still things should go together. It is all very well for
you and me to be pals, but of course it will be expected that Mary should marry some--"

"Some swell?"

"Some swell, if you will have it."

"You mean to call yourself a swell?"

"Yes I do," said Silverbridge, with considerable resolution. "You ought not to make yourself
disagreeable, because you understand all about it as well as anybody. Chance has made me the
eldest son of a Duke and heir to an enormous fortune. Chance has made my sister the daughter
of a Duke, and an heiress also. My intimacy with you ought to be proof at any rate to you that
I don't on that account set myself up above other fellows. But when you come to talk of marriage,
of course it is a serious thing."

"But you have told me more than once that you have no objection on your own score."

"Nor have I."

"You are only saying what the Duke will think."

"I am telling you that it is impossible, and I told you so before. You and she will be kept
apart, and so--"

"And so she'll forget me."

"Something of that kind."

"Of course I have to trust to her for that. If she forgets me, well and good."

"She needn't forget you. Lord bless me! you talk as though the thing were not done every day.
You'll hear some morning that she is going to marry some fellow who has a lot of money and
a good position; and what difference will it make then whether she has forgotten you or not?"
It might almost have been supposed that the young man had been acquainted with his mother's
history.

After this there was a pause, and there arose conversation about other things, and a cigar
was smoked. Then Tregear returned once more to the subject. "There is one thing I wish to say
about it all."

"What is that?"

"I want you to understand that nothing else will turn me away from my intention but such a
marriage on her part as that of which you speak. Nothing that your father can do will turn me."

"She can't marry without his leave."

"Perhaps not."

"That he'll never give,--and I don't suppose you look forward to waiting till his death."

"If he sees that her happiness really depends on it he will give his leave. It all depends
on that. If I judge your father rightly, he's just as soft-hearted as other people. The man
who holds out is not the man of the firmest opinion, but the man of the hardest heart."

"Somebody will talk Mary over."

"If so, the thing is over. It all depends on her." Then he went on to tell his friend that
he had spoken of his engagement to Lady Mabel. "I have mentioned it to no soul but to your
father and to her."

"Why to her?"

"Because we were friends together as children. I never had a sister, but she has been more
like a sister to me than any one else. Do you object to her knowing it?"

"Not particularly. It seems to me now that everybody knows everything. There are no longer
any secrets."

"But she is a special friend."

"Of yours," said Silverbridge.

"And of yours," said Tregear.

"Well, yes;--in a sort of way. She is the jolliest girl I know."

"Take her all round, for beauty, intellect, good sense, and fun at the same time, I don't know
any one equal to her."

"It's a pity you didn't fall in love with her."

"We knew each other too early for that. And then she has not a shilling. I should think myself
dishonest if I did not tell you that I could not afford to love any girl who hadn't money.
A man must live,--and a woman too."

At the station they were met by Mr. Sprugeon and Mr. Sprout, who, with many apologies for the
meanness of such entertainment, took them up to the George and Vulture, which was supposed
for the nonce to be the Conservative hotel in the town. Here they were met by other men of
importance in the borough, and among them by Mr. Du Boung. Now Mr. Sprout and Mr. Sprugeon
were Conservatives, but Mr. Du Boung was a strong Liberal.

"We are, all of us, particularly glad to see your Lordship among us," said Mr. Du Boung.

"I have told his Lordship how perfectly satisfied you are to see the borough in his Lordship's
hands," said Mr. Sprugeon.

"I am sure it could not be in better," said Mr. Du Boung. "For myself I am quite willing to
postpone any peculiar shade of politics to the advantage of having your father's son as our
representative."

This Mr. Du Boung said with much intention of imparting both grace and dignity to the occasion.
He thought that he was doing a great thing for the house of Omnium, and that the house of Omnium
ought to know it.

"That's very kind of you," said Lord Silverbridge, who had not read as carefully as he should
have done the letters which had been sent to him, and did not therefore quite understand the
position.

"Mr. Du Boung had intended to stand himself," said Mr. Sprout.

"But retired in your Lordship's favour," said Mr. Sprugeon.

"In doing which I considered that I studied the interest of the borough," said Mr. Du Boung.

"I thought you gave it up because there was hardly a footing for a Liberal," said his Lordship,
very imprudently.

"The borough was always Liberal till the last election," said Mr. Du Boung, drawing himself up.

"The borough wishes on this occasion to be magnanimous," said Mr. Sprout, probably having on
his mind some confusion between magnanimity and unanimity.

"As your Lordship is coming among us, the borough is anxious to sink politics altogether for
the moment," said Mr. Sprugeon. There had no doubt been a compact between the Sprugeon and
Sprout party and the Du Boung party in accordance with which it had been arranged that Mr.
Du Boung should be entitled to a certain amount of glorification in the presence of Lord Silverbridge.

"And it was in compliance with that wish on the part of the borough, my Lord," said Mr. Du
Boung,--"as to which my own feelings were quite as strong as that of any other gentleman in
the borough,--that I conceived it to be my duty to give way."

"His Lordship is quite aware how much he owes to Mr. Du Boung," said Tregear. Whereupon Lord
Silverbridge bowed.

"And now what are we to do?" said Lord Silverbridge.

Then there was a little whispering between Mr. Sprout and Mr. Sprugeon. "Perhaps, Mr. Du Boung,"
said Sprugeon, "his Lordship had better call first on Dr. Tempest."

"Perhaps," said the injured brewer, "as it is to be a party affair after all I had better retire
from the scene."

"I thought all that was to be given up," said Tregear.

"Oh, certainly," said Sprout. "Suppose we go to Mr. Walker first?"

"I'm up to anything," said Lord Silverbridge; "but of course everybody understands that I am
a Conservative."

"Oh dear, yes," said Sprugeon.

"We are all aware of that," said Sprout.

"And very glad we've all of us been to hear it," said the landlord.

"Though there are some in the borough who could have wished, my Lord, that you had stuck to
the old Palliser politics," said Mr. Du Boung.

"But I haven't stuck to the Palliser politics. Just at present I think that order and all that
sort of thing should be maintained."

"Hear, hear!" said the landlord.

"And now, as I have expressed my views generally, I am willing to go anywhere."

"Then we'll go to Mr. Walker first," said Sprugeon. Now it was understood that in the borough,
among those who really had opinions of their own, Mr. Walker the old attorney stood first as
a Liberal, and Dr. Tempest the old rector first as a Conservative.

"I am glad to see your Lordship in the town which gives you its name," said Mr. Walker, who
was a hale old gentleman with silvery-white hair, over seventy years of age. "I proposed your
father for this borough on, I think, six or seven different occasions. They used to go in and
out then whenever they changed their offices."

"We hope you'll propose Lord Silverbridge now," said Mr. Sprugeon.

"Oh; well;--yes. He's his father's son, and I never knew anything but good of the family. I
wish you were going to sit on the same side, my Lord."

"Times are changed a little, perhaps," said his Lordship.

"The matter is not to be discussed now," said the old attorney. "I understand that. Only I
hope you'll excuse me if I say that a man ought to get up very early in the morning if he means
to see further into politics than your father."

"Very early indeed," said Mr. Du Boung, shaking his head.

"That's all right," said Lord Silverbridge.

"I'll propose you, my Lord. I need not wish you success, because there is no one to stand against
you."

Then they went to Dr. Tempest, who was also an old man. "Yes, my Lord, I shall be proud to
second you," said the rector. "I didn't think that I should ever do that to one of your name
in Silverbridge."

"I hope you think I've made a change for the better," said the candidate.

"You've come over to my school of course, and I suppose I am bound to think that a change for
the better. Nevertheless I have a kind of idea that certain people ought to be Tories and that
other certain people ought to be Whigs. What does your father say about it?"

"My father wishes me to be in the House, and that he has not quarrelled with me you may know
by the fact that had there been a contest he would have paid my expenses."

"A father generally has to do that whether he approves of what his son is about or not," said
the caustic old gentleman.

There was nothing else to be done. They all went back to the hotel, and Mr. Sprugeon with Mr.
Sprout and the landlord drank a glass of sherry at the candidate's expense, wishing him political
long life and prosperity. There was no one else whom it was thought necessary that the candidate
should visit, and the next day he returned to town with the understanding that on the day appointed
in the next week he should come back again to be elected.

And on the day appointed the two young men again went to Silverbridge, and after he had been
declared duly elected, the new Member of Parliament made his first speech. There was a meeting
in the town-hall and many were assembled anxious to hear,--not the lad's opinions, for which
probably nobody cared much,--but the tone of his voice and to see his manner. Of what sort
was the eldest son of the man of whom the neighbourhood had been so proud? For the county was
in truth proud of their Duke. Of this son whom they had now made a Member of Parliament they
at present only knew that he had been sent away from Oxford,--not so very long ago,--for painting
the Dean's house scarlet. The speech was not very brilliant. He told them that he was very
much obliged to them for the honour they had done him. Though he could not follow exactly his
father's political opinions,--he would always have before his eyes his father's political honesty
and independence. He broke down two or three times and blushed, and repeated himself, and knocked
his words a great deal too quickly one on the top of another. But it was taken very well, and
was better than was expected. When it was over he wrote a line to the Duke.

   MY DEAR FATHER,

   I am Member of Parliament for Silverbridge,--as you used
   to be in the days which I can first remember. I hope you
   won't think that it does not make me unhappy to have
   differed from you. Indeed it does. I don't think that
   anybody has ever done so well in politics as you have.
   But when a man does take up an opinion I don't see how
   he can help himself. Of course I could have kept myself
   quiet;--but then you wished me to be in the House. They
   were all very civil to me at Silverbridge, but there was
   very little said.

   Your affectionate Son,

   SILVERBRIDGE.

CHAPTER XV

The Duke Receives a Letter,--and Writes One

The Duke, when he received Mrs. Finn's note, demanding an interview, thought much upon the
matter before he replied. She had made her demand as though the Duke had been no more than
any other gentleman, almost as though she had a right to call upon him to wait upon her. He
understood and admired the courage of this;--but nevertheless he would not go to her. He had
trusted her with that which of all things was the most sacred to him, and she had deceived
him! He wrote to her as follows:

   The Duke of Omnium presents his compliments to Mrs. Finn.
   As the Duke thinks that no good could result either to
   Mrs. Finn or to himself from an interview, he is obliged
   to say that he would rather not do as Mrs. Finn has
   requested.

   But for the strength of this conviction the Duke would
   have waited upon Mrs. Finn most willingly.

Mrs. Finn when she received this was not surprised. She had felt sure that such would be the
nature of the Duke's answer; but she was also sure that if such an answer did come she would
not let the matter rest. The accusation was so bitter to her that she would spare nothing in
defending herself,--nothing in labour and nothing in time. She would make him know that she
was in earnest. As she could not succeed in getting into his presence she must do this by letter,--and
she wrote her letter, taking two days to think of her words.

   May 18, 18--.

   MY DEAR DUKE OF OMNIUM,

   As you will not come to me, I must trouble your Grace
   to read what I fear will be a long letter. For it is
   absolutely necessary that I should explain my conduct to
   you. That you have condemned me I am sure you will not
   deny;--nor that you have punished me as far as the power
   of punishment was in your hands. If I can succeed in
   making you see that you have judged me wrongly, I think
   you will admit your error and beg my pardon. You are not
   one who from your nature can be brought easily to do this;
   but you are one who will certainly do it if you can be
   made to feel that by not doing so you would be unjust. I
   am myself so clear as to my own rectitude of purpose and
   conduct, and am so well aware of your perspicuity, that
   I venture to believe that if you will read this letter I
   shall convince you.

   Before I go any further I will confess that the matter is
   one,--I was going to say almost of life and death to me.
   Circumstances, not of my own seeking, have for some years
   past thrown me so closely into intercourse with your
   family that now to be cast off, and to be put on one side
   as a disgraced person,--and that so quickly after the
   death of her who loved me so dearly and who was so dear to
   me,--is such an affront as I cannot bear and hold up my
   head afterwards. I have come to be known as her whom your
   uncle trusted and loved, as her whom your wife trusted and
   loved,--obscure as I was before;--and as her whom, may I
   not say, you yourself trusted? As there was much of honour
   and very much of pleasure in this, so also was there
   something of misfortune. Friendships are safest when the
   friends are of the same standing. I have always felt there
   was danger, and now the thing I feared has come home to
   me.

   Now I will plead my case. I fancy, that when first you
   heard that I had been cognisant of your daughter's
   engagement, you imagined that I was aware of it before I
   went to Matching. Had I been so, I should have been guilty
   of that treachery of which you accuse me. I did know
   nothing of it till Lady Mary told me on the day before I
   left Matching. That she should tell me was natural enough.
   Her mother had known it, and for the moment,--if I am
   not assuming too much in saying so,--I was filling her
   mother's place. But, in reference to you, I could not
   exercise the discretion which a mother might have used,
   and I told her at once, most decidedly, that you must be
   made acquainted with the fact.

   Then Lady Mary expressed to me her wish,--not that this
   matter should be kept any longer from you, for that it
   should be told she was as anxious as I was myself,--but
   that it should be told to you by Mr. Tregear. It was not
   for me to raise any question as to Mr. Tregear's fitness
   or unfitness,--as to which indeed I could know nothing.
   All I could do was to say that if Mr. Tregear would make
   the communication at once, I should feel that I had done
   my duty. The upshot was that Mr. Tregear came to me
   immediately on my return to London, and agreeing with me
   that it was imperative that you be informed, went to you
   and did inform you. In all of that, if I have told the
   story truly, where has been my offence? I suppose you will
   believe me, but your daughter can give evidence as to
   every word that I have written.

   I think that you have got it into your mind that I have
   befriended Mr. Tregear's suit, and that, having received
   this impression, you hold it with the tenacity which is
   usual to you. There never was a greater mistake. I went to
   Matching as the friend of my dear friend;--but I stayed
   there at your request, as your friend. Had I been, when
   you asked me to do so, a participator in that secret I
   could not have honestly remained in the position you
   assigned to me. Had I done so, I should have deserved your
   ill opinion. As it is I have not deserved it, and your
   condemnation of me has been altogether unjust. Should I
   not now receive from you a full withdrawal of all charge
   against me, I shall be driven to think that after all
   the insight which circumstances have given me into your
   character, I have nevertheless been mistaken in the
   reading of it.

   I remain,
   Dear Duke of Omnium,
   Yours truly,

   M. FINN.

   I find on looking over my letter that I must add one word
   further. It might seem that I am asking for a return of
   your friendship. Such is not my purpose. Neither can you
   forget that you have accused me,--nor can I. What I expect
   is that you should tell me that you in your conduct to me
   have been wrong and that I in mine to you have been right.
   I must be enabled to feel that the separation between us
   has come from injury done to me, and not by me.

He did read the letter more than once, and read it with tingling ears, and hot cheeks, and
a knitted brow. As the letter went on, and as the woman's sense of wrong grew hot from her
own telling of her own story, her words became stronger and still stronger, till at last they
were almost insolent in their strength. Were it not that they came from one who did think herself
to have been wronged, then certainly they would be insolent. A sense of injury, a burning conviction
of wrong sustained, will justify language which otherwise would be unbearable. The Duke felt
that, and though his ears were tingling and his brow knitted, he could have forgiven the language,
if only he could have admitted the argument. He understood every word of it. When she spoke
of tenacity she intended to charge him with obstinacy. Though she had dwelt but lightly on
her own services she had made her thoughts on the matter clear enough. "I, Mrs. Finn, who am
nobody, have done much to succour and assist you, the Duke of Omnium; and this is the return
which I have received!" And then she told him to his face that unless he did something which
it would be impossible that he should do, she would revoke her opinion of his honesty! He tried
to persuade himself that her opinion about his honesty was nothing to him;--but he failed.
Her opinion was very much to him. Though in his anger he had determined to throw her off from
him, he knew her to be one whose good opinion was worth having.

Not a word of overt accusation had been made against his wife. Every allusion to her was full
of love. But yet how heavy a charge was really made! That such a secret should be kept from
him, the father, was acknowledged to be a heinous fault;--but the wife had known the secret
and had kept it from him, the father! And then how wretched a thing it was for him that any
one should dare to write to him about the wife that had been taken away from him! In spite
of all her faults her name was so holy to him that it had never once passed his lips since
her death, except in low whispers to himself,--low whispers made in the perfect, double-guarded
seclusion of his own chamber. "Cora, Cora," he had murmured, so that the sense of the sound
and not the sound itself had come to him from his own lips. And now this woman wrote to him
about her freely, as though there were nothing sacred, no religion in the memory of her.

"It was not for me to raise any question as to Mr. Tregear's fitness." Was it not palpable
to all the world that he was unfit? Unfit! How could a man be more unfit? He was asking for
the hand of one who was second only to royalty--who was possessed of everything, who was beautiful,
well-born, rich, who was the daughter of the Duke of Omnium, and he had absolutely nothing
of his own to offer.

But it was necessary that he should at last come to the consideration of the actual point as
to which she had written to him so forcibly. He tried to set himself to the task in perfect
honesty. He certainly had condemned her. He had condemned her and had no doubt punished her
to the extent of his power. And if he could be brought to see that he had done this unjustly,
then certainly must he beg her pardon. And when he considered it all, he had to own that her
intimacy with his uncle and his wife had not been so much of her seeking as of theirs. It grieved
him now that it should have been so, but so it was. And after all this,--after the affectionate
surrender of herself to his wife's caprices which the woman had made,--he had turned upon her
and driven her away with ignominy. That was all true. As he thought of it he became hot, and
was conscious of a quivering feeling round his heart. These were bonds indeed; but they were
bonds of such a nature as to be capable of being rescinded and cut away altogether by absolute
bad conduct. If he could make it good to himself that in a matter of such magnitude as the
charge of his daughter she had been untrue to him and had leagued herself against him, with
an unworthy lover, then, then--all bonds would be rescinded! Then would his wrath be altogether
justified! Then would it have been impossible that he should have done aught else than cast
her out! As he thought of this he felt sure that she had betrayed him! How great would be the
ignominy to him should he be driven to own to himself that she had not betrayed him! "There
should not have been a moment," he said to himself over and over again,--"not a moment!" Yes;--she
certainly had betrayed him.

There might still be safety for him in that confident assertion of "not a moment;" but had
there been anything of that conspiracy of which he had certainly at first judged her to be
guilty? She had told her story, and had then appealed to Lady Mary for evidence. After five
minutes of perfect stillness,--but five minutes of misery, five minutes during which great
beads of perspiration broke out from him and stood upon his brow, he had to confess to himself
that he did not want any evidence. He did believe her story. When he allowed himself to think
she had been in league with Tregear he had wronged her. He wiped away the beads from his brow,
and again repeated to himself those words which were now his only comfort, "There should not
have been a moment;--not a moment!"

It was thus and only thus that he was enabled to assure himself that there need be no acknowledgment
of wrong done on his part. Having settled this in his own mind he forced himself to attend
a meeting at which his assistance had been asked as to a complex question on Law Reform. The
Duke endeavoured to give himself up entirely to the matter; but through it all there was the
picture before him of Mrs. Finn waiting for an answer to her letter. If he should confirm himself
in his opinion that he had been right, then would any answer be necessary? He might just acknowledge
the letter, after the fashion which has come up in official life, than which silence is an
insult much more bearable. But he did not wish to insult, nor to punish her further. He would
willingly have withdrawn the punishment under which she was groaning could he have done so
without self-abasement. Or he might write as she had done,--advocating his own cause with all
his strength, using that last one strong argument,--"there should not have been a moment."
But there would be something repulsive to his personal dignity in the continued correspondence
which this would produce. "The Duke of Omnium regrets to say, in answer to Mrs. Finn's letter,
that he thinks no good can be attained by a prolonged correspondence." Such, or of such kind,
he thought must be his answer. But would this be a fair return for the solicitude shown by
her to his uncle, for the love which had made her so patient a friend to his wife, for the
nobility of her own conduct in many things? Then his mind reverted to certain jewels,--supposed
to be of enormous value,--which were still in his possession though they were the property
of this woman. They had been left to her by his uncle, and she had obstinately refused to take
them. Now they were lying packed in the cellars of certain bankers,--but still they were in
his custody. What should he now do in this matter? Hitherto, perhaps once in every six months,
he had notified to her that he was keeping them as her curator, and she had always repeated
that it was a charge from which she could not relieve him. It had become almost a joke between
them. But how could he joke with a woman with whom he had quarrelled after this internecine
fashion?

What if he were to consult Lady Cantrip? He could not do so without a pang that would be very
bitter to him,--but any agony would be better than that arising from a fear that he had been
unjust to one who had deserved well of him. No doubt Lady Cantrip would see it in the same
light as he had done. And then he would be able to support himself by the assurance that that
which he had judged to be right was approved of by one whom the world would acknowledge to
be a good judge on such a matter.

When he got home he found his son's letter telling him of the election at Silverbridge. There
was something in it which softened his heart to the young man,--or perhaps it was that in the
midst of his many discomforts he wished to find something which at least was not painful to
him. That his son and his heir should insist on entering political life in opposition to him
was of course a source of pain; but, putting that aside, the thing had been done pleasantly
enough, and the young member's letter had been written with some good feeling. So he answered
the letter as pleasantly as he knew how.

   MY DEAR SILVERBRIDGE,

   I am glad that you are in Parliament and am glad also
   that you should have been returned by the old borough;
   though I would that you could have reconciled yourself
   to adhering to the politics of your family. But there is
   nothing disgraceful in such a change, and I am able to
   congratulate you as a father should a son and to wish you
   long life and success as a legislator.

   There are one or two things I would ask you to
   remember;--and firstly this, that as you have voluntarily
   undertaken certain duties you are bound as an honest man
   to perform them as scrupulously as though you were paid
   for doing them. There was no obligation in you to seek the
   post;--but having sought it and acquired it you cannot
   neglect the work attached to it without being untrue to
   the covenant you have made. It is necessary that a young
   member of Parliament should bear this in his mind, and
   especially a member who has not worked his way up to
   notoriety outside the House, because to him there will be
   great facility for idleness and neglect.

   And then I would have you always remember the purport for
   which there is a Parliament elected in this happy and free
   country. It is not that some men may shine there, that
   some may acquire power, or that all may plume themselves
   on being the elect of the nation. It often appears to me
   that some members of Parliament so regard their success
   in life,--as the fellows of our colleges do too often,
   thinking that their fellowships were awarded for their
   comfort and not for the furtherance of any object as
   education or religion. I have known gentlemen who have
   felt that in becoming members of Parliament they had
   achieved an object for themselves instead of thinking that
   they had put themselves in the way of achieving something
   for others. A member of Parliament should feel himself
   to be the servant of his country,--and like every other
   servant, he should serve. If this be distasteful to a man
   he need not go into Parliament. If the harness gall him he
   need not wear it. But if he takes the trappings, then he
   should draw the coach. You are there as the guardian of
   your fellow-countrymen,--that they may be safe, that they
   may be prosperous, that they may be well governed and
   lightly burdened,--above all that they may be free. If you
   cannot feel this to be your duty, you should not be there
   at all.

   And I would have you remember also that the work of a
   member of Parliament can seldom be of that brilliant
   nature which is of itself charming; and that the young
   member should think of such brilliancy as being possible
   to him only at a distance. It should be your first care to
   sit and listen so that the forms and methods of the House
   may as it were soak into you gradually. And then you must
   bear in mind that speaking in the House is but a very
   small part of a member's work, perhaps that part which
   he may lay aside altogether with the least strain on his
   conscience. A good member of Parliament will be good
   upstairs in the Committee Rooms, good down-stairs to make
   and to keep a House, good to vote, for his party if it
   may be nothing better, but for the measures also which he
   believes to be for the good of his country.

   Gradually, if you will give your thoughts to it, and above
   all your time, the theory of legislation will sink into
   your mind, and you will find that there will come upon you
   the ineffable delight of having served your country to the
   best of your ability.

   It is the only pleasure in life which has been enjoyed
   without alloy by your affectionate father,

   OMNIUM.

The Duke in writing this letter was able for a few moments to forget Mrs. Finn, and to enjoy
the work which he had on hand.

CHAPTER XVI

"Poor Boy"

The new member for Silverbridge, when he entered the House to take the oath, was supported
on the right and left by two staunch old Tories. Mr. Monk had seen him a few minutes previously,--Mr.
Monk who of all Liberals was the firmest and than whom no one had been more staunch to the
Duke,--and had congratulated him on his election, expressing at the same time some gentle regrets.
"I only wish you could have come among us on the other side," he said.

"But I couldn't," said the young Lord.

"I am sure nothing but a conscientious feeling would have separated you from your father's
friends," said the old Liberal. And then they were parted, and the member for Silverbridge
was bustled up to the table between two staunch Tories.

Of what else was done on that occasion nothing shall be said here. No political work was required
from him, except that of helping for an hour or two to crowd the Government benches. But we
will follow him as he left the House. There were one or two others quite as anxious as to his
political career as any staunch old Liberal. At any rate one other. He had promised that as
soon as he could get away from the House he would go to Belgrave Square and tell Lady Mabel
Grex all about it. When he reached the square it was past seven, but Lady Mabel and Miss Cassewary
were still in the drawing-room.

"There seemed to be a great deal of bustle, and I didn't understand much about it," said the
member.

"But you heard the speeches?" These were the speeches made on the proposing and seconding of
the address.

"Oh, yes;--Lupton did it very well. Lord George didn't seem to be quite so good. Then Sir Timothy
Beeswax made a speech, and then Mr. Monk. After that I saw other fellows going away, so I bolted
too."

"If I were a member of Parliament I would never leave it while the House was sitting," said
Miss Cassewary.

"If all were like that there wouldn't be seats for them to sit upon," said Silverbridge.

"A persistent member will always find a seat," continued the positive old lady.

"I am sure that Lord Silverbridge means to do his duty," said Lady Mabel.

"Oh yes;--I've thought a good deal about it, and I mean to try. As long as a man isn't called
upon to speak I don't see why it shouldn't be easy enough."

"I'm so glad to hear you say so! Of course after a little time you will speak. I should so
like to hear you make your first speech."

"If I thought you were there, I'm sure I should not make it at all."

Just at this period Miss Cassewary, saying something as to the necessity of dressing, and cautioning
her young friend that there was not much time to be lost, left the room.

"Dressing does not take me more than ten minutes," said Lady Mabel.

Miss Cassewary declared this to be nonsense, but she nevertheless left the room. Whether she
would have done so if Lord Silverbridge had not been Lord Silverbridge, but had been some young
man with whom it would not have been expedient that Lady Mabel should fall in love, may perhaps
be doubted. But then it may be taken as certain that under such circumstances Lady Mabel herself
would not have remained. She had quite realised the duties of life, had had her little romance,--and
had acknowledged that it was foolish.

"I do so hope that you will do well," she said, going back to the parliamentary duties.

"I don't think I shall ever do much. I shall never be like my father."

"I don't see why not."

"There never was anybody like him. I am always amusing myself, but he never cared for amusement."

"You are very young."

"As far as I can learn he was just as he is now at my age. My mother has told me that long
before she married him he used to spend all his time in the House. I wonder whether you would
mind reading the letter he wrote me when he heard of my election."

Then he took the epistle out of his pocket and handed it to Lady Mabel.

"He means all that he says."

"He always does that."

"And he really hopes that you will put your shoulder to the wheel;--even though you must do
so in opposition to him."

"That makes no difference. I think my father is a very fine fellow."

"Shall you do all that he tells you?"

"Well;--I suppose not;--except that he advises me to hold my tongue. I think that I shall do
that. I mean to go down there, you know, and I daresay I shall be much the same as others."

"Has he talked to you much about it?"

"No;--he never talks much. Every now and then he will give me a downright lecture, or he will
write me a letter like that; but he never talks to any of us."

"How very odd."

"Yes; he is odd. He seems to be fretful when we are with him. A good many things make him unhappy."

"Your poor mother's death."

"That first;--and then there are other things. I suppose he didn't like the way I came to an
end at Oxford."

"You were a boy then."

"Of course I was very sorry for it,--though I hated Oxford. It was neither one thing nor another.
You were your own master and yet you were not."

"Now you must be your own master."

"I suppose so."

"You must marry, and become a lord of the Treasury. When I was a child I acted as a child.
You know all about that."

"Oh yes. And now I must throw off childish things. You mean that I mustn't paint any man's
house? Eh, Lady Mab."

"That and the rest of it. You are a legislator now."

"So is Popplecourt, who took his seat in the House of Lords two or three months ago. He's the
biggest young fool I know out. He couldn't even paint a house."

"He is not an elected legislator. It makes all the difference. I quite agree with what the
Duke says. Lord Popplecourt can't help himself. Whether he's an idle young scamp or not, he
must be a legislator. But when a man goes in for it himself, as you have done, he should make
up his mind to be useful."

"I shall vote with my party of course."

"More than that; much more than that. If you didn't care for politics you couldn't have taken
a line of your own." When she said this she knew that he had been talked into what he had done
by Tregear,--by Tregear, who had ambition, and intelligence, and capacity for forming an opinion
of his own. "If you do not do it for your own sake, you will for the sake of those who,--who,--who
are your friends," she said at last, not feeling quite able to tell him that he must do it
for the sake of those who loved him.

"There are not very many I suppose who care about it."

"Your father."

"Oh yes,--my father."

"And Tregear."

"Tregear has got his own fish to fry."

"Are there none others? Do you think we care nothing about it here?"

"Miss Cassewary?"

"Well;--Miss Cassewary! A man might have a worse friend than Miss Cassewary;--and my father."

"I don't suppose Lord Grex cares a straw about me."

"Indeed he does,--a great many straws. And so do I. Do you think I don't care a straw about it?"

"I don't know why you should."

"Because it is my nature to be earnest. A girl comes out into the world so young that she becomes
serious, and steady as it were, so much sooner than a man does."

"I always think that nobody is so full of chaff as you are, Lady Mab."

"I am not chaffing now in recommending you to go to work in the world like a man."

As she said this they were sitting on the same sofa, but with some space between them. When
Miss Cassewary had left the room Lord Silverbridge was standing, but after a little he had
fallen into the seat, at the extreme corner, and had gradually come a little nearer to her.
Now in her energy she put out her hand, meaning perhaps to touch lightly the sleeve of his
coat, meaning perhaps not quite to touch him at all. But as she did so he put out his hand
and took hold of hers.

She drew it away, not seeming to allow it to remain in his grasp for a moment; but she did
so, not angrily, or hurriedly, or with any flurry. She did it as though it were natural that
he should take her hand and as natural that she should recover it.

"Indeed I have hardly more than ten minutes left for dressing," she said, rising from her seat.

"If you will say that you care about it, you yourself, I will do my best." As he made this
declaration blushes covered his cheeks and forehead.

"I do care about it,--very much; I myself," said Lady Mabel, not blushing at all. Then there
was a knock at the door, and Lady Mabel's maid, putting her head in, declared that my Lord
had come in and had already been some time in his dressing-room. "Good-bye, Lord Silverbridge,"
she said quite gaily, and rather more aloud than would have been necessary, had she not intended
that the maid also should hear her.

"Poor boy!" she said to herself as she was dressing. "Poor boy!" Then, when the evening was
over she spoke to herself again about him. "Dear sweet boy!" And then she sat and thought.
How was it that she was so old a woman, while he was so little more than a child? How fair
he was, how far removed from conceit, how capable of being made into a man--in the process
of time! What might not be expected from him if he could be kept in good hands for the next
ten years! But in whose hands? What would she be in ten years, she who already seemed to know
the town and all its belongings so well? And yet she was as young in years as he. He, as she
knew, had passed his twenty-second birthday,--and so had she. That was all. It might be good
for her that she should marry him. She was ambitious. And such a marriage would satisfy her
ambition. Through her father's fault, and her brother's, she was likely to be poor. This man
would certainly be rich. Many of those who were buzzing around her from day to day, were distasteful
to her. From among them she knew that she could not take a husband, let their rank and wealth
be what it might. She was too fastidious, too proud, too prone to think that things should
be with her as she liked them! This last was in all things pleasant to her. Though he was but
a boy, there was a certain boyish manliness about him. The very way in which he had grasped
at her hand and had then blushed ruby-red at his own daring, had gone far with her. How gracious
he was to look at! Dear sweet boy! Love him? No;--she did not know that she loved him. That
dream was over. She was sure however that she liked him.

But how would it be with him? It might be well for her to become his wife, but could it be
well for him that he should become her husband? Did she not feel that it would be better for
him that he should become a man before he married at all? Perhaps so;--but then if she desisted
would others desist? If she did not put out her bait would there not be other hooks,--others
and worse? Would not such a one, so soft, so easy, so prone to be caught and so desirable for
the catching, be sure to be made prey of by some snare?

But could she love him? That a woman should not marry a man without loving him, she partly
knew. But she thought she knew also that there must be exceptions. She would do her very best
to love him. That other man should be banished from her very thoughts. She would be such a
wife to him that he should never know that he lacked anything. Poor boy! Sweet dear boy! He,
as he went away to his dinner, had his thoughts also about her. Of all the girls he knew she
was the jolliest,--and of all his friends she was the pleasantest. As she was anxious that
he should go to work in the House of Commons he would go to work there. As for loving her!
Well;--of course he must marry someone, and why not Lady Mab as well as any one else?

CHAPTER XVII

The Derby

An attendance at the Newmarket Second Spring Meeting had unfortunately not been compatible
with the Silverbridge election. Major Tifto had therefore been obliged to look after the affair
alone. "A very useful mare," as Tifto had been in the habit of calling a leggy, thoroughbred,
meagre-looking brute named Coalition, was on this occasion confided to the Major's sole care
and judgment. But Coalition failed, as coalitions always do, and Tifto had to report to his
noble patron that they had not pulled off the event. It had been a match for four hundred pounds,
made indeed by Lord Silverbridge, but made at the suggestion of Tifto;--and now Tifto wrote
in a very bad humour about it. It had been altogether his Lordship's fault in submitting to
carry two pounds more than Tifto had thought to be fair and equitable. The match had been lost.
Would Lord Silverbridge be so good as to pay the money to Mr. Green Griffin and debit him,
Tifto, with the share of his loss?

We must acknowledge that the unpleasant tone of the Major's letter was due quite as much to
the ill-usage he had received in reference to that journey to Silverbridge, as to the loss
of the race. Within that little body there was a high-mounting heart, and that heart had been
greatly wounded by his Lordship's treatment. Tifto had felt himself to have been treated like
a servant. Hardly an excuse had even been made. He had been simply told that he was not wanted.
He was apt sometimes to tell himself that he knew on which side his bread was buttered. But
perhaps he hardly knew how best to keep the butter going. There was a little pride about him
which was antagonistic to the best interests of such a trade as his. Perhaps it was well that
he should inwardly suffer when injured. But it could not be well that he should declare to
such men as Nidderdale, and Dolly Longstaff, and Popplecourt that he didn't mean to put up
with that sort of thing. He certainly should not have spoken in this strain before Tregear.
Of all men living he hated and feared him the most. And he knew that no other man loved Silverbridge
as did Tregear. Had he been thinking of his bread-and-butter, instead of giving way to the
mighty anger of his little bosom, he would have hardly declared openly at the club that he
would let Lord Silverbridge know that he did not mean to stand any man's airs. But these extravagances
were due perhaps to whisky-and-water, and that kind of intoxication which comes to certain
men from momentary triumphs. Tifto could always be got to make a fool of himself when surrounded
by three or four men of rank who, for the occasion, would talk to him as an equal. He almost
declared that Coalition had lost his match because he had not been taken down to Silverbridge.

"Tifto is in a deuce of a way with you," said Dolly Longstaff to the young member.

"I know all about it," said Silverbridge, who had had an interview with his partner since the race.

"If you don't take care he'll dismiss you."

Silverbridge did not care much about this, knowing that words of wisdom did not ordinarily
fall from the mouth of Dolly Longstaff. But he was more moved when his friend Tregear spoke
to him. "I wish you knew the kind of things that fellow Tifto says behind your back."

"As if I cared!"

"But you ought to care."

"Do you care what every fellow says about you?"

"I care very much what those say whom I choose to live with me. Whatever Tifto might say about
me would be quite indifferent to me, because we have nothing in common. But you and he are
bound together."

"We have a horse or two in common; that's all."

"But that is a great deal. The truth is he's a nasty, brawling, boasting, ill-conditioned little
reptile."

Silverbridge of course did not acknowledge that this was true. But he felt it, and almost repented
of his trust in Tifto. But still Prime Minister stood very well for the Derby. He was second
favourite, the odds against him being only four to one. The glory of being part owner of a
probable winner of the Derby was so much to him that he could not bring himself to be altogether
angry with Tifto. There was no doubt that the horse's present condition was due entirely to
Tifto's care. Tifto spent in these few days just before the race the greatest part of his time
in the close vicinity of the horse, only running up to London now and then, as a fish comes
up to the surface, for a breath of air. It was impossible that Lord Silverbridge should separate
himself from the Major,--at any rate till after the Epsom meeting.

He had paid the money for the match without a word of reproach to his partner, but still with
a feeling that things were not quite as they ought to be. In money matters his father had been
liberal, but not very definite. He had been told that he ought not to spend above two thousand
pounds a year, and had been reminded that there was a house for him to use both in town and
in the country. But he had been given to understand also that any application made to Mr. Morton,
if not very unreasonable, would be attended with success. A solemn promise had been exacted
from him that he would have no dealings with money-lenders;--and then he had been set afloat.
There had been a rather frequent correspondence with Mr. Morton, who had once or twice submitted
a total of the money paid on behalf of his correspondent. Lord Silverbridge, who imagined himself
to be anything but extravagant, had wondered how the figures could mount up so rapidly. But
the money needed was always forthcoming, and the raising of objections never seemed to be carried
back beyond Mr. Morton. His promise to his father about the money-lenders had been scrupulously
kept. As long as ready money can be made to be forthcoming without any charge for interest,
a young man must be very foolish who will prefer to borrow it at twenty-five per cent.

Now had come the night before the Derby, and it must be acknowledged that the young Lord was
much fluttered by the greatness of the coming struggle. Tifto, having seen his horse conveyed
to Epsom, had come up to London in order that he might dine with his partner and hear what
was being said about the race at the Beargarden. The party dining there consisted of Silverbridge,
Dolly Longstaff, Popplecourt, and Tifto. Nidderdale was to have joined them, but he told them
on the day before, with a sigh, that domestic duties were too strong for him. Lady Nidderdale,--or
if not Lady Nidderdale herself, then Lady Nidderdale's mother,--was so far potent over the
young nobleman as to induce him to confine his Derby jovialities to the Derby Day. Another
guest had also been expected, the reason for whose non-appearance must be explained somewhat
at length. Lord Gerald Palliser, the Duke's second son, was at this time at Cambridge,--being
almost as popular at Trinity as his brother had been at Christ Church. It was to him quite
a matter of course that he should see his brother's horse run for the Derby. But, unfortunately,
in this very year a stand was being made by the University pundits against a practice which
they thought had become too general. For the last year or two it had been considered almost
as much a matter of course that a Cambridge undergraduate should go to the Derby as that a
Member of Parliament should do so. Against this three or four rigid disciplinarians had raised
their voices,--and as a result, no young man up at Trinity could get leave to be away on the
Derby pretext.

Lord Gerald raged against the restriction very loudly. He at first proclaimed his intention
of ignoring the college authorities altogether. Of course he would be expelled. But the order
itself was to his thinking so absurd,--the idea that he should not see his brother's horse
run was so extravagant,--that he argued that his father could not be angry with him for incurring
dismissal in so excellent a cause. But his brother saw things in a different light. He knew
how his father had looked at him when he had been sent away from Oxford, and he counselled
moderation. Gerald should see the Derby, but should not encounter that heaviest wrath of all
which comes from a man's not sleeping beneath his college roof. There was a train which left
Cambridge at an early hour, and would bring him into London in time to accompany his friends
to the race-course;--and another train, a special, which would take him down after dinner,
so that he and others should reach Cambridge before the college gates were shut.

The dinner at the Beargarden was very joyous. Of course the state of the betting in regard
to Prime Minister was the subject generally popular for the night. Mr. Lupton came in, a gentleman
well known in all fashionable circles, parliamentary, social, and racing, who was rather older
than his company on this occasion, but still not so much so as to be found to be an incumbrance.
Lord Glasslough too, and others joined them, and a good deal was said about the horse. "I never
keep these things dark," said Tifto. "Of course he's an uncertain horse."

"Most horses are," said Lupton.

"Just so, Mr. Lupton. What I mean is, the Minister has got a bit of temper. But if he likes
to do his best I don't think any three-year-old in England can get his nose past him."

"For half a mile he'd be nowhere with the Provence filly," said Glasslough.

"I'm speaking of a Derby distance, my Lord."

"That's a kind of thing nobody really knows," said Lupton.

"I've seen him 'ave his gallops," said the little man, who in his moments of excitement would
sometimes fall away from that exact pronunciation which had been one of the studies of his
life, "and have measured his stride. I think I know what pace means. Of course I'm not going
to answer for the 'orse. He's a temper, but if things go favourably, no animal that ever showed
on the Downs was more likely to do the trick. Is there any gentleman here who would like to
bet me fifteen to one in hundreds against the two events,--the Derby and the Leger?" The desired
odds were at once offered by Mr. Lupton, and the bet was booked.

This gave rise to other betting, and before the evening was over Lord Silverbridge had taken
three-and-a-half to one against his horse to such an extent that he stood to lose twelve hundred
pounds. The champagne which he had drunk, and the news that Quousque, the first favourite,
had so gone to pieces that now there was a question which was the first favourite, had so inflated
him that, had he been left alone, he would almost have wagered even money on his horse. In
the midst of his excitement there came to him a feeling that he was allowing himself to do
just that which he had intended to avoid. But then the occasion was so peculiar! How often
can it happen to a man in his life that he shall own a favourite for the Derby? The affair
was one in which it was almost necessary that he should risk a little money.

Tifto, when he got into his bed, was altogether happy. He had added whisky-and-water to his
champagne, and feared nothing. If Prime Minister should win the Derby he would be able to pay
all that he owed, and to make a start with money in his pocket. And then there would be attached
to him all the infinite glory of being the owner of a winner of the Derby. The horse was run
in his name. Thoughts as to great successes crowded themselves upon his heated brain. What
might not be open to him? Parliament! The Jockey Club! The mastership of one of the crack shire
packs! Might it not come to pass that he should some day become the great authority in England
upon races, racehorses, and hunters? If he could be the winner of a Derby and Leger he thought
that Glasslough and Lupton would snub him no longer, that even Tregear would speak to him,
and that his pal the Duke's son would never throw him aside again.

Lord Silverbridge had bought a drag with all its appendages. There was a coach, the four bay
horses, the harness, and the two regulation grooms. When making this purchase he had condescended
to say a word to his father on the subject. "Everybody belongs to the four-in-hand club now,"
said the son.

"I never did," said the Duke.

"Ah,--if I could be like you!"

The Duke had said that he would think about it, and then had told Mr. Morton that he was to
pay the bill for this new toy. He had thought about it, and had assured himself that driving
a coach and four was at present regarded as a fitting amusement for young men of rank and wealth.
He did not understand it himself. It seemed to him to be as unnatural as though a gentleman
should turn blacksmith and make horseshoes for his amusement. Driving four horses was hard
work. But the same might be said of rowing. There were men, he knew, who would spend their
days standing at a lathe, making little boxes for their recreation. He did not sympathise with
it. But the fact was so, and this driving of coaches was regarded with favour. He had been
a little touched by that word his son had spoken. "Ah,--if I could be like you!" So he had
given the permission; the drag, horses, harness, and grooms had come into the possession of
Lord Silverbridge; and now they were put into requisition to take their triumphant owner and
his party down to Epsom. Dolly Longstaff's team was sent down to meet them half-way. Gerald
Palliser, who had come up from Cambridge that morning, was allowed to drive the first stage
out of town to compensate him for the cruelty done to him by the University pundits. Tifto,
with a cigar in his mouth, with a white hat and a blue veil, and a new light-coloured coat,
was by no means the least happy of the party.

How that race was run, and how both Prime Minister and Quousque were beaten by an outsider
named Fishknife, Prime Minister, however, coming in a good second, the present writer having
no aptitude in that way, cannot describe. Such, however, were the facts, and then Dolly Longstaff
and Lord Silverbridge drove the coach back to London. The coming back was not so triumphant,
though the young fellows bore their failure well. Dolly Longstaff had lost a "pot of money",
Silverbridge would have to draw upon that inexhaustible Mr. Morton for something over two thousand
pounds,--in regard to which he had no doubt as to the certainty with which the money would
be forthcoming, but he feared that it would give rise to special notice from his father. Even
the poor younger brother had lost a couple of hundred pounds, for which he would have to make
his own special application to Mr. Morton.

But Tifto felt it more than any one. The horse ought to have won. Fishknife had been favoured
by such a series of accidents that the whole affair had been a miracle. Tifto had these circumstances
at his fingers' ends, and in the course of the afternoon and evening explained them accurately
to all who would listen to him. He had this to say on his own behalf,--that before the party
had left the course their horse stood first favourite for the Leger. But Tifto was unhappy
as he came back to town, and in spite of the lunch, which had been very glorious, sat moody
and sometimes even silent within his gay apparel.

"It was the unfairest start I ever saw," said Tifto, almost getting up from his seat on the
coach so as to address Dolly and Silverbridge on the box.

"What the ---- is the good of that?" said Dolly from the coach-box. "Take your licking and
don't squeal."

"That's all very well. I can take my licking as well as another man. But one has to look to
the causes of these things. I never saw Peppermint ride so badly. Before he got round the corner
I wished I'd been on the horse myself."

"I don't believe it was Peppermint's fault a bit," said Silverbridge.

"Well;--perhaps not. Only I did think that I was a pretty good judge of riding."

Then Tifto again settled down into silence.

But though much money had been lost, and a great deal of disappointment had to be endured by
our party in reference to the Derby, the most injurious and most deplorable event in the day's
history had not occurred yet. Dinner had been ordered at the Beargarden at seven,--an hour
earlier than would have been named had it not been that Lord Gerald must be at the Eastern
Counties Railway Station at nine P.M. An hour and a half for dinner and a cigar afterwards,
and half an hour to get to the railway station would not be more than time enough.

But of all men alive Dolly Longstaff was the most unpunctual. He did not arrive till eight.
The others were not there before half-past seven, and it was nearly eight before any of them
sat down. At half-past eight Silverbridge began to be very anxious about his brother, and told
him that he ought to start without further delay. A hansom cab was waiting at the door, but
Lord Gerald still delayed. He knew, he said, that the special would not start till half-past
nine. There were a lot of fellows who were dining about everywhere, and they would never get
to the station by the hour fixed. It became apparent to the elder brother that Gerald would
stay altogether unless he were forced to go, and at last he did get up and pushed the young
fellow out. "Drive like the very devil," he said to the cabman, explaining to him something
of the circumstances. The cabman did do his best, but a cab cannot be made to travel from the
Beargarden, which as all the world knows is close to St. James's Street, to Liverpool Street
in the City in ten minutes. When Lord Gerald reached the station the train had started.

At twenty minutes to ten the young man reappeared at the club. "Why on earth didn't you take
a special for yourself?" exclaimed Silverbridge.

"They wouldn't give me one." After that it was apparent to all of them that what had just happened
had done more to ruffle our hero's temper than his failure and loss at the races.

"I wouldn't have had it happen for any money you could name," said the elder brother to the
younger, as he took him home to Carlton Terrace.

"If they do send me down, what's the odds?" said the younger brother, who was not quite as
sober as he might have been.

"After what happened to me it will almost break the governor's heart," said the heir.

CHAPTER XVIII

One of the Results of the Derby

On the following morning at about eleven Silverbridge and his brother were at breakfast at
an hotel in Jermyn Street. They had slept in Carlton Terrace, but Lord Gerald had done so without
the knowledge of the Duke. Lord Silverbridge, as he was putting himself to bed, had made up
his mind to tell the story to the Duke at once, but when the morning came his courage failed
him. The two young men therefore slunk out of the house, and as there was no breakfasting at
the Beargarden they went to this hotel. They were both rather gloomy, but the elder brother
was the more sad of the two. "I'd give anything I have in the world," he said, "that you hadn't
come up at all."

"Things have been so unfortunate!"

"Why the deuce wouldn't you go when I told you?"

"Who on earth would have thought that they'd have been so punctual? They never are punctual
on the Great Eastern. It was an infernal shame. I think I shall go at once to Harnage and tell
him all about it." Mr. Harnage was Lord Gerald's tutor.

"But you've been in ever so many rows before."

"Well,--I've been gated, and once when they'd gated me I came right upon Harnage on the bridge
at King's."

"What sort of a fellow is he?"

"He used to be good-natured. Now he has taken ever so many crotchets into his head. It was
he who began all this about none of the men going to the Derby."

"Did you ask him yourself for leave?"

"Yes. And when I told him about your owning Prime Minister he got savage and declared that
was the very reason why I shouldn't go."

"You didn't tell me that."

"I was determined I would go. I wasn't going to be made a child of."

At last it was decided that the two brothers should go down to Cambridge together. Silverbridge
would be able to come back to London the same evening, so as to take his drag down to the Oaks
on the Friday,--a duty from which even his present misery would not deter him. They reached
Cambridge at about three, and Lord Silverbridge at once called at the Master's lodge and sent
in his card. The Master of Trinity is so great that he cannot be supposed to see all comers,
but on this occasion Lord Silverbridge was fortunate. With much trepidation he told his story.
Such being the circumstances, could anything be done to moderate the vials of wrath which must
doubtless be poured out over the head of his unfortunate brother?

"Why come to me?" said the Master. "From what you say yourself, it is evident that you know
that this must rest with the College tutor."

"I thought, sir, if you would say a word."

"Do you think it would be right that I should interfere for one special man, and that a man
of special rank?"

"Nobody thinks that would count for anything. But--"

"But what?" asked the Master.

"If you knew my father, sir!"

"Everybody knows your father;--every Englishman I mean. Of course I know your father,--as a
public man, and I know how much the country owes to him."

"Yes, it does. But it is not that I mean. If you knew how this would,--would,--would break
his heart." Then there came a tear into the young man's eye,--and there was something almost
like a tear in the eye of the old man too. "Of course it was my fault. I got him to come. He
hadn't the slightest intention of staying. I think you will believe what I say about that, sir."

"I believe every word you say, my Lord."

"I got into a row at Oxford. I daresay you heard. There never was anything so stupid. That
was a great grief to my father,--a very great grief. It is so hard upon him because he never
did anything foolish himself."

"You should try to imitate him." Silverbridge shook his head. "Or at least not to grieve him."

"That is it. He has got over the affair about me. As I'm the eldest son I've got into Parliament,
and he thinks perhaps that all has been forgotten. An eldest son may, I fancy, be a greater
ass than his younger brother." The Master could not but smile as he thought of the selection
which had been made of a legislator. "But if Gerald is sent down, I don't know how he'll get
over it." And now the tears absolutely rolled down the young man's face, so that he was forced
to wipe them from his eyes.

The Master was much moved. That a young man should pray for himself would be nothing to him.
The discipline of the college was not in his hands, and such prayers would avail nothing with
him. Nor would a brother praying simply for a brother avail much. A father asking for his son
might be resisted. But the brother asking pardon for the brother on behalf of the father was
almost irresistible. But this man had long been in a position in which he knew that no such
prayers should ever prevail at all. In the first place it was not his business. If he did anything,
it would only be by asking a favour when he knew that no favour should be granted;--and a favour
which he of all men should not ask, because to him of all men it could not be refused. And
then the very altitude of the great statesman whom he was invited to befriend,--the position
of this Duke who had been so powerful and might be powerful again, was against any such interference.
Of himself he might be sure that he would certainly have done this as readily for any Mr. Jones
as for the Duke of Omnium; but were he to do it, it would be said of him that it had been done
because the man was Duke of Omnium. There are positions exalted beyond the reach of benevolence,
because benevolence would seem to be self-seeking. "Your father, if he were here," said he,
"would know that I could not interfere."

"And will he be sent down?"

"I do not know all the circumstances. From your own showing the case seems to be one of great
insubordination. To tell the truth, Lord Silverbridge, I ought not to have spoken to you on
the subject at all."

"You mean that I should not have spoken to you."

"Well; I did not say so. And if you have been indiscreet I can pardon that. I wish I could
have served you; but I fear that it is not in my power." Then Lord Silverbridge took his leave,
and going to his brother's rooms waited there till Lord Gerald had returned from his interview
with the tutor.

"It's all up," said he, chucking down his cap, striving to be at his ease. "I may pack up and
go--just where I please. He says that on no account will he have anything more to do with me.
I asked him what I was to do, and he said that the governor had better take my name off the
books of the college. I did ask whether I couldn't go over to Maclean."

"Who is Maclean?"

"One of the other tutors. But the brute only smiled."

"He thought you meant it for chaff."

"Well;--I suppose I did mean to show him that I was not going to be exterminated by him. He
will write to the governor to-day. And you will have to talk to the governor."

Yes! As Lord Silverbridge went back that afternoon to London he thought very much of that talking
to the governor! Never yet had he been able to say anything very pleasant to "the governor."
He had himself been always in disgrace at Eton, and had been sent away from Oxford. He had
introduced Tregear into the family, which of all the troubles perhaps was the worst. He had
changed his politics. He had spent more money than he ought to have done, and now at this very
moment must ask for a large sum. And he had brought Gerald up to see the Derby, thereby causing
him to be sent away from Cambridge! And through it all there was present to him a feeling that
by no words which he could use would he be able to make his father understand how deeply he
felt all this.

He could not bring himself to see the Duke that evening, and the next morning he was sent for
before he was out of bed. He found his father at breakfast with the tutor's letter before him.
"Do you know anything about this?" asked the Duke very calmly.

"Gerald ran up to see the Derby, and in the evening missed the train."

"Mr. Harnage tells me that he had been expressly ordered not to go to these races."

"I suppose he was, sir."

Then there was silence between them for some minutes. "You might as well sit down and eat your
breakfast," said the father. Then Lord Silverbridge did sit down and poured himself out a cup
of tea. There was no servant in the room, and he dreaded to ring the bell. "Is there anything
you want?" asked the Duke. There was a small dish of fried bacon on the table, and some cold
mutton on the sideboard. Silverbridge, declaring that he had everything that was necessary,
got up and helped himself to the cold mutton. Then again there was silence, during which the
Duke crunched his toast and made an attempt at reading the newspaper. But, soon pushing that
aside, he again took up Mr. Harnage's letter. Silverbridge watched every motion of his father
as he slowly made his way through the slice of cold mutton. "It seems that Gerald is to be
sent away altogether."

"I fear so, sir."

"He has profited by your example at Oxford. Did you persuade him to come to these races?"

"I am afraid I did."

"Though you knew the orders which had been given?"

"I thought it was meant that he should not be away the night."

"He had asked permission to go to the Derby and had been positively refused. Did you know that?"

Silverbridge sat for some moments considering. He could not at first quite remember what he
had known and what he had not known. Perhaps he entertained some faint hope that the question
would be allowed to pass unanswered. He saw, however, from his father's eye that that was impossible.
And then he did remember it all. "I suppose I did know it."

"And you were willing to imperil your brother's position in life, and my happiness, in order
that he might see a horse, of which I believe you call yourself part owner, run a race?"

"I thought there would be no risk if he got back the same night. I don't suppose there is any
good in my saying it, but I never was so sorry for anything in all my life. I feel as if I
could go and hang myself."

"That is absurd,--and unmanly," said the Duke. The expression of sorrow, as it had been made,
might be absurd and unmanly, but nevertheless it had touched him. He was severe because he
did not know how far his severity wounded. "It is a great blow,--another great blow! Races!
A congregation of all the worst blackguards in the country mixed with the greatest fools."

"Lord Cantrip was there," said Silverbridge; "and I saw Sir Timothy Beeswax."

"If the presence of Sir Timothy be an allurement to you, I pity you indeed. I have nothing
further to say about it. You have ruined your brother." He had been driven to further anger
by this reference to one man whom he respected, and to another whom he despised.

"Don't say that, sir."

"What am I to say?"

"Let him be an attaché, or something of that sort."

"Do you believe it possible that he should pass any examination? I think that my children between
them will bring me to the grave. You had better go now. I suppose you will want to be--at the
races again." Then the young man crept out of the room, and going to his own part of the house
shut himself up alone for nearly an hour. What had he better do to give his father some comfort?
Should he abandon racing altogether, sell his share of Prime Minister and Coalition, and go
in hard and strong for committees, debates, and divisions? Should he get rid of his drag, and
resolve to read up parliamentary literature? He was resolved upon one thing at any rate. He
would not go to the Oaks that day. And then he was resolved on another thing. He would call
on Lady Mab Grex and ask her advice. He felt so disconsolate and insufficient for himself that
he wanted advice from someone whom he could trust.

He found Tifto, Dolly Longstaff, and one or two others at the stables, from whence it was intended
that the drag should start. They were waiting, and rather angry because they had been kept
waiting. But the news, when it came, was very sad indeed. "You wouldn't mind taking the team
down and back yourself; would you, Dolly?" he said to Longstaff.

"You aren't going!" said Dolly, assuming a look of much heroic horror.

"No;--I am not going to-day."

"What's up?" asked Popplecourt.

"That's rather sudden; isn't it?" asked the Major.

"Well; yes; I suppose it is sudden."

"It's throwing us over a little, isn't it?"

"Not that I see. You've got the trap and the horses."

"Yes;--we've got the trap and the horses," said Dolly, "and I vote we make a start."

"As you are not going yourself, perhaps I'd better drive your horses," said Tifto.

"Dolly will take the team," said his Lordship.

"Yes;--decidedly. I will take the team," said Dolly. "There isn't a deal of driving wanted
on the road to Epsom, but a man should know how to hold his reins." This of course gave rise
to some angry words, but Silverbridge did not stop to hear them.

The poor Duke had no one to whom he could go for advice and consolation. When his son left
him he turned to his newspaper, and tried to read it--in vain. His mind was too ill at ease
to admit of political matters. He was greatly grieved by this new misfortune as to Gerald,
and by Lord Silverbridge's propensity to racing.

But though these sorrows were heavy, there was a sorrow heavier than these. Lady Cantrip had
expressed an opinion almost in favour of Tregear--and had certainly expressed an opinion in
favour of Mrs. Finn. The whole affair in regard to Mrs. Finn had been explained to her, and
she had told the Duke that, according to her thinking, Mrs. Finn had behaved well! When the
Duke, with an energy which was by no means customary with him, had asked that question, on
the answer to which so much depended, "Should there have been a moment lost?" Lady Cantrip
had assured him that not a moment had been lost. Mrs. Finn had at once gone to work, and had
arranged that the whole affair should be told to him, the Duke, in the proper way. "I think
she did," said Lady Cantrip, "what I myself should have done in similar circumstances."

If Lady Cantrip was right, then must his apology to Mrs. Finn be ample and abject. Perhaps
it was this feeling which at the moment was most vexatious to him.

CHAPTER XIX

"No; My Lord, I Do Not"

Between two and three o'clock Lord Silverbridge, in spite of his sorrow, found himself able
to eat his lunch at his club. The place was deserted, the Beargarden world having gone to the
races. As he sat eating cold lamb and drinking soda-and-brandy he did confirm himself in certain
modified resolutions, which might be more probably kept than those sterner laws of absolute
renunciation to which he had thought of pledging himself in his half-starved morning condition.
His father had spoken in very strong language against racing,--saying that those who went were
either fools or rascals. He was sure that this was exaggerated. Half the House of Lords and
two-thirds of the House of Commons were to be seen at the Derby; but no doubt there were many
rascals and fools, and he could not associate with the legislators without finding himself
among the fools and rascals. He would,--as soon as he could,--separate himself from the Major.
And he would not bet. It was on that side of the sport that the rascals and the fools showed
themselves. Of what service could betting be to him whom Providence had provided with all things
wanted to make life pleasant? As to the drag, his father had in a certain measure approved
of that, and he would keep the drag, as he must have some relaxation. But his great effort
of all should be made in the House of Commons. He would endeavour to make his father perceive
that he had appreciated that letter. He would always be in the House soon after four, and would
remain there,--for, if possible, as long as the Speaker sat in the chair. He had already begun
to feel that there was a difficulty in keeping his seat upon those benches. The half-hours
there would be so much longer than elsewhere! An irresistible desire of sauntering out would
come upon him. There were men the very sound of whose voices was already odious to him. There
had come upon him a feeling in regard to certain orators, that when once they had begun there
was no reason why they should ever stop. Words of some sort were always forthcoming, like spiders'
webs. He did not think that he could learn to take a pleasure in sitting in the House; but
he hoped that he might be man enough to do it, though it was not pleasant. He would begin to-day,
instead of going to the Oaks.

But before he went to the House he would see Lady Mabel Grex. And here it may be well to state
that in making his resolutions as to a better life, he had considered much whether it would
not be well for him to take a wife. His father had once told him that when he married, the
house in Carlton Terrace should be his own. "I will be a lodger if you will have me," said
the Duke; "or if your wife should not like that, I will find a lodging elsewhere." This had
been in the sadness and tenderness which had immediately followed the death of the Duchess.
Marriage would steady him. Were he a married man, Tifto would of course disappear. Upon the
whole he thought it would be good that he should marry. And, if so, who could be so nice as
Lady Mabel? That his father would be contented with Lady Mab, he was inclined to believe. There
was no better blood in England. And Lady Mabel was known to be clever, beautiful, and, in her
peculiar circumstances, very wise.

He was aware, however, of a certain drawback. Lady Mabel as his wife would be his superior,
and in some degree his master. Though not older she was wiser than he,--and not only wiser
but more powerful also. And he was not quite sure but that she regarded him as a boy. He thought
that she did love him,--or would do so if he asked her,--but that her love would be bestowed
upon him as on an inferior creature. He was already jealous of his own dignity, and fearful
lest he should miss the glory of being loved by this lovely one for his own sake,--for his
own manhood, and his own gifts and his own character.

And yet his attraction to her was so great that now in the day of his sorrow he could think
of no solace but what was to be found in her company.

"Not at the Oaks!" she said as soon as he was shown into the drawing-room.

"No;--not at the Oaks. Lord Grex is there, I suppose?"

"Oh yes;--that is a matter of course. Why are you a recreant?"

"The House sits to-day."

"How virtuous! Is it coming to that,--that when the House sits you will never be absent?"

"That's the kind of life I'm going to lead. You haven't heard about Gerald?"

"About your brother?"

"Yes--you haven't heard?"

"Not a word. I hope there is no misfortune."

"But indeed there is,--a most terrible misfortune." Then he told the whole story. How Gerald
had been kept in London, and how he had gone down to Cambridge,--all in vain; how his father
had taken the matter to heart, telling him that he had ruined his brother; and how he, in consequence,
had determined not to go to the races. "Then he said," continued Silverbridge, "that his children
between them would bring him to his grave."

"That was terrible."

"Very terrible."

"But what did he mean by that?" asked Lady Mabel, anxious to hear something about Lady Mary
and Tregear.

"Well; of course what I did at Oxford made him unhappy; and now there is this affair of Gerald's."

"He did not allude to your sister?"

"Yes he did. You have heard of all that. Tregear told you."

"He told me something."

"Of course my father does not like it."

"Do you approve of it?"

"No," said he--curtly and sturdily.

"Why not? You like Tregear."

"Certainly I like Tregear. He is the friend, among men, whom I like the best. I have only two
real friends."

"Who are they?" she asked, sinking her voice very low.

"He is one;--and you are the other. You know that."

"I hoped that I was one," she said. "But if you love Tregear so dearly, why do you not approve
of him for your sister?"

"I always knew it would not do."

"But why not?"

"Mary ought to marry a man of higher standing."

"Of higher rank you mean. The daughters of Dukes have married commoners before."

"It is not exactly that. I don't like to talk of it in that way. I knew it would make my father
unhappy. In point of fact he can't marry her. What is the good of approving of a thing that
is impossible?"

"I wish I knew your sister. Is she--firm?"

"Indeed she is."

"I am not so sure that you are."

"No," said he, after considering awhile; "nor am I. But she is not like Gerald or me. She is
more obstinate."

"Less fickle perhaps."

"Yes, if you choose to call it fickle. I don't know that I am fickle. If I were in love with
a girl I should be true to her."

"Are you sure of that?"

"Quite sure. If I were really in love with her I certainly should not change. It is possible
that I might be bullied out of it."

"But she will not be bullied out of it?"

"Mary? No. That is just it. She will stick to it if he does."

"I would if I were she. Where will you find any young man equal to Frank Tregear?"

"Perhaps you mean to cut poor Mary out."

"That isn't a nice thing for you to say, Lord Silverbridge. Frank is my cousin,--as indeed
you are also; but it so happens that I have seen a great deal of him all my life. And, though
I don't want to cut your sister out, as you so prettily say, I love him well enough to understand
that any girl whom he loves ought to be true to him." So far what she said was very well, but
she afterwards added a word which might have been wisely omitted. "Frank and I are almost beggars."

"What an accursed thing money is," he exclaimed, jumping up from his chair.

"I don't agree with you at all. It is a very comfortable thing."

"How is anybody who has got it to know if anybody cares for him?"

"You must find that out. There is such a thing I suppose as real sympathy."

"You tell me to my face that you and Tregear would have been lovers only that you are both poor."

"I never said anything of the kind."

"And that he is to be passed on to my sister because it is supposed that she will have some money."

"You are putting words into my mouth which I never spoke, and ideas into my mind which I never
thought."

"And of course I feel the same about myself. How can a fellow help it? I wish you had a lot
of money, I know."

"It is very kind of you;--but why?"

"Well;--I can't explain myself," he said, blushing as was his wont. "I daresay it wouldn't
make any difference."

"It would make a great difference to me. As it is, having none, and knowing as I do that papa
and Percival are getting things into a worse mess every day, I am obliged to hope that I may
some day marry a man who has got an income."

"I suppose so," said he, still blushing, but frowning at the same time.

"You see I can be very frank with a real friend. But I am sure of myself in this,--that I will
never marry a man I do not love. A girl needn't love a man unless she likes it, I suppose.
She doesn't tumble into love as she does into the fire. It would not suit me to marry a poor
man, and so I don't mean to fall in love with a poor man."

"But you do mean to fall in love with a rich one?"

"That remains to be seen, Lord Silverbridge. The rich man will at any rate have to fall in
love with me first. If you know of any one you need not tell him to be too sure because he
has a good income."

"There's Popplecourt. He's his own master, and, fool as he is, he knows how to keep his money."

"I don't want a fool. You must do better for me than Lord Popplecourt."

"What do you say to Dolly Longstaff?"

"He would be just the man, only he never would take the trouble to come out and be married."

"Or Glasslough?"

"I'm afraid he is cross, and wouldn't let me have my own way."

"I can only think of one other;--but you would not take him."

"Then you had better not mention him. It is no good crowding the list with impossibles."

"I was thinking of--myself."

"You are certainly one of the impossibles."

"Why, Lady Mab?"

"For twenty reasons. You are too young, and you are bound to oblige your father, and you are
to be wedded to Parliament,--at any rate for the next ten years. And altogether it wouldn't
do,--for a great many reasons."

"I suppose you don't like me well enough?"

"What a question to ask! No; my Lord, I do not. There; that's what you may call an answer.
Don't you pretend to look offended, because if you do, I shall laugh at you. If you may have
your joke surely I may have mine."

"I don't see any joke in it."

"But I do. Suppose I were to say the other thing. Oh, Lord Silverbridge, you do me so much
honour! And now I come to think about it, there is no one in the world I am so fond of as you.
Would that suit you?"

"Exactly."

"But it wouldn't suit me. There's papa. Don't run away."

"It's ever so much past five," said the legislator, "and I had intended to be in the House
more than an hour ago. Good-bye. Give my love to Miss Cassewary."

"Certainly. Miss Cassewary is your most devoted friend. Won't you bring your sister to see
me some day?"

"When she is in town I will."

"I should so like to know her. Good-bye."

As he hurried down to the House in a hansom he thought over it all, and told himself that he
feared it would not do. She might perhaps accept him, but if so, she would do it simply in
order that she might become Duchess of Omnium. She might, he thought, have accepted him then,
had she chosen. He had spoken plainly enough. But she had laughed at him. He felt that if she
loved him, there ought to have been something of that feminine tremor, of that doubting, hesitating
half-avowal of which he had perhaps read in novels, and which his own instincts taught him
to desire. But there had been no tremor nor hesitating. "No; my Lord, I do not," she had said
when he asked her to her face whether she liked him well enough to be his wife. "No; my Lord,
I do not." It was not the refusal conveyed in these words which annoyed him. He did believe
that if he were to press his suit with the usual forms she would accept him. But it was that
there should be such a total absence of trepidation in her words and manner. Before her he
blushed and hesitated and felt that he did not know how to express himself. If she would only
have done the same, then there would have been an equality. Then he could have seized her in
his arms and sworn that never, never, never would he care for any one but her.

In truth he saw everything as it was only too truly. Though she might choose to marry him if
he pressed his request, she would never subject herself to him as he would have the girl do
whom he loved. She was his superior, and in every word uttered between them showed that it
was so. But yet how beautiful she was;--how much more beautiful than any other thing he had
ever seen!

He sat on one of the high seats behind Sir Timothy Beeswax and Sir Orlando Drought, listening,
or pretending to listen, to the speeches of three or four gentlemen respecting sugar, thinking
of all this till half-past seven;--and then he went to dine with the proud consciousness of
having done his duty. The forms and methods of the House were, he flattered himself, soaking
into him gradually,--as his father had desired. The theory of legislation was sinking into
his mind. The welfare of the nation depended chiefly on sugar. But he thought that, after all,
his own welfare must depend on the possession of Mab Grex.

CHAPTER XX

"Then He Will Come Again"

Lady Mabel, when her young lover left her, was for a time freed from the necessity of thinking
about him by her father. He had returned from the Oaks in a very bad humour. Lord Grex had
been very badly treated by his son, whom he hated worse than any one else in the world. On
the Derby Day he had won a large sum of money, which had been to him at the time a matter of
intense delight,--for he was in great want of money. But on this day he had discovered that
his son and heir had lost more than he had won, and an arrangement had been suggested to him
that his winnings should go to pay Percival's losings. This was a mode of settling affairs
to which the Earl would not listen for a moment, had he possessed the power of putting a veto
upon it. But there had been a transaction lately between him and his son with reference to
the cutting off a certain entail under which money was to be paid to Lord Percival. This money
had not yet been forthcoming, and therefore the Earl was constrained to assent. This was very
distasteful to the Earl, and he came home therefore in a bad humour, and said a great many
disagreeable things to his daughter. "You know, papa, if I could do anything I would." This
she said in answer to a threat, which he had made often before and now repeated, of getting
rid altogether of the house in Belgrave Square. Whenever he made this threat he did not scruple
to tell her that the house had to be kept up solely for her welfare. "I don't see why the deuce
you don't get married. You'll have to do it sooner or later." That was not a pleasant speech
for a daughter to hear from her father. "As to that," she said, "it must come or not as chance
will have it. If you want me to sign anything I will sign it;"--for she had been asked to sign
papers, or in other words to surrender rights;--"but for that other matter it must be left
to myself." Then he had been very disagreeable indeed.

They dined out together,--of course with all the luxury that wealth can give. There was a well-appointed
carriage to take them backwards and forwards to the next square, such as an Earl should have.
She was splendidly dressed, as became an Earl's daughter, and he was brilliant with some star
which had been accorded to him by his sovereign's grateful minister in return for staunch parliamentary
support. No one looking at them could have imagined that such a father could have told such
a daughter that she must marry herself out of the way because as an unmarried girl she was
a burden.

During the dinner she was very gay. To be gay was the habit,--we may almost say the work,--of
her life. It so chanced that she sat between Sir Timothy Beeswax, who in these days was a very
great man indeed, and that very Dolly Longstaff, whom Silverbridge in his irony had proposed
to her as a fitting suitor for her hand.

"Isn't Lord Silverbridge a cousin of yours?" asked Sir Timothy.

"A very distant one."

"He has come over to us, you know. It is such a triumph."

"I was so sorry to hear it." This, however, as the reader knows, was a fib.

"Sorry!" said Sir Timothy. "Surely Lord Grex's daughter must be a Conservative."

"Oh yes;--I am a Conservative because I was born one. I think that people in politics should
remain as they are born,--unless they are very wise indeed. When men come to be statesmen and
all that kind of thing, of course they can change backwards and forwards."

"I hope that is not intended for me, Lady Mabel."

"Certainly not. I don't know enough about it to be personal." That, however, was again not
quite true. "But I have the greatest possible respect for the Duke, and I think it a pity that
he should be made unhappy by his son. Don't you like the Duke?"

"Well;--yes;--in a way. He is a most respectable man; and has been a good public servant."

"All our lot are ruined, you know," said Dolly, talking of the races.

"Who are your lot, Mr. Longstaff?"

"I'm one myself."

"I suppose so."

"I'm utterly smashed. Then there's Percival."

"I hope he has not lost much. Of course you know he's my brother."

"Oh laws;--so he is. I always put my foot in it. Well;--he has lost a lot. And so have Silverbridge
and Tifto. Perhaps you don't know Tifto."

"I have not the pleasure of knowing Mr. Tifto."

"He is a major. I think you'd like Major Tifto. He's a sort of racing coach to Silverbridge.
You ought to know Tifto. And Tregear is pretty nearly cleared out."

"Mr. Tregear! Frank Tregear!"

"I'm told he has been hit very heavy. I hope he's not a friend of yours, Lady Mabel."

"Indeed he is;--a very dear friend and a cousin."

"That's what I hear. He's very much with Silverbridge you know."

"I cannot think that Mr. Tregear has lost money."

"I hope he hasn't. I know I have. I wish someone would stick up for me, and say that it was
impossible."

"But that is not Mr. Tregear's way of living. I can understand that Lord Silverbridge or Percival
should lose money."

"Or me?"

"Or you, if you like to say so."

"Or Tifto?"

"I don't know anything about Mr. Tifto."

"Major Tifto."

"Or Major Tifto;--what does it signify?"

"No;--of course. We inferior people may lose our money just as we please. But a man who can
look as clever as Mr. Tregear ought to win always."

"I told you just now that he was a friend of mine."

"But don't you think that he does look clever?" There could be no question but that Tregear,
when he disliked his company, could show his dislike by his countenance; and it was not improbable
that he had done so in the presence of Mr. Adolphus Longstaff. "Now tell the truth, Lady Mabel;
does he not look conceited sometimes?"

"He generally looks as if he knew what he was talking about, which is more than some other
people do."

"Of course he is a great deal more clever than I am. I know that. But I don't think even he
can be so clever as he looks. 'Or you so stupid,' that's what you ought to say now."

"Sometimes, Mr. Longstaff, I deny myself the pleasure of saying what I think."

When all this was over she was very angry with herself for the anxiety she had expressed about
Tregear. This Mr. Longstaff was, she thought, exactly the man to report all she had said in
the public room at the club. But she had been annoyed by what she had heard as to her friend.
She knew that he of all men should keep himself free from such follies. Those others had, as
it were, a right to make fools of themselves. It had seemed so natural that the young men of
her own class should dissipate their fortunes and their reputations by every kind of extravagance!
Her father had done so, and she had never even ventured to hope that her brother would not
follow her father's example. But Tregear, if he gave way to such follies as these, would soon
fall headlong into a pit from which there would be no escape. And if he did fall, she knew
herself well enough to be aware that she could not stifle, nor even conceal, the misery which
this would occasion her. As long as he stood well before the world she would be well able to
assume indifference. But were he to be precipitated into some bottomless misfortunes then she
could only throw herself after him. She could see him marry, and smile,--and perhaps even like
his wife. And while he was doing so, she could also marry, and resolve that the husband whom
she took should be made to think that he had a loving wife. But were Frank to die,--then must
she fall upon his body as though he had been known by all the world to be her lover. Something
of this feeling came upon her now, when she heard that he had been betting and had been unfortunate.
She had been unable so to subdue herself as to seem to be perfectly careless about it. She
had begun by saying that she had not believed it;--but she had believed it. It was so natural
that Tregear should have done as the others did with whom he lived! But then the misfortune
would be to him so terrible,--so irremediable! The reader, however, may as well know at once
that there was not a word of truth in the assertion.

After the dinner she went home alone. There were other festivities to be attended, had she
pleased to attend them; and poor Miss Cassewary was dressed ready to go with her as chaperone;--but
Miss Cassewary was quite satisfied to be allowed to go to bed in lieu of Mrs. Montacute Jones's
great ball. And she had gone to her bedroom when Lady Mabel went to her. "I am glad you are
alone," she said, "because I want to speak to you."

"Is anything wrong?"

"Everything is wrong. Papa says he must give up this house."

"He says that almost always when he comes back from the races, and very often when he comes
back from the club."

"Percival has lost ever so much."

"I don't think my Lord will hamper himself for your brother."

"I can't explain it, but there is some horrible money complication. It is hard upon you and me."

"Who am I?" said Miss Cassewary.

"About the dearest friend that ever a poor girl had. It is hard upon you,--and upon me. I have
given up everything,--and what good have I done?"

"It is hard, my dear."

"But after all I do not care much for all that. The thing has been going on so long that one
is used to it."

"What is it then?"

"Ah;--yes;--what is it? How am I to tell you?"

"Surely you can tell me," said the old woman, putting out her hand so as to caress the arm
of the younger one.

"I could tell no one else; I am sure of that. Frank Tregear has taken to gambling,--like the
rest of them."

"Who says so?"

"He has lost a lot of money at these races. A man who sat next me at dinner,--one of those
stupid do-nothing fools that one meets everywhere,--told me so. He is one of the Beargarden
set, and of course he knows all about it."

"Did he say how much?"

"How is he to pay anything? Of all things that men do this is the worst. A man who would think
himself disgraced for ever if he accepted a present of money will not scruple to use all his
wits to rob his friend of everything that he has by studying the run of cards or by watching
the paces of some brutes of horses! And they consider themselves to be fine gentlemen! A real
gentleman should never want the money out of another man's pocket;--should never think of money
at all."

"I don't know how that is to be helped, my dear. You have got to think of money."

"Yes; I have to think of it, and do think of it; and because I do so I am not what I call a
gentleman."

"No;--my dear; you're a lady."

"Psha! you know what I mean. I might have had the feelings of a gentleman as well as the best
man that ever was born. I haven't; but I have never done anything so mean as gambling. Now
I have got something else to tell you."

"What is it? You do frighten me so when you look like that."

"You may well be frightened,--for if this all comes round I shall very soon be able to dispense
with you altogether. His Royal Highness Lord Silverbridge--"

"What do you mean, Mabel?"

"He's next door to a Royal Highness at any rate, and a much more topping man than most of them.
Well then;--His Serene Highness the heir of the Duke of Omnium has done me the inexpressible
honour of asking me--to marry him."

"No!"

"You may well say, No. And to tell the truth exactly, he didn't."

"Then why do you say he did?"

"I don't think he did quite ask me, but he gave me to understand that he would do so if I gave
him any encouragement."

"Did he mean it?"

"Yes;--poor boy! He meant it. With a word;--with a look, he would have been down there kneeling.
He asked me whether I liked him well enough. What do you think I did?"

"What did you do?"

"I spared him;--out of sheer downright Christian charity! I said to myself 'Love your neighbours.'
'Don't be selfish.' 'Do unto him as you would he should do unto you,'--that is, think of his
welfare. Though I had him in my net, I let him go. Shall I go to heaven for doing that?"

"I don't know," said Miss Cassewary, who was so much perturbed by the news she had heard as
to be unable to come to any opinion on the point just raised.

"Or mayn't I rather go to the other place? From how much embarrassment should I have relieved
my father! What a friend I should have made for Percival! How much I might have been able to
do for Frank! And then what a wife I should have made him!"

"I think you would."

"He'll never get another half so good; and he'll be sure to get one before long. It is a sort
of tenderness that is quite inefficacious. He will become a prey, as I should have made him
a prey. But where is there another who will treat him so well?"

"I cannot bear to hear you speak of yourself in that way."

"But it is true. I know the sort of girl he should marry. In the first place she should be
two years younger, and four years fresher. She should be able not only to like him and love
him, but to worship him. How well I can see her! She should have fair hair, and bright green-gray
eyes, with the sweetest complexion, and the prettiest little dimples;--two inches shorter than
me, and the delight of her life should be to hang with two hands on his arm. She should have
a feeling that her Silverbridge is an Apollo upon earth. To me he is a rather foolish, but
very, very sweet-tempered young man;--anything rather than a god. If I thought that he would
get the fresh young girl with the dimples then I ought to abstain."

"If he was in earnest," said Miss Cassewary, throwing aside all this badinage and thinking
of the main point, "if he was in earnest he will come again."

"He was quite in earnest."

"Then he will come again."

"I don't think he will," said Lady Mabel. "I told him that I was too old for him, and I tried
to laugh him out of it. He does not like being laughed at. He has been saved, and he will know it."

"But if he should come again?"

"I shall not spare him again. No;--not twice. I felt it to be hard to do so once, because I
so nearly love him! There are so many of them who are odious to me, as to whom the idea of
marrying them seems to be mixed somehow with an idea of suicide."

"Oh, Mabel!"

"But he is as sweet as a rose. If I were his sister, or his servant, or his dog, I could be
devoted to him. I can fancy that his comfort and his success and his name should be everything
to me."

"That is what a wife ought to feel."

"But I could never feel him to be my superior. That is what a wife ought in truth to feel.
Think of those two young men and the difference between them! Well;--don't look like that at
me. I don't often give way, and I dare say after all I shall live to be the Duchess of Omnium."
Then she kissed her friend and went away to her own room.

CHAPTER XXI

Sir Timothy Beeswax

There had lately been a great Conservative reaction in the country, brought about in part by
the industry and good management of gentlemen who were strong on that side;--but due also in
part to the blunders and quarrels of their opponents. That these opponents should have blundered
and quarrelled, being men active and in earnest, was to have been expected. Such blunderings
and quarrellings have been a matter of course since politics have been politics, and since
religion has been religion. When men combine to do nothing, how should there be disagreement?
When men combine to do much, how should there not be disagreement? Thirty men can sit still,
each as like the other as peas. But put your thirty men up to run a race, and they will soon
assume different forms. And in doing nothing, you can hardly do amiss. Let the doers of nothing
have something of action forced upon them, and they, too, will blunder and quarrel.

The wonder is that there should ever be in a reforming party enough of consentaneous action
to carry any reform. The reforming or Liberal party in British politics had thus stumbled,--and
stumbled till it fell. And now there had been a great Conservative reaction! Many of the most
Liberal constituencies in the country had been untrue to their old political convictions. And,
as the result, Lord Drummond was Prime Minister in the House of Lords,--with Sir Timothy Beeswax
acting as first man in the House of Commons.

It cannot be denied that Sir Timothy had his good points as a politician. He was industrious,
patient, clear-sighted, intelligent, courageous, and determined. Long before he had had a seat
in the House, when he was simply making his way up to the probability of a seat by making a
reputation as an advocate, he had resolved that he would be more than an Attorney-General,
more than a judge,--more, as he thought it, than a Chief Justice; but at any rate something
different. This plan he had all but gained,--and it must be acknowledged that he had been moved
by a grand and manly ambition. But there were drawbacks to the utility and beauty of Sir Timothy's
character as a statesman. He had no idea as to the necessity or non-necessity of any measure
whatever in reference to the well-being of the country. It may, indeed, be said that all such
ideas were to him absurd, and the fact that they should be held by his friends and supporters
was an inconvenience. He was not in accord with those who declare that a Parliament is a collection
of windbags which puff, and blow, and crack to the annoyance of honest men. But to him Parliament
was a debating place, by having a majority in which, and by no other means, he,--or another,--might
become the great man of the day. By no other than parliamentary means could such a one as he
come to be the chief man. And this use of Parliament, either on his own behalf or on behalf
of others, had been for so many years present to his mind, that there seemed to be nothing
absurd in an institution supported for such a purpose. Parliament was a club so eligible in
its nature that all Englishmen wished to belong to it. They who succeeded were acknowledged
to be the cream of the land. They who dominated in it were the cream of the cream. Those two
who were elected to be the chiefs of the two parties had more of cream in their composition
than any others. But he who could be the chief of the strongest party, and who therefore, in
accordance with the prevailing arrangements of the country, should have the power of making
dukes, and bestowing garters and appointing bishops, he who by attaining the first seat should
achieve the right of snubbing all before him, whether friends or foes, he, according to the
feelings of Sir Timothy, would have gained an Elysium of creaminess not to be found in any
other position on the earth's surface. No man was more warmly attached to parliamentary government
than Sir Timothy Beeswax; but I do not think that he ever cared much for legislation.

Parliamentary management was his forte. There have been various rocks on which men have shattered
their barks in their attempts to sail successfully into the harbours of parliamentary management.
There is the great Senator who declares to himself that personally he will have neither friend
nor foe. There is his country before him and its welfare. Within his bosom is the fire of patriotism,
and within his mind the examples of all past time. He knows that he can be just, he teaches
himself to be eloquent, and he strives to be wise. But he will not bend;--and at last, in some
great solitude, though closely surrounded by those whose love he had neglected to acquire,--he
breaks his heart.

Then there is he who seeing the misfortune of that great one, tells himself that patriotism,
judgment, industry, and eloquence will not suffice for him unless he himself can be loved.
To do great things a man must have a great following, and to achieve that he must be popular.
So he smiles and learns the necessary wiles. He is all for his country and his friends,--but
for his friends first. He too must be eloquent and well instructed in the ways of Parliament,
must be wise and diligent; but in all that he does and all that he says he must first study
his party. It is well with him for a time;--but he has closed the door of his Elysium too rigidly.
Those without gradually become stronger than his friends within, and so he falls.

But may not the door be occasionally opened to an outsider, so that the exterior force be diminished?
We know how great is the pressure of water; and how the peril of an overwhelming weight of
it may be removed by opening the way for a small current. There comes therefore the Statesman
who acknowledges to himself that he will be pregnable. That, as a Statesman, he should have
enemies is a matter of course. Against moderate enemies he will hold his own. But when there
comes one immoderately forcible, violently inimical, then to that man he will open his bosom.
He will tempt into his camp with an offer of high command any foe that may be worth his purchase.
This too has answered well; but there is a Nemesis. The loyalty of officers so procured must
be open to suspicion. The man who has said bitter things against you will never sit at your
feet in contented submission, nor will your friend of old standing long endure to be superseded
by such converts.

All these dangers Sir Timothy had seen and studied, and for each of them he had hoped to be
able to provide an antidote. Love cannot do all. Fear may do more. Fear acknowledges a superior.
Love desires an equal. Love is to be created by benefits done, and means gratitude, which we
all know to be weak. But hope, which refers itself to benefits to come, is of all our feelings
the strongest. And Sir Timothy had parliamentary doctrines concealed in the depths of his own
bosom more important even than these. The Statesman who falls is he who does much, and thus
injures many. The Statesman who stands the longest is he who does nothing and injures no one.
He soon knew that the work which he had taken in hand required all the art of a great conjuror.
He must be possessed of tricks so marvellous that not even they who sat nearest to him might
know how they were performed.

For the executive or legislative business of the country he cared little. The one should be
left in the hands of men who liked work;--of the other there should be little, or, if possible,
none. But Parliament must be managed,--and his party. Of patriotism he did not know the meaning;--few,
perhaps, do, beyond a feeling that they would like to lick the Russians, or to get the better
of the Americans in a matter of fisheries or frontiers. But he invented a pseudo-patriotic
conjuring phraseology which no one understood but which many admired. He was ambitious that
it should be said of him that he was far-and-away the cleverest of his party. He knew himself
to be clever. But he could only be far-and-away the cleverest by saying and doing that which
no one could understand. If he could become master of some great hocus-pocus system which could
be made to be graceful to the ears and eyes of many, which might for awhile seem to have within
it some semi-divine attribute, which should have all but divine power of mastering the loaves
and fishes, then would they who followed him believe in him more firmly than other followers
who had believed in their leaders. When you see a young woman read a closed book placed on
her dorsal vertebræ,--if you do believe that she so reads it, you think that she is endowed
with a wonderful faculty! And should you also be made to believe that the same young woman
had direct communication with Abraham, by means of some invisible wire, you would be apt to
do a great many things as that young woman might tell you. Conjuring, when not known to be
conjuring, is very effective.

Much, no doubt, of Sir Timothy's power had come from his praiseworthy industry. Though he cared
nothing for the making of laws, though he knew nothing of finance, though he had abandoned
his legal studies, still he worked hard. And because he had worked harder in a special direction
than others around him, therefore he was enabled to lead them. The management of a party is
a very great work in itself; and when to that is added the management of the House of Commons,
a man has enough upon his hands even though he neglects altogether the ordinary pursuits of
a Statesman. Those around Sir Timothy were fond of their party; but they were for the most
part men who had not condescended to put their shoulders to the wheel as he had done. Had there
been any very great light among them, had there been a Pitt or a Peel, Sir Timothy would have
probably become Attorney-General and have made his way to the bench;--but there had been no
Pitt and no Peel, and he had seen his opening. He had studied the ways of Members. Parliamentary
practice had become familiar to him. He had shown himself to be ready at all hours to fight
the battle of the party he had joined. And no man knew so well as did Sir Timothy how to elevate
a simple legislative attempt into a good faction fight. He had so mastered his tricks of conjuring
that no one could get to the bottom of them, and had assumed a look of preternatural gravity
which made many young Members think that Sir Timothy was born to be a king of men.

There were no doubt some among his older supporters who felt their thraldom grievously. There
were some lords in the Upper House and some sons of the lords in the Lower,--with pedigrees
going back far enough for pride,--who found it irksome to recognise Sir Timothy as a master.
No doubt he had worked very hard, and had worked for them. No doubt he knew how to do the work,
and they did not. There was no other man among them to whom the lead could be conveniently
transferred. But yet they were uncomfortable,--and perhaps a little ashamed.

It had arisen partly from this cause, that there had been something of a counter-reaction at
the last general election. When the Houses met, the Ministers had indeed a majority, but a
much lessened majority. The old Liberal constituencies had returned to an expression of their
real feeling. This reassertion of the progress of the tide, this recovery from the partial
ebb which checks the violence of every flow, is common enough in politics; but at the present
moment there were many who said that all this had been accelerated by a feeling in the country
that Sir Timothy was hardly all that the country required as the leader of the country party.

CHAPTER XXII

The Duke in His Study

It was natural that at such a time, when success greater than had been expected had attended
the efforts of the Liberals, when some dozen unexpected votes had been acquired, the leading
politicians of that party should have found themselves compelled to look about them and see
how these good things might be utilised. In February they certainly had not expected to be
called to power in the course of the existing Session. Perhaps they did not expect it yet.
There was still a Conservative majority,--though but a small majority. But the strength of
the minority consisted, not in the fact that the majority against them was small, but that
it was decreasing. How quickly does the snowball grow into hugeness as it is rolled on,--but
when the change comes in the weather how quickly does it melt, and before it is gone become
a thing ugly, weak, and formless! Where is the individual who does not assert to himself that
he would be more loyal to a falling than to a rising friend? Such is perhaps the nature of
each one of us. But when any large number of men act together, the falling friend is apt to
be deserted. There was a general feeling among politicians that Lord Drummond's ministry,--or
Sir Timothy's--was failing, and the Liberals, though they could not yet count the votes by
which they might hope to be supported in power, nevertheless felt that they ought to be looking
to their arms.

There had been a coalition. They who are well read in the political literature of their country
will remember all about that. It had perhaps succeeded in doing that for which it had been
intended. The Queen's government had been carried on for two or three years. The Duke of Omnium
had been the head of that Ministry; but during those years had suffered so much as to have
become utterly ashamed of the coalition,--so much as to have said often to himself that under
no circumstances would he again join any Ministry. At this time there was no idea of another
coalition. That is a state of things which cannot come about frequently,--which can only be
reproduced by men who have never hitherto felt the mean insipidity of such a condition. But
they who had served on the Liberal side in that coalition must again put their shoulders to
the wheel. Of course it was in every man's mouth that the Duke must be induced to forget his
miseries and once more to take upon himself the duties of an active servant of the State.

But they who were most anxious on the subject, such men as Lord Cantrip, Mr. Monk, our old
friend Phineas Finn, and a few others, were almost afraid to approach him. At the moment when
the coalition was broken up he had been very bitter in spirit, apparently almost arrogant,
holding himself aloof from his late colleagues,--and since that, troubles had come to him,
which had aggravated the soreness of his heart. His wife had died, and he had suffered much
through his children. What Lord Silverbridge had done at Oxford was matter of general conversation,
and also what he had not done.

That the heir of the family should have become a renegade in politics was supposed greatly
to have affected the father. Now Lord Gerald had been expelled from Cambridge, and Silverbridge
was on the turf in conjunction with Major Tifto! Something, too, had oozed out into general
ears about Lady Mary,--something which should have been kept secret as the grave. It had therefore
come to pass that it was difficult even to address the Duke.

There was one man, and but one, who could do this with ease to himself;--and that man was at
last put into motion at the instance of the leaders of the party. The old Duke of St. Bungay
wrote the following letter to the Duke of Omnium. The letter purported to be an excuse for
the writer's own defalcation. But the chief object of the writer was to induce the younger
Duke once more to submit to harness.

   Longroyston, 3rd June, 187--.

   DEAR DUKE OF OMNIUM,

   How quickly the things come round! I had thought that I
   should never again have been called upon even to think of
   the formation of another Liberal Ministry; and now, though
   it was but yesterday that we were all telling ourselves
   that we were thoroughly manumitted from our labours by the
   altered opinions of the country, sundry of our old friends
   are again putting their heads together.

   Did they not do so they would neglect a manifest duty.
   Nothing is more essential to the political well-being
   of the country than that the leaders on both sides in
   politics should be prepared for their duties. But for
   myself, I am bound at last to put in the old plea with
   a determination that it shall be respected. "Solve
   senescentem." It is now, if I calculate rightly, exactly
   fifty years since I first entered public life in obedience
   to the advice of Lord Grey. I had then already sat five
   years in the House of Commons. I assisted humbly in the
   emancipation of the Roman Catholics, and have learned by
   the legislative troubles of just half a century that those
   whom we then invited to sit with us in Parliament have
   been in all things our worst enemies. But what then? Had
   we benefited only those who love us, would not the sinners
   also,--or even the Tories,--have done as much as that?

   But such memories are of no avail now. I write to say that
   after so much of active political life, I will at last
   retire. My friends when they see me inspecting a pigsty
   or picking a peach are apt to remind me that I can still
   stand on my legs, and with more of compliment than of
   kindness will argue therefore that I ought still to
   undertake active duties in Parliament. I can select my
   own hours for pigs and peaches, and should I, through the
   dotage of age, make mistakes as to the breeding of the one
   or the flavour of the other, the harm done will not go
   far. In politics I have done my work. What you and others
   in the arena do will interest me more than all other
   things of this world, I think and hope, to my dying day.
   But I will not trouble the workers with the querulousness
   of old age.

   So much for myself. And now let me, as I go, say a parting
   word to him with whom in politics I have been for many
   years more in accord than with any other leading man. As
   nothing but age or infirmity would to my own mind have
   justified me in retiring, so do I think that you, who can
   plead neither age nor infirmity, will find yourself at
   last to want self-justification, if you permit yourself
   to be driven from the task either by pride or by
   indifference.

   I should express my feelings better were I to say by pride
   and diffidence. I look to our old friendship, to the
   authority given to me by my age, and to the thorough
   goodness of your heart for pardon in thus accusing you.
   That little men should have ventured to ill-use you, has
   hurt your pride. That these little men should have been
   able to do so has created your diffidence. Put you to
   a piece of work that a man may do, you have less false
   pride as to the way in which you may do it than any man
   I have known; and, let the way be open to you, as little
   diffidence as any. But in this political mill of ours
   in England, a man cannot always find the way open to do
   things. It does not often happen that an English statesman
   can go in and make a great score off his own bat. But not
   the less is he bound to play the game and to go to the
   wicket when he finds that his time has come.

   There are, I think, two things for you to consider in this
   matter, and two only. The first is your capacity, and the
   other is your duty. A man may have found by experience
   that he is unfitted for public life. You and I have known
   men in regard to whom we have thoroughly wished that such
   experience had been reached. But this is a matter in which
   a man who doubts himself is bound to take the evidence of
   those around him. The whole party is most anxious for your
   co-operation. If this be so,--and I make you the assurance
   from most conclusive evidence,--you are bound to accept
   the common consent of your political friends on that
   matter. You perhaps think that at a certain period of your
   life you failed. They all agree with me that you did not
   fail. It is a matter on which you should be bound by our
   opinion rather than by your own.

   As to that matter of duty I shall have less difficulty
   in carrying you with me. Though this renewed task may be
   personally disagreeable to you, even though your tastes
   should lead you to some other life,--which I think is not
   the case,--still if your country wants you, you should
   serve your country. It is a work as to which such a one
   as you has no option. Of most of those who choose public
   life,--it may be said that were they not there, there
   would be others as serviceable. But when a man such as you
   has shown himself to be necessary, as long as health and
   age permit he cannot recede without breach of manifest
   duty. The work to be done is so important, the numbers to
   be benefited are so great, that he cannot be justified in
   even remembering that he has a self.

   As I have said before, I trust that my own age and
   your goodness will induce you to pardon this great
   interference. But whether pardoned or not I shall always
   be

   Your most affectionate friend,

   ST. BUNGAY.

The Duke,--our Duke,--on reading this letter was by no means pleased by its contents. He could
ill bear to be reminded either of his pride or of his diffidence. And yet the accusations which
others made against him were as nothing to those with which he charged himself. He would do
this till at last he was forced to defend himself against himself by asking himself whether
he could be other than as God had made him. It is the last and the poorest makeshift of a defence
to which a man can be brought in his own court! Was it his fault that he was so thin-skinned
that all things hurt him? When some coarse man said to him that which ought not to have been
said, was it his fault that at every word a penknife had stabbed him? Other men had borne these
buffets without shrinking, and had shown themselves thereby to be more useful, much more efficacious;
but he could no more imitate them than he could procure for himself the skin of a rhinoceros
or the tusk of an elephant. And this shrinking was what men called pride,--was the pride of
which his old friend wrote! "Have I ever been haughty, unless in my own defence?" he asked
himself, remembering certain passages of humility in his life,--and certain passages of haughtiness
also.

And the Duke told him also that he was diffident. Of course he was diffident. Was it not one
and the same thing? The very pride of which he was accused was no more than that shrinking
which comes from the want of trust in oneself. He was a shy man. All his friends and all his
enemies knew that;--it was thus that he still discoursed with himself;--a shy, self-conscious,
timid, shrinking, thin-skinned man! Of course he was diffident. Then why urge him on to tasks
for which he was by nature unfitted?

And yet there was much in his old friend's letter which moved him. There were certain words
which he kept on repeating to himself. "He cannot be justified in even remembering that he
has a self." It was a hard thing to say of any man, but yet a true thing of such a man as his
correspondent had described. His correspondent had spoken of a man who should know himself
to be capable of serving the State. If a man were capable, and was sure within his own bosom
of his own capacity, it would be his duty. But what if he were not so satisfied? What if he
felt that any labours of his would be vain, and all self-abnegation useless? His friend had
told him that on that matter he was bound to take the opinion of others. Perhaps so. But if
so, had not that opinion been given to him very plainly when he was told that he was both proud
and diffident? That he was called upon to serve his country by good service, if such were within
his power, he did acknowledge freely; but not that he should allow himself to be stuck up as
a ninepin only to be knocked down! There are politicians for whom such occupation seems to
be proper;--and who like it too. A little office, a little power, a little rank, a little pay,
a little niche in the ephemeral history of the year will reward many men adequately for being
knocked down.

And yet he loved power, and even when thinking of all this allowed his mind from time to time
to run away into a dreamland of prosperous political labours. He thought what it would be to
be an all-beneficent Prime Minister, with a loyal majority, with a well-conditioned unanimous
cabinet, with a grateful people, and an appreciative Sovereign. How well might a man spend
himself night and day, even to death, in the midst of labours such as these.

Half an hour after receiving the Duke's letter he suddenly jumped up and sat himself down at
his desk. He felt it to be necessary that he should at once write to his old friend;--and the
more necessary that he should do so at once, because he had resolved that he would do so before
he had made up his mind on the chief subject of that letter. It did not suit him to say either
that he would or that he would not do as his friend advised him. The reply was made in a very
few words. "As to myself," he said, after expressing his regret that the Duke should find it
necessary to retire from public life--"as to myself, pray understand that whatever I may do
I shall never cease to be grateful for your affectionate and high-spirited counsels."

Then his mind recurred to a more immediate and, for the moment, a heavier trouble. He had as
yet given no answer to that letter from Mrs. Finn, which the reader will perhaps remember.
It might indeed be passed over without an answer; but to him that was impossible. She had accused
him in the very strongest language of injustice, and had made him understand that if he were
unjust to her, then would he be most ungrateful. He, looking at the matter with his own lights,
had thought that he had been right, but had resolved to submit the question to another person.
As judge in the matter he had chosen Lady Cantrip, and Lady Cantrip had given judgment against him.

He had pressed Lady Cantrip for a decided opinion, and she had told him that she, in the same
position, would have done just as Mrs. Finn had done. He had constituted Lady Cantrip his judge,
and had resolved that her judgment should be final. He declared to himself that he did not
understand it. If a man's house be on fire, do you think of certain rules of etiquette before
you bid him send for the engines? If a wild beast be loose, do you go through some ceremony
before you caution the wanderers abroad? There should not have been a moment! But, nevertheless,
it was now necessary that he should conform himself to the opinion of Lady Cantrip, and in
doing so he must apologise for the bitter scorn with which he had allowed himself to treat
his wife's most loyal and loving friend.

The few words to the Duke had not been difficult, but this letter seemed to be an Herculean
task. It was made infinitely more difficult by the fact that Lady Cantrip had not seemed to
think that this marriage was impossible. "Young people when they have set their minds upon
it do so generally prevail at last!" These had been her words, and they discomforted him greatly.
She had thought the marriage to be possible. Had she not almost expressed an opinion that they
ought to be allowed to marry? And if so, would it not be his duty to take his girl away from
Lady Cantrip? As to the idea that young people, because they have declared themselves to be
in love, were to have just what they wanted,--with that he did not agree at all. Lady Cantrip
had told him that young people generally did prevail at last. He knew the story of one young
person, whose position in her youth had been very much the same as that of his daughter now,
and she had not prevailed. And in her case had not the opposition which had been made to her
wishes been most fortunate? That young person had become his wife, his Glencora, his Duchess.
Had she been allowed to have her own way when she was a child, what would have been her fate?
Ah what! Then he had to think of it all. Might she not have been alive now, and perhaps happier
than she had ever been with him? And had he remained always unmarried, devoted simply to politics,
would not the troubles of the world have been lighter on him? But what had that to do with
it? In these matters it was not the happiness of this or that individual which should be considered.
There is a propriety in things;--and only by an adherence to that propriety on the part of
individuals can the general welfare be maintained. A King in this country, or the heir or the
possible heir to the throne, is debarred from what might possibly be a happy marriage by regard
to the good of his subjects. To the Duke's thinking the maintenance of the aristocracy of the
country was second only in importance to the maintenance of the Crown. How should the aristocracy
be maintained if its wealth were allowed to fall into the hands of an adventurer!

Such were the opinions with regard to his own order of one who was as truly Liberal in his
ideas as any man in England, and who had argued out these ideas to their consequences. As by
the spread of education and increase of general well-being every proletaire was brought nearer
to a Duke, so by such action would the Duke be brought nearer to a proletaire. Such drawing-nearer
of the classes was the object to which all this man's political action tended. And yet it was
a dreadful thing to him that his own daughter should desire to marry a man so much beneath
her own rank and fortune as Frank Tregear.

He would not allow himself to believe that the young people could ever prevail; but nevertheless,
as the idea of the thing had not alarmed Lady Cantrip as it had him, it was necessary that
he should make some apology to Mrs. Finn. Each moment of procrastination was a prick to his
conscience. He now therefore dragged out from the secrecy of some close drawer Mrs. Finn's
letter and read it through to himself once again. Yes--it was true that he had condemned her,
and that he had punished her. Though he had done nothing to her, and said nothing, and written
but very little, still he had punished her most severely.

She had written as though the matter was almost one of life and death to her. He could understand
that too. His uncle's conduct to this woman, and his wife's, had created the intimacy which
had existed. Through their efforts she had become almost as one of the family. And now to be
dismissed, like a servant who had misbehaved herself! And then her arguments in her own defence
were all so good,--if only that which Lady Cantrip had laid down as law was to be held as law.
He was aware now that she had had no knowledge of the matter till his daughter had told her
of the engagement at Matching. Then it was evident also that she had sent this Tregear to him
immediately on her return to London. And at the end of the letter she accused him of what she
had been pleased to call his usual tenacity in believing ill of her! He had been obstinate,--too
obstinate in this respect, but he did not love her the better for having told him of it.

At last he did put his apology into words.

   MY DEAR MRS. FINN,

   I believe I had better acknowledge to you at once that I
   have been wrong in my judgment as to your conduct in a
   certain matter. You tell me that I owe it to you to make
   this acknowledgment,--and I make it. The subject is, as
   you may imagine, so painful that I will spare myself, if
   possible, any further allusion to it. I believe I did you
   a wrong, and therefore I write to ask your pardon.

   I should perhaps apologise also for delay in my reply. I
   have had much to think of in this matter, and have many
   others also on my mind.

   Believe me to be,
   Yours faithfully,

   OMNIUM.

It was very short, and as being short was infinitely less troublesome at the moment than a
fuller epistle; but he was angry with himself, knowing that it was too short, feeling that
it was ungracious. He should have expressed a hope that he might soon see her again,--only
he had no such wish. There had been times at which he had liked her, but he knew that he did
not like her now. And yet he was bound to be her friend! If he could only do some great thing
for her, and thus satisfy his feeling of indebtedness towards her! But all the favours had
been from her to him and his.

CHAPTER XXIII

Frank Tregear Wants a Friend

Six or seven weeks had passed since Tregear had made his communication to the Duke, and during
that time he had heard not a word about the girl he loved. He knew, indeed, that she was at
The Horns, and probably had reason to suppose that she was being guarded there, as it were,
out of his reach. This did not surprise him; nor did he regard it as a hardship. It was to
be expected that she should be kept out of his sight. But this was a state of things to which,
as he thought, there should not be more than a moderate amount of submission. Six weeks was
not a very long period, but it was perhaps long enough for evincing that respect which he owed
to the young lady's father. Something must be done some day. How could he expect her to be
true to him unless he took some means of showing himself to be true to her?

In these days he did not live very much with her brother. He not only disliked, but distrusted
Major Tifto, and had so expressed himself as to give rise to angry words. Silverbridge had
said that he knew how to take care of himself. Tregear had replied that he had his doubts on
that matter. Then the Member of Parliament had declared that at any rate he did not intend
to be taken care of by Frank Tregear! In such a state of things it was not possible that there
should be any close confidence as to Lady Mary. Nor does it often come to pass that the brother
is the confidant of the sister's lover. Brothers hardly like their sisters to have lovers,
though they are often well satisfied that their sisters should find husbands. Tregear's want
of rank and wealth added something to this feeling in the mind of this brother; so that Silverbridge,
though he felt himself to be deterred by friendship from any open opposition, still was almost
inimical. "It won't do, you know," he had said to his brother Gerald, shaking his head.

Tregear, however, was determined to be active in the matter, to make some effort, to speak
to somebody. But how to make an effort,--and to whom should he speak? Thinking of all this
he remembered that Mrs. Finn had sent for him and had told him to go with his love story to
the Duke. She had been almost severe with him;--but after the interview was over, he had felt
that she had acted well and wisely. He therefore determined that he would go to Mrs. Finn.

She had as yet received no answer from the Duke, though nearly a fortnight had elapsed since
she had written her letter. During that time she had become very angry. She felt that he was
not treating her as a gentleman should treat a lady, and certainly not as the husband of her
late friend should have treated the friend of his late wife. She had a proud consciousness
of having behaved well to the Pallisers, and now this head of the Pallisers was rewarding her
by evil treatment. She had been generous; he was ungenerous. She had been honest; he was deficient
even in that honesty for which she had given him credit. And she had been unable to obtain
any of that consolation which could have come to her from talking of her wrongs. She could
not complain to her husband, because there were reasons that made it essential that her husband
should not quarrel with the Duke. She was hot with indignation at the very moment in which
Tregear was announced.

He began by apologising for his intrusion, and she of course assured him that he was welcome.
"After the liberty which I took with you, Mr. Tregear, I am only too well pleased that you
should come to see me."

"I am afraid," he said, "that I was a little rough."

"A little warm;--but that was to be expected. A gentleman never likes to be interfered with
on such a matter."

"The position was and is difficult, Mrs. Finn."

"And I am bound to acknowledge the very ready way in which you did what I asked you to do."

"And now, Mrs. Finn, what is to come next?"

"Ah!"

"Something must be done! You know of course that the Duke did not receive me with any great
favour."

"I did not suppose he would."

"Nor did I. Of course he would object to such a marriage. But a man in these days cannot dictate
to his daughter what husband she should marry."

"Perhaps he can dictate to her what husband she shall not marry."

"Hardly that. He may put impediments in the way; and the Duke will do so. But if I am happy
enough to have won the affections of his daughter,--so as to make it essential to her happiness
that she should become my wife,--he will give way."

"What am I to say, Mr. Tregear?"

"Just what you think."

"Why should I be made to say what I think on so delicate a matter? Or of what use would be
my thoughts? Remember how far I am removed from her."

"You are his friend."

"Not at all! No one less so!" As she said this she could not hinder the colour from coming
into her face. "I was her friend,--Lady Glencora's; but with the death of my friend there was
an end of all that."

"You were staying with him,--at his request. You told me so yourself."

"I shall never stay with him again. But all that, Mr. Tregear, is of no matter. I do not mean
to say a word against him;--not a word. But if you wish to interest any one as being the Duke's
friend, then I can assure you I am the last person in London to whom you should come. I know
no one to whom the Duke is likely to entertain feelings so little kind as towards me." This
she said in a peculiarly solemn way that startled Tregear. But before he could answer her a
servant entered the room with a letter. She recognised at once the Duke's handwriting. Here
was the answer for which she had been so long waiting in silent expectation! She could not
keep it unread till he was gone. "Will you allow me a moment?" she whispered, and then she
opened the envelope. As she read the few words her eyes became laden with tears. They quite
sufficed to relieve the injured pride which had sat so heavy at her heart. "I believe I did
you a wrong, and therefore I ask your pardon!" It was so like what she had believed the man
to be! She could not be longer angry with him. And yet the very last words she had spoken were
words complaining of his conduct. "This is from the Duke," she said, putting the letter back
into its envelope.

"Oh, indeed."

"It is odd that it should have come while you were here."

"Is it,--is it,--about Lady Mary?"

"No;--at least,--not directly. I perhaps spoke more harshly about him than I should have done.
The truth is I had expected a line from him, and it had not come. Now it is here; but I do
not suppose I shall ever see much of him. My intimacy was with her. But I would not wish you
to remember what I said just now, if--if--"

"If what, Mrs. Finn? You mean, perhaps, if I should ever be allowed to call myself his son-in-law.
It may seem to you to be arrogant, but it is an honour which I expect to win."

"Faint heart,--you know, Mr. Tregear."

"Exactly. One has to tell oneself that very often. You will help me?"

"Certainly not," she said, as though she were much startled. "How can I help you?"

"By telling me what I should do. I suppose if I were to go down to Richmond I should not be
admitted."

"If you ask me, I think not;--not to see Lady Mary. Lady Cantrip would perhaps see you."

"She is acting the part of--duenna."

"As I should do also, if Lady Mary were staying with me. You don't suppose that if she were
here I would let her see you in my house without her father's leave?"

"I suppose not."

"Certainly not; and therefore I conceive that Lady Cantrip will not do so either."

"I wish she were here."

"It would be of no use. I should be a dragon in guarding her."

"I wish you would let me feel that you were like a sister to me in this matter."

"But I am not your sister, nor yet your aunt, nor yet your grandmother. What I mean is that
I cannot be on your side."

"Can you not?"

"No, Mr. Tregear. Think how long I have known these other people."

"But just now you said that he was your enemy."

"I did say so; but as I have unsaid it since, you as a gentleman will not remember my words.
At any rate I cannot help you in this."

"I shall write to her."

"It can be nothing to me. If you write she will show your letter either to her father or to
Lady Cantrip."

"But she will read it first."

"I cannot tell how that may be. In fact I am the very last person in the world to whom you
should come for assistance in this matter. If I gave any assistance to anybody I should be
bound to give it to the Duke."

"I cannot understand that, Mrs. Finn."

"Nor can I explain it, but it would be so. I shall always be very glad to see you, and I do
feel that we ought to be friends,--because I took such a liberty with you. But in this matter
I cannot help you."

When she said this he had to take his leave. It was impossible that he should further press
his case upon her, though he would have been very glad to extract from her some kindly word.
It is such a help in a difficulty to have somebody who will express even a hope that the difficulty
is perhaps not invincible! He had no one to comfort him in this matter. There was one dear
friend,--as a friend dearer than any other,--to whom he might go, and who would after some
fashion bid him prosper. Mabel would encourage him. She had said that she would do so. But
in making that promise she had told him that Romeo would not have spoken of his love for Juliet
to Rosaline, whom he had loved before he saw Juliet. No doubt she had gone on to tell him that
he might come to her and talk freely of his love for Lady Mary,--but after what had been said
before, he felt that he could not do so without leaving a sting behind. When a man's love goes
well with him,--so well as to be in some degree oppressive to him even by its prosperity,--when
the young lady has jumped into his arms and the father and mother have been quite willing,
then he wants no confidant. He does not care to speak very much of the matter which among his
friends is apt to become a subject for raillery. When you call a man Benedick he does not come
to you with ecstatic descriptions of the beauty and the wit of his Beatrice. But no one was
likely to call him Benedick in reference to Lady Mary.

In spite of his manner, in spite of his apparent self-sufficiency, this man was very soft within.
Less than two years back he had been willing to sacrifice all the world for his cousin Mabel,
and his cousin Mabel had told him that he was wrong. "It does not pay to sacrifice the world
for love." So cousin Mabel had said, and had added something as to its being necessary that
she should marry a rich man, and expedient that he should marry a rich woman. He had thought
much about it, and had declared to himself that on no account would he marry a woman for her
money. Then he had encountered Lady Mary Palliser. There had been no doubt, no resolution after
that, no thinking about it;--but downright love. There was nothing left of real regret for
his cousin in his bosom. She had been right. That love had been impossible. But this would
be possible,--ah, so deliciously possible,--if only her father and mother would assist! The
mother, imprudent in this as in all things, had assented. The reader knows the rest.

It was in every way possible. "She will have money enough," the Duchess had said, "if only
her father can be brought to give it you." So Tregear had set his heart upon it, and had said
to himself that the thing was to be done. Then his friend the Duchess had died, and the real
difficulties had commenced. From that day he had not seen his love, or heard from her. How
was he to know whether she would be true to him? And where was he to seek for that sympathy
which he felt to be so necessary to him? A wild idea had come into his head that Mrs. Finn
would be his friend;--but she had repudiated him.

He went straight home and at once wrote to the girl. The letter was a simple love-letter, and
as such need not be given here. In what sweetest language he could find he assured her that
even though he should never be allowed to see her or to hear from her, that still he should
cling to her. And then he added this passage: "If your love for me be what I think it to be,
no one can have a right to keep us apart. Pray be sure that I shall not change. If you change
let me know it;--but I shall as soon expect the heavens to fall."

CHAPTER XXIV

"She Must Be Made to Obey"

Lady Mary Palliser down at The Horns had as much liberty allowed to her as is usually given
to young ladies in these very free days. There was indeed no restriction placed upon her at
all. Had Tregear gone down to Richmond and asked for the young lady, and had Lady Cantrip at
the time been out and the young lady at home, it would have depended altogether upon the young
lady whether she would have seen her lover or not. Nevertheless Lady Cantrip kept her eyes
open, and when the letter came from Tregear she was aware that the letter had come. But the
letter found its way into Lady Mary's hands and was read in the seclusion of her own bed-room.
"I wonder whether you would mind reading that," she said very shortly afterwards to Lady Cantrip.
"What answer ought I to make?"

"Do you think any answer ought to be made, my dear?"

"Oh yes; I must answer him."

"Would your papa wish it?"

"I told papa that I would not promise not to write to him. I think I told him that he should
see any letters that there were. But if I show them to you, I suppose that will do as well."

"You had better keep your word to him absolutely."

"I am not afraid of doing so, if you mean that. I cannot bear to give him pain, but this is
a matter in which I mean to have my own way."

"Mean to have your own way!" said Lady Cantrip, much surprised by the determined tone of the
young lady.

"Certainly I do. I want you to understand so much! I suppose papa can keep us from marrying
for ever and ever if he pleases, but he never will make me say that I will give up Mr. Tregear.
And if he does not yield I shall think him cruel. Why should he wish to make me unhappy all
my life?"

"He certainly does not wish that, my dear."

"But he will do it."

"I cannot go against your father, Mary."

"No, I suppose not. I shall write to Mr. Tregear, and then I will show you what I have written.
Papa shall see it too if he pleases. I will do nothing secret, but I will never give up Mr.
Tregear."

Lord Cantrip came down to Richmond that evening, and his wife told him that in her opinion
it would be best that the Duke should allow the young people to marry, and should give them
money enough to live upon. "Is not that a strong order?" asked the Earl. The Countess acknowledged
that it was a "strong order," but suggested that for the happiness of them all it might as
well be done at first as at last.

The next morning Lady Mary showed her a copy of the reply which she had already sent to her lover.

   DEAR FRANK,

   You may be quite sure that I shall never give you up. I
   will not write more at present because papa does not wish
   me to do so. I shall show papa your letter and my answer.

   Your own most affectionate

   MARY.

"Has it gone?" asked the Countess.

"I put it myself into the pillar letter-box." Then Lady Cantrip felt that she had to deal with
a very self-willed young lady indeed.

That afternoon Lady Cantrip asked Lady Mary whether she might be allowed to take the two letters
up to town with the express purpose of showing them to the Duke. "Oh yes," said Mary, "I think
it would be so much the best. Give papa my kindest love, and tell him from me that if he wants
to make his poor little girl happy he will forgive her and be kind to her in all this." Then
the Countess made some attempt to argue the matter. There were proprieties! High rank might
be a blessing or might be the reverse--as people thought of it;--but all men acknowledged that
much was due to it. "Noblesse oblige." It was often the case in life that women were called
upon by circumstances to sacrifice their inclinations! What right had a gentleman to talk of
marriage who had no means? These things she said and very many more, but it was to no purpose.
The young lady asserted that as the gentleman was a gentleman there need be no question as
to rank, and that in regard to money there need be no difficulty if one of them had sufficient.
"But you have none but what your father may give you," said Lady Cantrip. "Papa can give it
us without any trouble," said Lady Mary. This child had a clear idea of what she thought to
be her own rights. Being the child of rich parents she had the right to money. Being a woman
she had a right to a husband. Having been born free she had a right to choose one for herself.
Having had a man's love given to her she had a right to keep it. "One doesn't know which she
is most like, her father or her mother," Lady Cantrip said afterwards to her husband. "She
has his cool determination, and her hot-headed obstinacy."

She did show the letters to the Duke, and in answer to a word or two from him explained that
she could not take upon herself to debar her guest from the use of the post. "But she will
write nothing without letting you know it."

"She ought to write nothing at all."

"What she feels is much worse than what she writes."

"If there were no intercourse she would forget him."

"Ah; I don't know," said the Countess sorrowfully; "I thought so once."

"All children are determined as long as they are allowed to have their own way."

"I mean to say that it is the nature of her character to be obstinate. Most girls are prone
to yield. They have not character enough to stand against opposition. I am not speaking now
only of affairs like this. It would be the same with her in any thing. Have you not always
found it so?"

Then he had to acknowledge to himself that he had never found out anything in reference to
his daughter's character. She had been properly educated;--at least he hoped so. He had seen
her grow up, pretty, sweet, affectionate, always obedient to him;--the most charming plaything
in the world on the few occasions in which he had allowed himself to play. But as to her actual
disposition, he had never taken any trouble to inform himself. She had been left to her mother,--as
other girls are left. And his sons had been left to their tutors. And now he had no control
over any of them. "She must be made to obey like others," he said at last, speaking through
his teeth.

There was something in this which almost frightened Lady Cantrip. She could not bear to hear
him say that the girl must be made to yield, with that spirit of despotic power under which
women were restrained in years now passed. If she could have spoken her own mind it would have
been to this effect: "Let us do what we can to lead her away from this desire of hers; and
in order that we may do so, let us tell her that her marriage with Mr. Tregear is out of the
question. But if we do not succeed,--say in the course of the next twelve months,--let us give
way. Let us make it a matter of joy that the young man himself is so acceptable and well-behaved."
That was her idea, and with that she would have indoctrined the Duke had she been able. But
his was different. "She must be made to obey," he said. And, as he said it, he seemed to be
indifferent as to the sorrow which such enforced obedience might bring upon his child. In answer
to this she could only shake her head. "What do you mean?" he asked. "Do you think we ought
to yield?"

"Not at once, certainly."

"But at last?"

"What can you do, Duke? If she be as firm as you, can you bear to see her pine away in her misery?"

"Girls do not do like that," he said.

"Girls, like men, are very different. They generally will yield to external influences. English
girls, though they become the most loving wives in the world, do not generally become so riven
by an attachment as to become deep sufferers when it is disallowed. But here, I fear, we have
to deal with one who will suffer after this fashion."

"Why should she not be like others?"

