[FN#1]  I wrote this sentence long ago. This sadness now seems to me a part of all peoples
who preserve the moods of the ancient peoples of the world. I am not so pre-occupied with the
mystery of Race as I used to be, but leave this sentence and other sentences like it unchanged.
We once believed them, and have, it may be, not grown wiser.

I asked what he was doing, and found he was clerk in a large shop. His pleasure, however, was
to wander about upon the hills, talking to half- mad and visionary peasants, or to persuade
queer and conscience- stricken persons to deliver up the keeping of their troubles into his
care. Another night, when I was with him in his own lodging, more than one turned up to talk
over their beliefs and disbeliefs, and sun them as it were in the subtle light of his mind.
Sometimes visions come to him as he talks with them, and he is rumoured to have told divers
people true matters of their past days and distant friends, and left them hushed with dread
of their strange teacher, who seems scarce more than a boy, and is so much more subtle than
the oldest among them.

The poetry he recited me was full of his nature and his visions. Sometimes it told of other
lives he believes himself to have lived in other centuries, sometimes of people he had talked
to, revealing them to their own minds. I told him I would write an article upon him and it,
and was told in turn that I might do so if I did not mention his name, for he wished to be
always "unknown, obscure, impersonal." Next day a bundle of his poems arrived, and with them
a note in these words: "Here are copies of verses you said you liked. I do not think I could
ever write or paint any more. I prepare myself for a cycle of other activities in some other
life. I will make rigid my roots and branches. It is not now my turn to burst into leaves and
flowers."

The poems were all endeavours to capture some high, impalpable mood in a net of obscure images.
There were fine passages in all, but these were often embedded in thoughts which have evidently
a special value to his mind, but are to other men the counters of an unknown coinage. To them
they seem merely so much brass or copper or tarnished silver at the best. At other times the
beauty of the thought was obscured by careless writing as though he had suddenly doubted if
writing was not a foolish labour. He had frequently illustrated his verses with drawings, in
which an unperfect anatomy did not altogether hide extreme beauty of feeling. The faeries in
whom he believes have given him many subjects, notably Thomas of Ercildoune sitting motionless
in the twilight while a young and beautiful creature leans softly out of the shadow and whispers
in his ear. He had delighted above all in strong effects of colour: spirits who have upon their
heads instead of hair the feathers of peacocks; a phantom reaching from a swirl of flame towards
a star; a spirit passing with a globe of iridescent crystal-symbol of the soul- half shut within
his hand. But always under this largess of colour lay some tender homily addressed to man's
fragile hopes. This spiritual eagerness draws to him all those who, like himself, seek for
illumination or else mourn for a joy that has gone. One of these especially comes to mind.
A winter or two ago he spent much of the night walking up and down upon the mountain talking
to an old peasant who, dumb to most men, poured out his cares for him. Both were unhappy: X-----
because he had then first decided that art and poetry were not for him, and the old peasant
because his life was ebbing out with no achievement remaining and no hope left him. Both how
Celtic! how full of striving after a something never to be completely expressed in word or
deed. The peasant was wandering in his mind with prolonged sorrow.