"Not always," replied the man of long experience. "It depends much upon their condition when
winter sets in, and whether, previous to the cold snap, there have been prolonged thaws. The
new growth on the trees ripened thoroughly last fall, and the frost since has been gradual
and steady. I've known peach-buds to survive fifteen below zero; but there's always danger
in weather like this. We shall know what the prospects are after the buds thaw out."

"How will that be possible?" Amy asked, in surprise.

"Now, Webb, is your chance to shine," cried Burtis. "Hitherto, Amy, the oracle has usually
been dumb, but you may become a priestess who will evoke untold stores of wisdom."

Webb flushed slightly, but again proved that his brother's banter had little influence.

"If you are willing to wait a few days," he said, with a smile, "I can make clear to you, by
the aid of a microscope, what father means, much better than I can explain. I can then show
you the fruit germs either perfect or blackened by the frost."

"I'll wait, and remind you of your promise, too. I don't know nearly as much about the country
as a butterfly or a bird, but should be quite as unhappy as they were I condemned to city life.
So you must not laugh at me if I ask no end of questions, and try to put my finger into some
of your horticultural pies."

His pleased look contained all the assurance she needed, and he resumed, speaking generally:
"The true places for raising peaches--indeed, all the stone-fruits--successfully in this region
are the plateaus and slopes of the mountains beyond us. At their height the mercury never falls
as low as it does with us, and when we have not a peach or cherry I have found such trees as
existed high up among the hills well laden."

"Look here, uncle Webb," cried Alf, "you've forgotten your geography. The higher you go up
the colder it gets."

The young man patiently explained to the boy that the height of the Highlands is not sufficient
to cause any material change in climate, while on still nights the coldest air sinks to the
lowest levels, and therefore the trees in the valleys and at the base of the mountains suffer
the most. "But what you say," he concluded, "is true as a rule. The mercury does range lower
on the hills; and if they were a thousand or fifteen hundred feet higher peaches could not
be grown at all."

Amy mentally soliloquized: "I am learning not only about the mercury, but also--what Alf has
no doubt already found out--that Webb is the one to go to if one wishes anything explained.
What's more, he wouldn't, in giving the information, overwhelm one with a sense of deplorable
ignorance."

In accordance with his practical bent, Webb continued: "I believe that a great deal of money
could be made in the Highlands by raising peaches. The crop would be almost certain, and the
large late varieties are those which bring the extraordinary prices. What is more, the mountain
land would probably have the quality of virgin soil. You remember, father, don't you, when
peaches in this region were scarcely troubled by disease?"

"Indeed I do. There was a time when they would live on almost like apple-trees, and give us
an abundance of great luscious fruit year after year. Even with the help of the pigs we could
not dispose of the crops, the bulk of which, in many instances, I am sorry to say, went into
brandy. What was that you were reading the other day about peaches in Hawthorne's description
of the Old Manse?"

"That hits it exactly," resumed the old gentleman, laughing, "only every year was a good year
then, and we had not the New York market within three hours of us. Even if we had, a large
modern orchard would have supplied it. One of the most remarkable of the changes I've witnessed
in my time is the enormous consumption of fruit in large cities. Why, more is disposed of in
Newburgh than used to go to New York. But to return to peaches; our only chance for a long
time has been to plant young trees every year or two, and we scarcely secured a crop more than
once in three years. Even then the yellows often destroyed the trees before they were old enough
to bear much. They are doing far better of late along the Hudson, and there is good prospect
that this region will become the greatest peach-growing locality in the country."

"I'm sure you are right," assented Webb, "and I think it will pay us to plant largely in the
spring. I don't suppose you ever saw a peach-orchard in England, Amy?"

"I don't think I ever did. They were all grown in front of sunny walls, espalier, as papa termed
it. We had some in our garden."

"Yes," resumed Webb, "the climate there is too cool and humid for even the wood to ripen. Here,
on the contrary, we often have too vivid sunshine. I propose that we put out all the north
slope in peaches."

"Do you think a northern exposure best?" Leonard asked.

"I certainly do. In my opinion it is not the frost, unless it be very severe, that plays the
mischief with the buds, but alternate freezing and thawing, especially after the buds have
started in spring. On a northern slope the buds usually remain dormant until the danger of
late frosts is over. I am quite sure, too, that the yellows is a disease due chiefly to careless
or dishonest propagation. Pits and buds have been taken from infected trees, and thus the evil
has been spread far and wide. There is as much to be gained in the careful and long-continued
selection of fruits and vegetables as in the judicious breeding of stock."

"Has no remedy for the yellows been discovered?" Leonard again queried.

"Only the axe and fire. The evil should be extirpated as fast as it appears. Prevention is
far better than any attempt at cure. The thing to do is to obtain healthier trees, and then
set them out on new land. That's why I think the north slope will be a good place, for peaches
have never been grown there in my memory."

"Come, Amy," said Burt. "Len and Webb are now fairly astride of their horticultural hobbies.
Come with me, and see the moon shining on old Storm King."

They pushed aside the heavy crimson curtains, which added a sense of warmth to the cheerful
room, and looked at the cold white world without--a ghost of a world, it seemed to Amy. The
moon, nearly full, had risen in the gap of the Highlands, and had now climbed well above the
mountains, softening and etherealizing them until every harsh, rugged outline was lost. The
river at their feet looked pallid and ghostly also. When not enchained by frost, lights twinkled
here and there all over its broad surface, and the intervals were brief when the throbbing
engines of some passing steamer were not heard. Now it was like the face of the dead when a
busy life is over.

"It's all very beautiful," said Amy, shivering, "but too cold and still. I love life, and this
reminds one of death, the thoughts of which, with all that it involves, have oppressed me so
long that I must throw off the burden. I was growing morbid, and giving way to a deeper and
deeper depression, and now your sunny home life seems just the antidote for it all."

The warm-hearted fellow was touched, for there were tears in the young girl's eyes. "You have
come to the right place, Amy," he said, eagerly. "You cannot love life more than I, and I promise
to make it lively for you. I'm just the physician to minister to the mind diseased with melancholy.
Trust me. I can do a hundred-fold more for you than delving, matter-of-fact Webb. So come to
me when you have the blues. Let us make an alliance offensive and defensive against all the
powers of dulness and gloom."

"I'll do my best," she replied, smiling; "but there will be hours, and perhaps days, when the
past with its shadows will come back too vividly for me to escape it."

"I'll banish all shadows, never fear. I'll make the present so real and jolly that you will
forget the past."

"I don't wish to forget, but only to think of it without the dreary foreboding and sinking
of heart that oppressed me till I came here. I know you will do much for me, but I am sure
I shall like Webb also."

"Oh, of course you will. He's one of the best fellows in the world. Don't think that I misunderstand
him or fail to appreciate his worth because I love to run him so. Perhaps you'll wake him up
and get him out of his ruts. But I foresee that I'm the medicine you most need. Come to the
fire; you are shivering."

"Oh, I'm so glad that I've found such a home," she said, with a grateful glance, as she emerged
from the curtains.

CHAPTER IV

GUNNING BY MOONLIGHT

Webb saw the glance from eyes on which were still traces of tears; he also saw his brother's
look of sympathy; and with the kindly purpose of creating a diversion to her thoughts he started
up, breaking off his discussion with Leonard, and left the room. A moment later he returned
from the hall with the double-barrelled gun.

"What now, Webb?" cried Burt, on the qui vive. "You will make Amy think we are attacked by
Indians."

"If you are not afraid of the cold, get your gun, and I think I can give you some sport, and,
for a wonder, make you useful also," Webb replied. "While you were careering this afternoon
I examined the young trees in the nursery, and found that the rabbits were doing no end of
mischief. It has been so cold, and the snow is so deep, that the little rascals are gathering
near the house. They have gnawed nearly all the bark off the stems of some of the trees, and
I doubt whether I can save them. At first I was puzzled by their performances. You know, father,
that short nursery row grafted with our seedling apple, the Highland Beauty? Well, I found
many of the lower twigs taken off with a sharp, slanting cut, as if they had been severed with
a knife, and I imagined that a thrifty neighbor had resolved to share in our monopoly of the
new variety, but I soon discovered that the cuttings had been made too much at random to confirm
the impression that some one had been gathering scions for grafting. Tracks on the snow, and
girdled trees, soon made it evident that rabbits were the depredators. One of the little pests
must have climbed into a bushy tree at least eighteen inches from the snow, in order to reach
the twigs I found cut."

"A rabbit up a tree!" exclaimed Leonard. "Who ever heard of such a thing?"

"Well, you can see for yourself to-morrow," Webb resumed. "Of course we can't afford to pasture
the little fellows on our young trees, and so must feed them until they can be shot or trapped.
The latter method will be good fun for you, Alf. This afternoon I placed sweet apples, cabbage-leaves,
and turnips around the edge of a little thicket near the trees; and, Burt, you know there is
a clump of evergreens near, from whose cover I think we can obtain some good shots. So get
your gun, and we'll start even."

At the prospect of sport Burt forgot Amy and everything else, and dashed off.

"Oh, papa, can't I go with them?" pleaded Alf.

"What do you think, Maggie?" Leonard asked his wife, who now entered.

"Well, boys will be boys. If you will let mamma bundle you up--"

"Oh, yes, anything, if I can only go!" cried Alf, trembling with excitement.

"Sister Amy," Webb remarked, a little diffidently, "if you care to see the fun, you can get
a good view from the window of your room. I'll load my gun in the hall."

"Can I see you load?" Amy asked, catching some of Alf's strong interest. "It's all so novel to me."

"Certainly. I think you will soon find that you can do pretty much as you please in your new
home. You are now among republicans, you know, and we are scarcely conscious of any government."

"But I have already discovered one very strong law in this household," she smilingly asserted,
as she stood beside him near the hall-table, on which he had placed his powder-flask and shot-pouch.

"Ah, what is that?" he asked, pouring the powder carefully into the muzzles of the gun.

"The law of kindness, of good-will. Why," she exclaimed, "I expected to be weeks in getting
acquainted, but here you are all calling me sister Amy as if it were the most natural thing
in the world. It seems so odd," she laughed, "that I am not a bit afraid of you, even with
your gun, and yet we have just met, as it were. The way you and your brothers say 'sister Amy'
makes the relation seem real. I can scarcely believe that I am the same girl that stepped down
at the station this evening, nor can I get over my pleased wonder at the transformation."

"Amy," said the young man, earnestly, "your coming promises so much to us all! You were just
the one element lacking in our home. I now see that it was so. I already have the presentiment
that you will do more for us than we can for you."

"I ought to do all that the deepest gratitude could prompt. You have never known what it is
to be desolate one hour, and to find an ideal home the next."

"I wish it might be an ideal home to you; but don't expect too much. You will find some of
us very human."

"Therefore I shall feel the more at home. Papa always spoiled me by letting me have my own
way, and I shall often tax your patience. Do you know, I never saw a gun loaded before. There
seems to be so much going on here, and I have lived such a quiet life of late. How will you
make the thing go off?"

"These little precussion-caps will do the business. It seems to me that I've always been quiet,
and perhaps a trifle heavy. I hope you will think it your mission to render me less matter-of-fact.
I'm ready now, and here comes Burt with his breech-loader. If you will go to your room now,
you can see our shots."

A moment later she stood with Johnnie at her window, both almost holding their breath in expectation
as they saw the young men, with Alf following, steal toward a clump of evergreens behind the house.

"Quiet and steady now," Webb cautioned his eager brother; "and, Alf, you step in my tracks,
so there may be no noise." Thus they made their way among the pines, and peered cautiously
out. "Hold on, Burt," Webb whispered, as the former was bringing his gun to his shoulder; "I
want a crack at them as well as yourself. Let's reconnoitre. Yes, there are three or four of
the scamps. Let Alf see them. They look so pretty in the moonlight that I've scarcely the heart
to disturb, much less to kill them."

"Oh, stop your sentimental nonsense!" muttered Burt, impatiently. "It's confoundedly cold,
and they may take fright and disappear."

"Black ingratitude!" Webb exclaimed. "If there isn't one in the apple nursery in spite of all
my provision for them! That ends my compunctions. I'll take him, and you that big fellow munching
a cabbage-leaf. We'll count three--now, one, two--" The two reports rang out as one, and the
watchers at the window saw the flashes, and thrilled at the reverberating echoes.

"It's almost as exciting as if they were shooting Indians, robbers, or giants," cried Johnnie,
clapping her hands and jumping up and down.

"Back," said Webb to Alf, who was about to rush forward to secure the game; "we may get another
shot."

They waited a few moments in vain, and then succumbed to the cold. To Alf was given the supreme
delight of picking up the game that lay on the snow, making with their blood the one bit of
color in all the white garden.

"Poor little chaps!" Webb remarked, as he joined the family gathered around Alf and the rabbits
in the sitting-room. "It's a pity the world wasn't wide enough for us all."

"What has come over you, Webb?" asked Burt, lifting his eyebrows. "Has there been a hidden
spring of sentiment in your nature all these years, which has just struck the surface?"

It was evident that nearly all shared in Webb's mild regret that such a sudden period had been
put to life at once so pretty, innocent, and harmful. Alf, however, was conscious of only pure
exultation. Your boy is usually a genuine savage, governed solely by the primal instinct of
the chase and destruction of wild animals. He stroked the fur, and with eyes of absorbed curiosity
examined the mischievous teeth, the long ears, the queer little feet that never get cold, and
the places where the lead had entered with the sharp deadly shock that had driven out into
the chill night the nameless something which had been the little creature's life. Amy, too,
stroked the fur with a pity on her face which made it very sweet to Webb, while tender-hearted
Johnnie was exceedingly remorseful, and wished to know whether "the bunnies, if put by the
fire, would not come to life before morning." Indeed, there was a general chorus of commiseration,
which Burt brought to a prosaic conclusion by saying: "Crocodile tears, every one. You'll all
enjoy the pot-pie to-morrow with great gusto. By the way, I'll prop up one of these little
fellows at the foot of Ned's crib, and in the morning he'll think that the original 'Br'er
Rabbit' has hopped out of Uncle Remus's stories to make him a Christmas visit."

CHAPTER V

CHRISTMAS EVE AND MORNING

Old Mrs. Clifford now created a diversion by asking: "How about our plants to-night, Maggie?
Ought we not to take some precautions? Once before when it was as cold as this we lost some,
you know"

"Leonard," said his wife, in response to the suggestion, "it will be safer for you to put a
tub of water in the flower-room; that will draw the frost from the plants. Mother is the queen
of the flowers in this house," continued Mrs. Leonard, turning to Amy, "and I think she will
be inclined to appoint you first lady in attendance. She finds me cumbered with too many other
cares. But it doesn't matter. Mother has only to look at the plants to make them grow and bloom."

"There you are mistaken," replied the old lady, laughing. "Flowers are like babies. I never
made much of a fuss over my babies, but I loved them, and saw that they had just what they
needed at the right time."

"That accounts for Webb's exuberant growth and spirit, and the ethereal beauty of Len's mature
blossoming," remarked Burt.

"You are a plant that never had enough pruning," retorted his portly eldest brother.

"I shall be glad to help you, if you will teach me how," Amy said to Mrs. Clifford.

"In the pruning department?" asked Burt, with assumed dismay.

"Possibly," was the reply, with an arch little look which delighted the young fellow.

"Come, Maggie," said Mrs. Clifford, "sing a Christmas carol before we separate. It will be
a pleasant way of bringing our happy evening to a close."

Mrs. Leonard went to the piano. "Amy," she asked, "can't you help me?"

"I'll do my best, if you will choose something I know."

A selection was soon made, and Amy modestly blended a clear, sweet voice with the air that
Mrs. Leonard sang, and as the sympathetic tones of the young girl swelled the rich volume of
song the others exchanged looks of unaffected pleasure.

"Oh, Amy, I am so glad you can sing!" cried Mrs. Clifford, "for we have always made so much
of music in our home."

"Papa," she replied, with moist eyes, "felt as you do, and he had me sing for him ever since
I can remember."

"Amy dear," said Mrs. Leonard, in a low voice, "suppose you take the soprano and I the alto
in the next stanza."

They were all delighted with the result, and another selection was made, in which Burt's tenor
and Webb's bass came in with fine effect.

"Amy, what a godsend you are to us all!" said Leonard, enthusiastically. "I am one of the great
army of poets who can't sing, but a poet nevertheless."

"Yes, indeed, Len," added Burt; "it needs but a glance to see that you are of that ethereal
mold of which poets and singers are made. But isn't it capital! We now have all the four parts."

"Amy," said Mr. Clifford, "do you know an old Christmas hymn that your father and I loved when
we were as young as you are?" and he named it.

"I have often sung it for him, and he usually spoke of you when I did so"; and she sang sweet,
undying words to a sweet, quaint air in a voice that trembled with feeling.

The old gentleman wiped his eyes again and again. "Ah!" he said, "how that takes me back into
the past! My friend and I knew and loved that air and hymn over sixty years ago. I can see
him now as he looked then. God bless his child, and now my child!" he added, as he drew Amy
caressingly toward him. "A brief evening has made you one of us. I thank God that he has sent
one whom it will be so easy for us all to love; and we gratefully accept you as a Christmas
gift from Heaven."

Then, with the simplicity of an ancient patriarch, he gathered his household around the family
altar, black Abram and two maids entering at his summons, and taking seats with an air of deference
near the door. Not long afterward the old house stood silent and dark in the pallid landscape.

Though greatly wearied, Amy was kept awake during the earlier part of the night by the novelty
of her new life and relations, and she was awakened in the late dawn of the following day by
exclamations of delight from Mrs. Leonard's room. She soon remembered that it was Christmas
morning. The children evidently had found their stockings, for she heard Johnnie say, "Oh,
mamma, do you think Aunt Amy is awake? I would so like to take her stocking to her!"

"Yes," cried Amy, "I'm awake"; and the little girl, draped in white, soon pushed open the door,
holding her own and Amy's stockings in hands that trembled with delightful anticipation.

"Jump into bed with me," said Amy, "and we will empty our stockings together."

The years rolled back, the previous months of sorrow and suffering were forgotten; the day,
the hour, with its associations, the eager child that nestled close to her, made her a child
again. She yielded wholly to her mood; she would be a little girl once more, Johnnie's companion
in feeling and delight; and the morning of her life was still so new that the impulses of that
enchanted age before the light of experience has defined the world into its matter-of-fact
proportions came back unforced and unaffected. Her voice vied with Johnnie's in its notes of
excitement and pleasure, and to more than one who heard her it seemed that their first impression
was correct, that a little child had come to them, and that the tall, graceful maiden was a myth.

"Merry Christmas, Amy!" cried the voice of Webb on the stairs.

The child vanished instantly, and a blushing girl let fall the half-emptied stocking. Something
in that deep voice proved that if she were not yet a woman, she had drawn so near that mystery
of life that its embarrassing self-consciousness was beginning to assert itself. "How silly
he will think me!" was her mental comment, as she returned his greeting in a voice that was
rather faint.

The "rising bell" now resounded through the house, and she sprang up with the purpose of making
amends by a manner of marked dignity. And yet there remained with her a sense of home security,
of a great and new-found happiness, which the cold gray morning could not banish. The air-tight
stove glowed with heat and comfort, and she afterward learned that Mrs. Leonard had replenished
the fire so noiselessly as not to awaken her. The hearty Christmas greetings of the family
as she came into the breakfast-room were like an echo of the angels' song of "good-will." The
abounding kindliness and genuine pleasure at her presence made the feeling that she had indeed
become one of the household seem the most natural thing in the world, instead of a swiftly
wrought miracle.

Little Ned had in his arms one of the rabbits that had been shot on the previous evening, and
to him it was more wonderful than all his toys. "You should have seen him when he awoke," said
his mother, "and saw the poor little thing propped up at the foot of his crib. His eyes grew
wider and rounder, and at last he breathed, in an awed whisper, 'Br'er Rabbit.' But he soon
overcame his surprise, and the jargon he talked to it made our sides ache with laughing."

The gifts that had been prepared for the supposed child were taken by Amy in very good part,
but with the tact of a well-bred girl who would not spoil a jest, rather than with the undisguised
delight of Johnnie.

"Only Johnnie and I have seen little Amy," said Leonard--"I at the depot before she grew up;
and this morning she became a little girl again as a Christmas wonder for my little girl. Johnnie's
faith and fairy lore may make the transformation possible to her again, but I fear the rest
of us will never catch another glimpse of the child we expected"; for Amy's grown-up air since
she had appeared in the breakfast-room had been almost a surprise to him after hearing through
the partition her pretty nonsense over her stocking.

"I fear you are right," said Amy, with a half-sigh; "and yet it was lovely to feel just like
Johnnie once more;" and she stole a shy glance at Webb, who must have heard some of her exclamations.
The expression of his face seemed to reassure her, and without further misgiving she joined
in a laugh at one of Burt's sallies.

CHAPTER VI

NATURE'S HALF-KNOWN SECRETS

Amy's thoughts naturally reverted before very long to Mrs. Clifford's pets--the flowers--and
she asked how they had endured the intense cold of the night.

"They have had a narrow escape," the old lady replied. "If Maggie had not suggested the tub
of water last night, I fear we should have lost the greater part of them."

"Yes," said Mrs. Leonard, "I went to the flower-room with fear and trembling this morning,
and when I found the water frozen thick I was in despair."

"It was the water freezing that saved the plants," Webb remarked, quietly. "I put water in
the root-cellar before I went to bed last night, with like good effect."

"Well, for the life of me," said Maggie, "I can't understand why the plants and roots don't
freeze when water does."

"Come, Burt," added her husband, "you are a college-bred man. You explain how the water draws
the frost from the plants."

"Oh, bother!" Burt answered, flushing slightly, "I've forgotten. Some principle of latent heat
involved, I believe. Ask Webb. If he could live long enough he'd coax from Nature all her secrets.
He's the worst Paul Pry into her affairs that I ever knew. So beware, Amy, unless you are more
secretive than Nature, which I cannot believe, since you seem so natural."

"I'm afraid your knowledge, Burt, resembles latent heat," laughed Leonard. "Come, see what
you can do, Webb."

"Burt is right," said Webb, good-naturedly; "the principle of latent heat explains it all,
and he could refresh his memory in a few moments. The water does not draw the frost from the
plants, but before it can freeze it must give out one hundred and forty degrees of latent heat.
The flower-room and root-cellar were therefore so much warmer during the night than if the
water had not been there. The plants that were nipped probably suffered after the ice became
so thick as to check in a great measure the freezing process."

"How can ice stop water from freezing?" Alf asked, in much astonishment.

"By keeping it warm, on the same principle that your bed-clothes kept you warm last night.
Heat passes very slowly through ice-that is, it is a poor conductor. With the snow it is the
winter wrap of nature, which protects all life beneath it. When our ponds and rivers are once
frozen over, the latent heat in the water beneath can escape through the ice but very gradually,
and every particle of ice that forms gives out into the water next to it one hundred and forty
degrees of heat. Were it not for these facts our ponds would soon become solid. But to return
to the tub of water in the flower-room. The water, when placed there, was probably warmer than
the air, and so would give out or radiate its heat until a thermometer, placed either in the
room or in the water, would mark thirty-two degrees above zero. At this point the water would
begin to freeze, but plants or vegetables would not. They would require slightly severer cold
to affect them. But as soon as the water begins to freeze it also gradually gives out its latent
heat, and before a particle of ice can form it must give out one hundred and forty degrees
of heat to the air and water around it. Therefore the freezing process goes on slowly, and
both the air and water are kept comparatively warm. After a time, however, the ice becomes
so thick over the surface that the freezing goes on more and more slowly, because the latent
heat in the unfrozen water cannot readily escape through the ice. It is therefore retained,
just as the latent heat in the water of an ice-covered pond is retained."

"It follows, then," said Leonard, "that after the water beneath the ice in the tub began to
freeze slowly, the flower-room, in that same degree, began to grow cold."

"Certainly, for only as the water freezes can it give out its latent heat. The thick wooden
side of the tub is a poor conductor; the ice that has formed over the surface is even a worse,
and so the water within is shielded from the cold. It therefore almost ceases to freeze, and
so becomes of no practical use. An intelligent understanding of these principles is of great
practical value. If I could have waked up and placed another tub of water in the room at two
or three o'clock, or else taken all of the ice out of the first one, the process of freezing
and giving out heat would have gone on rapidly again, and none of the plants would have suffered.
I have heard people say that putting water in a cellar was all a humbug--that the water froze
and the vegetables also. Of course the vegetables froze after the water congealed, or the cellar
may have been so defective that both froze at the same time. The latent heat given out by a
small amount of freezing water cannot counteract any great severity of frost."

"The more water you have, then, the better?" said his father.

"Yes, for then there is more to freeze, and the effect is more gradual and lasting."

"I feel highly honored, Webb," said his mother, smiling, "that so much science should minister
to me and my little collection of plants. I now see that the why and wherefore comes in very
usefully. But please tell me why you put the plants that were touched with frost into cold
water, and why you will not let the sunlight fall on them?"

"For the same reason that you would put your hand in cold water if frost-bitten. Your expression,
'touched with frost,' shows that there is hope for them. If they were thoroughly frozen you
would lose them. Your plants, you know, are composed chiefly of water, which fills innumerable
little cells formed by the vegetable tissue. If the water in the cells is chilled beyond a
certain point, if it becomes solid ice, it expands and breaks down the tissue of the cells,
and the structure of the plant is destroyed. If the frost can be gradually withdrawn so as
to leave the cells substantially intact, they can eventually resume their functions, and the
plant receive no very great injury."

"But why does sudden heat or sunlight destroy a frosted plant?"

"For the same reason that it breaks down the vegetable tissue. Heat expands, and the greater
the heat the more rapid the expansion. When the rays of the sun, which contain a great deal
of heat, fall on any part of a frost-bitten plant, that part begins to expand so rapidly and
violently that the cellular tissues are ruptured, and life is destroyed. What is more, the
heat does not permeate equally and at once the parts affected by frost. The part furthest away
from the heat remains contracted, while the parts receiving it expand rapidly and unequally,
and this becomes another cause for the breaking up of the vegetable tissue. The same principle
is illustrated when we turn up the flame of a lamp suddenly. The glass next to the flame expands
so rapidly that the other parts cannot keep pace, and so, as the result of unequal expansion,
the chimney goes to pieces. With this principle in mind, we seek to withdraw the frost and
to reapply the vivifying heat very gradually and equally to every part, so that the vegetable
tissues may be preserved unbroken. This is best done by immersing them in cold water, and then
keeping them at a low temperature in a shady place. As the various parts of the plant resume
their functions, the light and heat essential to its life and growth can gradually be increased."

"It seems to me that your theory is at fault, Webb," said Leonard. "How is it that some plants
are able to endure such violent alternations of heat and cold?"

"We don't have to go far--at least I do not--before coming to the limitations of knowledge.
What it is in the structure of a plant like the pansy, for instance, which makes it so much
more hardy than others that seem stronger and more vigorous, even the microscope does not reveal.
Nature has plenty of secrets that she has not yet told. But of all people in the world those
who obtain their livelihood from the soil should seek to learn the wherefore of everything,
for such knowledge often doubles the prospect of success."

"Now, Amy," said Burtis, laughing, "you see what sort of a fellow Webb is. You cannot even
sneeze without his considering the wherefore back to the remotest cause."

"Are you afraid of me, Amy?" asked Webb.

"No," was the quiet reply.

Amy spent the greater part of the day in unpacking her trunks, and in getting settled in her
home-like room. It soon began to take on a familiar air. Hearts, like plants, strike root rapidly
when the conditions are favorable. Johnnie was her delighted assistant much of the time, and
this Christmas-day was one long thrill of excitement to the child. Her wonder grew and grew,
for there was a foreign air about many of Amy's things, and, having been brought from such
a long distance, they seemed to belong to another world. The severe cold continued, and only
the irrepressible Burtis ventured out to any extent. When Alf's excitement over his presents
began to flag, Webb helped him make two box-traps, and the boy concealed them in the copse
where the rabbit-tracks were thickest. Only the biting frost kept him, in his intense eagerness,
from remaining out to see the result. Webb, however, taught him patience by assuring him that
watched traps never caught game.

Beyond the natural home festivities the day passed quietly, and this was also true of the entire
holiday season. Cheerfulness, happiness abounded, and there was an unobtrusive effort on the
part of every one to surround the orphan girl with a genial, sunny atmosphere. And yet she
was ever made to feel that her sorrow was remembered and respected. She saw that Mr. Clifford's
mind was often busy with the memory of his friend, that even Burt declined invitations to country
merrymakings in the vicinity, and that she was saved the ordeal of meeting gay young neighbors
with whom the Clifford home was a favorite resort. In brief, they had received her as a daughter
of the house, and in many delicate ways proved that they regarded her as entitled to the same
consideration as if she were one. Meanwhile she was shown that her presence cast no gloom over
the family life, and she knew and they knew that it would be her father's wish that she should
share in all the healing gladness of that life. No true friend who has passed on to the unclouded
shore would wish to leave clouds and chilling shadows as a legacy, and they all felt that in
Amy's case it had been her father's desire and effort to place her under conditions that would
develop her young life happily and therefore healthfully. There is the widest difference in
the world between cheerfulness and mirthfulness which arise from happy home life and peaceful
hearts, and the levity that is at once unfeeling, inconsiderate, and a sure indication of a
coarse-fibred, ill-bred nature. Amy was made to feel this, and she found little indeed which
jarred with memories that were only sad, not bitter or essentially depressing. Every day brought
new assurance that her father's wishes and hopes in her behalf had been fulfilled to a degree
that must have added to his heavenly content, could he have known how well he had provided
for her. And so the busy days glided on; and when the evening brought the household together,
there were music, reading aloud, and genial family talk, which usually was largely colored
by their rural calling. Therefore, on New-Year's morning Amy stood as upon a sunny eminence,
and saw her path leading away amid scenes that promised usefulness, happiness, and content.

CHAPTER VII

NEIGHBORS DROP IN

One evening early in the year three neighbors dropped in. They were evidently as diverse in
character as in appearance. The eldest was known in the neighborhood as Squire Bartley, having
long been a justice of the peace. He was a large landholder, and carried on his farm in the
old-fashioned ways, without much regard to system, order, or improvement. He had a big, good-natured
red face, a stout, burly form, and a corresponding voice. In marked contrast with his aspect
and past experience was Mr. Alvord, who was thin almost to emaciation, and upon whose pallid
face not only ill-health but deep mental suffering had left their unmistakable traces. He was
a new-comer into the vicinity, and little was known of his past history beyond the fact that
he had exchanged city life for country pursuits in the hope of gaining strength and vigor.
He ought to have been in the full prime of cheerful manhood, but his sombre face and dark,
gloomy eyes indicated that something had occurred in the past which so deeply shadowed his
life as to make its long continuance doubtful. He had not reached middle age, and yet old Mr
Clifford appeared a heartier man than he. While he had little knowledge of rural occupations,
he entered into them with eagerness, apparently finding them an antidote for sad memories.
He had little to say, but was a good listener, and evidently found at the Cliffords' a warmth
and cheer coming not from the hearth only. Webb and Leonard had both been very kind to him
in his inexperience, and an occasional evening at their fireside was the only social tendency
that he had been known to indulge. Dr. Marvin, the third visitor, might easily compete with
Burt in flow of spirits, and in his day had been quite as keen a sportsman. But he was unlike
Burtis in this, that all birds were game to him, and for his purpose were always in season.
To Emerson's line,

  "Hast thou named all the birds without a gun?"

he could not reply in the affirmative, and yet to kill as many as possible had never been his
object. From earliest childhood he had developed a taste for ornithology, and the study of
the fauna of the region had been almost his sole recreation for years. He too was a frequent
visitor at the Cliffords', where he ever found ready listeners and questioners.

"I don't know what is the matter with my poultry," Squire Bartley remarked, after the weather,
politics, and harmless phases of local gossip had been discussed; "they are getting as poor
as crows. My boys say that they are fed as well as usual. What's more, I've had them throw
down for 'em a warm mixture of meal and potatoes before they go to roost, but we don't get
an egg. What luck are you having, Leonard?"

"Well, I don't know that I'm having much luck in the matter," Leonard replied, with his humorous
smile; "but I can't complain. Until this very cold weather set in we had eggs in plenty, and
still have a fair supply. I'm inclined to think that if your hens are the right kind, and are
properly cared for, they can't help producing eggs. That has usually been my experience. I
don't believe much in luck, but there are a few simple things that are essential to success
with poultry in winter. By the way, do you give them well or spring water to drink?"

"Well, no, I don't believe we do, at this time of year. I've so arranged it that the drippings
from the eaves of the barn fall into a trough, and that saves trouble. I expect the boys are
careless, too. for I've seen the fowls eating snow and ice."

"That accounts for your poultry being like crows, for, whatever the reason may be, snow-water
will soon reduce chickens to mere feathers and bones."

"You don't say so!" cried the squire. "Well, I never heard that before."

"I don't think your system of feeding is the correct one, either," pursued Leonard. "You give
your hens the warm meal to-morrow evening, as usual, and then about midnight go to the roosts
and feel of their crops. I'll warrant you'll find them empty. The meal, you see, digests speedily,
and is soon all gone. Then come the long cold hours before morning, and the poor creatures
have nothing to sustain them, and they become chilled and enfeebled. It takes some time for
the grain you give them in the morning to digest, and so they are left too long a time without
support. Give them the grain in the evening--corn and buckwheat and barley mixed--and there
is something for their gizzards to act on all night long. The birds are thus sustained and
kept warm by their food. Then in the morning, when they naturally feel the cold the most, give
them the warm food, mixing a little pepper with it during such weather as this."

"Well," remarked the squire, "I guess you're right. Anyway, I'll try your plan. One is apt
to do things the same way year after year without much thought about it."

"Then, again," resumed Leonard, "I find it pays to keep poultry warm, clean, and well sheltered.
In very cold weather I let them out only for an hour or two. The rest of the time they are
shut up in the chicken-house, which has an abundance of light, and is well ventilated. Beneath
the floor of the chicken-house is a cellar, which I can fill with stable manure, and graduate
the heat by its fermentation. This acts like a steady furnace. There is room in the cellar
to turn the manure from time to time to prevent its becoming fire-fanged, so that there is
no loss in this respect. Between the heat from beneath, and the sun streaming in the windows
on the south side of the house, I can keep my laying hens warm even in zero weather; and I
make it a point not to have too many. Beyond a certain number, the more you have the worse
you're off, for poultry won't stand crowding."

"You farmers," put in Dr. Marvin, "are like the doctors, who kill or cure too much by rule
and precedent. You get into certain ways or ruts, and stick to them. A little thought and observation
would often greatly modify your course. Now in regard to your poultry, you should remember
that they all existed once as nature made them--they were wild, and domestication cannot wholly
change their character. It seems to me that the way to learn how to manage fowls successfully
is to observe their habits and modes of life when left to themselves. In summer, when they
have a range, we find them eating grass, seeds, insects, etc. In short, they are omnivorous.
In winter, when they can't get these things, they are often fed one or two kinds of grain continuously.
Now, from their very nature, they need in winter all the kinds of food that they instinctively
select when foraging for themselves--fresh vegetables, meat, and varieties of seeds or grain.
We give to our chickens all the refuse from the kitchen--the varied food we eat ourselves,
with the exception of that which contains a large percentage of salt--and they thrive and lay
well. Before they are two years old we decapitate them. Old fowls, with rare exceptions, will
not lay in winter."

Sad-eyed Mr. Alvord listened as if there were more consolation and cheer in this talk on poultry
than in the counsel of sages. The "chicken fever" is more inevitable in a man's life than the
chicken-pox, and sooner or later all who are exposed succumb to it. Seeing the interest developing
in his neighbor's face, Leonard said, briskly:

"Mr. Alvord, here's an investment that will pay you to consider. The care of poultry involves
light and intelligent labor, and therefore is adapted to those who cannot well meet the rough
and heavy phases of outdoor work. The fowls often become pets to their keepers, and the individual
oddities and peculiarities of character form an amusing study which is not wanting in practical
advantages. The majority of people keep ordinary barn-door fowls, which are the result of many
breeds or strains. The consequence is almost as great diversity of character within gallinaceous
limits as exists in the families that care for them. For instance, one hen is a good, persistent
layer; another is a patient, brooding mother; a third is fickle, and leaves her nest so often
and for such long intervals that the eggs become chilled, and incubation ceases. Some are tame
and tractable, others as wild as hawks, and others still are not of much account in any direction,
and are like commonplace women, who are merely good to count when the census is taken."

"I hope you make no reference to present company," Maggie remarked.

Leonard gave his wife one of his humorous looks as he replied, "I never could admit that in
regard to you, for it would prove too much against myself. The idea of my picking out a commonplace
woman!"

"Leonard knows, as we all do, that he would be like a decapitated chicken himself without her,"
said Mrs. Clifford, with her low laugh.

Maggie smiled. This was re-assuring from the mother of the eldest and favorite son.

"Well," remarked Squire Bartley, sententiously, "there are old housewives in the neighborhood
that have more luck with poultry than any of you, with all your science."

"Nonsense," replied Dr. Marvin. "You know a little about law, squire, and I less about medicine,
perhaps, and yet any good mother could take care of a lot of children better than we could.
There is old Mrs. Mulligan, on the creek road. She raises ducks, geese, and chickens innumerable,
and yet I fail to see much luck in her management; but she has learned from experience a better
skill than the books could have taught her, for she said to me one day, 'I jis thries to foind
out what the crathers wants, and I gives it to 'em,' She knows the character of every hen,
duck, and goose she has, and you don't catch her wasting a sitting of eggs under a fickle biddy.
And then she watches over her broods as Mrs. Leonard does over hers. Don't talk about luck.
There has been more of intelligent care than luck in bringing up this boy Alf. I believe in
book-farming as much as any one, but a successful farmer could not be made by books only; nor
could I ever learn to be a skilful physician from books, although all the horses on your place
could not haul the medical literature extant. I must adopt Mrs. Mulligan's tactics, and so
must you. We must find out 'what the crathers want,' be they plants, stock, or that most difficult
subject of all, the human crather. He succeeds best who does this in season, and not out of
season."

"You are right, doctor," said Leonard, laughing. "I agree with what you say about the varied
diet of poultry in general, and also in particular, and I conform my practice to your views.
At the same time I am convinced that failure and partial success with poultry result more from
inadequate shelter and lack of cleanliness than from lack of proper food. It does not often
happen in the country that fowls are restricted to a narrow yard or run, and when left to themselves
they pick up, even in winter, much and varied food in and about the barn. But how rarely is
proper shelter provided! It is almost as injurious for poultry as it would be for us to be
crowded, and subjected to draughts, dampness, and cold. They may survive, but they can't thrive
and be profitable. In many instances they are not even protected from storms, and it's a waste
of grain to feed poultry that roost under a dripping roof."

"Well," said the squire, "I guess we've been rather slack. I must send my boys over to see
how you manage."

"Amy," remarked Burtis, laughing, "you are very polite. You are trying to look as if you were
interested."

"I am interested," said the young girl, positively. "One of the things I liked best in English
people was their keen interest in all rural pursuits. Papa did not care much for such things;
but now that I am a country girl I intend to learn all I can about country life."

Amy had not intended this as a politic speech, but it nevertheless won her the increased good-will
of all present. Burtis whispered,

"Let me be your instructor."

Something like a smile softened Webb's rugged face, but he did not raise his eyes from the fire.

"If her words are not the result of a passing impulse," he thought, "sooner or later she will
come to me. Nature, however, tolerates no fitful, half-hearted scholars, and should she prove
one, she will be contented with Burt's out-of-door fun."

"Miss Amy," remarked Dr. Marvin, vivaciously, "if you will form some of my tastes you will
never suffer from ennui. Don't be alarmed; I have not drugs in my mind. Doctors rarely take
their own medicine. You don't look very strong, and have come back to your native land with
the characteristics of a delicate American girl, rather than the vigor of an English one. I
fear you slighted British beef and mutton. If I were so officious as to prescribe unasked,
I should put you on birds for several months, morning, noon, and evening. Don't you be officious
also, Burt. It's on the end of your tongue to say that you will shoot them for her. I had no
such commonplace meaning. I meant that Miss Amy should enjoy the birds in their native haunts,
and learn to distinguish the different varieties by their notes, plumage, and habits. Such
recreation would take her often out-of-doors, and fill every spring and summer day with zest."

"But, Dr. Marvin," cried Amy, "is not the study of ornithology rather a formidable undertaking?"

"Yes," was the prompt reply. "I sometimes feel as if I could devote several lifetimes to it.
But is it such a formidable thing to begin with a few of our commonest birds, like the robin
or wren, for instance; to note when they first arrive from their southern sojourn, the comical
scenes of courtship and rivalry in the trees about the door, the building of their homes, and
their housekeeping? I am sorry to say that I find some of my patients consumed with a gossipy
interest in their neighbors' affairs. If that interest were transferred to the families residing
in the cherry and apple trees, to happy little homes that often can be watched even from our
windows, its exercise would have a much better effect on health and character. When a taste
for such things is once formed, it is astonishing how one thing leads to another, and how fast
knowledge is gained. The birds will soon begin to arrive, Miss Amy, and a goodly number stay
with us all winter. Pick out a few favorite kinds, and form their intimate acquaintance. I
would suggest that you learn to identify some of the birds that nest near the house, and follow
their fortunes through the spring and as late in the summer as their stay permits, keeping
a little diary of your observations. Alf here will be a famous ally. You will find these little
bird histories, as they develop from day to day, more charming than a serial story."

It were hard to tell who was the more captivated by the science of ornithology, Amy or Alf,
when this simple and agreeable method for its study was suggested. Mr. Alvord looked wistfully
at the unalloyed pleasure of the boy and the young girl as they at once got together on the
sofa and discussed the project. He quietly remarked to the doctor, "I also shall make time
to follow your suggestion, and shall look forward to some congenial society without my home
if not within it."

"See what comes from being enthusiastic about a thing!" laughed the doctor. "I have made three
converts."

Mrs. Leonard looked furtively and pityingly at the lonely Mr. Alvord. A man without a wife
to take care of him was to her one of the forlornest of objects, and with secret satisfaction
she thought, "Leonard, I imagine, would find the birds' housekeeping a poor substitute for mine."

CHAPTER VIII

EAGLES

"Speaking of birds, doctor, there are some big fellows around this winter," said Burtis. "While
in the mountains with the wood teams some days since I saw a gray and a bald eagle sailing
around, but could not get a shot at them. As soon as it grows milder I am going up to the cliffs
on the river to see if I can get within rifle range."

"Oh, come, Burt, I thought you were too good a sportsman to make such a mistake," the doctor
rejoined. "A gray eagle is merely a young bald eagle. We have only two species of the genuine
eagle in this country, the bald, or American, and the golden, or ring-tailed. The latter is
very rare, for their majesties are not fond of society, even of their own kind, and two nests
are seldom found within thirty miles of each other. The bald eagle has been common enough,
and I have shot many. One morning long ago I shot two, and had quite a funny experience with
one of them."

"Pray tell us about it," said Burtis, glad of a diversion from his ornithological shortcomings.

"Well, one February morning (I could not have been much over fourteen at the time) I crossed
the river on the ice, and took the train for Peekskill. Having transacted my business and procured
a good supply of ammunition, I started homeward. From the car windows I saw two eagles circling
over the cliffs of the lower Highlands, and with the rashness and inexperience of a boy I determined
to leave the train while it was under full headway. I passed through to the rear car, descended
to the lowest step, and, without realizing my danger, watched for a level place that promised
well for the mad project. Such a spot soon occurring, I grasped the iron rail tightly with
my right hand, and with my gun in my left I stepped off into the snow, which was wet and slushy.
My foot bounded up and back as if I had been india-rubber, and maintaining my hold I streamed
away behind the car in an almost horizontal position. About once in every thirty feet my foot
struck the ground, bounded up and back, and I streamed away again as if I were towed or carried
through the air. After taking a few steps of this character, which exceeded any attributed
to giants in fairy-lore, I saw I was in for it, and the next time my foot struck I let go,
and splashed, with a force that I even now ache to think of, into the wet snow. It's a wonder
I didn't break my neck, but I scrambled up not very much the worse for my tumble. There were
the eagles; my gun was all right, and that was all I cared for at the time. I soon loaded,
using the heaviest shot I had, and in a few moments the great birds sailed over my head. I
devoted a barrel to each, and down they both came, fluttering, whirling, and uttering cries
that Wilson describes as something like a maniacal laugh. One lodged in the top of a tall hemlock,
and stuck; the other came flapping and crashing through another tree until stopped by the lower
limbs, where it remained. I now saw that their distance had been so great that I had merely
disabled them, and I began reloading, but I was so wild from excitement and exultation that
I put in the shot first. Of course my caps only snapped, and the eagle in the hemlock top,
recovering a brief renewal of strength after the shock of his wound, flew slowly and heavily
away, and fell on the ice near the centre of the river. I afterward learned that it was carried
off by some people on an ice-boat. The other eagle, whose wing I had broken, now reached the
ground, and I ran toward it, determined that I should not lose both of my trophies. As I approached
I saw that I had an ugly customer to deal with, for the bird, finding that he could not escape,
threw himself on his back, with his tail doubled under him, and was prepared to strike blows
with talons and beak that would make serious wounds, I resolved to take my game home alive,
and after a little thought cut a crotched stick, with which I held his head down while I fastened
his feet together. A man who now appeared walking down the track aided me in securing the fierce
creature, which task we accomplished by tying some coarse bagging round his wings, body, and
talons. I then went on to the nearest station in order to take the train homeward. Of course
the eagle attracted a great deal of attention in the cars--more than he seemed to enjoy, for
he soon grew very restless. I was approaching my destination, and three or four people were
about me, talking, pointing, and trying to touch the bird, when he made a sudden dive. The
bagging round his wings and feet gave way, and so did the people on every side. Down through
the aisle, flapping and screaming, went the eagle; and the ladies, with skirts abridged, stood
on the seats and screamed quite as discordantly. Not a man present would help me, but, mounting
on their seats, they vociferated advice. The conductor appeared on the scene, and I said that
if he would head the bird off I would catch him. This he agreed to do, but he no sooner saw
the eagle bearing down on him with his savage eye and beak than he, as nimbly at the best of
them, hopped upon a seat, and stood beside a woman, probably for her protection. A minute or
two later the train stopped at my station, and I was almost desperate. Fortunately I was in
the last car, and I drove my eagle toward the rear door, from which, by the vigorous use of
my feet, I induced him to alight on the ground--the first passenger of the kind, I am sure,
that ever left the cars at that station. After several minor adventures, I succeeded in getting
him home. I hoped to keep him alive, but he would not eat; so I stuffed him in the only way
I could, and he is now one of my specimens."

"Well," said Burt, laughing, "that exceeds any eagle adventure that I have heard of in this
region. In the car business you certainly brought his majesty down to the prose of common life,
and I don't wonder the regal bird refused to eat thereafter."

"Cannot eagles be tamed--made gentle and friendly?" old Mrs. Clifford asked. "I think I remember
hearing that you had a pet eagle years ago."

"Yes, I kept one--a female--six months. She was an unusually large specimen, and measured about
eight feet with wings extended. The females of all birds of prey, you know, are larger than
the males. As in the former case, I had broken one of her wings, and she also threw herself
on her back and made her defence in the most savage manner. Although I took every precaution
in my power, my hands were bleeding in several places before I reached home, and, in fact,
she kept them in a rather dilapidated condition all the time I had her. I placed her in a large
empty room connected with the barn, and found her ready enough to eat. Indeed, she was voracious,
and the savage manner in which she tore and swallowed her food was not a pleasant spectacle.
I bought several hundred live carp--a cheap, bony fish--and put them in a ditch where I could
take them with a net as I wanted them. The eagle would spring upon a fish, take one of her
long hops into a corner, and tear off its head with one stroke of her beak. While I was curing
her broken wing the creature tolerated me after a fashion, but when she was well she grew more
and more savage and dangerous. Once a Dutchman, who worked for us, came in with me, and the
way the eagle chased that man around the room and out of the door, he swearing meanwhile in
high German and in a high key, was a sight to remember. I was laughing immoderately, when the
bird swooped down on my shoulder, and the scars would have been there to-day had not her talons
been dulled by their constant attrition with the boards of her extemporized cage. Covering
my face with my arm--for she could take one's eye out by a stroke of her beak--I also retreated.
She then dashed against the window with such force that she bent the wood-work and broke every
pane of glass. She seemed so wild for freedom that I gave it to her, but the foolish creature,
instead of sailing far away, lingered on a bluff near the river, and soon boys and men were
out after her with shot-guns. I determined that they should not mangle her to no purpose, and
so, with the aid of my rifle, I added her also to my collection of specimens."

"Have you ever found one of their nests?" Webb asked.

"Yes. They are rather curious affairs, and are sometimes five feet in diameter each way, and
quite flat at the top. They use for the substratum of the domicile quite respectable cord-wood
sticks, thicker than one's wrist. The mother-bird must be laying her eggs at this season, cold
as it is. But they don't mind the cold, for they nest above the Arctic Circle."

"I don't see how it is possible for them to protect their eggs and young in such severe weather,"
Mrs. Clifford remarked.

"Nature takes care of her own in her own way," replied the doctor, with a slight shrug. "One
of the birds always remains on the nest."

"Well," said Squire Bartley, who had listened rather impatiently to so much talk about an unprofitable
bird, "I wish my hens were laying now. Seems to me that Nature does better by eagles and crows
than by any fowls I ever had. Good-night, friends."

With a wistful glance at Amy's pure young face, and a sigh so low. that only pitiful Mrs. Leonard
heard it, Mr. Alvord also bowed himself out in his quiet way.

"Doctor," said Burtis, resolutely, "you have excited my strongest emulation, and I shall never
be content until I have brought down an eagle or two."

"Dear me!" cried the doctor, looking at his watch, "I should think that you would have had
enough of eagles, and of me also, by this time. Remember, Miss Amy, I prescribe birds, but
don't watch a bald-eagle's nest too closely. We are not ready to part with your bright eyes
any more than you are."

CHAPTER IX

SLEIGHING IN THE HIGHLANDS

During the night there was a slight fall of snow, and Webb explained at the breakfast-table
that its descent had done more to warm the air than would have been accomplished by the fall
of an equal amount of red-hot sand. But more potent than the freezing particles of vapor giving
off their latent heat were the soft south wind and the bright sunshine, which seemingly had
the warmth of May.

"Come, Amy," said Burtis, exultantly, "this is no day to mope in the house. If you will trust
yourself to me and Thunder, you shall skim the river there as swiftly as you can next summer
on the fastest steamer."

Amy was too English to be afraid of a horse, and with wraps that soon proved burdensome in
the increasing warmth of the day, she and Burt dashed down the slopes and hill that led to
the river, and out upon the wide, white plain. She was a little nervous as she thought of the
fathoms of cold, dark water beneath her; but when she saw the great loads of lumber and coal
that were passing to and fro on the track she was convinced that the ice-bridge was safe, and
she gave herself up to the unalloyed enjoyment of the grand scenery. First they crossed Newburgh
Bay, with the city rising steeply on one side, and the Beacon Mountains further away on the
other. The snow covered the ice unbrokenly, except as tracks crossed here and there to various
points. Large flocks of crows were feeding on these extemporized roadways, and they looked
blacker than crows in the general whiteness. As the sleigh glided here and there it was hard
for Amy to believe that they were in the track of steamers and innumerable sail-boats, and
that the distant shores did not slope down to a level plain, on which the grass and grain would
wave in the coming June; but when Burt turned southward and drove under the great beetling
mountains, and told her that their granite feet were over a hundred yards deep in the water,
she understood the marvellous engineering of the frost-spirit that had spanned the river, where
the tides are so swift, and had so strengthened it in a few short days and nights that it could
bear enormous burdens.

Never before had she seen such grand and impressive scenery. They could drive within a few
feet of the base of Storm King and Cro' Nest; and the great precipices and rocky ledges, from
which often hung long, glittering icicles, seemed tenfold more vast than when seen from a distance.
The furrowed granite cliffs, surmounted by snow, looked like giant faces, lined and wrinkled
by age and passion. Even the bright sunshine could do little to soften their frowning grandeur.
Amy's face became more and more serious as the majesty of the landscape impressed her, and
she grew silent under Burtis's light talk. At last she said:

"How transient and insignificant one feels among these mountains! They could not have looked
very different on the morning when Adam first saw Eve."

"They are indeed superb," replied Burt, "and I am glad my home--our home--is among them; and
yet I am sure that Adam would have found Eve more attractive than all the mountains in the
world, just as I find your face, flushed by the morning air, far more interesting than these
hills that I have known and loved so long."

"My face is a novelty, brother Burt," she answered, with deepening color, for the young fellow's
frequent glances of admiration were slightly embarrassing.

"Strange to say, it is growing so familiar that I seem to have known you all my life," he responded,
with a touch of tenderness in his tone.

"That is because I am your sister," she said, quietly. "Both the word and the relation suggest
the idea that we have grown up together," and then she changed the subject so decidedly that
even impetuous Burt felt that he must be more prudent in expressing the interest which daily
grew stronger. As they were skirting Constitution Island, Amy exclaimed:

"What a quaint old house! Who lives there all alone?"

"Some one that you know about, I imagine. Have you ever read 'The Wide, Wide World'?"

"What girl has not?"

"Well, Miss Warner, the author of the book, resides there. The place has a historical interest
also. Do you see those old walls? They were built over one hundred years ago. At the beginning
of the Revolution, the Continental authorities were stupid enough to spend considerable money,
for that period, in the building of a fort on those rocks. Any one might have seen that the
higher ground opposite, at West Point, commanded the position."

"No matter about the fort. Tell me of Miss Warner."

"Well, she and her sister spend their summers there, and are ever busy writing, I believe.
I'll row you down in the spring after they return. They are not there in winter, I am told.
I have no doubt that she will receive you kindly, and tell you all about herself."

"I shall not fail to remind you of your promise, and I don't believe she will resent a very
brief call from one who longs to see her and speak with her. I am not curious about celebrities
in general, but there are some writers whose words have touched my heart, and whom I would
like to see and thank. Where are you going now?"

"I am going to show you West Point in its winter aspect. You will find it a charming place
to visit occasionally, only you must not go so often as to catch the cadet fever."

"Pray what is that?"

"It is an acute attack of admiration for very young men of a military cut. I use the word cut
advisedly, for these incipient soldiers look for all the world as if carved out of wood. They
gradually get over their stiffness, however, and as officers usually have a fine bearing, as
you may see if we meet any of them. I wish, though, that you could See a squad of 'plebes'
drilling. They would provoke a grin on the face of old Melancholy himself."

"Where is the danger, then, of acute admiration?"

"Well, they improve, I suppose, and are said to be quite irresistible during the latter part
of their course. You need not laugh. If you knew how many women--some of them old enough to
be the boys' mothers--had succumbed, you would take my warning to heart."

"What nonsense! You are a little jealous of them, Burt."

"I should be indeed if you took a fancy to any of them."

"Well, I suppose that is one of the penalties of having brothers. Are all these houses officers'
quarters?"

They had now left the ice, and were climbing the hill as he replied:

"No, indeed. This is Logtown--so named, I suppose, because in the earlier days of the post
log huts preceded these small wooden houses. They are chiefly occupied by enlisted men and
civilian employees. That large building is the band barracks. The officers' quarters, with
a few exceptions, are just above the brow of the hill west and south of the plain."

In a few moments Amy saw the wide parade and drill ground, now covered with untrodden snow.

"What a strange formation of land, right in among the mountains," she said.

"Yes," replied her companion. "Nature could not have designed a better place for a military
school. It is very accessible, yet easily guarded, and the latter is an important point, for
some of the cadets are very wild, and disposed toward larks."

"I imagine that they are like other young fellows. Were you a saint at college?"

"How can you think otherwise? There, just opposite to us, out on the plain, the evening parade
takes place after the spring fairly opens. I shall bring you down to see it, and 'tis a pretty
sight. The music also is fine. Oh, I shall be magnanimous, and procure you some introductions
if you wish."

"Thank you. That will be the best policy. These substantial buildings on our right are the
officers' quarters, I suppose?"

"Yes. That is the commandant's, and the one beyond it is the superintendent's. They are both
usually officers of high rank, who have made an honorable record for themselves. The latter
has entire charge of the post, and the position is a very responsible one; nor is it by any
means a sinecure, for when the papers have nothing else to find fault with they pick at West
Point."

"I should think the social life here would be very pleasant."

"It is, in many respects. Army ties beget a sort of comradeship which extends to the officers'
wives. Frequent removal from one part of the country to another prevents anything like vegetating.
The ladies, I am told, do not become overmuch engrossed in housekeeping, and acquire something
of a soldier's knack of doing without many things which would naturally occupy their time and
thought if they looked forward to a settled life. Thus they have more time for reading and
society. Those that I have met have certainly been very bright and companionable, and many
who in girlhood were accustomed to city luxury can tell some strange stories of their frontier
life. There is one army custom which often bears pretty hard. Can you imagine yourself an officer's
wife?"

"I'll try, if it will be of help to you."

"Then suppose you were nicely settled in one of those houses, your furniture arranged, carpets
down, etc. Some morning you learn that an officer outranking your husband has been ordered
here on duty. His first step may be to take possession of your house. Quarters are assigned
in accordance with rank, and you would be compelled to gather up your household goods and take
them to some smaller dwelling. Then your husband--how droll the word sounds!--could compel
some other officer, whom he outranked, to move. It would seem that the thing might go on indefinitely,
and the coming of a new officer produce a regular 1st of May state of affairs."

"I perceive that you are slyly providing an antidote against the cadet fever. What large building
is this?"

"The cadet barracks. There are over two hundred young fellows in the building. They have to
study, I can tell you, nor can they slip through here as some of us did at college. All must
abide the remorseless examinations, and many drop out. There goes a squad to the riding hall.
Would you like to see the drill and sabre practice?"

Amy assenting, they soon reached the balcony overlooking the arena, and spent an amused half-hour.
The horses were rather gay, and some were vicious, while the young girl's eyes seemed to have
an inspiriting effect upon the riders. Altogether the scene was a lively one, and at times
exciting. Burt then drove southward almost to Fort Montgomery, and returning skirted the West
Point plain by the river road, pointing out objects of interest at almost every turn, and especially
calling the attention of his companion to old Fort Putnam, which he assured her should be the
scene of a family picnic on some bright summer day, Amy's wonder and delight scarcely knew
bounds when from the north side of the plain she saw for the first time the wonderful gorge
through which the river flows southward from Newburgh Bay--Mount Taurus and Breakneck on one
side, and Cro' Nest and Storm King on the other. With a deep sigh of content, she said:

"I'm grateful that my home is in such a region as this."

"I'm grateful too," the young fellow replied, looking at her and not at the scenery.

But she was too pre-occupied to give him much attention, and in less than half an hour Thunder's
fleet steps carried them through what seemed a realm of enchantment, and they were at home.
"Burt," she said, warmly, "I never had such a drive before. I have enjoyed every moment."

"Ditto, ditto," he cried, merrily, as the horse dashed off with him toward the barn.

CHAPTER X

A WINTER THUNDER-STORM

Even before the return of Burtis and Amy the sun had been obscured by a fast-thickening haze,
and while the family was at dinner the wind began to moan and sigh around the house in a way
that foretold a storm.

"I fear we shall lose our sleighing," old Mr. Clifford remarked, "for all the indications now
point to a warm rain."

His prediction was correct. Great masses of vapor soon came pouring over Storm King, and the
sky grew blacker every moment. The wind blew in strong, fitful gusts, and yet the air was almost
sultry. By four o'clock the rain began to dash with almost the violence of a summer shower
against the windowpanes of Mr. and Mrs. Clifford's sitting-room, and it grew so dark that Amy
could scarcely see to read the paper to the old gentleman. Suddenly she was startled by a flash,
and she looked up inquiringly for an explanation.

"You did not expect to see a thunder-storm almost in midwinter?" said Mr. Clifford, with a
smile. "This unusual sultriness is producing unseasonable results."

"Is not a thunder-storm at this season very rare?" she asked.

"Yes; and yet some of the sharpest lightning I have ever seen has occurred in winter."

A heavy rumble in the southwest was now heard, and the interval between the flash and the report
indicated that the storm centre was still distant. "I would advise you to go up to Maggie's
room," resumed Mr. Clifford, "for from her south and west windows you may witness a scene that
you will not soon forget. You are not afraid, are you?"

"No, not unless there is danger," she replied, hesitatingly.

"I have never been struck by lightning," the old man remarked, with a smile, "and I have passed
through many storms. Come, I'll go with you. I never tire of watching the effects down among
the mountains."

They found Mrs. Leonard placidly sewing, with Johnnie and Ned playing about the room. "You,
evidently, are not afraid," said Amy.

"Oh no!" she replied. "I have more faith in the presence of little children than in the protection
of lightning-rods. Yes, you may come in," she said to Webb, who stood at the door. "I suppose
you think my sense of security has a very unscientific basis?"

"There are certain phases of credulity that I would not disturb for the world," he answered:
"and who knows but you are right? What's more, your faith is infectious; for, whatever reason
might tell me, I should still feel safer in a wild storm with the present company around me.
Don't you think it odd, Amy, that what we may term natural feeling gets the better of the logic
of the head? If that approaching storm should pass directly over us, with thickly flying bolts,
would you not feel safer here?"

"Yes."

Webb laughed in his low, peculiar way, and murmured, "What children an accurate scientist would
call us!"

"In respect to some things I never wish to grow up," she replied.

"I believe I can echo that wish. The outlook is growing fine, isn't it?"

The whole sky, which in the morning had smiled so brightly in undimmed sunshine, was now black
with clouds. These hung so low that the house seemed the centre of a narrow and almost opaque
horizon. The room soon darkened with the gloom of twilight, and the faces of the inmates faded
into shadowy outlines. The mountains, half wrapped in vapor, loomed vast and indefinite in
the obscurity. Every moment the storm grew nearer, and its centre was marked by an ominous
blackness which the momentary flashes left all the more intense. The young girl grew deeply
absorbed in the scene, and to Webb the strong, pure profile of her awed face, as the increasingly
vivid flashes revealed it, was far more attractive than the landscape without, which was passing
with swift alternations from ghastly gloom to even more ghastly pallor. He looked at her; the
rest looked at the storm, the children gathering like chickens under the mother's wing.

At last there came a flash that startled them all. The mountains leaped out of the darkness
like great sheeted spectres, and though seen but a second, they made so strong an impression
that they seemed to have left their solid bases and to be approaching in the gloom. Then came
a magnificent peal that swept across the whole southern arch of the sky. The reverberations
among the hills were deep, long, and grand, and the fainter echoes had not died away before
there was another flash--another thunderous report, which, though less loud than the one that
preceded it, maintained the symphony with scarcely diminished grandeur.

"This is our Highland music, Amy," Webb remarked, as soon as he could be heard. "It has begun
early this season, but you will hear much of it before the year is out."

"It is rather too sublime for my taste," replied the young girl, shrinking closer to Mr. Clifford's
side.

"You are safe, my child," said the old man, encircling her with his arm.

"Let me also reassure you in my prosaic way," Webb continued. "There, do you not observe that
though this last flash seemed scarcely less vivid, the report followed more tardily, indicating
that the storm centre is already well to the south and east of us? The next explosion will
take place over the mountains beyond the river. You may now watch the scene in security, for
the heavenly artillery is pointed away from you."

"Thank you. I must admit that your prose is both reassuring and inspiring. How one appreciates
shelter and home on such a night as this! Hear the rain splash against the window! Every moment
the air seems filled with innumerable gems as the intense light pierces them. Think of being
out alone on the river, or up there among the hills, while Nature is in such an awful mood!--the
snow, the slush, everything dripping, the rain rushing down like a cataract, and thunder-bolts
playing over one's head. In contrast, look around this home-like room. Dear old father's serene
face"--for Mr. Clifford had already taught her to call him father--"makes the Divine Fatherhood
seem more real. Innocent little Ned here does indeed seem a better protection than a lightning-rod,
while Johnnie, putting her doll to sleep in the corner, is almost absolute assurance of safety.
Your science is all very well, Webb, but the heart demands something as well as the head. Oh,
I wish all the world had such shelter as I have to-night!"

It was not often that Amy spoke so freely and impulsively. Like many with delicate organizations,
she was excited by the electrical condition of the air. The pallor of awe had given place to
a joyous flush, and her eyes were brilliant.

"Sister Amy," said Webb, as they went down to supper, "you must be careful of yourself, and
others must be careful of you, for you have not much vis inertiae. Some outside influences
might touch you, as I would touch your piano, and make sad discord."

"Should I feel very guilty because I have not more of that substantial quality which can only
find adequate expression in Latin?" she asked, with a humorous glance.

"Oh, no! At least not in my opinion. I much prefer a woman in whom the spirit is pre-eminent
over the clay. We are all made of dust, you know, and we men, I fear, often smack of the soil
too strongly; therefore we are best pleased with contrasts. Moreover, our country life will
brace you without blunting your nature. I should be sorry for you, though, if you were friendless,
and had to face the world alone."

"That can scarcely happen now," she said, with a grateful glance.

During the early part of the evening they all became absorbed in a story, which Webb read aloud.
At last Mr. Clifford rose, drew aside the curtains, and looked out. "Come here, Amy," he said.
"Look where the storm thundered a few hours since!"

The sky was cloudless, the winds were hushed, the stars shining, and the mountains stood out
gray and serene in the light of the rising moon.

"See, my child, the storm has passed utterly away, and everything speaks of peace and rest.
In my long life I have had experiences which at the time seemed as dark and threatening as
the storm that awed you in the early evening, but they passed also, and a quiet like that which
reigns without followed. Put the lesson away in your heart, my dear; but may it be long before
you have occasion for its use! Good-night."

CHAPTER XI

NATURE UNDER GLASS

The next morning Amy asked Mrs. Clifford to initiate her more fully into the mysteries of her
flowers, promising under her direction to assume their care in part. The old lady welcomed
her assistance cordially, and said, "You could not take your lesson on a more auspicious occasion,
for Webb has promised to aid me in giving my pets a bath to-day, and he can explain many things
better than I can."

Webb certainly did not appear averse to the arrangement, and all three were soon busy in the
flower-room. "You see," resumed Mrs. Clifford, "I use the old-fashioned yellow pots. I long
ago gave up all the glazed, ornamental affairs with which novices are tempted, learning from
experience that they are a delusion and a snare. Webb has since made it clear to me that the
roots need a circulation of air and a free exhalation of moisture as truly as the leaves, and
that since glazed pots do not permit this, they should never be employed. After all, there
is nothing neater than these common yellow porous pots. I always select the yellowest ones,
for they are the most porous. Those that are red are hard-baked, and are almost as bad as the
glazed abominations, which once cost me some of my choice favorites."

"I agree with you. The glazed pots are too artificial to be associated with flowers. They suggest
veneer, and I don't like veneer," Amy replied. Then she asked Webb: "Are you ready for a fire
of questions? Any one with your ability should be able to talk and work at the same time."

"Yes; and I did not require that little diplomatic pat on the back."

"I'll be as direct and severe as an inquisitor, then. Why do you syringe and wash the foliage
of the plants? Why will not simple watering of the earth in the pots answer?"

"We wash the foliage in order that the plants may breathe and digest their food."

"How lucid!" said Amy, with laughing irony. "Then," she added, "please take nothing for granted
except my ignorance in these matters. I don't know anything about plants except in the most
general way."

"Give me time, and I think I can make some things clear. A plant breathes as truly as you do,
only unlike yourself it has indefinite thousands of mouths. There is one leaf on which there
are over one hundred and fifty thousand. They are called stomata, or breathing-pores, and are
on both sides of the leaf in most plants, but usually are in far greater abundance on the lower
side. The plant draws its food from the air and soil--from the latter in liquid form--and this
substance must be concentrated and assimilated. These little pores introduce the vital atmosphere
through the air-passages of the plant, which correspond in a certain sense to the throat and
lungs of an animal. You would be sadly off if you couldn't breathe; these plants would fare
no better. Therefore we must do artificially what the rain does out-of-doors--wash away the
accumulated dust, so that respiration may be unimpeded. Moreover, these little pores, which
are shaped like the semi-elliptical springs of a carriage, are self-acting valves. A plant
exhales a great deal of moisture in invisible vapor. A sunflower has been known to give off
three pounds of water in twenty-four hours. This does no harm, unless the moisture escapes
faster than it rises from the roots, in which case the plant wilts, and may even die. In such
emergencies these little stomata, or mouths, shut up partly or completely, and so do much to
check the exhalation. When moisture is given to the roots, these mouths open again, and if
our eyes were fine enough we should see the vapor passing out."

"I never appreciated the fact before that plants are so thoroughly alive."

"Indeed, they are alive, and therefore they need the intelligent care required by all living
creatures which we have removed from their natural conditions. Nature takes care of her children
when they are where she placed them. In a case like this, wherein we are preserving plants
that need summer warmth through a winter cold, we must learn to supply her place, and as far
as possible adopt her methods. It is just because multitudes do not understand her ways that
so many house plants are in a half-dying condition."

"Now, Amy, I will teach you how to water the pots," Mrs. Clifford began. "The water, you see,
has been standing in the flower-room all night, so as to raise its temperature. That drawn
directly from the well would be much too cold, and even as it is I shall add some warm water
to take the chill off. The roots are very sensitive to a sudden chill from too cold water.
No, don't pour it into the pots from that pitcher. The rain does not fall so, and, as Webb
says, we must imitate nature. This watering-pot with a fine rose will enable you to sprinkle
them slowly, and the soil can absorb the moisture naturally and equally. Most plants need water
much as we take our food, regularly, often, and not too much at a time. Let this surface soil
in the pots be your guide. It should never be perfectly dry, and still less should it be sodden
with moisture; nor should moisture ever stand in the saucers under the pots, unless the plants
are semi-aquatic, like this calla-lily. You will gradually learn to treat each plant or family
of plants according to its nature. The amount of water which that calla requires would kill
this heath, and the quantity needed by the heath would be the death of that cactus over there."

"Oh dear!" cried Amy, "if I were left alone in the care of your flower-room, I should out-Herod
Herod in the slaughter of the innocents."

"You will not be left alone, and you will be surprised to find how quickly the pretty mystery
of life and growth will begin to reveal itself to you."

       *       *       *       *       *

As the days passed, Amy became more and more absorbed in the genial family life of the Cliffords.
She especially attached herself to the old people, and Mr. and Mrs. Clifford were fast learning
that their kindness to the orphan was destined to receive an exceeding rich reward. Her young
eyes supplemented theirs, which were fast growing dim; and even platitudes read in her sweet
girlish voice seemed to acquire point and interest. She soon learned to glean from the papers
and periodicals that which each cared for, and to skip the rest. She discovered in the library
a well-written book on travel in the tropics, and soon had them absorbed in its pages, the
descriptions being much enhanced in interest by contrast with the winter landscape outside.
Mrs. Clifford had several volumes on the culture of flowers, and under her guidance and that
of Webb she began to prepare for the practical out-door work of spring with great zest. In
the meantime she was assiduous in the care of the house plants, and read all she could find
in regard to the species and varieties represented in the little flower-room. It became a source
of genuine amusement to start with a familiar house plant and trace out all its botanical relatives,
with their exceedingly varied character and yet essential consanguinity; and she drew others,
even Alf and little Johnnie, into this unhackneyed pursuit of knowledge.

"These plant families," she said one day, "are as curiously diverse as human families. Group
them together and you can see plainly that they belong to one another, and yet they differ
so widely."

"As widely as Webb and I," put in Burt.

"Thanks for so apt an illustration."

"Burt is what you would call a rampant grower, running more to wood and foliage than anything
else," Leonard remarked.

"I didn't say that," said Amy. "Moreover, I learned from my reading that many of the strong-growing
plants become in maturity the most productive of flowers or fruit."

"How young I must seem to you!" Burt remarked.

"Well, don't be discouraged. It's a fault that will mend every day," she replied, with a smile
that was so arch and genial that he mentally assured himself that he never would be disheartened
in his growing purpose to make Amy more than a sister.

CHAPTER XII

A MOUNTAINEER'S HOVEL

One winter noon Leonard returned from his superintendence of the wood-cutting in the mountains.
At the dinner-table be remarked: "I have heard to-day that the Lumley family are in great destitution,
as usual. It is useless to help them, and yet one cannot sit down to a dinner like this in
comfort while even the Lumleys are hungry."

"Hunger is their one good trait," said Webb. "Under its incentive they contribute the smallest
amount possible to the world's work."

"I shouldn't mind," resumed Leonard, "if Lumley and his wife were pinched sharply. Indeed,
it would give me solid satisfaction had I the power to make those people work steadily for
a year, although they would regard it as the worst species of cruelty. They have a child, however,
I am told, and for its sake I must go and see after them. Come with me, Amy, and I promise
that you will be quite contented when you return home."

It was rather late in the afternoon when the busy Leonard appeared at the door in his strong
one-horse sleigh with its movable seat, and Amy found that he had provided an ample store of
vegetables, flour, etc. She started upon the expedition with genuine zest, to which every mile
of progress added.

The clouded sky permitted only a cold gray light, in which everything stood out with wonderful
distinctness. Even the dried weeds with their shrivelled seed-vessels were sharply defined
against the snow. The beech leaves which still clung to the trees were bleached and white,
but the foliage on the lower branches of the oaks was almost black against the hillside. Not
a breath of air rustled them. At times Leonard would stop his horse, and when the jingle of
the sleigh-bells ceased the silence was profound. Every vestige of life had disappeared in
the still woods, or was hidden by the snow.

"How lonely and dreary it all looks!" said Amy, with a sigh.

"That is why I like to look at a scene like this," Leonard replied. "When I get home I see
it all again--all its cold desolation--and it makes Maggie's room, with her and the children
around me, seem like heaven."

But oh, the contrast to Maggie's room that Amy looked upon after a ride over a wood-road so
rough that even the deep snow could not relieve its rugged inequalities! A dim glow of firelight
shone through the frosted window-panes of a miserable dwelling, as they emerged in the twilight
from the narrow track in the growing timber. In response to a rap on the door, a gruff, thick
voice said, "Come in."

Leonard, with a heavy basket on his arm, entered, followed closely by Amy, who, in her surprise,
looked with undisguised wonder at the scene before her. Never had she even imagined such a
home. Indeed, it seemed like profanation of the word to call the bare, uncleanly room by that
sweetest of English words. It contained not a home-like feature. Her eyes were not resting
on decent poverty, but upon uncouth, repulsive want; and this awful impoverishment was not
seen in the few articles of cheap, dilapidated furniture so clearly as in the dull, sodden
faces of the man and woman who kennelled there. No trace of manhood or womanhood was visible--and
no animal is so repulsive as a man or woman imbruted.

The man rose unsteadily to his feet and said: "Evenin', Mr. Clifford. Will yer take a cheer?"

The woman had not the grace or the power to acknowledge their presence, but after staring stolidly
for a moment or two at her visitors through her dishevelled hair, turned and cowered over the
hearth again, her elfish locks falling forward and hiding her face.

The wretched smoky fire they maintained was the final triumph and revelation of their utter
shiftlessness. With square miles of woodland all about them, they had prepared no billets of
suitable size. The man had merely cut down two small trees, lopped off their branches, and
dragged them into the room. Their butt-ends were placed together on the hearth, whence the
logs stretched like the legs of a compass to the two further corners of the room. Amy, in the
uncertain light, had nearly stumbled over one of them. As the logs burned away they were shoved
together on the hearth from time to time, the woman mechanically throwing on dry sticks from
a pile near her when the greed wood ceased to blaze. Both man and woman were partially intoxicated,
and the latter was so stupefied as to be indifferent to the presence of strangers. While Leonard
was seeking to obtain from the man some intelligible account of their condition, and bringing
in his gifts, Amy gazed around, with her fair young face full of horror and disgust. Then her
attention was arrested by a feeble cry from a cradle in a dusky corner beyond the woman, and
to the girl's heart it was indeed a cry of distress, all the more pathetic because of the child's
helplessness, and unconsciousness of the wretched life to which it seemed inevitably destined.

She stepped to the cradle's side, and saw a pallid little creature, puny and feeble from neglect.
Its mother paid no attention to its wailing, and when Amy asked if she might take it up, the
woman's mumbled reply was unintelligible.

After hesitating a moment Amy lifted the child, and found it scarcely more than a little skeleton.
Sitting down on the only chair in the room, which the man had vacated--the woman crouched on
an inverted box--Amy said, "Leonard, please bring me the milk we brought."

After it had been warmed a little the child drank it with avidity. Leonard stood in the background
and sadly shook his head as he watched the scene, the fire-light flickering on Amy's pure profile
and tear-dimmed eye as she watched the starved babe taking from her hand the food that the
brutish mother on the opposite side of the hearth was incapable of giving it.

He never forgot that picture--the girl's face beautiful with a divine compassion, the mother's
large sensual features half hidden by her snaky locks as she leaned stupidly over the fire,
the dusky flickering shadows that filled the room, in which the mountaineer's head loomed like
that of a shaggy beast. Even his rude nature was impressed, and he exclaimed,

"Gad! the likes of that was never seen in these parts afore!"

"Oh, sir," cried Amy, turning to him, "can you not see that your little child is hungry?"

"Well,--the woman, she's drunk, and s'pose I be too, somewhat."

"Come, Lumley, be more civil," said Leonard. "The young lady isn't used to such talk."

"Oh, it all seems so dreadful!" exclaimed Amy, her tears falling faster.

The man drew a step or two nearer, and looked at her wonderingly; then, stretching out his
great grimy hand, he said: "I s'pose you think I hain't no feelings, miss, but I have. I'll
take keer on the young un, and I won't tech another drop to-night. Thar's my hand on it."

To Leonard's surprise, Amy took the hand, as she said, "I believe you will keep your word."

"That's right, Lumley," added Leonard, heartily. "Now you are acting like a man. I've brought
you a fair lot of things, but they are in trade. In exchange for them I want the jug of liquor
you brought up from the village to-day."

The man hesitated, and looked at his wife.

"Come, Lumley, you've begun well. Put temptation out of the way. For your wife and baby's sake,
as well as your own, give me the jug. You mean well, but you know your failing."

"Well, Mr. Clifford," said the man, going to a cupboard, "I guess it'll be safer. But you don't
want the darned stuff," and he opened the door and dashed the vessel against an adjacent bowlder.

"That's better still. Now brace up, get your axe and cut some wood in a civilized way. We're
going to have a cold night. You can't keep up a fire with this shiftless contrivance," indicating
with his foot one of the logs lying along the floor. "As soon as you get things straightened
up here a little we'll give you work. The young lady has found out that you have the making
of a man in you yet. If she'll take your word for your conduct to-night, she also will for
the future."

"Yes," added Amy, "if you will try to do better, we will all try to help you. I shall come
to see the baby again. Oh, Leonard," she added, as she placed the child in its cradle, "can't
we leave one of the blankets from the sleigh? See, the baby has scarcely any covering."

"But you may be cold."

"No; I am dressed warmly. Oh! see! see! the little darling is smiling up at me! Leonard, please
do. I'd rather be cold."

"Bless your good heart, miss!" said the man, more touched than ever. "Never had any sich wisitors
afore."

When Amy had tucked the child in warm he followed her and Leonard to the sleigh and said, "Good-by,
miss; I'm a-going to work like a man, and there's my hand on it agin."

Going to work was Lumley's loftiest idea of reformation, and many others would find it a very
good beginning. As they drove away they heard the ring of his axe, and it had a hopeful sound.

For a time Leonard was closely occupied with the intricacies of the road, and when at last
he turned and looked at Amy, she was crying.

"There, don't take it so to heart," he said, soothingly.

"Oh, Leonard, I never saw anything like it before. That poor little baby's smile went right
to my heart. And to think of its awful mother!"

They paused on an eminence and looked back on the dim outline of the hovel. Then Leonard drew
her close to him as he said, "Don't cry any more. You have acted like a true little woman--just
as Maggie would have done--and good may come of it, although they'll always be Lumleys. As
Webb says, it would require several generations to bring them up. Haven't I given you a good
lesson in contentment?"

"Yes; but I did not need one. I'm glad I went, however, but feel that I cannot rest until there
is a real change for the better."

"Well, who knows? You may bring it about"

The supper-table was waiting for them when they returned. The gleam of the crystal and silver,
the ruddy glow from the open stove, the more genial light of every eye that turned to welcome
them, formed a delightful counter-picture to the one they had just looked upon, and Leonard
beamed with immeasurable satisfaction. To Amy the contrast was almost too sharp, and she could
not dismiss from her thoughts the miserable dwelling in the mountains.

Leonard's buoyant, genial nature had been impressed, but not depressed, by the scene he had
witnessed. Modes of life in the mountains were familiar to him, and with the consciousness
of having done a kind deed from which further good might result, he was in a mood to speak
freely of the Lumleys, and the story of their experience was soon drawn from him. Impulsive,
warm-hearted Burt was outspoken in his admiration of Amy's part in the visit of charity, but
Webb's intent look drew her eyes to him, and with a strange little thrill at her heart she
saw that he had interpreted her motives and feelings.

"I will take you there again, Amy," was all he said, but for some reason she dwelt upon the
tone in which he spoke more than upon all the uttered words of the others.

Later in the evening he joined her in the sitting-room, which, for the moment, was deserted
by the others, and she spoke of the wintry gloom of the mountains, and how Leonard was fond
of making the forbidding aspect a foil for Maggie's room. Webb smiled as he replied:

"That is just like Len. Maggie's room is the centre of his world, and he sees all things in
their relation to it. I also was out this afternoon, and I took my gun, although I did not
see a living thing to fire at. But the 'still, cold woods,' as you term them, were filled with
a beauty and suggestiveness of which I was never conscious before. I remembered how different
they had appeared in past summers and autumns, and I saw how ready they were for the marvellous
changes that will take place in a few short weeks. The hillsides seemed like canvases on which
an artist had drawn his few strong outlines which foretold the beauty to come so perfectly
that the imagination supplied it."

"Why, Webb, I did not know you had so much imagination."

"Nor did I, and I am glad that I am discovering traces of it. I have always loved the mountains,
because so used to them--they were a part of my life and surroundings--but never before this
winter have I realized they were so beautiful. When I found that you were going up among the
hills, I thought I would go also, and then we could compare our impressions."

"It was all too dreary for me," said the young girl, in a low tone. "It reminded me of the
time when my old life ceased, and this new life had not begun. There were weeks wherein my
heart was oppressed with a cold, heavy despondency, when I just wished to be quiet, and try
not to think at all, and it seemed to me that nature looked to-day just I felt."

"I think it very sad that you have learned to interpret nature in this way so early in life.
And yet I think I can understand you and your analogy."

"I think you can, Webb," she said, simply.

CHAPTER XIII

ALMOST A TRAGEDY

The quiet sequence of daily life was soon interrupted by circumstances that nearly ended in
a tragedy. One morning Burt saw an eagle sailing over the mountains. The snow had been greatly
wasted, and in most places was so strongly incrusted that it would bear a man's weight. Therefore
the conditions seemed favorable for the eagle hunt which he had promised himself; and having
told his father that he would look after the wood teams and men on his way, he took his rifle
and started.

The morning was not cold, and not a breath of air disturbed the sharp, still outlines of the
leafless trees. The sky was slightly veiled with a thin scud of clouds. As the day advanced
these increased in density and darkened in hue.

Webb remarked at dinner that the atmosphere over the Beacon Hills in the northeast was growing
singularly obscure and dense in its appearance, and that he believed a heavy storm was coming.

"I am sorry Burt has gone to the mountains to-day," said Mrs. Clifford, anxiously.

"Oh, don't worry about Burt," was Webb's response; "there is no more danger of his being snowed
in than of a fox's."

Before the meal was over, the wind, snow-laden, was moaning about the house. With every hour
the gale increased in intensity. Early in the afternoon the men with the two teams drove to
the barn. Amy could just see their white, obscure figures through the blinding snow, Even old
Mr. Clifford went out to question them. "Yes, Mr. Burt come up in de mawnin' an' stirred us
all up right smart, slashed down a tree hisself to show a new gawky hand dat's cuttin' by de
cord how to 'arn his salt; den he put out wid his rafle in a bee-line toward de riber. Dat's
de last we seed ob him;" and Abram went stolidly on to unhitch and care for his horses.

Mr. Clifford and his two elder sons returned to the house with traces of anxiety on their faces,
while Mrs. Clifford was so worried that, supported by Amy, she made an unusual effort, and
met them at the door.

"Don't be disturbed, mother," said Webb, confidently. "Burt and I have often been caught in
snowstorms, but never had any difficulty in finding our way. Burt will soon appear, or, if
he doesn't, it will be because he has stopped to recount to Dr. Marvin the results of his eagle
hunt."

Indeed, they all tried to reassure her, but, with woman's quick instinct where her affections
are concerned, she read what was passing in their minds. Her husband led her back to her couch,
where she lay with her large dark eyes full of trouble, while her lips often moved in prayer.
The thought of her youngest and darling son far off and alone among those cloud-capped and
storm-beaten mountains was terrible to her.

Another hour passed, and still the absent youth did not return. Leonard, his father, and Amy,
often went to the hall window and looked out. The storm so enhanced the early gloom of the
winter afternoon that the outbuildings, although so near, loomed out only as shadows. The wind
was growing almost fierce in its violence. Webb had so long kept up his pretence of reading
that Amy began in her thoughts to resent his seeming indifference as cold-blooded. At last
he laid down his book, and went quietly away. She followed him, for it seemed to her that something
ought to be done, and that he was the one to do it. She found him in an upper chamber, standing
by an open window that faced the mountains. Joining him, she was appalled by the roar of the
wind as it swept down from the wooded heights.

"Oh, Webb," she exclaimed--he started at her words and presence, and quickly closed the window--"ought
not something to be done? The bare thought that Burt is lost in this awful gloom fills me with
horror. The sound of that wind was like the roar of the ocean in a storm we had. How can he
see in such blinding snow? How could he breast this gale if he were weary?"

He was silent a moment, looking with contracted brows at the gloomy scene. At last he began,
as if reassuring himself as well as the agitated girl at his side:

"Burt, you must remember, has been brought up in this region. He knows the mountains well, and--"

"Oh, Webb, you take this matter too coolly," interrupted Amy, impulsively. "Something tells
me that Burt is in danger;" and in her deep solicitude she put her hand on his arm. She noticed
that it trembled, and that he still bent the same contracted brow toward the region where his
brother must be if her fears were true. Then he seemed to come to a decision.

"Yes," he said, quietly, "I take it coolly. Perhaps it's well that I can. You may be right,
and there may be need of prompt, wise action. If so, a man will need the full control of all
his wits. I will not, however, give up my hope--my almost belief--that he is at Dr. Marvin's.
I shall satisfy myself at once. Try not to show your fears to father and mother, that's a brave
girl."

He was speaking hurriedly now as they were descending the stairs. He found his father in the
hall, much disturbed, and querying with his eldest son as to the advisability of taking some
steps immediately. Leonard, although evidently growing anxious, still urged that Burt, with
his knowledge and experience as a sportsman, would not permit himself to be caught in such a storm.

"He surely must be at the house of Dr. Marvin or some other neighbor on the mountain road."

"I also think he is at the doctor's, but shall see," Webb remarked, quietly, as he drew on
his overcoat.

"I don't think he's there; I don't think he is at any neighbor's house," cried Mrs. Clifford,
who, to the surprise of all, had made her way to the hall unaided. "Burt is thoughtless about
little things, but he would not leave me in suspense on such a night as this."

"Mother, I promise you Burt shall soon be here safe and sound;" and Webb in his shaggy coat
and furs went hastily out, followed by Leonard. A few moments later the dusky outlines of a
man and a galloping horse appeared to Amy for a moment, and then vanished toward the road.

It was some time before Leonard returned, for Webb had said: "If Burt is not at the doctor's,
we must go and look for him. Had you not better have the strongest wood-sled ready? You will
know what to do."

Having admitted the possibility of danger, Leonard acted promptly. With Abram's help a pair
of stout horses were soon attached to the sled, which was stored with blankets, shovels to
clear away drifts, etc.

Webb soon came galloping back, followed a few moments later by the doctor, but there were no
tidings of Burt.

Amy expected that Mrs. Clifford would become deeply agitated, but was mistaken. She lay on
her couch with closed eyes, but her lips moved almost continuously. She had gone to Him whose
throne is beyond all storms.

Mr. Clifford was with difficulty restrained from joining his sons in the search. The old habit
of resolute action returned upon him, but Webb settled the question by saying, in a tone almost
stern in its authority, "Father, you must remain with mother."

Amy had no further reason to complain that Webb took the matter too coolly. He was all action,
but his movements were as deft as they were quick. la the basket which Maggie had furnished
with brandy and food he placed the conch-shell used to summon Abram to his meals. Then, taking
down a double-barrelled breech-loading gun, he filled his pocket with cartridges.

"What is that for?" Amy asked, with white lips, for, as he seemed the natural leader, she hovered
near him.

"If we do not find him at one of the houses well up on the mountain, as I hope we shall, I
shall fire repeatedly in our search. The reports would be heard further than any other sound,
and he might answer with his rifle."

Leonard now entered with the doctor, who said, "All ready; we have stored the sledge with abundant
material for fires, and if Burt has met with an accident, I am prepared to do all that can
be done under the circumstances."

"All ready," responded Webb, again putting on his coat and fur cap.

Amy sprang to his side and tied the cap securely down with her scarf.

"Forgive me," she whispered, "for saying that you took Bart's danger coolly. I understand you
better now. Oh, Webb, be careful! Think of yourself too. I now see that you are thinking of
Burt only."

"Of you also, little sister, and I shall be the stronger for such thoughts. Don't give way
to fear. We shall find Burt, and all come home hungry as wolves. Good-by."

"May the blessing of Him who came to seek and save the lost go with you!" said the aged father,
tremulously.

A moment later they dashed away, followed by Burt's hound and the watch-dog, and the darkness
and storm hid them from sight.

Oh, the heavy cross of watching and waiting! Many claim that woman is not the equal of man
because she must watch and wait in so many of the dread emergencies of life, forgetting that
it is infinitely easier to act, to face the wildest storm that sweeps the sky or the deadliest
hail crashing from cannons' mouths, than to sit down in sickening suspense waiting for the
blow to fall. The man's duty requires chiefly the courage which he shares with the greater
part of the brute creation, and only as he adds woman's patience, fortitude, and endurance
does he become heroic. Nothing but his faith in God and his life-long habit of submission to
his will kept Mr. Clifford from chafing like a caged lion in his enforced inaction. Mrs. Clifford,
her mother's heart yearning after her youngest and darling boy with an infinite tenderness,
alone was calm.

Amy's young heart was oppressed by an unspeakable dread. It was partly due to the fear and
foreboding of a child to whom the mountains were a Siberia-like wilderness in their awful obscurity,
and still more the result of knowledge of the sorrow that death involves. The bare possibility
that the light-hearted, ever-active Burt, who sometimes perplexed her with more than fraternal
devotion, was lying white and still beneath the drifting snow, or even wandering helplessly
in the blinding gale, was so terrible that it blanched her cheek, and made her lips tremble
when she tried to speak. She felt that she had been a little brusque to him at times, and now
she reproached herself in remorseful compunction, and with the abandonment of a child to her
present overwrought condition, felt that she could never refuse him anything should his blue
eyes turn pleadingly to her again. At first she did not give way, but was sustained, like Maggie,
by the bustle of preparation for the return, and in answering the innumerable questions of
Johnnie and Alf. Webb's assurance to his mother that he would bring Burt back safe and sound
was her chief hope. From the first moment of greeting he had inspired her with a confidence
that had steadily increased, and from the time that he had admitted the possibility of this
awful emergency he had acted so resolutely and wisely as to convince her that all that man
could do would be done. She did not think of explaining to herself why her hope centred more
in him than in all the others engaged in the search, or why she was more solicitous about him
in the hardships and perils that the expedition involved, and yet Webb shared her thoughts
almost equally with Burt. If the latter were reached, Webb would be the rescuer, but her sickening
dread was that in the black night and howling storm he could not be found.

As the rescuing party pushed their way up the mountain with difficulty they became more and
more exposed to the northeast gale, and felt with increasing dread how great was the peril
to which Burt must be exposed had he not found refuge in some of the dwellings nearer to the
scene of his sport. The roar of the gale up the rugged defile was perfectly terrific, and the
snow caught up from the overhanging ledges was often driven into their faces with blinding
force. They could do little better than give the horses their heads, and the poor brutes floundered
slowly through the drifts. The snow had deepened incredibly fast, and the fierce wind piled
it up so fantastically in every sheltered place that they were often in danger of upsetting,
and more than once had to spring out with their shovels. At last, after an hour of toil, they
reached the first summit, but no tidings could be obtained of Burt from the people residing
in the vicinity. They therefore pushed on toward the gloomy wastes beyond, and before long
left behind them the last dwelling and the last chance that he had found shelter before night
set in. Two stalwart men had joined them in the search, however, and formed a welcome re-inforcement.
With terrible forebodings they pressed forward, Webb firing his breech-loader rapidly, and
the rest making what noise they could, but the gale swept away these feeble sounds, and merged
them almost instantly in the roar of the tempest. It was their natural belief that in attempting
to reach home Burt would first try to gain the West Point road that crossed the mountains,
for here would be a pathway that the snow could not obliterate, and also his best chance of
meeting a rescuing party. It was therefore their purpose to push on until the southern slope
of Cro' Nest was reached, but they became so chilled and despondent over their seemingly impossible
task that they stopped on an eminence near a rank of wood. They knew that the outlook commanded
a wide view to the south and north, and that if Burt were cowering somewhere in that region,
it would be a good point from which to attract his attention.

"I move that we make a fire here," said Leonard. "Abram is half-frozen, we are all chilled
to the bone, and the horses need rest. I think, too, that a fire can be seen further than any
sound can be heard."

The instinct of self-preservation caused them all to accede, and, moreover, they must keep
up themselves in order to accomplish anything. They soon had a roaring blaze under the partial
shield of a rock, while at the same time the flames rose so high as to be seen on both sides
of the ridge as far as the storm permitted. The horses were sheltered as well as possible,
and heavily blanketed. As the men thawed out their benumbed forms, Webb exclaimed, "Great God!
what chance has Burt in such a storm? and what chance have we of finding him?"

The others shook their heads gloomily, but answered nothing.

"It will kill mother," he muttered.

"There is no use in disguising the truth," said the doctor, slowly. "If Burt's alive, he must
have a fire. Our best chance is to see that. But how can one see anything through this swirl
of snow, that is almost as thick in the air as on the ground?"

To their great joy the storm soon began to abate, and the wind to blow in gusts. They clambered
to the highest point near them, and peered eagerly for some glimmer of light; but only a dim,
wild scene, that quickly shaded off into utter obscurity, was around them. The snowflakes were
growing larger, however, and were no longer swept with a cutting slant into their faces.

"Thank God!" cried Webb, "I believe the gale is nearly blown out. I shall follow this ridge
toward the river as far as I can."

"I'll go with you," said he doctor, promptly.

"No," said Webb; "it will be your turn next. It won't do for us all to get worn out together.
I'll go cautiously; and with this ridge as guide, and the fire, I can't lose my way. I'll take
one of the dogs, and fire my gun about every ten minutes. If I fire twice in succession, follow
me; meanwhile give a blast on the conch every few moments;" and with these words he speedily
disappeared.

The doctor and Leonard returned to the fire, and watched the great flakes fall hissing into
the flames. Hearing of Webb's expedition, the two neighbors who had recently joined them pushed
on up the road, shouting and blowing the conch-shell as often as they deemed it necessary.
Their signal also was to be two blasts should they meet with any success. Leonard and the doctor
were a corps de reserve. The wind soon ceased altogether, and a stillness that was almost oppressive
took the place of the thunder of the gale. They threw themselves down to rest, and Leonard
observed with a groan how soon his form grew white. "Oh, doctor," he said in a tone of anguish,
"can it be that we shall never find Burt till the snow melts?"

"Do not take so gloomy a view," was the reply. "Burt must have been able to make a fire, and
now that the wind has ceased we can attract his attention."

Webb's gun was heard from time to time, the sounds growing steadily fainter. At last, far away
to the east, came two reports in quick succession. The two men started up, and with the aid
of lanterns followed Webb's trail, Abram bringing up the rear with an axe and blankets.

Sometimes up to his waist in snow, sometimes springing from rock to rock that the wind had
swept almost bare, Webb had toiled on along the broken ridge, his face scratched and bleeding
from the shaggy, stunted trees that it was too dark to avoid; but he thought not of such trifles,
and seemed endowed with a strength ten times his own. Every few moments he would stop, listen,
and peer about him on every side. Finally, after a rather long upward climb, he knew he had
reached a rock of some altitude. He again fired his gun. The echoes soon died away, and there
was no sound except the low tinkle of the snowflakes through the bushes. He was just about
to push on, when, far down to the right and south of him, he thought he saw a gleam of light.
He looked long and eagerly, but in vain. He passed over to that side of the ridge, and fired
again; but there was no response--nothing but the dim, ghostly snow on every side. Concluding
that it had been but a trick of the imagination, he was about to give up the hope that had
thrilled his heart, when feebly but unmistakably a ray of light shot up, wavered, and disappeared.
At the same moment his dog gave a loud bark, and plunged down the ridge. A moment sufficed
to give the preconcerted signal, and almost at the risk of life and limb Webb rushed down the
precipitous slope. He had not gone very far before he heard a long, piteous howl that chilled
his very soul with dread. He struggled forward desperately, and, turning the angle of a rock,
saw a dying fire, and beside it a human form merely outlined through the snow. As the dog was
again raising one of his ill-omened howls, Webb stopped him savagely, and sprang to the prostrate
figure, whose face was buried in its arm.

It was Burt. Webb placed a hand that trembled like an aspen over his brother's heart, and with
a loud cry of joy felt its regular beat. Burt had as yet only succumbed to sleep, which in
such cases is fatal when no help interposes. Webb again fired twice to guide the rescuing party,
and then with some difficulty caused Burt to swallow a little brandy. He next began to chafe
his wrists with the spirits, to shake him, and to shout in his ear. Slowly Burt shook off his
fatal lethargy, and by the time the rest of the party reached him, was conscious.

"Good God!" he exclaimed, "did I go to sleep? I vowed I would not a hundred times. Nor would
I if I could have moved around; but I've sprained my ankle, and can't walk."

With infinite difficulty, but with hearts light and grateful, they carried him on an improvised
stretcher to the sled. Bart explained that he had been lured further and further away by a
large eagle that had kept just out of range, and in his excitement he had at first paid no
attention to the storm. Finally its increasing fury and the memory of his distance from home
had brought him to his senses, and he had struck out for the West Point road. Still he had
no fears or misgivings, but while climbing the slope on which he was found, he slipped, fell,
and in trying to save himself came down with his whole weight on a loose stone, and sprained
his left ankle. He tried to crawl and hobble forward, and for a time gave way to something
like panic. He soon found that he was using up his strength, and that he would perish with
the cold before he could make half a mile. He then crawled under the sheltering ledge where
Webb discovered him, and by the aid of his good woodcraft soon had a fire, for it was his fortune
to have some matches. A dead and partially decayed tree, a knife strong enough to cut the saplings
when bent over, supplied him with fuel. Finally the drowsiness which long exposure to cold
induces began to oppress him. He fought against it desperately for a time, but, as events proved,
was overpowered.

"God bless you, Webb!" he said, concluding his story. "You have saved my life."

"We have all had a hand at it," was the quiet reply. "I couldn't have done anything alone."

Wrapped up beyond the possibility of further danger from the cold, and roused from time to
time, Burt was carried homeward as fast as the drifts permitted, the horses' bells now chiming
musically in the still air.

       *       *       *       *       *

As hour after hour passed and there was nothing left to do, Amy took Johnnie on her lap, and
they rocked back and forth and cried together. Soon the heavy lids closed over the little girl's
eyes, and shut off the tears. Alf had already coiled up on a lounge and sobbed himself to sleep.
Maggie took up the little girl, laid her down beside him, and covered them well from the draughts
that the furious gale drove through every crack and cranny of the old house, glad that they
had found a happy oblivion. Amy then crept to a footstool at Mrs. Clifford's side--the place
where she had so often seen the youth whom the storm she now almost began to believe had swept
from them forever--and she bowed her head on the old lady's thin hand and sobbed bitterly.

"Don't give way so, darling," said the mother, as her other hand stroked the brown hair. "God
is greater than the storm. We have prayed, and we now feel that he will do what is best."

"Oh, that I had your faith!"

"It will come in time--when long years have taught you his goodness."

She slowly wiped her eyes, and stole a glance at Mr. Clifford. His earlier half-desperate restlessness
had passed away, and he sat quietly in his chair gazing into the fire, occasionally wiping
a tear from his eyes, and again looking upward with an expression of sublime submission. Soon,
as if conscious of her wondering observation, he said, "Come to me, Amy."

She stood beside him, and he drew her close as he continued:

"My child, one of the hardest lessons we can learn in this world is to say, 'Not my will, but
Thine be done.' I have lived fourscore years, and yet I could not say it at first; but now"
(with a calm glance heavenward) "I can say, 'My Father, thy will be done.' If he takes Burt,
he has given us you;" and he kissed her so tenderly that she bowed her head upon his shoulder,
and said, brokenly:

"You are my father in very truth."

"Yes," was his quiet response.

Then she stole back to her seat. There was a Presence in the room that filled her with awe,
and yet banished her former overwhelming dread and grief.

They watched and waited; there was no sound in the room except the soft crackle of the fire,
and Amy thought deeply on the noble example before her of calm, trustful waiting. At last she
became conscious that the house was growing strangely still; the faint tick of the great clock
on the landing of the stairs struck her ear; the rush and roar of the wind had ceased. Bewildered,
she rose softly and went to Maggie's room, and found that the tired mother in watching over
her children had fallen asleep in her chair. She lifted a curtain, and could scarcely believe
her eyes when she saw that the trees that had been writhing and moaning in the gale now stood
white and spectral as the lamp-light fell upon them. When had the wind ceased? It seemed as
if the calm that had fallen upon her spirit had extended to nature; that the storm had hushed
its rude clamor even while it continued. From the window she watched the white flakes flutter
through the light she knew not how long: the old clock chimed out midnight, and then, faint
and far away, she thought she heard the sleigh-bells. With swift, silent tread, she rushed
to a side door and threw it open. Yes, clear and distinct she now heard them on the mountain
road. With a low cry she returned and wakened Maggie, then flew to the old people, and, with
a voice that she tried in vain to steady, said, "They are coming."

Mr. Clifford started up, and was about to rush from the room, but paused a moment irresolutely,
then returned, sat down by his wife, and put his arm around her. He was true to his first love.
The invalid had grown faint and white, but his touch and presence were the cordials she needed.

Amy fled back to the side door, and the sled soon appeared. There was no light at this entrance,
and she was unobserved. She saw them begin to lift some one out, and she dashed through an
intervening drift nearly to her waist. Webb felt a hand close on his arm with a grip that he
long remembered.

"Burt?" she cried, in a tone of agonizing inquiry.

"Heigh-ho, Amy," said the much-muffled figure that they were taking from the sled; "I'm all right."

In strong reaction, the girl would have fallen, had not Webb supported her. He felt that she
trembled and clung almost helplessly to him.

"Why, Amy," he said, gently, "you will take your death out here in the cold and snow"; and
leaving the others to care for Burt, he lifted her in his arms and carried her in.

"Thank God, he's safe," she murmured. "Oh, we have waited so long! There, I'm better now,"
she said, hastily, and with a swift color coming into her pale cheeks, as they reached the door.

"You must not expose yourself so again, sister Amy."

"I thought--I thought when you began to lift Burt out--" But she could not finish the sentence.

"He has only sprained his ankle. Go tell mother."

Perhaps there is no joy like that which fills loving hearts when the lost is found. It is so
pure and exalted that it is one of the ecstasies of heaven. It would be hard to describe how
the old house waked up with its sudden accession of life--life that was so warm and vivid against
the background of the shadow of death. There were murmured thanksgivings as feet hurried to
and fro, and an opening fire of questions, which Maggie checked by saying:

"Possess your souls in patience. Burt's safe--that's enough to know until he is cared for,
and my half-famished husband and the rest get their supper. Pretty soon we can all sit down,
for I want a chance to hear too."

"And no one has a better right, Maggie," said her husband, chafing his hands over the fire.
"After what we've seen to-night, this place is the very abode of comfort, and you its presiding
genius;" and Leonard beamed and thawed until the air grew tropical around him.

At Mrs. Clifford's request (for it was felt that it was not best to cross the invalid), Burt,
in the rocking-chair wherein he had been placed, was carried to her room, and received a greeting
from his parents that brought tears to the young fellow's eyes. Dr. Marvin soon did all within
his power at that stage for the sprained ankle and frost-bitten fingers, the mother advising,
and feeling that she was still caring for her boy as she had done a dozen years before. Then
Burt was carried back to the dining-room, where all were soon gathered. The table groaned under
Maggie's bountiful provision, and lamp-light and fire-light revealed a group upon which fell
the richer light of a great joy.

Burt was ravenously hungry, but the doctor put him on limited diet, remarking, "You can soon
make up for lost time." He and Leonard, however, made such havoc that Amy pretended to be aghast;
but she soon noted that Webb ate sparingly, that his face was not only scratched and torn,
but almost haggard, and that he was unusually quiet. The reasons were soon apparent. When all
were helped, and Maggie had a chance to sit down, she said:

"Now tell us about it. We just heard enough when you first arrived to curdle our blood. How
in the world, Burt, did you allow yourself to get caught in such a storm?"

"If it had not been for this confounded sprain I should have come out all right;" and then
followed the details with which the reader is acquainted, although little could be got out of Webb.

"The upshot of it all is," said Leonard, as he beamed upon the party with ineffable content,
"between mother's praying and Webb's looking, Burt is here, not much the worse for his eagle hunt."

They would not hear of the doctor's departure, and very soon afterward old Mr. Clifford gathered
them around the family altar in a thanksgiving prayer that moistened every eye.

Then all prepared for the rest so sorely needed. As Webb went to the hall to hang up his gun,
Amy saw that he staggered in his almost mortal weariness, and she followed him.

"There are your colors, Amy," he said, laughingly, taking her scarf from an inner pocket. "I
wore it till an envious scrub-oak tore it off. It was of very great help to me--the scarf,
not the oak."

"Webb," she said, earnestly, "you can't disguise the truth from me by any such light words.
You are half-dead from exhaustion. I've been watching you ever since your return. You are ill--you
have gone beyond your strength, and in addition to it all I let you carry me in. Oh dear! I'm
so worried about you!"

"It's wonderfully nice to have a little sister to worry about a fellow."

"But can't I do something for you? You've thought about everybody, and no one thinks for you."

"You have, and so have the rest, as far as there was occasion. Let me tell you how wan and
weary you look. Oh, Amy, our home is so much more to us since you came!"

"What would our home be to us to-night, Webb, were it not for you! And I said you took Burt's
danger too coolly. How I have reproached myself for those words. God bless you, Webb! you did
not resent them; and you saved Burt;" and she impulsively put her arm around his neck and kissed
him, then fled to her room.

The philosophical Webb might have had much to think about that night had he been in an analytical
mood, for by some magic his sense of utter weariness was marvellously relieved. With a low
laugh, he thought,

"I'd be tempted to cross the mountains again for such a reward."

CHAPTER XIV

HINTS OF SPRING

When Amy awoke on the following morning she was almost dazzled, so brilliant was the light
that flooded the room. Long, quiet sleep and the elasticity of youth had banished all depression
from mind and body, and she sprang eagerly to the window that she might see the effects of
the storm, expecting to witness its ravages on every side. Imagine her wonder and delight when,
instead of widespread wreck and ruin, a scene of indescribable beauty met her eyes! The snow
had draped all things in white. The trees that had seemed so gaunt and skeleton-like as they
writhed and moaned in the gale were now clothed with a beauty surpassing that of their summer
foliage, for every branch, even to the smallest twig, had been incased in the downy flakes.
The evergreens looked like old-time gallants well powdered for a festival. The shrubbery of
the garden was scarcely more than mounds of snow. The fences had almost disappeared; while
away as far as the eye could reach all was sparkling whiteness. Nature was like a bride adorned
for her nuptials. Under the earlier influences of the gale the snow had drifted here and there,
making the undulations of her robe, and under the cloudless sun every crystal glittered, as
if over all had been flung a profusion of diamond dust. Nor did she seem a cold, pallid bride
without heart or gladness. Her breath was warm and sweet, and full of an indefinable suggestion
of spring. She seemed to stand radiant in maidenly purity and loveliness, watching in almost
breathless expectation the rising of the sun above the eastern mountains.

A happy group gathered at the breakfast-table that morning. Best of mind and thankfulness of
heart had conduced to refreshing repose, and the brightness of the new day was reflected in
every face. Burt's ankle was painful, but this was a slight matter in contrast with what might
have been his fate. He had insisted on being dressed and brought to the lounge in the breakfast-room.
Webb seemed wonderfully restored, and Amy thought he looked almost handsome in his unwonted
animation, in spite of the honorable scars that marked his face. Dr. Marvin exclaimed, exultingly:

"Miss Amy, you can begin the study of ornithology at once. There are bluebirds all about the
house, and you have no idea what exquisite bits of color they are against the snow on this
bright morning. After breakfast you must go out and greet these first arrivals from the South."

"Yes, Amy," put in Leonard, laughing, "it's a lovely morning for a stroll. The snow is only
two feet deep, and drifted in many places higher than your head. The 'beautiful snow' brings
us plenty of prose in the form of back-aching work with our shovels."

