But that was now twelve months since, before mankind and the Jews among them had heard of Mr.
Scarborough's illness. Now, there could be no question of dealing on favorable terms with these
gentlemen. Mr. Scarborough was, therefore, aware that the evil thing which he was about to
say to his son would have lost its extreme bitterness. It did not occur to him that, in making
such a revelation as to his son's mother he would inflict any great grief on his son's heart.
To be illegitimate would be, he thought, nothing unless illegitimacy carried with it loss of
property. He hardly gave weight enough to the feeling that the eldest son was the eldest son,
and too little to the triumph which was present to his own mind in saving the property for
one of the family. Augustus was but the captain's brother, but he was the old squire's son.
The two brothers had hitherto lived together on fairly good terms, for the younger had been
able to lend money to the elder, and the elder had found his brother neither severe or exacting.
How it might be between them when their relations with each other should be altogether changed,
Mr. Scarborough did not trouble himself to inquire. The captain by his own reckless folly had
lost his money, had lost all that fortune would have given him as his father's eldest son.
After having done so, what could it matter to him whether he were legitimate or illegitimate?
His brother, as possessor of Tretton Park, would be able to do much more for him than could
be expected from a professional man working for his bread.

Mr. Scarborough had looked at the matter all round for the space of two years, and during the
latter year had slowly resolved on his line of action. He had had no scruple in passing off
his eldest-born as legitimate, and now would have none in declaring the truth to the world.
What scruple need he have, seeing that he was so soon about to leave the world?

As to what took place at that interview between the father and the son very much was said among
the clubs, and in societies to which Captain Mountjoy Scarborough was well known; but very
little of absolute truth was ever revealed. It was known that Captain Scarborough left the
room under the combined authority of apothecaries and servants, and that the old man had fainted
from the effects of the interview. He had undoubtedly told the son of the simple facts as he
had declared them to Mr. Grey, but had thought it to be unnecessary to confirm his statement
by any proof. Indeed, the proofs, such as they were,--the written testimony, that is,--were
at that moment in the hands of Mr. Grey, and to Mr. Grey the father had at last referred the
son. But the son had absolutely refused to believe for a moment in the story, and had declared
that his father and Mr. Grey had conspired together to rob him of his inheritance and good
name. The interview was at last over, and Mr. Scarborough, at one moment fainting, and in the
next suffering the extremest agony, was left alone with his thoughts.

Captain Scarborough, when he left his father's rooms, and found himself going out from the
Albany into Piccadilly, was an infuriated but at the same time a most wretched man. He did
believe that a conspiracy had been hatched, and he was resolved to do his best to defeat it,
let the effect be what it might on the property; but yet there was a strong feeling in his
breast that the fraud would be successful. No man could possibly be environed by worse circumstances
as to his own condition. He owed he knew not what amount of money to several creditors; but
then he owed, which troubled him more, gambling debts, which he could only pay by his brother's
assistance. And now, as he thought of it, he felt convinced that his brother must be joined
with his father and the lawyer in this conspiracy. He felt, also, that he could meet neither
Mr. Grey nor his brother without personally attacking them. All the world might perish, but
he, with his last breath, would declare himself to be Captain Mountjoy Scarborough, of Tretton
Park; and though he knew at the moment that he must perish,--as regarded social life among
his comrades,--unless he could raise five hundred pounds from his brother, yet he felt that,
were he to meet his brother, he could not but fly at his throat and accuse him of the basest
villany.

At that moment, at the corner of Bond Street, he did meet his brother.

"What is this?" said he, fiercely.

"What is what?" said Augustus, without any fierceness. "What is up now?"

"I have just come from my father."

"And how is the governor? If I were he I should be in a most awful funk. I should hardly be
able to think of anything but that man who is to come to-morrow with his knives. But he takes
it all as cool as a cucumber."

There was something in this which at once shook, though it did not remove, the captain's belief,
and he said something as to the property. Then there came questions and answers, in which the
captain did not reveal the story which had been told to him, but the barrister did assert that
he had as yet heard nothing as to anything of importance. As to Tretton, the captain believed
his brother's manner rather than his words. In fact, the barrister had heard nothing as yet
of what was to be done on his behalf.

The interview ended in the two men going and dining at a club, where the captain told the whole
story of his father's imagined iniquity.

Augustus received the tale almost in silence. In reply to his brother's authoritative, domineering
speeches he said nothing. To him it was all new, but to him, also, it seemed certainly to be
untrue. He did not at all bring himself to believe that Mr. Grey was in the conspiracy, but
he had no scruple of paternal regard to make him feel that this father would not concoct such
a scheme simply because he was his father. It would be a saving of the spoil from the Amalekites,
and of this idea he did give a hardly-expressed hint to his brother.

"By George," said the captain, "nothing of the kind shall be done with my consent."

"Why, no," the barrister had answered, "I suppose that neither your consent nor mine is to
be asked; and it seems as though it were a farce ordered to be played over the poor governor's
grave. He has prepared a romance, as to the truth or falsehood of which neither you nor I can
possibly be called as witnesses."

It was clear to the captain that his brother had thought that the plot had been prepared by
their father in anticipation of his own death. Nevertheless, by the younger brother's assistance,
the much-needed sum of money was found for the supply of the elder's immediate wants.

The next day was the day of terror, and nothing more was heard, either then or for the following
week, of the old gentleman's scheme. In two days it was understood that his death might be
hourly expected, but on the third it was thought that he might "pull through," as his younger
son filially expressed himself. He was constantly with his father, but not a word passed his
lips as to the property. The elder son kept himself gloomily apart, and indeed, during a part
of the next week was out of London. Augustus Scarborough did call on Mr. Grey, but only learned
from him that it was, at any rate, true that the story had been told by his father. Mr. Grey
refused to make any farther communication, simply saying that he would as yet express no opinion.

"For myself," said Augustus, as he left the attorney's chambers, "I can only profess myself
so much astonished as to have no opinion. I suppose I must simply wait and see what Fortune
intends to do with me."

At the end of a fortnight Mr. Scarborough had so far recovered his strength as to be able to
be moved down to Tretton, and thither he went. It was not many days after that "the world"
was first informed that Captain Scarborough was not his father's heir. "The world" received
the information with a great deal of expressed surprise and inward satisfaction,--satisfaction
that the money-lenders should be done out of their money; that a professed gambler like Captain
Scarborough should suddenly become an illegitimate nobody; and, more interesting still, that
a very wealthy and well-conditioned, if not actually respectable, squire should have proved
himself to be a most brazen-faced rascal. All of these were matters which gave extreme delight
to the world at large. At first there came little paragraphs without any name, and then, some
hours afterward, the names became known to the quidnuncs, and in a short space of time were
in possession of the very gentry who found themselves defrauded in this singular manner.

It is not necessary here that I should recapitulate all the circumstances of the original fraud,
for a gross fraud had been perpetrated. After the perpetration of that fraud papers had been
prepared by Mr. Scarborough himself with a great deal of ingenuity, and the matter had been
so arranged that,--but for his own declaration,--his eldest son would undoubtedly have inherited
the property. Now there was no measure to the clamor and the uproar raised by the money-lenders.
Mr. Grey's outer office was besieged, but his clerk simply stated that the facts would be proved
on Mr. Scarborough's death as clearly as it might be possible to prove them. The curses uttered
against the old squire were bitter and deep, but during this time he was still supposed to
be lying at death's door, and did not, in truth, himself expect to live many days. The creditors,
of course, believed that the story was a fiction. None of them were enabled to see Captain
Scarborough, who, after a short period, disappeared altogether from the scene. But they were,
one and all, convinced that the matter had been arranged between him and his father.

There was one from whom better things were expected than to advance money on post-obits to
a gambler at a rate by which he was to be repaid one hundred pounds for every forty pounds,
on the death of a gentleman who was then supposed to be dying. For it was proved afterward
that this Mr. Tyrrwhit had made most minute inquiries among the old squire's servants as to
the state of their master's health. He had supplied forty thousand pounds, for which he was
to receive one hundred thousand pounds when the squire died, alleging that he should have difficulty
in recovering the money. But he had collected the sum so advanced on better terms among his
friends, and had become conspicuously odious in the matter.

In about a month's time it was generally believed that Mr. Scarborough had so managed matters
that his scheme would be successful. A struggle was made to bring the matter at once into the
law courts, but the attempt for the moment failed. It was said that the squire down at Tretton
was too ill, but that proceedings would be taken as soon as he was able to bear them. Rumors
were afloat that he would be taken into custody, and it was even asserted that two policemen
were in the house at Tretton. But it was soon known that no policemen were there, and that
the squire was free to go whither he would, or rather whither he could. In fact, though the
will to punish him, and even to arrest him, was there, no one had the power to do him an injury.

It was then declared that he had in no sense broken the law,--that no evil act of his could
be proved,--that though he had wished his eldest son to inherit the property wrongfully, he
had only wished it; and that he had now simply put his wishes into unison with the law, and
had undone the evil which he had hitherto only contemplated. Indeed, the world at large rather
sympathized with the squire when Mr. Tyrrwhit's dealings became known, for it was supposed
by many that Mr. Tyrrwhit was to have become the sole owner of Tretton.

But the creditors were still loud, and still envenomed. They and their emissaries hung about
Tretton and demanded to know where was the captain. Of the captain's whereabouts his father
knew nothing, not even whether he was still alive; for the captain had actually disappeared
from the world, and his creditors could obtain no tidings respecting him. At this period, and
for long afterward, they imagined that he and his father were in league together, and were
determined to try at law the question as to the legitimacy of his birth as soon as the old
squire should be dead. But the old squire did not die. Though his life was supposed to be most
precarious he still continued to live, and became even stronger. But he remained shut up at
Tretton, and utterly refused to see any emissary of any creditor. To give Mr. Tyrrwhit his
due, it must be acknowledged that he personally sent no emissaries, having contented himself
with putting the business into the hands of a very sharp attorney. But there were emissaries
from others, who after a while were excluded altogether from the park.

Here Mr. Scarborough continued to live, coming out on to the lawn in his easy-chair, and there
smoking his cigar and reading his French novel through the hot July days. To tell the truth,
he cared very little for the emissaries, excepting so far as they had been allowed to interfere
with his own personal comfort. In these days he had down with him two or three friends from
London, who were good enough to make up for him a whist-table in the country; but he found
the chief interest in his life in the occasional visits of his younger son.

"I look upon Mountjoy as utterly gone," he said.

"But he has utterly gone," his other son replied.

"As to that I care nothing. I do not believe that a man can be murdered without leaving a trace
of his murder. A man cannot even throw himself overboard without being missed. I know nothing
of his whereabouts,-- nothing at all. But I must say that his absence is a relief to me. The
only comfort left to me in this world is in your presence, and in those material good things
which I am still able to enjoy."

This assertion as to his ignorance about his eldest son the squire repeated again and again
to his chosen heir, feeling it was only probable that Augustus might participate in the belief
which he knew to be only too common. There was, no doubt, an idea prevalent that the squire
and the captain were in league together to cheat the creditors, and that the squire, who in
these days received much undeserved credit for Machiavellian astuteness, knew more than any
one else respecting his eldest son's affairs. But, in truth, he at first knew nothing, and
in making these assurances to his younger son was altogether wasting his breath, for his younger
son knew everything.

CHAPTER II.

FLORENCE MOUNTJOY.

Mr. Scarborough had a niece, one Florence Mountjoy, to whom it had been intended that Captain
Scarborough should be married. There had been no considerations of money when the intention
had been first formed, for the lady was possessed of no more than ten thousand pounds, which
would have been as nothing to the prospects of the captain when the idea was first entertained.
But Mr. Scarborough was fond of people who belonged to him. In this way he had been much attached
to his late brother-in-law, General Mountjoy, and had perceived that his niece was beautiful
and graceful, and was in every way desirable, as one who might be made in part thus to belong
to himself. Florence herself, when the idea of the marriage was first suggested to her by her
mother, was only eighteen, and received it with awe rather than with pleasure or abhorrence.
To her her cousin Mountjoy had always been a most magnificent personage. He was only seven
years her senior, but he had early in life assumed the manners, as he had also done the vices,
of mature age, and loomed large in the girl's eyes as a man of undoubted wealth and fashion.
At that period, three years antecedent to his father's declaration, he had no doubt been much
in debt, but his debts had not been generally known, and his father had still thought that
a marriage with his cousin might serve to settle him--to use the phrase which was common with
himself. From that day to this the courtship had gone on, and the squire had taught himself
to believe that the two cousins were all but engaged to each other. He had so considered it,
at any rate, for two years, till during the last final year he had resolved to throw the captain
overboard. And even during this year there had been periods of hope, for he had not finally
made up his mind till but a short time before he had put it in practice. No doubt he was fond
of his niece in accordance with his own capability for fondness. He would caress her and stroke
her hair, and took delight in having her near to him. And of true love for such a girl his
heart was quite capable. He was a good-natured, fearless, but not a selfish man, to whom the
fate in life of this poor girl was a matter of real concern.

And his eldest son, who was by no means good-natured, had something of the same nature. He
did love truly,--after his own fashion of loving. He would have married his cousin at any moment,
with or without her ten thousand pounds,--for of all human beings he was the most reckless.
And yet in his breast was present a feeling of honor of which his father knew nothing. When
it was explained to him that his mother's fair name was to be aspersed,--a mother whom he could
but faintly remember,--the threat did bring with it its own peculiar agony. But of this the
squire neither felt or knew anything. The lady had long been dead, and could be none the better
or the worse for aught that could be said of her. To the captain it was not so, and it was
preferable to him to believe his father to be dishonest than his mother. He, at any rate, was
in truth in love with his cousin Florence, and when the story was told to him one of its first
effects was the bearing which it would have upon her mind.

It has been said that within two or three days after the communication he had left London.
He had done so in order that he might at once go down to Cheltenham and see his cousin. There
Miss Mountjoy lived, with her mother.

The time had been when Florence Mountjoy had been proud of her cousin, and, to tell the truth
of her feelings, though she had never loved him, she had almost done so. Rumors had made their
way through even to her condition of life, and she in her innocence had gradually been taught
to believe that Captain Scarborough was not a man whom she could be safe in loving. And there
had, perhaps, come another as to whom her feelings were different. She had, no doubt, at first
thought that she would be willing to become her cousin's wife, but she had never said as much
herself. And now both her heart and mind were set against him.

