 I had previously told my step-mother my story, and
how often my own mother had wished she could have it published. I did not imagine she could
find time to write and arrange it, but she immediately proposed writing and publishing the
entire story, by the sale of which I might obtain the aid towards completing my studies. I
am glad I came to the old Bay State, the people of which the rebels hate with an extreme hatred.
I found it just such a place as I had imagined by the appearance of the soldiers and the kindness
they manifested.

    New England, that blessed land,
    All in a happy Union band;
    They with the needy share their bread
    And teach the weak the Word of God.

We never heard from my sister Hester, who made her escape from Kentucky, except when she was
on the cars, though we have no doubt she succeeded in gaining her freedom.

SUMMARY

On my return to St. Louis I met my old master, Lewis, who strove so hard to sell us away that
he might avoid seeing us free, on the street. He was so surprised that before he was aware
of it he dropped a bow. My mother met Mrs. Lewis, her old mistress, with a large basket on
her arm, trudging to market. It appeared she had lived to see the day when her children had
to wait upon themselves, and she likewise. The Yankees had taken possession, and her posterity
were on an equality with the black man. Mr. Lewis despised the Irish, and often declared he
would board at the hotel before he would employ Irish help, but he now has a dissipated Irish
cook. When I was his slave I was obliged to keep away every fly from the table, and not allow
one to light on a person. They are now compelled to brush their own flies and dress themselves
and children. Mr. Lewis' brother Benjamin was a more severe slave master than the one who owned
me. He was a tobacconist and very wealthy. As soon as the war commenced he turned Unionist
to save his property. He was very severe in his punishments. He used to extend his victim,
fastened to a beam, with hands and feet tied, and inflict from fifty to three hundred lashes,
laying their flesh entirely open, then bathe their quivering wounds with brine, and, through
his nose, in a slow rebel tone he would tell them "You'd better walk a fair chalk line or else
I'll give yer twice as much." His former friends, the guerrillas, were aware he only turned
Union to save his cash, and they gave those persons he had abused a large share of his luxury.
They then, in the presence of his wife and another distinguished lady, tortured him in a most
inhuman manner. For pretending Unionism they placed him on a table and threatened to dissect
him alive if he did not tell them where he kept his gold. He immediately informed them. They
then stood him against the house and fired over his head. From that, they changed his position
by turning him upside down, and raising him two feet from the floor, letting him dash his head
against the floor until his skull was fractured, after which he lingered awhile and finally
died. There was a long piece published in the paper respecting his repentance, benevolence,
& c. All the slaves who ever lived in his family admit the Lord is able to save to the uttermost.
He saved the thief on the cross, and perhaps he saved him.

When I made my escape from slavery I was in a query how I was to raise funds to bear my expenses.
I finally came to the conclusion that as the laborer was worthy of his hire, I thought my wages
should come from my master's pocket. Accordingly I took twenty-five dollars. After I was safe
and had learned to write, I sent him a nice letter, thanking him for the kindness his pocket
bestowed to me in time of need. I have never received any answer to it.

When I complete my education, if my life is spared, I shall endeavor to publish further details
of our history in another volume from my own pen.

Christianity has changed the moral aspect of nations. Idolatrous temples have crumbled at her
touch, and guilt owned its deformity in her presence. The darkest habitations of earth have
been irradiated with heavenly light, and the death shriek of immolated victims changed for
ascriptions of praise to God and the Lamb. Envy and Malice have been rebuked by her contented
look, and fretful Impatience by her gentle and resigned manner.

At her approach, fetters have been broken, and men have risen redeemed from dust, and freed
from chains. Manhood has learned its dignity and worth, its kindred with angels, and alliance
to God.

To man, guilty, fallen and degraded man, she shows a fountain drawn from the Redeemer's veins;
there she bids him wash and be clean. She shows a pattern so spotless and holy, so elevated
and pure, that he might shrink from it discouraged, did she not bring with her a promise from
the lips of Jehovah, that he would give power to the faint, and might to those who have no
strength. Learning may bring her ample pages and her ponderous records, rich with the spoils
of every age, gathered from every land, and gleaned from every source. Philosophy and science
may bring their abstruse researches and wonderous revelations--Literature her elegance, with
the toils of the pen, and the labors of the pencil--but they are idle tales compared to the
truths of Christianity. They may cultivate the intellect, enlighten the understanding, give
scope to the imagination, and refine the sensibilities; but they open not, to our dim eyes
and longing vision, the land of crystal founts and deathless flowers. Philosophy searches earth;
Religion opens heaven. Philosophy doubts and trembles at the portals of eternity; Religion
lifts the veil, and shows us golden streets, lit by the Redeemer's countenance, and irradiated
by his smile. Philosophy strives to reconcile us to death; Religion triumphs over it. Philosophy
treads amid the pathway of stars, and stands a delighted listener to the music of the spheres;
but Religion gazes on the glorious palaces of God, while the harpings of the blood-washed,
and the songs of the redeemed, fall upon her ravished ear. Philosophy has her place; Religion
her important sphere; one is of importance here, the other of infinite and vital importance
both here and hereafter.

Amid ancient lore the Word of God stands unique and pre-eminent. Wonderful in its construction,
admirable in its adaptation, it contains truths that a child may comprehend, and mysteries
into which angels desire to look. It is in harmony with that adaptation of means to ends which
pervades creation, from the polypus tribes, elaborating their coral homes, to man, the wonderous
work of God. It forms the brightest link of that glorious chain which unites the humblest work
of creation with the throne of the infinite and eternal Jehovah. As light, with its infinite
particles and curiously blended colors, is suited to an eye prepared for the alterations of
day; as air, with its subtle and invisible essence, is fitted for the delicate organs of respiration;
and, in a word, as this material world is adapted to man's physical nature; so the word of
eternal truth is adapted to his moral nature and mental constitution. It finds him wounded,
sick and suffering, and points him to the balm of Gilead and the Physician of souls. It finds
him stained by transgressions and defiled with guilt, and directs him to the "blood that cleanseth
from all unrighteousness and sin." It finds him athirst and faint, pining amid the deserts
of life, and shows him the wells of salvation and the rivers of life. It addresses itself to
his moral and spiritual nature, makes provision for his wants and weaknesses, and meets his
yearnings and aspirations. It is adapted to his mind in its earliest stages of progression,
and its highest state of intellectuality. It provides light for his darkness, joy for his anguish,
a solace for his woes, balm for his wounds, and heaven for his hopes. It unveils the unseen
world, and reveals him who is the light of creation, and the joy of the universe, reconciled
through the death of His Son. It promises the faithful a blessed re-union in a land undimmed
with tears, undarkened by sorrow. It affords a truth for the living and a refuge for the dying.
Aided by the Holy Spirit, it guides us through life, points out the shoals, the quicksands
and hidden rocks which endanger our path, and at last leaves us with the eternal God for our
refuge, and his everlasting arms for our protection.