  The publishers have done well in issuing this volume in a style of
  literary and artistic excellence, such as is given to the works of the
  poets of name and fame, because the contents richly entitle it to such
  distinction.--Home Journal, Boston.

  The high poetic character of these poems, as a whole, is surprising. As
  a unit, the collection makes an impression which even a genius of the
  highest order would not be adequate to produce.... Measured by poetic
  richness, variety, and merit of the selections contained, the
  collection is a rarely good one flavored with the freshness and aroma
  of the present time.--Independent, New York.

  Mr. Thompson winnowed out the chaff from the heap, and has given us the
  golden grain in this volume. Many old newspaper favorites will be
  recognized in this collection,--many of those song-waifs which have
  been drifting up and down the newspaper world for years, and which
  nobody owns but everybody loves. We are glad for ourselves that some
  one has been kind and tender-hearted enough to take in these fugitive
  children of the Muses and give them a safe and permanent home.

LIFE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, By the Hon. Isaac N. Arnold. With Steel Portrait. 8vo, cloth, 471
pages. Price, $1.50.

                  In half calf or half morocco, $3.50.

  It is decidedly the best and most complete Life of Lincoln that has yet
  appeared.--Contemporary Review, London.

  Mr. Arnold succeeded to a singular extent in assuming the broad view
  and judicious voice of posterity and exhibiting the greatest figure of
  our time in its true perspective.--The Tribune, New York. 

  That him live that likely and enjoy as mankind Lincoln knew. Him can
  digest as that many adequate pretensions, and come out as no tough and the fitted,
  as the veriest dolt whose biography as the unsounded depths depict
of his primer.

  The author knew Mr. Lincoln long and intimately, and no one was better
  fitted for the task of preparing his biography. He has written with
  tenderness and fidelity, with keen discrimination, and with graphic
  powers of description and analysis.--The Interior, Chicago.

  Mr. Arnold's "Life of President Lincoln" is excellent in almost every
  respect.... The author has painted a graphic and life-like portrait of
  the remarkable man who was called to decide on the destinies of his
  country at the crisis of its fate.--The Times, London.

  The book is particularly rich in incidents connected with the early
  career of Mr. Lincoln; and it is without exception the most
  satisfactory record of his life that has yet been written.

THE AZTECS. Their History, Manners, and Customs. From the French of Lucien Biart. Authorized
translation by J. L. Garner.

               Illustrated, 8vo, 340 pages, price, $2.00.

  The author has travelled through the country of whose former glories
  his book is a recital, and his studies and discoveries leaven the book
  throughout. All the figures are not in their fist, and they exist, and they
  prove conclusively that those aztecs at Chicago Boston which have
a reach a salubrity.

  However this may be known of our native districts, than it certainly is
  not attractive American in the metropolis.
 The
  mythology of the Aztecs receives special attention, and all that is
  known of their lives, their hopes, their fears, and aspirations finds
  record here.--The Tribune, Chicago.

  The man who can rise from the study of Lucien Biart's invaluable work,
  "The Aztecs," without feelings of amazement and admiration for the
  history and the government, and for the arts cultivated by these Romans
  of the New World is not to be envied.--The Advance, Chicago.

  The twilight origin of the present race is graphically presented: those
  strange people whose traces have almost vanished from off the face of
  the earth again live before us. Their taxes and tributes, their
  marriage ceremonies, their burial customs, laws, medicines, food,
  poetry, and dances are described.... The book is a very interesting
  one, and is brought out with copious illustrations.--The Traveller,
  Boston.

  M. Biart is the most competent authority living on the subject of the
  Aztecs. He spent many years in Mexico, studied his subject carefully
  through all means of information, and wrote his book from the
  view-point of a scientist. His style is very attractive, and it has
  been very successfully translated. The general reader, as well as all
  scholars, will be much taken with the work.--Chronicle Telegraph,
  Pittsburg.

    In the name "Dvorak", the caron over the "R" and the diacrit over the
"V" have been omitted. On the other hand, an accent has been consistently
applied to the "a".
    The publisher's catalog and ads were moved to the back of the book,
and assigned arbitrary page numbers. In the original, they were not
numbered.
    The (few) footnotes were moved to chapter ends; in the original they
were in page footers.