"No, I am glad to say. Our family has been too widely separated for the last ten years. At
first it seemed necessary, or at least convenient and desirable, and I did not think much about
it. But lately it has been continually on my mind that we were leading a cheerless existence,
and I am determined to arrange matters differently."

Mrs. Carey remembered Ossian Popham's description of Mrs. Lemuel Hamilton and forebore to ask
any questions with regard to her whereabouts, since her husband did not mention her.

"You will all be in Washington then," she said, "and your son Tom with you, of course?"

"Not quite so near as that," his father replied. "Tom's firm is opening a Boston office and
he will be in charge of that. When do you expect the Admiral back? Tom talks of their coming
together on the Bedouin, if it can be arranged."

"We haven't heard lately," said Mrs. Carey; "but he should return within a month or two, should
he not, Nancy? My daughter writes all the letters for the family, Mr. Hamilton, as you know
by this time."

"I do, to my great delight and satisfaction. Now there is one thing I have not seen yet, something
about which I have a great deal of sentiment. May I smoke my cigar under the famous crimson
rambler?"

The sun set flaming red, behind the Beulah hills. The frogs sang in the pond by the House of
Lords, and the grasshoppers chirped in the long grass of Mother Hamilton's favorite hayfield.
Then the moon, round and deep-hued as a great Mandarin orange, came up into the sky from which
the sun had faded, and the little group still sat on the side piazza, talking. Nothing but
their age and size kept the Carey chickens out of Mr. Hamilton's lap, and Peter finally went
to sleep with his head against the consul's knee. He was a "lappy" man, Nancy said next morning;
and indeed there had been no one like him in the family circle for many a long month. He was
tender, he was gay, he was fatherly, he was interested in all that concerned them; so no wonder
that he heard all about Gilbert's plans for earning money, and Nancy's accepted story. No wonder
he exclaimed at the check for ten dollars proudly exhibited in payment, and no wonder he marvelled
at the Summer Vacation School in the barn, where fourteen little scholars were already enrolled
under the tutelage of the Carey Faculty. "I never wanted to go to anything in my life as much
as I want to go to that school!" he asserted. "If I could write a circular as enticing as that,
I should be a rich man. I wish you'd let me have some new ones printed, girls, and put me down
for three evening lectures; I'd do almost anything to get into that Faculty." "I wish you'd
give the lectures for the benefit of the Faculty, that would be better still," said Kitty.
"Nancy's coming-out party was to be in the barn this summer; that's one of the things we're
earning money for; or at least we make believe that it is, because it's so much more fun to
work for a party than for coal or flour or meat!"

A look from Mrs. Carey prevented the children from making any further allusions to economy,
and Gilbert skillfully turned the subject by giving a dramatic description of the rise and
fall of The Dirty Boy, from its first appearance at his mother's wedding breakfast to its last,
at the house-warming supper.

After Lemuel Hamilton had gone back to the little country hotel he sat by the open window for
another hour, watching the moonbeams shimmering on the river and bathing the tip of the white
meeting-house steeple in a flood of light. The air was still and the fireflies were rising
above the thick grass and carrying their fairy lamps into the lower branches of the feathery
elms. "Haying" would begin next morning, and he would be wakened by the sharpening of scythes
and the click of mowing machines. He would like to work in the Hamilton fields, he thought,
knee-deep in daisies,--fields on whose grass he had not stepped since he was a boy just big
enough to go behind the cart and "rake after." What an evening it had been! None of them had
known it, but as a matter of fact they had all scaled Shiny Wall and had been sitting with
Mother Carey in Peacepool; that was what had made everything so beautiful! Mr. Hamilton's last
glimpse of the Careys had been the group at the Yellow House gate. Mrs. Carey, with her brown
hair shining in the moonlight leaned against Gilbert, the girls stood beside her, their arms
locked in hers, while Peter clung sleepily to her hand.

"I believe they are having hard times!" he thought, "and I can't think of anything I can safely
do to make things easier. Still, one cannot pity, one can only envy them! That is the sort
of mother I would have made had I been Nature and given a free hand! I would have put a label
on Mrs. Carey, saying: 'This is what I meant a woman to be!'"

XXXIV

NANCY COMES OUT

Nancy's seventeenth birthday was past, and it was on the full of the August moon that she finally
"came out" in the Hamilton barn. It was the barn's first public appearance too, for the villagers
had not been invited to the private Saturday night dances that took place during the brief
reign of the Hamilton boys and girls. Beulah was more excited about the barn than it was about
Nancy, and she was quite in sympathy with this view of things, as the entire Carey family,
from mother to Peter, was fairly bewitched with its new toy. Day by day it had grown more enchanting
as fresh ideas occurred to one or another, and especially to Osh Popham, who lived, breathed,
and had his being in the barn, and who had lavished his ingenuity and skill upon its fittings.
Not a word did he vouchsafe to the general public of the extraordinary nature of these fittings,
nor of the many bewildering features of the entertainment which was to take place within the
almost sacred precincts. All the Carey festivities had heretofore been in the house save the
one in honor of the hanging of the weather vane, which had been an out-of-door function, attended
by the whole village. Now the community was all agog to disport itself in pastures new; its
curiosity being further piqued by the reception of written invitations, a convention not often
indulged in by Beulah.

The eventful day dawned, clear and cool; a day with an air like liquid amber, that properly
belonged to September,--the weather prophet really shifting it into August from pure kindness,
having taken a sticky dogday out and pitchforked it into the next month.

The afternoon passed in various stages of plotting, planning, and palpitation, and every girl
in Beulah, of dancing age, was in her bedroom, trying her hair a new way. The excitement increased
a thousand fold when it was rumored that an Admiral (whatever that might be) had arrived at
the hotel and would appear at the barn in full uniform. After that, nobody's braids or puffs
would go right!

Nancy never needed to study Paris plates, for her hair dressed itself after a fashion set by
all the Venuses and Cupids and little Loves since the world began. It curled, whether she would
or no, so the only method was to part the curls and give them a twist into a coil, from which
vagrant spirals fell to the white nape of her neck. Or, if she felt gay and coquettish as she
did tonight, the curls were pinned high to the crown of her head and the runaways rioted here
and there, touching her cheek, her ear, her neck, never ugly, wherever they ran.

