Miss Wollaston hoped, hoped with all her heart that Portia had not made a tragic mistake in
this matter of her marriage. She couldn't herself quite see how a sensible girl like Portia
could have done anything so reckless as to marry a romantic young Italian pianist, ten years
at least her junior. It couldn't be denied that the experiment seemed to have worked well so
far. Portia certainly seemed happy enough last night; contented. There was a sort of glow about
her there never was before. But the question was how long would it last. How long would it
be before those big brown Italian eyes began looking soulfully at somebody else; somebody more....

It was here that Miss Wollaston chopped herself off short, hearing--this time it was no false
alarm--Paula's step in the hall. She'd have been amazed, scandalized, profoundly indignant,
dear good-hearted lady that she was, had some expert in the psychology of the unconscious pointed
out to her that the reason she had begun talking about Portia was that it gave her an outlet
for expressing her misgivings about her own brother's marriage. Paula, of course, was a different
thing altogether.

What a beautiful creature she was, even at eight o'clock in the morning at the end of an abruptly
terminated night's sleep. She looked lovelier than ever as she came in through the shadowy
doorway. She wasn't a true blonde like Mary. Her thick strong hair was a sort of golden glorification
of brown, her skin a warm tone of ivory. Her eyes, set wide apart, were brown, and the lashes,
darker than her hair, enhanced the size of them. The look of power about Paula, inseparable
from her beauty, was not one of Miss Wollaston's feminine ideals. It spoke in every line of
her figure as well as in the lineaments of her face; in the short, rather broad, yet cleanly
defined nose; in the generous width of her mouth; in the sculpturesque poise of her neck upon
her shoulders.

Paula's clothes, too, worried her elderly sister-in-law a little, especially the house-dresses
that she affected. They were beautiful, heaven knew; more simply beautiful perhaps than it
was right that clothes should be. There was nothing indecent about them. Dear Paula was almost
surprisingly nice in those ways. But that thing she had on now, for instance;--a tunic of ecru
colored silk that she had pulled on over her head, with a little over-dress of corn colored
tulle, weighted artfully here and there that it mightn't fly away. And a string of big lumpish
amber beads. She could have got into that costume in about two minutes and there was probably
next to nothing under it. From the on-looker's point of view, it mightn't violate decorum at
all; indeed, clearly did not. But Miss Wollaston herself, if she hadn't been more or less rigidly
laced, stayed, gartered, pinched, pried and pulled about; if she could have moved freely in
any direction without an admonitory--"take care"--from some bit of whalebone somewhere, wouldn't
have felt dressed at all. There ought to be something perpetually penitential about clothes.
The biblical story of the fall of man made that clear, didn't it?

John sprang up as his wife came into the room; went around the table and held her chair for
her. "My dear, I didn't know I was robbing you of half a night's sleep," he said. "You should
have turned me out."

She reached up her strong white arms (the tulle sleeves did fall away from them rather alarmingly,
and Miss Wollaston concentrated her attention on the spiggot of the coffee urn) for his head
as he bent over her and pulled it down for a kiss.

"I didn't need any more sleep. I had such a joyous time last night. I sang the whole of Maliela,
and a lot of Thais. I don't know what all. Novelli's a marvel; the best accompanist I've found
yet. But, oh, my darling, I did feel such a pig about it."

He was back in his own chair by now and his sister breathed a little more freely.

"Pig?" he asked.

"Oh, because you weren't there," said Paula. "Because I didn't sing before, when you asked me to."

"Dearest!" John remonstrated,--pleased though with the apology, you could see with half an
eye,--"it was inexcusable of me to have asked you. It was a dull crowd from a musical point
of view. The only thing I minded was having, myself, put you into a position where you had
to refuse. I am glad you were able to make it up to yourself after."

"That was not why I didn't," Paula said. She always spoke rather deliberately and never interrupted
any one. "I mean it wasn't because the others weren't especially musical. But I couldn't have
sung without asking Novelli to play. And he couldn't have refused--being new and a little on
trial you know. And that drawing-room piano, so badly out of tune, would have been terrible
for him. There's no knowing what he mightn't have done."

John's face beamed triumph. "I might have known you had an unselfish reason for it," he said.
He didn't look at his sister but, of course, the words slanted her way.

It was perfectly characteristic of Miss Wollaston that she did not, however, make any immediate
attempt to set herself right. She attended first very competently to all of Paula's wants in
the way of breakfast and saw her fairly launched on her chilled grapefruit. Then she said,
"A man is coming to tune the piano this morning."

It was more than a statement of fact. Indeed I despair of conveying to you all the implications
and moral reflections which Miss Wollaston contrived to pack into that simple sentence.

The drawing-room piano was what an artillerist would speak of as one of the sensitive points
along the family front. It had been a present to the Wollaston household from the eldest of
John's brothers, the unmarried one Miss Wollaston had kept house for so many years before he
died; the last present, it turned out, he ever made to anybody. Partly perhaps, because it
was a sacred object, the Wollaston children took to treating it rather irreverently. The "Circassian
grand" was one of its nicknames and the "Siamese Elephant" another. It did glare in the otherwise
old-fashioned Dearborn Avenue drawing-room and its case did express a complete recklessness
of expense rather than any more austere esthetic impulse.

Paula ignored it in rather a pointed way; being a musician she might have been expected to
see that it was kept in tune. She had a piano of her own up in the big room at the top of the
house that had once been the nursery and over this instrument, she made, Miss Wollaston felt,
a silly amount of fuss. Supposedly expert tuners were constantly being called in to do things
to it and nothing they did ever seemed to afford Paula any satisfaction.

The aura that surrounded Miss Wollaston's remark included, then, the conviction that the drawing-room
piano, being a sacred memory, couldn't be out of tune in the first place; that Paula, in the
second, ought to have attended to it; and third (this is rather complex but I guarantee the
accuracy of it) the fact that it was to be tuned this morning, really made it a perfectly possible
instrument for Mr. Novelli to have played upon last night.

John missed none of that. He hadn't been observing his sister during half a century for nothing.
He glanced over to see how much of it his wife took in; but the fact, in this instance, was
all that interested Paula.

"It was awfully clever of you," she said, "to get hold of a tuner. Who is he? Where did you
find him?"

"I found him in the park," said Miss Wollaston brightly, responding to the little thrill you
always felt when Paula focused her attention upon you. "He was sitting on a bench when I drove
by just after lunch. I don't know why I noticed him but I did and when I came back hours later,
he was still sitting there on the same bench. He was in uniform; a private, I think, certainly
not an officer. It struck me as rather sad, his sitting there like that, so I stopped the car
and spoke to him. He got his discharge just the other day, it seemed. I asked him if he had
a job and he said, no, he didn't believe he had. Then I asked him what his trade was and he
said he was a piano tuner. So I told him he might come this morning and tune ours."

It was Paula's bewildered stare that touched off John's peal of laughter. Alone with his sister
he might have smiled to himself over the lengths she went in the satisfaction of her passion
for good works. But Paula, he knew, would just as soon have invited a strange bench-warming
dentist to come and work on her teeth by way of being kind to him.

Miss Wollaston, a flush of annoyance on her faded cheeks, began making dignified preparations
to leave the table and John hastily apologized. "I laughed," he said,--disingenuously because
it wouldn't do to implicate Paula--"over the idea that perhaps he didn't want a job at all
and made up on the spur of the moment the unlikeliest trade he could think of. And how surprised
he must have been when you took him up."

"He did not seem surprised," Miss Wollaston said. "He thanked me very nicely and said he would
come this morning. At ten, if that would be convenient. Of course if you wish to put it off...."

"Not at all," said John. He rose when she did and--this was an extra bit, an act of contrition
for having wounded her--went with her to the door. "It was a good idea," he said; "an excellent
way of--of killing two birds with one stone."

Paula was smiling over this when he came back to her. "It doesn't matter, does it?" he asked.

She shook her head. "It isn't that it's out of tune, really; it's just--hopeless."

It was strange how like a knife thrust that word of hers--hopeless--went through him. Perfectly
illogical, of course; she was not speaking of his life and hers but of that ridiculous drawing-room
piano. Somehow the mere glow she had brought into the room with her, the afterglow of an experience
he had no share in producing, had become painful to him; made him feel old. He averted his
eyes from her with an effort and stared down at his empty plate.

A moment later she came around the table and seated herself, facing him, upon the arm of his
chair; clasped his neck with her two hands. "You're tired," she said. "How much sleep did you
have last night?" And on his admitting that he hadn't had any, she exclaimed against his working
himself to death like that.

No memory, though he made a conscious effort to recover it, of his audacious success during
the small hours of that morning in bringing triumphantly into the world the small new life
that Pollard would have destroyed, came back to fortify him; no trace of his own afterglow
that had so fascinated and alarmed his sister. "I shall sleep fast for an hour or two this
morning and make it up," he told Paula.

"I do wish you might have been there last night," she said after a little silence. "I don't
believe I've ever sung so well;--could have, at least, if there had been room enough to turn
around in. It was all there; it's getting bigger all the time. Not just the voice, if you know
what I mean, darling, but what I could do with it."

"It was partly Novelli, I suspect," he said. "Having him for an accompanist, I mean. He's very
good indeed, isn't he?"

"Oh, yes, he's good," she assented absently. "Awfully good. And he is a nice furry little enthusiastic
thing; like a faun, rather; exciting to play with of course. But it wasn't that. It's you,
really--being in love with you the way I am. I suppose that's the very best thing that could
possibly have happened to me. I'm another person altogether from that girl you found in Vienna.
Just where she left off, I begin."

She uttered a little laugh then of sheer exuberance and with a strong embrace, pressed his
head hard against her breast. He yielded passively, made no response of his own beyond a deep-drawn
breath or two. A moment later when she had released him and risen to her feet, he rose too.

"Would Novelli be procurable?" he asked. "Could he be engaged regularly, as an accompanist
for you and so on?"

She looked at him rather oddly. "Why, I don't need him," she said, "as long as I am just playing.
Of course, if I were to go regularly to work, somebody like him would be almost necessary."

There was a tight little silence for a few seconds after that, he once more evading her eyes.
"It seems to me you work most of the time as it is," he said. Then he announced his intention
of going up-stairs to take a nap. He wasn't going to the hospital until eleven.

He did go up to his room and lay down upon his bed and, eventually, he slept. But for an hour,
his mind raced like an idle motor. That nonsense of Lucile's about Portia Stanton's folly in
marrying a young musician whose big Italian eyes would presently begin looking soulfully at
some one else. Had they already looked like that at Paula? Jealousy itself wasn't a base emotion.
Betraying it was all that mattered. You couldn't help feeling it for any one you loved. Paula,
bending over that furry faun-like head, reading off the same score with him, responding to
the same emotions from the music.... Fantastic, of course. There could be no sane doubt as
to who it was that Paula was in love with. That embrace of hers, just now. Curious how it terrified
him. He had felt like a mouse under the soft paw of a cat. An odd symptom of fatigue.

What a curious thing life was. How widely it departed from the traditional patterns. Here in
his own case, that Fate should save the one real passion of his life for the Indian summer
of it. And that it should be a reciprocated passion. The wiseacres were smiling at him, he
supposed; smiling as the world always smiled at the spectacle of infatuate age mating with
tolerant, indifferently acquiescent youth. Smiled and wondered how long it would be before
youth awoke and turned to its own. Well, he could afford to smile at the wiseacres. And at
the green inexperienced young, as well, who thought that love was exclusively their affair--children
the age of Mary taking their sentimental thrills so seriously!

Four years now he had been married to Paula and the thing had never chilled,--never gone stale.
How different from the love of his youth that had led to his former marriage, was this burning
constant flame. Paula was utterly content with him. She had given up her career for him.--No.
She hadn't done that. He had not asked her to do that. Had not, on the contrary, her marriage
really furthered it? Was she not more of a person to-day than the discouraged young woman he
had found singing for pittances the leading dramatic soprano rôles in the minor municipal operas
of Germany and Austria? Wasn't that what she had said this morning--that falling in love with
him was the best thing that could possibly have happened to her? He had taken it wrong when
she said it, as if she were regarding him just as an instrument that served her purpose, a
purpose that lay beyond him; outside him.

That was what had given him that momentary pang of terror. Fatigue, of course. He ought to
go to sleep. Paula was refraining from her morning practise just so that he could. Or was that
why? Was she dreaming, up in the music room where she was never to be disturbed,--of last night--of
Novelli? Damnation....

CHAPTER II

SEA DRIFT

Paula went up to the music room after breakfast, stood at one of its open windows for a few
minutes breathing in the air of an unusually mild March and then abruptly left it; dressed
for the street and went out for a walk.

She was quite as much disturbed over the scene in the dining-room as her husband had been.
His flash of jealousy over the little Italian pianist, instantly recognizable through its careful
disguise, had only endeared John Wollaston to her further, if that were possible. She had laughed
and hugged his worried old head tight against her breast.

But his refusal to face facts about her musical career was another thing altogether. Once more
he had, patently and rather pitiably, evaded the subject of her going seriously to work. Did
he think that she could go on indefinitely parading a parlor accomplishment for his society
friends,--singing nice little English songs for Wallace Hood? It was too ridiculous! That hadn't
been their understanding when she married him.

What she had been sure of last night as never before, she had tried down there in the dining-room
to convey to him; that her powers were ripe, were crying out for use. She had failed simply
because he had refused to see what she was driving at. It was just another form of jealousy
really, she supposed.

She was not an introspective person, but this, clearly, was something that wanted thinking
over. It was to "think" that she went out for the walk. Only, being Paula, the rhythm of her
stride, the sparkle of the spring air, the stream of sharp new-minted sensations incessantly
assailing eye and ear, soon swamped her problem; sunk it beneath the level of consciousness
altogether. Long before ten o'clock when she came swinging along Dearborn Avenue toward her
husband's house, she had "walked off" her perplexities.

A block from the house she found herself overtaking a man in uniform and slackened her pace
a little in order not to pass him. There was something unmilitary about the look of him that
mildly amused her. It was not that he slouched nor shuffled nor that he was ill-made, though
he was probably one of those unfortunates whom issue uniforms never fit. He carried a little
black leather satchel, and it broke over Paula that here perhaps was Lucile's piano tuner.
She half formed the intention to stay away another hour or two until he should have had time
to finish. But he interfered with that plan by stopping in front of the house and looking at
it as if making up his mind whether to go in.

It was an odd look he had, but distinctly an engaging one. He was not criticizing the architecture,
if so it could be called, of the house-front. Yet there was a sort of comfortable detachment
about him which precluded the belief that it was a mere paralyzing shyness that held him there.

Paula abandoned her intention of walking by. She stopped instead as she came up to him and
said, "Are you coming in here? If you are, I'll let you in." She fished an explanatory latch-key
out of her wrist-bag as she went up the steps.

"Why," he said, "I believe this is the house where I'm expected to tune a piano."

In the act of thrusting home her key, Paula stopped short, turned irrepressibly and stared
at him. She was one of that very small number of American-born singers who take the English
language seriously and she knew good speech when she heard it. It was one of the qualities
which had first attracted her to Doctor John. This man's speaking voice would have arrested
her attention pleasantly anywhere. Coming from the private soldier Lucile had told to come
round to tune the piano, it really startled her. She turned back to the door and opened it.

"Yes," she said, "they're expecting you. Come in and I'll show you the piano."

She might, of course, merely have indicated the drawing-room door to him with a nod and gone
up-stairs, but she was determined now to wait and hear him say something more. So she led the
way into the drawing-room and quite superfluously indicated the Circassian grand with a gesture.
Then she looked back at him quickly enough to surprise the expression that flickered across
his face at the sight of it. A mere cocking of one eyebrow it was, but amusingly expressive.
So, too, was the way he walked over toward it, with an air of cautious determination, of readiness
for anything, that made Paula want to laugh. He dropped down sidewise on the bench, turned
up the lid and dug his fingers into the keyboard.

At the noise he evoked from that pampered instrument she did laugh aloud. It was not a piano
tuner's arpeggio but a curiously teasing mixed dissonance she couldn't begin to identify. She
thought she heard him say, "My God!" but couldn't be sure. He repeated his chord pianissimo
and held it down, reached up and echoed it in the upper half of the keyboard; then struck,
hard, two octaves in the bass.

"What a piano!" he said. "What a damned piano!" He made a sort of effort to pull himself up;
apologized (she thought that was what he meant to do) for the damn. But as he turned back to
the piano and struck another chord or two, she could see that his sense of outrage was mounting
steadily all the time.

"You can't tune a piano like this."--He pushed up the cover and stared gloomily at the strings.
"A mincing sickly thing like this. It's all wrong. The scale is all wrong. The man who designed
it ought to be hung. But he called it a piano and sold it for a piano and I'm expected to come
in and tune it. Slick and smear it over and leave it sounding sicklier and tubbier and more
generally disgusting than ever. You might as well take a painted harlot off the streets"--he
glared at the ornate extravagance of the case--"and expect to make a gentlewoman of her with
one lesson in deportment. I won't tune it. It's better left as it is. In its shame."

"Well," said Paula, letting go a long breath, "you've said it."

Then she dropped into a chair and began to laugh. Never again, she felt sure, would the drawing-room
piano be able to cause her a moment's irritation. This astonishing piano tuner of Lucile's
had converted it, with his new christening, into a source of innocent merriment. "The painted
harlot" covered the ground. Clear inspiration was what that was. The way he went on glowering
at it, digging every now and then a new and more abominable chord out of its entrails made
her mirth the more uncontrollable.

"It isn't funny, you know, a thing like this," he remonstrated at last. "It's serious."

"It would be serious," she retorted with sudden severity, "if you had said all that or anything
in the least like that to Miss Wollaston. Because she really loves it. She has adopted it."

"Was she the lady who spoke to me in the park?" His evident consternation over this aspect
of the case made Paula smile as she nodded yes.

"That was an act of real kindness," he said earnestly. "Not mere good nature. It doesn't grow
on every bush."

To this she eagerly agreed. "She is kind; she's a dear." But when she saw him looking unhappily
at the piano again, she said (for she hadn't the slightest intention of abandoning him now),
"There's another one, quite a different sort of one, in the music room up-stairs. Would you
like to come along and look at that?"

He followed her tractably enough, but up in her studio before looking at the piano, he asked
her a question or two. Had he the name right? And was the lady related to Doctor Wollaston?

"She's his sister," said Paula, adding, "and I am his wife. Why, do you know him?"

"I talked with him once. He came out to the factory to see my father and I happened to be there.
Two or three years ago, that was. He did an operation on my sister that saved her life. He
is a great man." He added, "My name's Anthony March, but he wouldn't remember me."

He sat down at the instrument, went over the keyboard from bottom, to top and back again with
a series of curious modulations. Then opening his bag and beginning to get out his tools, he
said, "Before I went into the army, there was a man named Bernstein in these parts, who used
to perpetrate outrages like this on pianos."

"Yes," said Paula, "he tuned this one two weeks ago."

Without so much as a by your leave, Anthony March went to work.

It was Paula's childlike way to take any pleasurable event simply as a gift from heaven without
any further scrutiny of its source; with no labored attempt to explain its arrival and certainly
with no misgivings as to whether or not she was entitled to it. Anthony March was such a gift.
By the time he had got to work on her own piano, she knew he was pure gold and settled down
joyously to make the most of him.

It was not until she attempted to give an account to the Wollastons at dinner that night, of
the day they had spent together--for they had made a day of it--that she realized there was
anything odd, not to say astonishing, about the episode. How in the first place did it happen
that it was Paula's piano he tuned instead of the one in the drawing-room? This was, of course,
inexplicable until she could get John by himself and tell him about it. One couldn't report
to Lucile his phrase about the painted harlot. She had to content herself with stressing the
fact that he intended to tune the drawing-room piano after he had finished with hers and then
somehow he hadn't got around to it.

But why had an unaccredited wanderer whom Lucile had found in the park even been given a chance
at the piano up-stairs? Well, he had looked to Paula like an artist when she had let him in
the door. You could tell, with people like that, if you had an eye for such matters. And then
his recognition of Bernstein's nefarious handiwork had clenched her conviction. Certainly she
had been right about it; he had absolutely bewitched that piano of hers. She didn't believe
there was another such tuner in the United States. If they would come up-stairs after dinner,
she'd show them. They had always thought she was unnecessarily fussy about it, but now they
should see they were mistaken. It was like unveiling a statue. The poor thing had been there
all the time, covered up so that you couldn't hear it. She was so excited about it she could
hardly leave it alone.

And he had been as delighted with the results as she herself. After he had played it a while
for her (oh, he didn't play well, atrociously badly really, but that didn't matter; it only
made it all the more exciting) he made her play for him. Paula smiled reminiscently when she
added that he had sat all the while she was playing, on the bare floor under the piano where
he could feel the vibrations as well as hear them. He had paid her an odd sort of compliment
too, when he came crawling out, saying that he had assumed from the scores on the piano that
she was a singer but that she played like a musician,--only not a pianist!

He was a genius, absolutely a genius of the first water, when it came to tuning pianos. Whether
his talent as a composer ran to any such lengths as that she, of course, didn't know. If what
he had played for her had been his own, any of it, it was awfully modern and interesting, at
least. You could tell that even though it kept him swearing at himself all the time for not
being able to play it. And from something he said at lunch...

"Lunch!" Miss Wollaston gasped (she had been away from home all day). "Do you mean you had
lunch with him?"

"Why not?" Paula wanted to know. "Me to have gone down-stairs and eaten all alone and had a
tray sent up for him? That would have been so silly, I never even thought of it. He's a real
person. I like him a lot. And I don't know when I've had such a nice day."

Here was where Paula's difficulties began. Because when they asked her who he was, where he
lived, where he came from, what his experiences in the army had been, and whether he had been
to France or not, she had to profess herself upon all these topics totally uninformed. His
name she happened to know; it was Anthony March. He told her that, somehow, right at the beginning,
though she couldn't remember how the fact had cropped out.

As to the other matters her husband and his sister were seeking information about she simply
hadn't had time to get around to things like that. She thought he might have been a farmer
once or some such sort of person. He liked the country anyway. He had spent a lot of time,
he told her, tramping about in Illinois and Iowa, earning his way by tuning farmers' pianos.

He hated Puccini and spoke rather disrespectfully of Wagner as a spell-binder. He liked Wolf-Ferrari
pretty well; the modern he was really crazy about was Montemezzi. But he had made her sing
oceans of Gluck,--both the Iphigenia and Euridice. It was awfully funny too because he would
sing the other parts wherever they happened to lie, tenor, bass, contralto, anything, in the
most awful voice you ever heard, though his speaking voice was lovely. Let John just wait until
he heard it. It was almost as nice as his own. Oh, he was coming back again some time. He had
promised to bring over some songs of his own composing for her to try.

It was at this point or thereabouts that John precipitated a crisis by asking how much this
paragon of a piano tuner had charged her for his professional services. Paula stared at him,
stricken.

"Why," she said, "I don't believe I paid him anything. I know I didn't. I never thought of
it at all. Neither did he, for that matter though, I'm sure of it."

This provoked Lucile into an outburst, rare with her, of outspoken indignation. The man, delinquent
as he had been in the matter of the drawing-room piano, became once more her protégé, her soldier
whom she had found in the park and attempted to do a kindness to. Paula had kept him fussing
over her piano all day and then let him go without, for all she knew, money enough to buy his
supper or procure a lodging for the night.

John, though he made less commotion about it, took his wife's negligence even more seriously
for he set about attempting to repair it. "You're quite sure," he asked in his crisp, consulting-room
manner--a manner Paula was happily unfamiliar with--"You're quite sure he told you nothing
about himself beyond his bare name? You've got that right, haven't you? Anthony March?"

"Yes," said Paula uncertainly, "I'm absolutely sure of that."

Had he any insignia on his uniform?--little bronze numerals on his collar--anything like that
that she could remember? That would tell them what organization he belonged to and might give
them a clue.

Here Lucile got drawn into the inquisition. She had seen him and talked to him. Had she noticed
anything of the sort? But Lucile had not. She had, naturally, deferred all inquiries until
he came to tune the piano; and had she been called as she felt she should have been....

But John, it appeared, was not interested in pursuing that line. He turned back to Paula. "I
wish you'd begin at the beginning, my dear, at the time you let him into the house, and try
to remember as nearly as you can everything that you said to him and that he said to you. He
may have said something casually that you didn't remark at the time which would be of the greatest
help to us now."

Paula wasn't very hopeful of obtaining any result in this way, but she dutifully went to work
trying to think. She was perfectly amiable about it all. Presently her husband prompted her.
"How did he happen to tell you what his name was? Can you remember that?"

After a minute, she did. "Why," she cried, lighting up, "he said he knew you but you wouldn't
remember him. He said you did an operation on his sister once--that saved her life."

"An unmarried sister?" he asked.

"What difference ... Oh, I see, because if she was married her name wouldn't be March. No,
he didn't say anything about that. He did say something, though, about a factory. You went
out to the factory to see his father and he was there."

John Wollaston's face went blank for a minute and his eyelids drooped shut. Then a quick jerk
of the head and a sharp expulsion of breath announced success. "That's all right," he said.
"Thank the Lord, I've got it now."

It would have seemed absurd to Paula, had she been capable of regarding anything he did in
that light, that he should take a trivial matter like this so seriously. He couldn't have looked
more relieved over the successful finish of a difficult operation.

"That happens to be a case I'll never forget," he went on to explain. "Professionally speaking,
it was unique, but it had points of human interest as well. The girl was a patient in one of
the wards at the Presbyterian. I didn't get a look at her until the last minute when it was
desperate. Her father was opposed to the operation--a religious scruple, it turned out. Didn't
want God's will interfered with. He was a workman, a skilled workman in a piano factory. There
was no time to lose so I drove out there and got him; converted him on the way back to the
hospital. I remember the son, now I think of it; by his speech, too. I remember thinking that
the mother must have been a really cultivated woman. Well, it's all right. I've got the address
in the files at the office. I'll send a letter there in the morning and enclose a check. How
much ought it to be?"

Once more Paula did not know. Hadn't, she protested, an idea; and when John asked her how much
she paid Bernstein, she didn't know that either. It all went on the bill.

"Well, that's easy," said John. "I've got last month's bills in my desk. All right, I'll look
into it. You needn't bother about it any more."

An approximation to a sniff from Miss Wollaston conveyed the comment that Paula hadn't bothered
appreciably about it from the beginning, but neither of the others paid any attention to that.

As it fell out, John might have spared his labors because at eight o'clock or thereabouts the
next morning just as he was sitting down to breakfast, Anthony March came back to repair his
omission of the day before and tune the drawing-room piano.

A minor domestic detail of that sort would normally have fallen within Lucile's province, but
John decisively took it away from her.

"When I finish breakfast," he said, "I'll write him a check and take it in to him." He added,
"I'm curious to see what this new discovery of Paula's looks like."

That was exactly what he felt, an amused comfortable curiosity. Nothing in the least like that
flash of jealousy he had felt over Novelli. If it had occurred to him to try to explain the
difference to himself and had he taken the trouble to skim off the superficial explanation,--that
Portia Stanton's husband belonged in Paula's world and that a tramp genius who came around
to tune pianos did not,--he might have got down to the recognition of the fact that the character
Paula had sketched for him last night was a grotesque and not therefore to be taken seriously.
You could not, at least, do anything but smile over a man who sat on the floor under Paula's
piano while she played and came crawling out to express surprise that a singer should be a
musician as well.

So the look of the man he found in the drawing-room stopped him rather short. Anthony March
had taken off the ill-fitting khaki blouse and the sleeves of his olive-drab uniform shirt
were rolled up above the elbows. He was sitting sidewise on the piano bench, his left hand
on the keyboard, his right making imperceptible changes in the tension of one of the strings.
His implement, John's quick eye noticed, was not the long-handled L shaped affair he had always
seen tuners use but a T shaped thing that put the tuner's hand exactly above the pin.

"It must take an immense amount of strength," he observed, "to tune a piano with a wrench like
that."

March turned and with a pleasant sort of smile wished him a good morning. But he finished ironing
the wave out of a faulty unison before he replied to John's remark. He arose from the bench
as he spoke. "It does; but it is more a matter of knack really. A great tuner named Clark taught
me, and he learned it from Jonas Chickering himself. Old Jonas wouldn't allow any of his grand
pianos to be tuned with an L head wrench."

"My wife," said John, "recalled you to me last night, in the effort to remedy her omission
to pay you for your services yesterday. I remember your sister's case very distinctly. I hope
she is ..."

"She is quite well, thank you," March said. Oddly enough his manner stiffened a little.

John hastily produced his check. It had struck him as possible that March might suspect him
of hinting that one gratuitous service ought to offset the other.

"I hope the amount is satisfactory," he said.

March glanced at the check and smiled. "It's rather more than satisfactory; I should call it
handsome. Thank you very much." He tucked the check into the pocket of his shirt.

"My wife's immensely pleased over what you did to her piano. I'm sure she will be glad to do
all she can in the way of recommending you among her musical friends."

March looked at him in consternation. "Oh, she mustn't do that!" he cried. "I hope she won't--recommend
me to any one."

John's sudden unwelcome surmise must have been legible in his face because March then said
earnestly and quite as if the doctor had spoken his thought aloud, "Oh, it isn't that. I mean,
I haven't done anything disgraceful. It's only that I know too many musicians as it is--professional
pianists and such. If they find out I'm back, they'll simply make a slave of me. I don't need
to earn much money and I like to live my own way, but it's hard to deny people what they are
determined to get." He added thoughtfully, "I dare say you understand that, sir."

John Wollaston nodded. He understood very well indeed. He checked on his tongue the words,
"Only I have to earn a lot of money." "You are a composer, too, my wife tells me."

"Yes," March said, "but that isn't the point exactly. Put it that I enjoy traveling light and
that I don't like harness. Though this one,"--he glanced down at his uniform,--"hasn't been
so bad." He turned toward the piano with the evident idea of going back to work.

"Well," John said, "I must be off. You've a good philosophy of life if you can make it work.
Not many men can. Good-by. We'll meet again some time, I hope."

"I hope so too," said Anthony March.

John went out and closed the drawing-room door behind him. Then he left the house without going
up-stairs and saying hello to Paula and sitting down on the edge of her bed, as he had meant
to do, and telling her all about his talk with the piano tuner.

It really was late and he must be getting started. Only why had he closed the drawing-room
door so carefully behind him? So that his wife shouldn't be disturbed by the infernal racket
those fellows always made tuning pianos? Or so that she mightn't even know, until he had finished
his work and gone, that Anthony March had come back at all? And not knowing, should not come
down en negligée and ask whether he had brought his songs for her. Had he brought them? Certainly
John had given him a good enough chance to say so. And if he had brought them and Paula did
not come, would he leave them for her with Nat? Or would he carry them away in his little black
satchel?

All the way out to the hospital John kept turning Anthony March over in his mind and the last
thing to leave it was what had been the first impression of all. The fine strength of that
hand and wrist which tuned grand pianos with a T wrench.

He hated himself for having shut the door.

