     "Next morning, two good looking Meztitzos, brothers, waited on us
     with a strong letter of recommendation from the Cura, as guides to
     that region of the sierra which the Padre's letter had so
     particularly described, and which description, the Cura added, he
     had taken much pains to make them understand. On being questioned
     concerning it, they startled and somewhat disconcerted us by calm
     assurances, in very fair Spanish, that they were not only familiar
     with all the land-marks, great and small, which the Cura had read
     to them, but had several times seen the very city of which we were
     in search, although none but full-blooded Indians had ever ventured
     on a journey to it. This was rather too much, even for us, sanguine
     and confiding as we were. We shared a common suspicion that the
     Cura had changed his tactics, and resolved to play a practical joke
     upon our credulity--to send us on a fool's errand and laugh at us
     for our pains. That he had been tampering with the two guides for
     this purpose, struck us forcibly; for while he professed never to
     have known any man who had seen the distant city, he recommended
     these Meztitzos, as brothers, whom he had known from their boyhood,
     they declared they had beheld it from the sierra on various
     occasions. Nevertheless, Senor Huertis believed that the young men
     spoke the truth, while the Cura, probably, did not; and hoping to
     catch him in his own snare, if such had been laid, asked the guides
     their terms, which, though high, he agreed to at once, without
     cavil. They said it would take us eight days to reach the part of
     the sierra described in the letter, and that we might have to wait
     on the summit several days more, before the weather would afford a
     clear view. They would be ready in two days; they had just returned
     across the mountains from San Antonia de Guista, and needed rest
     and repairs. There was a frankness and simplicity about these fine
     fellows which would bear the severest scrutiny, and we could only
     admit the bare possibility of our being mistaken.

     "It took us three days, however, to procure a full supply of the
     proper kind of provisions for a fortnight's abode in the sky, and
     on the fourth, (May 5th,) we paid our formal respects to the Cura,
     and started for the ascent--he not forgetting to remind us of the
     promise to report to him the precise geographical locality of our
     discovery."

The journal is again blank until May 9th, when the writer says, "Our altitude, by barometer,
this morning, is over 6000 feet above the valley which we crossed three days ago; the view
of it and its surrounding mountains, sublime with chasms, yet grotesque in outline, and all
heavily gilded with the setting sun, is one of the most oppressively gorgeous I ever beheld.
The guides inform us that we have but 3000 feet more to ascend, and point to the gigantic pinnacle
before us, at the apparent distance of seven or eight leagues; but that, before we can reach
it, we have to descend and ascend an immense barranca, (ravine,) nearly a thousand feet deep
from our present level, and of so difficult a passage that it will cost us several days. The
side of the mountain towards the north-west, is perfectly flat and perpendicular for more than
half its entire height, as if the prodigious section had been riven down by the sword of the
San Miguel, and hurled with his foot among the struggling multitude of summits below. So far,
the old Padre is accurate in every particular." In a note opposite this extract, written perpendicularly
on the margin of the manuscript, the writer says, "The average breadth of the plain on this
ridge of the sierra, (that is the ridge on which they were then encamped for the night,) is
nearly half a mile, and exhibits before us a fine rolling track as far as we can see. Neither
birds, beasts, nor insects--I would there were no such barranca!" On the tenth he says, "on
the brink of the abyss--the heaviest crags we can hurl down, return no sound from the bottom."

The next entry in the journal is dated May 15th.--"Recovered the body of Sebastiano and the
load of his mule; his brother is building a cross for his grave, and will not leave it until
famished with thirst and hunger. All too exhausted to think of leaving this our first encampment
since we descended. Present elevation but little above that of the opposite ridge which we
left on the 11th, still, at least 3000 feet to climb." On the 19th, 4 o'clock, P. M., he records,
"Myself, Sr. Hammond and Antonio, on the highest summit, an inclined plain of bare rock, of
about fifteen acres. The Padre again right. Sr. Huertis and others just discernable, but bravely
coming on. Elevation, 9,500 feet. Completely in the clouds, and all the country below invisible.
Senor Hammond already bleeding at the nose, and no cigar to stop it." At 10 o'clock, the same
night, he writes, "All comfortably asleep but myself and Sr. Hammond, who is going to take
the latitude." Then follows, "He finds the latitude 15 degrees and 48 minutes north." Opposite
this, in the margin is written, "the mean result of three observations of different stars.
Intend to take the longitude to-morrow." Next day, the 20th, he says, "A bright and most auspicious
morning, and all, but poor Antonio, in fine health and feeling. The wind by compass, N. E.,
and rolling away a billowy ocean of mist, toward, I suppose, the Bay of Honduras. Antonio says
the Pacific will be visible within an hour; (present time not given) more and more of the lower
mountains becoming clear every moment. Fancy we already see the Pacific, a faint yellow plain,
almost as elevated as ourselves. Can see part of the State of Chiapas pretty distinctly." At
12 o'clock, meridian, he says, "Sr. Hammond is taking the longitude, but finds a difference
of several minutes between his excellent watch and chronometer, and fears the latter has been
shaken. Both the watch and its owner, however, have been a great deal more shaken, for the
chronometer has been all the time in the midst of a thick blanket, and has had no falls. Sr.
Huertis, with the glass, sees whole lines and groups of pyramids, in Chiapas." At 1 o'clock,
P. M. he records, "Sr. Hammond reports the longitude, 92 degrees 15 minutes west. Brave Huertis
is in ecstacy with some discovery, but will not part with the glass for a moment. No doubt
it is the Padre's city, for it is precisely in the direction he indicated. Antonio says he
can see it with his naked eye, although less distinctly than heretofore. I can only see a white
straight line, like a ledge of limestone rock, on an elevated plain, at least twenty leagues
distant, in the midst of a vast amphitheatre of hills, to the north east of our position, toward
the State of Yucatan. Still, it is no doubt the place the Padre saw, and it may be a great city."

