Miss Vilda was knitting, and Samantha was shelling peas, on the honeysuckle porch. It had been
several days since Miss Cummins had gone to the city, and had come back no wiser than she went,
save that she had made a somewhat exhaustive study of the slums, and had acquired a more intimate
knowledge of the ways of the world than she had ever possessed before. She had found Minerva
Court, and designated it on her return as a "sink of iniquity," to which Afric's sunny fountains,
India's coral strand, and other tropical localities frequented by missionaries were virtuous
in comparison.

"For you don't expect anything of black heathens," said she; "but there ain't any question
in my mind about the accountability of folks livin' in a Christian country, where you can wear
clothes and set up to an air-tight stove and be comfortable, to say nothin' of meetinghouses
every mile or two, and Bible Societies and Young Men's and Young Women's Christian Associations,
and the gospel free to all with the exception of pew rents and contribution boxes, and those
omitted when it's necessary."

She affirmed that the ladies and gentlemen whose acquaintance she had made in Minerva Court
were, without exception, a "mess of malefactors," whose only good point was that, lacking all
human qualities, they didn't care who she was, nor where she came from, nor what she came for;
so that as a matter of fact she had escaped without so much as leaving her name and place of
residence. She learned that Mrs. Nancy Simmons had sought pastures new in Montana; that Miss
Ethel Montmorency still resided in the metropolis, but did not choose to disclose her modest
dwelling-place to the casual inquiring female from the rural districts; that a couple of children
had disappeared from Minerva Court, if they remembered rightly, but that there was no disturbance
made about the matter as it saved several people much trouble; that Mrs. Morrison had had no
relations, though she possessed a large circle of admiring friends; that none of the admiring
friends had called since her death or asked about the children; and finally that Number 3 had
been turned into a saloon, and she was welcome to go in and slake her thirst for information
with something more satisfactory than she could get outside.

The last straw, and one that would have broken the back of any self-respecting (unmarried)
camel in the universe, was the offensive belief, on the part of the Minerva Courtiers, that
the rigid Puritan maiden who was conducting the examination was the erring mother of the children,
visiting (in disguise) their former dwelling-place. The conversation on this point becoming
extremely pointed and jocose, Miss Cummins finally turned and fled, escaping to the railway
station as fast as her trembling legs could carry her. So the trip was a fruitless one, and
the mystery that enshrouded Timothy and Lady Gay was as impenetrable as ever.

