"We had decided, as you remember, to get a companion for Clara, and as I knew how anxious you
were to have only those who were well-behaved and nicely brought up about her, I thought I
would look for a little Swiss girl, as I hoped to find such a one as I have often read about,
who, born as it were of the mountain air, lives and moves without touching the earth."

"Still I think even a Swiss child would have to touch the earth if she wanted to go anywhere,"
remarked Herr Sesemann, "otherwise they would have been given wings instead of feet."

"Ah, Herr Sesemann, you know what I mean," continued Fraulein Rottenmeier. "I mean one so at
home among the living creatures of the high, pure mountain regions, that she would be like
some idealistic being from another world among us."

"And what could Clara do with such an idealistic being as you describe, Fraulein Rottenmeier."

"I am not joking, Herr Sesemann, the matter is a more serious one than you think; I have been
shockingly, disgracefully imposed upon."

"But how? what is there shocking and disgraceful? I see nothing shocking in the child," remarked
Herr Sesemann quietly.

"If you only knew of one thing she has done, if you only knew of the kind of people and animals
she has brought into the house during your absence! The tutor can tell you more about that."

"Animals? what am I to understand by animals, Fraulein Rottenmeier?"

"It is past understanding; the whole behavior of the child would be past understanding, if
it were not that at times she is evidently not in her right mind."

Herr Sesemann had attached very little importance to what was told him up till now--but not
in her right mind! that was more serious and might be prejudicial to his own child. Herr Sesemann
looked very narrowly at the lady opposite to assure himself that the mental aberration was
not on her side. At that moment the door opened and the tutor was announced.

"Ah! here is some one," exclaimed Herr Sesemann, "who will help to clear up matters for me.
Take a seat," he continued, as he held out his hand to the tutor. "You will drink a cup of
coffee with me--no ceremony, I pray! And now tell me, what is the matter with this child that
has come to be a companion to my daughter? What is this strange thing I hear about her bringing
animals into the house, and is she in her right senses?"

The tutor felt he must begin with expressing his pleasure at Herr Sesemann's return, and with
explaining that he had come in on purpose to give him welcome, but Herr Sesemann begged him
to explain without delay the meaning of all he had heard about Heidi. The tutor started in
his usual style. "If I must give my opinion about this little girl, I should like first to
state that, if on one side, there is a lack of development which has been caused by the more
or less careless way in which she has been brought up, or rather, by the neglect of her education,
when young, and by the solitary life she has led on the mountain, which is not wholly to be
condemned; on the contrary, such a life has undoubtedly some advantages in it, if not allowed
to overstep a certain limit of time--"

"My good friend," interrupted Herr Sesemann, "you are giving yourself more trouble than you
need. I only want to know if the child has caused you alarm by any animals she has brought
into the house, and what your opinion is altogether as to her being a fit companion or not
for my daughter?"

"I should not like in any way to prejudice you against her," began the tutor once more; "for
if on the one hand there is a certain inexperience of the ways of society, owing to the uncivilised
life she led up to the time of her removal to Frankfurt, on the other hand she is endowed with
certain good qualities, and, taken on the whole--"

"Excuse me, my dear sir, do not disturb yourself, but I must--I think my daughter will be wanting
me," and with that Herr Sesemann quickly left the room and took care not to return. He sat
himself down beside his daughter in the study, and then turning to Heidi, who had risen, "Little
one, will you fetch me," he began, and then paused, for he could not think what to ask for,
but he wanted to get the child out of the room for a little while, "fetch me a glass of water."

"Fresh water?" asked Heidi.

"Yes--Yes--as fresh as you can get it," he answered. Heidi disappeared on the spot.

"And now, my dear little Clara," he said, drawing his chair nearer and laying her hand in his,
"answer my questions clearly and intelligibly: what kind of animals has your little companion
brought into the house, and why does Fraulein Rottenmeier think that she is not always in her
right mind?"

Clara had no difficulty in answering. The alarmed lady had spoken to her also about Heidi's
wild manner of talking, but Clara had not been able to put a meaning to it. She told her father
everything about the tortoise and the kittens, and explained to him what Heidi had said the
day Fraulein Rottenmeier had been put in such a fright. Herr Sesemann laughed heartily at her
recital. "So you do not want me to send the child home again," he asked, "you are not tired
of having her here?"

"Oh, no, no," Clara exclaimed, "please do not send her away. Time has passed much more quickly
since Heidi was here, for something fresh happens every day, and it used to be so dull, and
she has always so much to tell me."

"That's all right then--and here comes your little friend. Have you brought me some nice fresh
water?" he asked as Heidi handed him a glass.

"Yes, fresh from the pump," answered Heidi.

"You did not go yourself to the pump?" said Clara.

"Yes I did; it is quite fresh. I had to go a long way, for there were such a lot of people
at the first pump; so I went further down the street, but there were just as many at the second
pump, but I was able to get some water at the one in the next street, and the gentleman with
the white hair asked me to give his kind regards to Herr Sesemann."

"You have had quite a successful expedition," said Herr Sesemann laughing, "and who was the
gentleman?"

"He was passing, and when he saw me he stood still and said, 'As you have a glass will you
give me a drink; to whom are you taking the water?' and when I said, 'To Herr Sesemann,' he
laughed very much, and then he gave me that message for you, and also said he hoped you would
enjoy the water."

"Oh, and who was it, I wonder, who sent me such good wishes-- tell me what he was like," said
Herr Sesemann.

"He was kind and laughed, and he had a thick gold chain and a gold thing hanging from it with
a large red stone, and a horse's head at the top of his stick."

"It's the doctor--my old friend the doctor," exclaimed Clara and her father at the same moment,
and Herr Sesemann smiled to himself at the thought of what his friend's opinion must have been
of this new way of satisfying his thirst for water.

That evening when Herr Sesemann and Fraulein Rottenmeier were alone, settling the household
affairs, he informed her that he intended to keep Heidi; he found the child in a perfectly
right state of mind, and his daughter liked her as a companion. "I desire, therefore," he continued,
laying stress upon his words, "that the child shall be in every way kindly treated, and that
her peculiarities shall not be looked upon as crimes. If you find her too much for you alone,
I can hold out a prospect of help, for I am shortly expecting my mother here on a long visit,
and she, as you know, can get on with anybody, whatever they may be like."

"O yes, I know," replied Fraulein Rottenmeier, but there was no tone of relief in her voice
as she thought of the coming help.

Herr Sesemann was only home for a short time; he left for Paris again before the fortnight
was over, comforting Clara, who could not bear that he should go from her again so soon, with
the prospect of her grandmother's arrival, which was to take place in a few days' time. Herr
Sesemann had indeed only just gone when a letter came from Frau Sesemann, announcing her arrival
on the following day, and stating the hour when she might be expected, in order that a carriage
should be sent to meet her at the station. Clara was overjoyed, and talked so much about her
grandmother that evening, that Heidi began also to call her "grandmamma," which brought down
on her a look of displeasure from Fraulein Rottenmeier; this, however, had no particular effect
on Heidi, for she was accustomed now to being continually in that lady's black books. But as
she was going to her room that night, Fraulein Rottenmeier waylaid her, and drawing her into
her own, gave her strict injunctions as to how she was to address Frau Sesemann when she arrived;
on no account was she to call her "grandmamma," but always to say "madam" to her. "Do you understand?"
said the lady, as she saw a perplexed expression on Heidi's face. The latter had not understood,
but seeing the severe expression of the lady's face she did not ask for more explanation.

CHAPTER X. ANOTHER GRANDMOTHER

There was much expectation and preparation about the house on the following evening, and it
was easy to see that the lady who was coming was one whose opinion was highly thought of, and
for whom everybody had a great respect. Tinette had a new white cap on her head, and Sebastian
collected all the footstools he could find and placed them in convenient spots, so that the
lady might find one ready to her feet whenever she chose to sit. Fraulein Rottenmeier went
about surveying everything, very upright and dignified, as if to show that though a rival power
was expected, her own authority was not going to be extinguished.

And now the carriage came driving up to the door, and Tinette and Sebastian ran down the steps,
followed with a slower and more stately step by the lady, who advanced to greet the guest.
Heidi had been sent up to her room and ordered to remain there until called down, as the grandmother
would certainly like to see Clara alone first. Heidi sat herself down in a corner and repeated
her instructions over to herself. She had not to wait long before Tinette put her head in and
said abruptly, "Go downstairs into the study."

Heidi had not dared to ask Fraulein Rottenmeier again how she was to address the grandmother:
she thought the lady had perhaps made a mistake, for she had never heard any one called by
other than their right name. As she opened the study door she heard a kind voice say, "Ah,
here comes the child! Come along in and let me have a good look at you."

Heidi walked up to her and said very distinctly in her clear voice, "Good-evening," and then
wishing to follow her instructions called her what would be in English "Mrs. Madam."

"Well!" said the grandmother, laughing, "is that how they address people in your home on the
mountain?"

"No," replied Heidi gravely, "I never knew any one with that name before."

"Nor I either," laughed the grandmother again as she patted Heidi's cheek. "Never mind! when
I am with the children I am always grandmamma; you won't forget that name, will you?"

"No, no," Heidi assured her, "I often used to say it at home."

"I understand," said the grandmother, with a cheerful little nod of the head. Then she looked
more closely at Heidi, giving another nod from time to time, and the child looked back at her
with steady, serious eyes, for there was something kind and warm- hearted about this new-comer
that pleased Heidi, and indeed everything to do with the grandmother attracted her, so that
she could not turn her eyes away. She had such beautiful white hair, and two long lace ends
hung down from the cap on her head and waved gently about her face every time she moved, as
if a soft breeze were blowing round her, which gave Heidi a peculiar feeling of pleasure.

"And what is your name, child?" the grandmother now asked.

"I am always called Heidi; but as I am now to be called Adelaide, I will try and take care--"
Heidi stopped short, for she felt a little guilty; she had not yet grown accustomed to this
name; she continued not to respond when Fraulein Rottenmeier suddenly addressed her by it,
and the lady was at this moment entering the room.

"Frau Sesemann will no doubt agree with me," she interrupted, "that it was necessary to choose
a name that could be pronounced easily, if only for the sake of the servants."

"My worthy Rottenmeier," replied Frau Sesemann, "if a person is called 'Heidi' and has grown
accustomed to that name, I call her by the same, and so let it be."

Fraulein Rottenmeier was always very much annoyed that the old lady continually addressed her
by her surname only; but it was no use minding, for the grandmother always went her own way,
and so there was no help for it. Moreover the grandmother was a keen old lady, and had all
her five wits about her, and she knew what was going on in the house as soon as she entered it.

When on the following day Clara lay down as usual on her couch after dinner, the grandmother
sat down beside her for a few minutes and closed her eyes, then she got up again as lively
as ever, and trotted off into the dining-room. No one was there. "She is asleep, I suppose,"
she said to herself, and then going up to Fraulein Rottenmeier's room she gave a loud knock
at the door. She waited a few minutes and then Fraulein Rottenmeier opened the door and drew
back in surprise at this unexpected visit.

"Where is the child, and what is she doing all this time? That is what I came to ask," said
Frau Sesemann.

"She is sitting in her room, where she could well employ herself if she had the least idea
of making herself useful; but you have no idea, Frau Sesemann, of the out-of-the-way things
this child imagines and does, things which I could hardly repeat in good society."

"I should do the same if I had to sit in there like that child, I can tell you; I doubt if
you would then like to repeat what I did, in good society! Go and fetch the child and bring
her to my room; I have some pretty books with me that I should like to give her."

"That is just the misfortune," said Fraulein Rottenmeier with a despairing gesture, "what use
are books to her? She has not been able to learn her A B C even, all the long time she has
been here; it is quite impossible to get the least idea of it into her head, and that the tutor
himself will tell you; if he had not the patience of an angel he would have given up teaching
her long ago."

"That is very strange," said Frau Sesemann, "she does not look to me like a child who would
be unable to learn her alphabet. However, bring her now to me, she can at least amuse herself
with the pictures in the books."

Fraulein Rottenmeier was prepared with some further remarks, but the grandmother had turned
away and gone quickly towards her own room. She was surprised at what she had been told about
Heidi's incapacity for learning, and determined to find out more concerning this matter, not
by inquiries from the tutor, however, although she esteemed him highly for his uprightness
of character; she had always a friendly greeting for him, but always avoided being drawn into
conversation with him, for she found his style of talk somewhat wearisome.

Heidi now appeared and gazed with open-eyed delight and wonder at the beautiful colored pictures
in the books which the grandmother gave her to look at. All of a sudden, as the latter turned
over one of the pages to a fresh picture, the child gave a cry. For a moment or two she looked
at it with brightening eyes, then the tears began to fall, and at last she burst into sobs.
The grandmother looked at the picture--it represented a green pasture, full of young animals,
some grazing and others nibbling at the shrubs. In the middle was a shepherd leaning upon his
staff and looking on at his happy flock. The whole scene was bathed in golden light, for the
sun was just sinking below the horizon.

The grandmother laid her hand kindly On Heidi's.

"Don't cry, dear child, don't cry," she said, "the picture has reminded you perhaps of something.
But see, there is a beautiful tale to the picture which I will tell you this evening. And there
are other nice tales of all kinds to read and to tell again. But now we must have a little
talk together, so dry your tears and come and stand in front of me, so that I may see you well--there,
now we are happy again."

But it was some little time before Heidi could overcome her sobs. The grandmother gave her
time to recover herself, saying cheering words to her now and then, "There, it's all right
now, and we are quite happy again."

When at last she saw that Heidi was growing calmer, she said, "Now I want you to tell me something.
How are you getting on in your school-time; do you like your lessons, and have you learnt a
great deal?"

"O no!" replied Heidi, sighing, "but I knew beforehand that it was not possible to learn."

"What is it you think impossible to learn?"

"Why, to read, it is too difficult."

"You don't say so! and who told you that?"

"Peter told me, and he knew all about it, for he had tried and tried and could not learn it."

"Peter must be a very odd boy then! But listen, Heidi, we must not always go by what Peter
says, we must try for ourselves. I am certain that you did not give all your attention to the
tutor when he was trying to teach you your letters."

"It's of no use," said Heidi in the tone of one who was ready to endure what could not be cured.

"Listen to what I have to say," continued the grandmother. "You have not been able to learn
your alphabet because you believed what Peter said; but now you must believe what I tell you--and
I tell you that you can learn to read in a very little while, as many other children do, who
are made like you and not like Peter. And now hear what comes after--you see that picture with
the shepherd and the animals--well, as soon as you are able to read you shall have that book
for your own, and then you will know all about the sheep and the goats, and what the shepherd
did, and the wonderful things that happened to him, just as if some one were telling you the
whole tale. You will like to hear about all that, won't you?"

Heidi had listened with eager attention to the grandmother's words and now with a sigh exclaimed,
"Oh, if only I could read now!"

"It won't take you long now to learn, that I can see; and now we must go down to Clara; bring
the books with you." And hand in hand the two returned to the study.

Since the day when Heidi had so longed to go home, and Fraulein Rottenmeier had met her and
scolded her on the steps, and told her how wicked and ungrateful she was to try and run away,
and what a good thing it was that Herr Sesemann knew nothing about it, a change had come over
the child. She had at last understood that day that she could not go home when she wished as
Dete had told her, but that she would have to stay on in Frankfurt for a long, long time, perhaps
for ever. She had also understood that Herr Sesemann would think it ungrateful of her if she
wished to leave, and she believed that the grandmother and Clara would think the same. So there
was nobody to whom she dared confide her longing to go home, for she would not for the world
have given the grandmother, who was so kind to her, any reason for being as angry with her
as Fraulein Rottenmeier had been. But the weight of trouble on the little heart grew heavier
and heavier; she could no longer eat her food, and every day she grew a little paler. She lay
awake for long hours at night, for as soon as she was alone and everything was still around
her, the picture of the mountain with its sunshine and flowers rose vividly before her eyes;
and when at last she fell asleep it was to dream of the rocks and the snow-field turning crimson
in the evening light, and waking in the morning she would think herself back at the hut and
prepare to run joyfully out into--the sun--and then-- there was her large bed, and here she
was in Frankfurt far, far away from home. And Heidi would often lay her face down on the pillow
and weep long and quietly so that no one might hear her.

Heidi's unhappiness did not escape the grandmother's notice. She let some days go by to see
if the child grew brighter and lost her down-cast appearance. But as matters did not mend,
and she saw that many mornings Heidi had evidently been crying before she came downstairs,
she took her again into her room one day, and drawing the child to her said, "Now tell me,
Heidi, what is the matter; are you in trouble?"

But Heidi, afraid if she told the truth that the grandmother would think her ungrateful, and
would then leave off being so kind to her, answered, "can't tell you."

"Well, could you tell Clara about it?"

"Oh, no, I cannot tell any one," said Heidi in so positive a tone, and with a look of such
trouble on her face, that the grandmother felt full of pity for the child.

"Then, dear child, let me tell you what to do: you know that when we are in great trouble,
and cannot speak about it to anybody, we must turn to God and pray Him to help, for He can
deliver us from every care, that oppresses us. You understand that, do you not? You say your
prayers every evening to the dear God in Heaven, and thank Him for all He has done for you,
and pray Him to keep you from all evil, do you not?"

"No, I never say any prayers," answered Heidi.

"Have you never been taught to pray, Heidi; do you not know even what it means?"

"I used to say prayers with the first grandmother, but that is a long time ago, and I have
forgotten them."

"That is the reason, Heidi, that you are so unhappy, because you know no one who can help you.
Think what a comfort it is when the heart is heavy with grief to be able at any moment to go
and tell everything to God, and pray Him for the help that no one else can give us. And He
can help us and give us everything that will make us happy again."

A sudden gleam of joy came into Heidi's eyes. "May I tell Him everything, everything?"

"Yes, everything, Heidi, everything."

Heidi drew her hand away, which the grandmother was holding affectionately between her own,
and said quickly, "May I go?"

"Yes, of course," was the answer, and Heidi ran out of the room into her own, and sitting herself
on a stool, folded her hands together and told God about everything that was making her so
sad and unhappy, and begged Him earnestly to help her and to let her go home to her grandfather.

It was about a week after this that the tutor asked Frau Sesemann's permission for an interview
with her, as he wished to inform her of a remarkable thing that had come to pass. So she invited
him to her room, and as he entered she held out her hand in greeting, and pushing a chair towards
him, "I am pleased to see you," she said, "pray sit down and tell me what brings you here;
nothing bad, no complaints, I hope?"

"Quite the reverse," began the tutor. "Something has happened that I had given up hoping for,
and which no one, knowing what has gone before, could have guessed, for, according to all expectations,
that which has taken place could only be looked upon as a miracle, and yet it really has come
to pass and in the most extraordinary manner, quite contrary to all that one could anticipate--"

"Has the child Heidi really learnt to read at last?" put in Frau Sesemann.

The tutor looked at the lady in speechless astonishment. At last he spoke again. "It is indeed
truly marvellous, not only because she never seemed able to learn her A B C even after all
my full explanations, and after spending unusual pains upon her, but because now she has learnt
it so rapidly, just after I had made up my mind to make no further attempts at the impossible
but to put the letters as they were before her without any dissertation on their origin and
meaning, and now she has as you might say learnt her letters over night, and started at once
to read correctly, quite unlike most beginners. And it is almost as astonishing to me that
you should have guessed such an unlikely thing."

"Many unlikely things happen in life," said Frau Sesemann with a pleased smile. "Two things
coming together may produce a happy result, as for instance, a fresh zeal for learning and
a new method of teaching, and neither does any harm. We can but rejoice that the child has
made such a good start and hope for her future progress."

After parting with the tutor she went down to the study to make sure of the good news. There
sure enough was Heidi, sitting beside Clara and reading aloud to her, evidently herself very
much surprised, and growing more and more delighted with the new world that was now open to
her as the black letters grew alive and turned into men and things and exciting stories. That
same evening Heidi found the large book with the beautiful pictures lying on her plate when
she took her place at table, and when she looked questioningly at the grandmother, the latter
nodded kindly to her and said, "Yes, it's yours now."

"Mine, to keep always? even when I go home?" said, Heidi, blushing with pleasure.

"Yes, of course, yours for ever," the grandmother assured her. "To-morrow we will begin to
read it."

"But you are not going home yet, Heidi, not for years," put in Clara. "When grandmother goes
away, I shall want you to stay on with me."

When, Heidi went to her room that night she had another look at her book before going to bed,
and from that day forth her chief pleasure was to read the tales which belonged to the beautiful
pictures over and over again. If the grandmother said, as they were sitting together in the
evening, "Now Heidi will read aloud to us," Heidi was delighted, for reading was no trouble
to her now, and when she read the tales aloud the scenes seemed to grow more beautiful and
distinct, and then grandmother would explain and tell her more about them still.

Still the picture she liked best was the one of the shepherd leaning on his staff with his
flock around him in the midst of the green pasture,  for he was now at home and happy, following
his father's sheep and goats. Then came the picture where he was seen far away from his father's
house, obliged to look after the swine, and he had grown pale and thin from the husks which
were all he had to eat. Even the sun seemed here to be less bright and everything looked grey
and misty. But there was the third picture still to this tale: here was the old father with
outstretched arms running to meet and embrace his returning and repentant son, who was advancing
timidly, worn out and emaciated and clad in a ragged coat. That was Heidi's favorite tale,
which she read over and over again, aloud and to herself, and she was never tired of hearing
the grandmother explain it to her and Clara. But there were other tales in the book besides,
and what with reading and looking at the pictures the days passed quickly away, and the time
drew near for the grandmother to return home.

CHAPTER XI. HEIDI GAINS IN ONE WAY AND LOSES IN ANOTHER

Every afternoon during her visit the grandmother went and sat down for a few minutes beside
Clara after dinner, when the latter was resting, and Fraulein Rottenmeier, probably for the
same reason, had disappeared inside her room; but five minutes sufficed her, and then she was
up again, and Heidi was sent for to her room, and there she would talk to the child and employ
and amuse her in all sorts of ways. The grandmother had a lot of pretty dolls, and she showed
Heidi how to make dresses and pinafores for them, so that Heidi learnt how to sew and to make
all sorts of beautiful clothes for the little people out of a wonderful collection of pieces
that grandmother had by her of every describable and lovely color. And then grandmother liked
to hear her read aloud, and the oftener Heidi read her tales the fonder she grew of them. She
entered into the lives of all the people she read about so that they became like dear friends
to her, and it delighted her more and more to be with them. But still Heidi never looked really
happy, and her bright eyes were no longer to be seen. It was the last week of the grandmother's
visit. She called Heidi into her room as usual one day after dinner, and the child came with
her book under her arm. The grandmother called her to come close, and then laying the book
aside, said, "Now, child, tell me why you are not happy? Have you still the same trouble at heart?"

Heidi nodded in reply.

"Have you told God about it?"

"Yes."

"And do you pray every day that He will make things right and that you may be happy again?"

"No, I have left off praying."

"Do not tell me that, Heidi! Why have you left off praying?"

"It is of no use, God does not listen," Heidi went on in an agitated voice, "and I can understand
that when there are so many, many people in Frankfurt praying to Him every evening that He
cannot attend to them all, and He certainly has not heard what I said to Him."

"And why are you so sure of that, Heidi?"

"Because I have prayed for the same thing every day for weeks, and yet God has not done what
I asked."

"You are wrong, Heidi; you must not think of Him like that. God is a good father to us all,
and knows better than we do what is good for us. If we ask Him for something that is not good
for us, He does not give it, but something better still, if only we will continue to pray earnestly
and do not run away and lose our trust in Him. God did not think what you have been praying
for was good for you just now; but be sure He heard you, for He can hear and see every one
at the same time, because He is a God and not a human being like you and me. And because He
thought it was better for you not to have at once what you wanted, He said to Himself: Yes,
Heidi shall have what she asks for, but not until the right time comes, so that she may be
quite happy. If I do what she wants now, and then one day she sees that it would have been
better for her not to have had her own way, she will cry and say, 'If only God had not given
me what I asked for! it is not so good as I expected!' And while God is watching over you,
and looking to see if you will trust Him and go on praying to Him every day, and turn to Him
for everything you want, you run away and leave off saying your prayers, and forget all about
Him. And when God no longer hears the voice of one He knew among those who pray to Him, He
lets that person go his own way, that he may learn how foolish he is. And then this one gets
into trouble, and cries, 'Save me, God, for there is none other to help me,' and God says,
'Why did you go from Me; I could not help you when you ran away.' And you would not like to
grieve God, would you Heidi, when He only wants to be kind to you? So will you not go and ask
Him to forgive you, and continue to pray and to trust Him, for you may be sure that He will
make everything right and happy for you, and then you will be glad and lighthearted again."

Heidi had perfect confidence in the grandmother, and every word she said sunk into her heart.

"I will go at once and ask God to forgive me, and I will never forget Him again," she replied
repentantly.

"That is right, dear child," and anxious to cheer her, added, "Don't be unhappy, for He will
do everything you wish in good time."

And Heidi ran away and prayed that she might always remember God, and that He would go on thinking
about her.

The day came for grandmother's departure--a sad one for Clara and Heidi. But the grandmother
was determined to make it as much like a holiday as possible and not to let them mope, and
she kept them so lively and amused that they had no time to think about their sorrow at her
going until she really drove away. Then the house seemed so silent and empty that Heidi and
Clara did not know what to do with themselves, and sat during the remainder of the day like
two lost children.

The next day, when the hour came for Clara and Heidi to be together, the latter walked in with
her book and proposed that she should go on reading aloud every afternoon to Clara, if the
latter liked it. Clara agreed, and thought anyhow it would be nice for that day, so Heidi began
with her usual enthusiasm. But the reading did not last long, for Heidi had hardly begun a
tale about a dying grandmother before she cried out, "O! then grandmother is dead!" and burst
into tears; for everything she read was so real to her that she quite thought it was the grandmother
at home who had died, and she kept on exclaiming as her sobs increased, "She is dead, and I
shall never see her again, and she never had one of the white rolls!"

Clara did all she could to explain to Heidi that the story was about quite a different grandmother;
but even when at last she had been able to convince Heidi of this, the latter continued to
weep inconsolably, for now she had awakened to the thought that perhaps the grandmother, and
even the grandfather also, might die while she was so far away, and that if she did not go
home for a long time she would find everything there all silent and dead, and there she would
be all alone, and would never be able to see the dear ones she loved any more.

Fraulein Rottenmeier had meanwhile come into the room, and Clara explained to her what had
happened. As Heidi continued her weeping, the lady, who was evidently getting impatient with
her, went up to Heidi and said with decision, "Now, Adelaide, that is enough of all this causeless
lamentation. I will tell you once for all, if there are any more scenes like this while you
are reading, I shall take the book away from you and shall not let you have it again."

Her words had immediate effect on Heidi, who turned pale with fear. The book was her one great
treasure. She quickly dried her tears and swallowed her sobs as best she could, so that no
further sound of them should be heard. The threat did its work, for Heidi never cried aloud
again whatever she might be reading, but she had often to struggle hard to keep back her tears,
so that Clara would look at her and say,

"What faces you are making, Heidi, I never saw anything like it!" But the faces made no noise
and did not offend Fraulein Rottenmeier, and Heidi, having overcome her fit of despairing misery,
would go quietly on for a while, and no one perceived her sorrow. But she lost all her appetite,
and looked so pale and thin that Sebastian was quite unhappy when he looked at her, and could
not bear to see her refusing all the nice dishes he handed her. He would whisper to her sometimes,
in quite a kind, fatherly manner, "Take a little; you don't know how nice it is! There, a good
spoonful, now another." But it was of no use, Heidi hardly ate anything at all, and as soon
as she laid her head down at night the picture of home would rise before her eyes, and she
would weep, burying her face in the pillow that her crying might not be heard.

And so many weeks passed away. Heidi did not know it is was winter or summer, for the walls
and windows she looked out upon showed no change, and she never went beyond the house except
on rare occasions when Clara was well enough to drive out, and then they only went a very little
way, as Clara could not bear the movement for long. So that on these occasions they generally
only saw more fine streets and large houses and crowds of people; they seldom got anywhere
beyond them, and grass and flowers, fir trees and mountains, were still far away. Heidi's longing
for the old familiar and beautiful things grew daily stronger, so that now only to read a word
that recalled them to her remembrance brought her to the verge of tears, which with difficulty
she suppressed. So the autumn and winter passed, and again the sun came shining down on the
white walls of the opposite houses, and Heidi would think to herself that now the time had
come for Peter to go out again with the goats, to where the golden flowers of the cistus were
glowing in the sunlight, and all the rocks around turned to fire at sunset. Heidi would go
and sit in a corner of her lonely room and put her hands up to her eyes that she might not
see the sun shining on the opposite wall; and then she would remain without moving, battling
silently with her terrible homesickness until Clara sent for her again.

CHAPTER XII. A GHOST IN THE HOUSE

For some days past Fraulein Rottenmeier had gone about rather silently and as if lost in thought.
As twilight fell, and she passed from room to room, or along the long corridors, she was seen
to look cautiously behind her, and into the dark corners, as if she thought some one was coming
silently behind her and might unexpectedly give her dress a pull. Nor would she now go alone
into some parts of the house. If she visited the upper floor where the grand guest-chambers
were, or had to go down into the large mysterious council-chamber, where every footstep echoed,
and the old senators with their big white collars looked down so solemnly and immovably from
their frames, she regularly called Tinette to accompany her, in case, as she said, there might
be something to carry up or down. Tinette on her side did exactly the same; if she had business
upstairs or down, she called Sebastian to accompany her, and there was always something he
must help her with which she could not carry alone. More curious still, Sebastian, also, if
sent into one of the more distant rooms, always called John to go with him in case he should
want his assistance in bringing what was required. And John readily obeyed, although there
was never anything to carry, and either might well have gone alone; but he did not know how
soon he might want to ask Sebastian to do the same service for him. And while these things
were going on upstairs, the cook, who had been in the house for years, would stand shaking
her head over her pots and kettles, and sighing, "That ever I should live to know such a thing."

For something very strange and mysterious was going on in Herr Sesemann's house. Every morning,
when the servants went downstairs, they found the front door wide open, although nobody could
be seen far or near to account for it. During the first few days that this happened every room
and corner was searched in great alarm, to see if anything had been stolen, for the general
idea was that a thief had been hiding in the house and had gone off in the night with the stolen
goods; but not a thing in the house had been touched, everything was safe in its place. The
door was doubly locked at night, and for further security the wooden bar was fastened across
it; but it was no good--next morning the door again stood open. The servants in their fear
and excitement got up extra early, but not so early but what the door had been opened before
they got downstairs, although everything and everybody around were still wrapped in slumber,
and the doors and windows of the adjoining houses all fast shut. At last, after a great deal
of persuasion from Fraulein Rottenmeier, Sebastian and John plucked up courage and agreed to
sit up one night in the room next to the large council-chamber and to watch and see what would
happen. Fraulein Rottenmeier looked up several weapons belonging to the master, and gave these
and a bottle of spirits to Sebastian, so that their courage might not faint if it came to a fight.

On the appointed night the two sat down and began at once to take some of the strengthening
cordial, which at first made them very talkative and then very sleepy, so that they leant back
in their seats and became silent. As midnight struck, Sebastian roused himself and called to
his companion, who, however, was not easy to wake, and kept rolling his head first to one side
and then the other and continuing to sleep. Sebastian began to listen more attentively, for
he was wide awake now. Everything was still as a mouse, all sound had died away from the streets
even. He did not feel inclined to go to sleep again, for the stillness was ghostly to him,
and he was afraid now to raise his voice to rouse John, so he shook him gently to make him
stir. At last, as one struck, John work up, and came back to the consciousness of why he was
sitting in a chair instead of lying in his bed. He now got up with a great show of courage
and said, "Come, Sebastian, we must go outside and see what is going on; you need not be afraid,
just follow me."

Whereupon he opened the door wide and stepped into the hall. Just as he did so a sudden gust
of air blew through the open front door and put out the light which John held in his hand.
He started back, almost overturning Sebastian, whom he clutched and pulled back into the room,
and then shutting the door quickly he turned the key as far as he could make it go. Then he
pulled out his matches and lighted his candle again. Sebastian, in the suddenness of the affair,
did not know exactly what had happened, for he had not seen the open door or felt the breeze
behind John's broad figure. But now, as he saw the latter in the light, he gave a cry of alarm,
for John was trembling all over and as white as a ghost. "What's the matter? What did you see,
outside?" asked Sebastian sympathetically.

"The door partly open," gasped John, "and a white figure standing at the top of the steps--there
it stood, and then all in a minute it disappeared."

Sebastian felt his blood run cold. The two sat down close to one another and did not dare move
again till the morning broke and the streets began to be alive again. Then they left the room
together, shut the front door, and went upstairs to tell Fraulein Rottenmeier of their experience.
She was quite ready to receive them, for she had not been able to sleep at all in the anxiety
of waiting to hear their report. They had no sooner given her details of the night's experience
than she sat down and wrote straight off to Herr Sesemann, who had never received such a letter
before in his life. She could hardly write, she told him, for her fingers were stiff with fear,
and Herr Sesemann must please arrange to come back at once, for dreadful and unaccountable
things were taking place at home. Then she entered into particulars of all that had happened,
of how the door was found standing open every morning, and how nobody in the house now felt
sure of their life in this unprotected state of things, and how it was impossible to tell what
terrible results might follow on these mysterious doings.

Herr Sesemann answered that it was quite impossible for him to arrange to leave his business
and return home at once. He was very much astonished at this ghost tale, but hoped by this
time the ghost had disappeared. If, however, it still continued to disturb the household, would
Fraulein Rottenmeier write to the grandmother and ask her if she could come and do something;
she, he was sure, would soon find out a way to deal with the ghost so that it would not venture
again to haunt his house. Fraulein Rottenmeier was not pleased with the tone of this letter;
she did not think the matter was treated seriously enough. She wrote off without delay to Frau
Sesemann, but got no more satisfactory reply from that quarter, and some remarks in the letter
she considered were quite offensive. Frau Sesemann wrote that she did not feel inclined to
take the journey again from Holstein to Frankfurt because Rottenmeier fancied she saw ghosts.
There had never been a ghost in the house since she had known it, and if there was one now
it must be a live one, with which Rottenmeier ought to be able to deal; if not she had better
send for the watchman to help her.

Fraulein Rottenmeier, however, was determined not to pass any more days in a state of fear,
and she knew the right course to pursue. She had as yet said nothing to the children of the
ghostly apparitions, for she knew if she did that the children would not remain alone for a
single moment, and that might entail discomfort for herself. But now she walked straight off
into the study, and there in a low mysterious voice told the two children everything that had
taken place. Clara immediately screamed out that she could not remain another minute alone,
her father must come home, and Fraulein Rottenmeier must sleep in her room at night, and Heidi
too must not be left by herself, for the ghost might do something to her. She insisted that
they should all sleep together in one room and keep a light burning all night, and Tinette
had better be in the next room, and Sebastian and John come upstairs and spend the night in
the hall, so that they might call out and frighten the ghost the instant they saw it appear
on the steps. Clara, in short, grew very excited, and Fraulein Rottenmeier had great difficulty
in quieting her. She promised to write at once to her father, and to have her bed put in her
room and not to be left alone for a moment. They could not all sleep in the same room, but
if Heidi was frightened, why Tinette must go into her room. But Heidi was far more frightened
of Tinette than of ghosts, of which the child had never before heard, so she assured the others
she did not mind the ghost, and would rather be alone at night.

Fraulein Rottenmeier now sat down to write another letter to Herr Sesemann, stating that these
unaccountable things that were going on in the house had so affected his daughter's delicate
constitution that the worst consequences might be expected. Epileptic fits and St. Vitus's
dance often came on suddenly in cases like this, and Clara was liable to be attacked by either
if the cause of the general alarm was not removed.

The letter was successful, and two days later Herr Sesemann stood at his front door and rang
the bell in such a manner that everybody came rushing from all parts of the house and stood
looking affrighted at everybody else, convinced that the ghost was impudently beginning its
evil tricks in daylight. Sebastian peeped cautiously through a half-closed shutter; as he did
so there came another violent ring at the bell, which it was impossible to mistake for anything
but a very hard pull from a non-ghostly hand. And Sebastian recognised whose hand it was, and
rushing pell-mell out of the room, fell heels over head downstairs, but picked himself up at
the bottom and flung open the street door. Herr Sesemann greeted him abruptly and went up without
a moment's delay into his daughter's room. Clara greeted him with a cry of joy, and seeing
her so lively and apparently as well as ever, his face cleared, and the frown of anxiety passed
gradually away from it as he heard from his daughter's own lips that she had nothing the matter
with her, and moreover was so delighted to see him that she was quite glad about the ghost,
as it was the cause of bringing him home again.

"And how is the ghost getting on?" he asked, turning to Fraulein Rottenmeier, with a twinkle
of amusement in his eye.

"It is no joke, I assure you," replied that lady. "You will not laugh yourself to-morrow morning,
Herr Sesemann; what is going on in the house points to some terrible thing that has taken place
in the past and been concealed."

"Well, I know nothing about that," said the master of the house, "but I must beg you not to
bring suspicion on my worthy ancestors. And now will you kindly call Sebastian into the dining-
room, as I wish to speak to him alone."

Herr Sesemann had been quite aware that Sebastian and Fraulein Rottenmeier were not on the
best of terms, and he had his ideas about this scare.

"Come here, lad," he said as Sebastian appeared, "and tell me frankly--have you been playing
at ghosts to amuse yourself at Fraulein Rottenmeier's expense?"

"No, on my honor, sir; pray, do not think it; I am very uncomfortable about the matter myself,"
answered Sebastian with unmistakable truthfulness.

"Well, if that is so, I will show you and John to-morrow morning how ghosts look in the daylight.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Sebastian, a great strong lad like you, to run away from
a ghost! But now go and take a message to my old friend the doctor; give him my kind regards,
and ask him if he will come to me to-night at nine o'clock without fail; I have come by express
from Paris to consult him. I shall want him to spend the night here, so bad a case is it; so
he will arrange accordingly. You understand?"

"Yes, sir," replied Sebastian, "I will see to the matter as you wish." Then Herr Sesemann returned
to Clara, and begged her to have no more fear, as he would soon find out all about the ghost
and put an end to it.

Punctually at nine o'clock, after the children had gone to bed and Fraulein Rottenmeier had
retired, the doctor arrived. He was a grey-haired man with a fresh face, and two bright, kindly
eyes. He looked anxious as he walked in, but, on catching sight of his patient, burst out laughing
and clapped him on the shoulder. "Well," he said, "you look pretty bad for a person that I
am to sit up with all night."

"Patience, friend," answered Herr Sesemann, "the one you have to sit up for will look a good
deal worse when we have once caught him."

"So there is a sick person in the house, and one that has first to be caught?"

"Much worse than that, doctor! a ghost in the house! My house is haunted!"

The doctor laughed aloud.

"That's a nice way of showing sympathy, doctor!" continued Herr, Sesemann. "It's a pity my
friend Rottenmeier cannot hear you. She is firmly convinced that some old member of the family
is wandering about the house doing penance for some awful crime he committed."

"How did she become acquainted with him?" asked the doctor, still very much amused.

So Herr Sesemann recounted to him how the front door was nightly opened by somebody, according
to the testimony of the combined household, and he had therefore provided two loaded revolvers,
so as to be prepared for anything that happened; for either the whole thing was a joke got
up by some friend of the servants, just to alarm the household while he was away--and in that
case a pistol fired into the air would procure him a wholesome fright-- or else it was a thief,
who, by leading everybody at first to think there was a ghost, made it safe for himself when
he came later to steal, as no one would venture to run out if they heard him, and in that case
too a good weapon would not be amiss.

The two took up their quarters for the night in the same room in which Sebastian and John had
kept watch. A bottle of wine was placed on the table, for a little refreshment would be welcome
from time to time if the night was to be passed sitting up. Beside it lay the two revolvers,
and two good-sized candles had also been lighted, for Herr Sesemann was determined not to wait
for ghosts in any half light.

The door was shut close to prevent the light being seen in the hall outside, which might frighten
away the ghost. And now the two gentlemen sat comfortably back in the arm-chairs and began
talking of all sorts of things, now and then pausing to take a good draught of wine, and so
twelve o'clock struck before they were aware.

"The ghost has got scent of us and is keeping away to-night," said the doctor.

"Wait a bit, it does not generally appear before one o'clock," answered his friend.

They started talking again. One o'clock struck. There was not a sound about the house, nor
in the street outside. Suddenly the doctor lifted his finger.

"Hush! Sesemann, don't you hear something?"

They both listened, and they distinctly heard the bar softly pushed aside and then the key
turned in the lock and the door opened. Herr Sesemann put out his hand for his revolver.

"You are not afraid, are you?" said the doctor as he stood up.

"It is better to take precautions," whispered Herr Sesemann, and seizing one of the lights
in his other hand, he followed the doctor, who, armed in like manner with a light and a revolver,
went softly on in front. They stepped into the hall. The moonlight was shining in through the
open door and fell on a white figure standing motionless in the doorway.

"Who is there?" thundered the doctor in a voice that echoed through the hall, as the two men
advanced with lights and weapons towards the figure.

It turned and gave a low cry. There in her little white nightgown stood Heidi, with bare feet,
staring with wild eyes at the lights and the revolvers, and trembling from head to foot like
a leaf in the wind. The two men looked as one another in surprise.

"Why, I believe it is your little water-carrier, Sesemann," said the doctor.

"Child, what does this mean?" said Herr Sesemann. "What did you want? why did you come down here?"

White with terror, and hardly able to make her voice heard, Heidi answered, "I don't know."

But now the doctor stepped forward. "This is a matter for me to see to, Sesemann; go back to
your chair. I must take the child upstairs to her bed."

And with that he put down his revolver and gently taking the child by the hand led her upstairs.
"Don't be frightened," he said as they went up side by side, "it's nothing to be frightened
about; it's all right, only just go quietly."

On reaching Heidi's room the doctor put the candle down on the table, and taking Heidi up in
his arms laid her on the bed and carefully covered her over. Then he sat down beside her and
waited until Heidi had grown quieter and no longer trembled so violently. He took her hand
and said in a kind, soothing voice, "There, now you feel better, and now tell me where you
were wanting to go to?"

"I did not want to go anywhere," said Heidi. "I did not know I went downstairs, but all at
once I was there."

"I see, and had you been dreaming, so that you seemed to see and hear something very distinctly?"

"Yes, I dream every night, and always about the same things. I think I am back with the grandfather
and I hear the sound in the fir trees outside, and I see the stars shining so brightly, and
then I open the door quickly and run out, and it is all so beautiful! But when I wake I am
still in Frankfurt." And Heidi struggled as she spoke to keep back the sobs which seemed to
choke her.

"And have you no pain anywhere? no pain in your head or back?"

"No, only a feeling as if there were a great stone weighing on me here."

"As if you had eaten something that would not go down."

"No, not like that; something heavy as if I wanted to cry very much."

"I see, and then do you have a good cry?"

"Oh, no, I mustn't; Fraulein Rottenmeier forbade me to cry."

"So you swallow it all down, I suppose? Are you happy here in Frankfurt?"

"Yes," was the low answer; but it sounded more like "No."

"And where did you live with your grandfather?"

"Up on the mountain."

"That wasn't very amusing; rather dull at times, eh?"

"No, no, it was beautiful, beautiful!" Heidi could go no further; the remembrance of the past,
the excitement she had just gone through, the long suppressed weeping, were too much for the
child's strength; the tears began to fall fast, and she broke into violent weeping.

The doctor stood up and laid her head kindly down on the pillow. "There, there, go on crying,
it will do you good, and then go to sleep; it will be all right to-morrow."

Then he left the room and went downstairs to Herr Sesemann; when he was once more sitting in
the armchair opposite his friend, "Sesemann," he said, "let me first tell you that your little
charge is a sleep-walker; she is the ghost who has nightly opened the front door and put your
household into this fever of alarm. Secondly, the child is consumed with homesickness, to such
an extent that she is nearly a skeleton already, and soon will be quite one; something must
be done at once. For the first trouble, due to her over-excited nerves, there is but one remedy,
to send her back to her native mountain air; and for the second trouble there is also but one
cure, and that the same. So to- morrow the child must start for home; there you have my prescription."

Herr Sesemann had arisen and now paced up and down the room in the greatest state of concern.

"What!" he exclaimed, "the child a sleep-walker and ill! Home- sick, and grown emaciated in
my house! All this has taken place in my house and no one seen or known anything about it!
And you mean, doctor, that the child who came here happy and healthy, I am to send back to
her grandfather a miserable little skeleton? I can't do it; you cannot dream of my doing such
a thing! Take the child in hand, do with her what you will, and make her whole and sound, and
then she shall go home; but you must do something first."

"Sesemann," replied the doctor, "consider what you are doing! This illness of the child's is
not one to be cured with pills and powders. The child has not a tough constitution, but if
you send her back at once she may recover in the mountain air, if not--you would rather she
went back ill than not at all?"

Herr Sesemann stood still; the doctor's words were a shock to him.

"If you put it so, doctor, there is assuredly only one way--and the thing must be seen to at
once." And then he and the doctor walked up and down for a while arranging what to do, after
which the doctor said good-bye, for some time had passed since they first sat down together,
and as the master himself opened the hall door this time the morning light shone down through
it into the house.

CHAPTER XIII.  A SUMMER EVENING ON THE MOUNTAIN

Herr Sesemann, a good deal irritated and excited, went quickly upstairs and along the passage
to Fraulein Rottenmeier's room, and there gave such an unusually loud knock at the door that
the lady awoke from sleep with a cry of alarm. She heard the master of the house calling to
her from the other side of the door, "Please make haste and come down to me in the dining-room;
we must make ready for a journey at once." Fraulein Rottenmeier looked at her clock: it was
just half-past four; she had never got up so early before in her life. What could have happened?
What with her curiosity and excitement she took hold of everything the wrong way, and it was
a case with her of more haste less speed, for she kept on searching everywhere for garments
which she had already put on.

Meanwhile Herr Sesemann had gone on farther and rung the bells in turn which communicated with
the several servants' rooms, causing frightened figures to leap out of bed, convinced that
the ghost had attacked the master and that he was calling for help. One by one they made their
appearance in the dining-room, each with a more terrified face than the last, and were astonished
to see their master walking up and down, looking well and cheerful, and with no appearance
of having had an encounter with a ghost. John was sent off without delay to get the horses
and carriage ready; Tinette was ordered to wake Heidi and get her dressed for a journey; Sebastian
was hurried off to the house where Dete was in service to bring the latter round. Then Fraulein
Rottenmeier, having at last accomplished her toilet, came down, with everything well adjusted
about her except her cap, which was put on hind side before. Herr Sesemann put down her flurried
appearance to the early awakening he had caused her, and began without delay to give her directions.
She was to get out a trunk at once and pack up all the things belonging to the Swiss child--
for so he usually spoke of Heidi, being unaccustomed to her name-- and a good part of Clara's
clothes as well, so that the child might take home proper apparel; but everything was to be
done immediately, as there was no time for consideration.

Fraulein Rottenmeier stood as if rooted to the spot and stared in astonishment at Herr Sesemann.
She had quite expected a long and private account of some terrible ghostly experience of his
during the night, which she would have enjoyed hearing about in the broad daylight. Instead
of this there were these prosaic and troublesome directions, which were so unexpected that
she took some time to get over her surprise and disappointment, and continued standing awaiting
further explanation.

But Herr Sesemann had no thought or time for explanations and left her standing there while
he went to speak to Clara. As he anticipated, the unusual commotion in the house had disturbed
her, and she was lying and listening and wondering what had happened. So he sat down and told
her everything that had occurred during the past night, and explained that the doctor had given
his verdict and pronounced Heidi to be in a very highly strung state, so that her nightly wanderings
might gradually lead her farther and farther, perhaps even on to the roof, which of course
would be very dangerous for her. And so they had decided to send her home at once, as he did
not like to take the responsibility of her remaining, and Clara would see for herself that
it was the only thing to do. Clara was very much distressed, and at first made all kinds of
suggestions for keeping Heidi with her; but her father was firm, and promised her, if she would
be reasonable and make no further fuss, that he would take her to Switzerland next summer.
So Clara gave in to the inevitable, only stipulating that the box might be brought into her
room to be packed, so that she might add whatever she liked, and her father was only too pleased
to let her provide a nice outfit for the child. Meanwhile Dete had arrived and was waiting
in the hall, wondering what extraordinary event had come to pass for her to be sent for at
such an unusual hour. Herr Sesemann informed her of the state Heidi was in, and that he wished
her that very day to take her home. Dete was greatly disappointed, for she had not expected
such a piece of news. She remembered Uncle's last words, that he never wished to set eyes on
her again, and it seemed to her that to take back the child to him, after having left it with
him once and then taken it away again, was not a safe or wise thing for her to do. So she excused
herself to Herr Sesemann with her usual flow of words; to-day and to-morrow it would be quite
impossible for her to take the journey, and there was so much to do that she doubted if she
could get off on any of the following days. Herr Sesemann understood that she was unwilling
to go at all, and so dismissed her. Then he sent for Sebastian and told him to make ready to
start: he was to travel with the child as far as Basle that day, and the next day take her
home. He would give him a letter to carry to the grandfather, which would explain everything,
and he himself could come back by return.

"But there is one thing in particular which I wish you to look after," said Herr Sesemann in
conclusion, "and be sure you attend to what I say. I know the people of this hotel in Basle,
the name of which I give you on this card. They will see to providing rooms for the child and
you. When there, go at once into the child's room and see that the windows are all firmly fastened
so that they cannot be easily opened. After the child is in bed, lock the door of her room
on the outside, for the child walks in her sleep and might run into danger in a strange house
if she went wandering downstairs and tried to open the front door; so you understand?"

"Oh! then that was it?" exclaimed Sebastian, for now a light was thrown on the ghostly visitations.

"Yes, that was it! and you are a coward, and you may tell John he is the same, and the whole
household a pack of idiots." And with this Herr Sesemann went off to his study to write a letter
to Alm-Uncle. Sebastian remained standing, feeling rather foolish.

"If only I had not let that fool of a John drag me back into the room, and had gone after the
little white figure, which I should do certainly if I saw it now!" he kept on saying to himself;
but just now every corner of the room was clearly visible in the daylight.

Meanwhile Heidi was standing expectantly dressed in her Sunday frock waiting to see what would
happen next, for Tinette had only woke her up with a shake and put on her clothes without a
word of explanation. The little uneducated child was far too much beneath her for Tinette to
speak to.

Herr Sesemann went back to the dining-room with the letter; breakfast was now ready, and he
asked, "Where is the child?"

Heidi was fetched, and as she walked up to him to say "Good- morning," he looked inquiringly
into her face and said, "Well, what do you say to this, little one?"

Heidi looked at him in perplexity.

"Why, you don't know anything about it, I see," laughed Herr Sesemann. "You are going home
today, going at once."

"Home," murmured Heidi in a low voice, turning pale; she was so overcome that for a moment
or two she could hardly breathe.

"Don't you want to hear more about it?"

"Oh, yes, yes!" exclaimed Heidi, her face now rosy with delight.

"All right, then," said Herr Sesemann as he sat down and made her a sign to do the same, "but
now make a good breakfast, and then off you go in the carriage."

But Heidi could not swallow a morsel though she tried to do what she was told; she was in such
a state of excitement that she hardly knew if she was awake or dreaming, or if she would again
open her eyes to find herself in her nightgown at the front door.

"Tell Sebastian to take plenty of provisions with him," Herr Sesemann called out to Fraulein
Rottenmeier, who just then came into the room; "the child can't eat anything now, which is
quite natural. Now run up to Clara and stay with her till the carriage comes round," he added
kindly, turning to Heidi.

Heidi had been longing for this, and ran quickly upstairs. An immense trunk was standing open
in the middle of the room.

"Come along, Heidi," cried Clara, as she entered; "see all the things I have had put in for
you--aren't you pleased?"

And she ran over a list of things, dresses and aprons and handkerchiefs, and all kinds of working
materials. "And look here," she added, as she triumphantly held up a basket. Heidi peeped in
and jumped for joy, for inside it were twelve beautiful round white rolls, all for grandmother.
In their delight the children forgot that the time had come for them to separate, and when
some one called out, "The carriage is here," there was no time for grieving.

Heidi ran to her room to fetch her darling book; she knew no one could have packed that, as
it lay under her pillow, for Heidi had kept it by her night and day. This was put in the basket
with the rolls. Then she opened her wardrobe to look for another treasure, which perhaps no
one would have thought of packing--and she was right--the old red shawl had been left behind,
Fraulein Rottenmeier not considering it worth putting in with the other things. Heidi wrapped
it round something else which she laid on the top of the basket, so that the red package was
quite conspicuous. Then she put on her pretty hat and left the room. The children could not
spend much time over their farewells, for Herr Sesemann was waiting to put Heidi in the carriage.
Fraulein Rottenmeier was waiting at the top of the stairs to say good-bye to her. When she
caught sight of the strange little red bundle, she took it out of the basket and threw it on
the ground. "No, no, Adelaide," she exclaimed, "you cannot leave the house with that thing.
What can you possibly want with it!" And then she said good-bye to the child. Heidi did not
dare take up her little bundle, but she gave the master of the house an imploring look, as
if her greatest treasure had been taken from her.

"No, no," said Herr Sesemann in a very decided voice, "the child shall take home with her whatever
she likes, kittens and tortoises, if it pleases her; we need not put ourselves out about that,
Fraulein Rottenmeier."

Heidi quickly picked up her bundle, with a look of joy and gratitude. As she stood by the carriage
door, Herr Sesemann gave her his hand and said he hoped she would remember him and Clara. He
wished her a happy journey, and Heidi thanked him for all his kindness, and added, "And please
say good-bye to the doctor for me and give him many, many thanks." For she had not forgotten
that he had said to her the night before, 'It will be all right to-morrow,' and she rightly
divined that he had helped to make it so for her. Heidi was now lifted into the carriage, and
then the basket and the provisions were put in, and finally Sebastian took his place. Then
Herr Sesemann called out once more, "A pleasant journey to you," and the carriage rolled away.

Heidi was soon sitting in the railway carriage, holding her basket tightly on her lap; she
would not let it out of her hands for a moment, for it contained the delicious rolls for grandmother;
so she must keep it carefully, and even peep inside it from time to time to enjoy the sight
of them. For many hours she sat as still as a mouse; only now was she beginning to realize
that she was going home to the grandfather, the mountain, the grandmother, and Peter, and pictures
of all she was going to see again rose one by one before her eyes; she thought of how everything
would look at home, but this brought other thoughts to her mind, and all of a sudden she said
anxiously, "Sebastian, are you sure that grandmother on the mountain is not dead?"

"No, no," said Sebastian, wishing to soothe her, "we will hope not; she is sure to be alive still."

Then Heidi fell back on her own thoughts again. Now and then she looked inside the basket,
for the thing she looked forward to most was laying all the rolls out on grandmother's table.
After a long silence she spoke again, "If only we could know for certain that grandmother is
alive!"

"Yes, yes," said Sebastian, half asleep; "she is sure to be alive, there is no reason why she
should be dead."

After a while sleep fell on Heidi too, and after her disturbed night and early rising she slept
so soundly that she did not wake till Sebastian shook her by the arm and called to her, "Wake
up, wake up! we shall have to get out directly; we are just in Basle!"

There was a further railway journey of many hours the next day. Heidi again sat with her basket
on her knee, for she would not have given it up to Sebastian on any consideration; to-day she
never even opened her mouth, for her excitement, which increased with every mile of the journey,
kept her speechless. All of a sudden, before Heidi expected it, a voice called out, "Mayenfeld."
She and Sebastian both jumped up, the latter also taken by surprise. In another minute they
were both standing on the platform with Heidi's trunk, and the train was steaming away down
the valley. Sebastian looked after it regretfully, for he preferred the easier mode of travelling
to a wearisome climb on foot, especially as there was danger no doubt as well as fatigue in
a country like this, where, according to Sebastian's idea, everything and everybody were half
savage. He therefore looked cautiously to either side to see who was a likely person to ask
the safest way to Dorfli.

Just outside the station he saw a shabby-looking little cart and horse which a broad-shouldered
man was loading with heavy sacks that had been brought by the train, so he went up to him and
asked which was the safest way to get to Dorfli.

"All the roads about here are safe," was the curt reply.

So Sebastian altered his question and asked which was the best way to avoid falling over the
precipice, and also how a box could be conveyed to Dorfli. The man looked at the box, weighing
it with his eye, and then volunteered if it was not too heavy to take it on his own cart, as
he was driving to Dorfli. After some little interchange of words it was finally agreed that
the man should take both the child and the box to Dorfli, and there find some one who could
be sent on with Heidi up the mountain.

"I can go by myself, I know the way well from Dorfli," put in Heidi, who had been listening
attentively to the conversation. Sebastian was greatly relieved at not having to do any mountain
climbing. He drew Heidi aside and gave her a thick rolled parcel, and a letter for her grandfather;
the parcel, he told her, was a present from Herr Sesemann, and she must put it at the bottom
of her basket under the rolls and be very careful not to lose it, as Herr Sesemann would be
very vexed if she did, and never be the same to her again; so little miss was to think well
of what he said.

"I shall be sure not to lose it," said Heidi confidently, and she at once put the roll and
the letter at the bottom of her basket. The trunk meanwhile had been hoisted into the cart,
and now Sebastian lifted Heidi and her basket on to the high seat and shook hands with her;
he then made signs to her to keep her eye on the basket, for the driver was standing near and
Sebastian thought it better to be careful, especially as he knew that he ought himself to have
seen the child safely to her journey's end. The driver now swung himself up beside Heidi, and
the cart rolled away in the direction of the mountains, while Sebastian, glad of having no
tiring and dangerous journey on foot before him, sat down in the station and awaited the return
train.

The driver of the car was the miller at Dorfli and was taking home his sacks of flour. He had
never seen Heidi, but like everybody in Dorfli knew all about her. He had known her parents,
and felt sure at once that this was the child of whom he had heard so much. He began to wonder
why she had come back, and as they drove along he entered into conversation with her. "You
are the child who lived with your grandfather, Alm-Uncle, are you not?"

"Yes."

"Didn't they treat you well down there that you have come back so soon?"

"Yes, it was not that; everything in Frankfurt is as nice as it could be."

"Then why are you running home again?"

"Only because Herr Sesemann gave me leave, or else I should not have come."

"If they were willing to let you stay, why did you not remain where you were better off than
at home?"

"Because I would a thousand times rather be with grandfather on the mountain than anywhere
else in the world."

"You will think differently perhaps when you get back there," grumbled the miller; and then
to himself, "It's strange of her, for she must know what it's like."

He began whistling and said no more, while Heidi looked around her and began to tremble with
excitement, for she knew every tree along the way, and there overhead were the high jagged
peaks of the mountain looking down on her like old friends. And Heidi nodded back to them,
and grew every moment more wild with her joy and longing, feeling as if she must jump down
from the cart and run with all her might till she reached the top. But she sat quite still
and did not move, although inwardly in such agitation. The clock was striking five as they
drove into Dorfli. A crowd of women and children immediately surrounded the cart, for the box
and the child arriving with the miller had excited the curiosity of everybody in the neighborhood,
inquisitive to know whence they came and whither they were going and to whom they belonged.
As the miller lifted Heidi down, she said hastily, "Thank you, grandfather will send for the
trunk," and was just going to run off, when first one and then another of the bystanders caught
hold of her, each one having a different question to put to her. But Heidi pushed her way through
them with such an expression of distress on her face that they were forced to let her go. "You
see," they said to one another, "how frightened she is, and no wonder," and then they went
on to talk of Alm-Uncle, how much worse he had grown that last year, never speaking a word
and looking as if he would like to kill everybody he met, and if the child had anywhere else
to go to she certainly would not run back to the old dragon's den. But here the miller interrupted
them, saying he knew more about it than they did, and began telling them how a kind gentleman
had brought her to Mayenfeld and seen her off, and had given him his fare without any bargaining,
and extra money for himself; what was more, the child had assured him that she had had everything
she wanted where she had been, and that it was her own wish to return to her grandfather. This
information caused great surprise and was soon repeated all over Dorfli, and that evening there
was not a house in the place in which the astounding news was not discussed, of how Heidi had
of her own accord given up a luxurious home to return to her grandfather.

Heidi climbed up the steep path from Dorfli as quickly as she could; she was obliged, however,
to pause now and again to take breath, for the basket she carried was rather heavy, and the
way got steeper as she drew nearer the top. One thought alone filled Heidi's mind, "Would she
find the grandmother sitting in her usual corner by the spinning-wheel, was she still alive?"
At last Heidi caught sight of the grandmother's house in the hollow of the mountain and her
heart began to beat; she ran faster and faster and her heart beat louder and louder--and now
she had reached the house, but she trembled so she could hardly open the door--and then she
was standing inside, unable in her breathlessness to utter a sound.

"Ah, my God!" cried a voice from the corner, "that was how Heidi used to run in; if only I
could have her with me once again! Who is there?"

"It's I, I, grandmother," cried Heidi as she ran and flung herself on her knees beside the
old woman, and seizing her hands, clung to her, unable to speak for joy. And the grandmother
herself could not say a word for some time, so unexpected was this happiness; but at last she
put out her hand and stroked Heidi's curly hair, and said, "Yes, yes, that is her hair, and
her voice; thank God that He has granted my prayer!" And tears of joy fell from the blind eyes
on to Heidi's hand. "Is it really you, Heidi; have you really come back to me?"

"Yes, grandmother, I am really here," answered Heidi in a reassuring voice. "Do not cry, for
I have really come back and I am never going away again, and I shall come every day to see
you, and you won't have any more hard bread to eat for some days, for look, look!"

And Heidi took the rolls from the basket and piled the whole twelve up on grandmother's lap.

"Ah, child! child! what a blessing you bring with you!" the old woman exclaimed, as she felt
and seemed never to come to the end of the rolls. "But you yourself are the greatest blessing,
Heidi," and again she touched the child's hair and passed her hand over her hot cheeks, and
said, "Say something, child, that I may hear your voice."

Then Heidi told her how unhappy she had been, thinking that the grandmother might die while
she was away and would never have her white rolls, and that then she would never, never see
her again.

Peter's mother now came in and stood for a moment overcome with astonishment. "Why, it's Heidi,"
she exclaimed, "and yet can it be?"

Heidi stood up, and Brigitta now could not say enough in her admiration of the child's dress
and appearance; she walked round her, exclaiming all the while, "Grandmother, if you could
only see her, and see what a pretty frock she has on; you would hardly know her again. And
the hat with the feather in it is yours too, I suppose? Put it on that I may see how you look
in it?"

"No, I would rather not," replied Heidi firmly. "You can have it if you like; I do not want
it; I have my own still." And Heidi so saying undid her red bundle and took out her own old
hat, which had become a little more battered still during the journey. But this was no trouble
to Heidi; she had not forgotten how her grandfather had called out to Dete that he never wished
to see her and her hat and feathers again, and this was the reason she had so anxiously preserved
her old hat, for she had never ceased to think about going home to her grandfather. But Brigitta
told her not to be so foolish as to give it away; she would not think of taking such a beautiful
hat; if Heidi did not want to wear it she might sell it to the schoolmaster's daughter in Dorfli
and get a good deal of money for it. But Heidi stuck to her intention and hid the hat quietly
in a corner behind the grandmother's chair. Then she took off her pretty dress and put her
red shawl on over her under-petticoat, which left her arms bare; and now she clasped the old
woman's hand. "I must go home to grandfather," she said, "but to-morrow I shall come again.
Good- night, grandmother."

"Yes, come again, be sure you come again tomorrow," begged the grandmother, as she pressed
Heidi's hands in hers, unwilling to let her go.

"Why have you taken off that pretty dress?" asked Brigitta.

"Because I would rather go home to grandfather as I am or else perhaps he would not know me;
you hardly did at first."

Brigitta went with her to the door, and there said in rather a mysterious voice, "You might
have kept on your dress, he would have known you all right; but you must be careful, for Peter
tells me that Alm-Uncle is always now in a bad temper and never speaks."

Heidi bid her good-night and continued her way up the mountain, her basket on her arm. All
around her the steep green slopes shone bright in the evening sun, and soon the great gleaming
snow- field up above came in sight. Heidi was obliged to keep on pausing to look behind her,
for the higher peaks were behind her as she climbed. Suddenly a warm red glow fell on the grass
at her feet; she looked back again--she had not remembered how splendid it was, nor seen anything
to compare to it in her dreams-- for there the two high mountain peeks rose into the air like
two great flames, the whole snow-field had turned crimson, and rosy- colored clouds floated
in the sky above. The grass upon the mountain sides had turned to gold, the rocks were all
aglow, and the whole valley was bathed in golden mist. And as Heidi stood gazing around her
at all this splendor the tears ran down her cheeks for very delight and happiness, and impulsively
she put her hands together, and lifting her eyes to heaven, thanked God aloud for having brought
her home, thanked Him that everything was as beautiful as ever, more beautiful even than she
had thought, and that it was all hers again once more. And she was so overflowing with joy
and thankfulness that she could not find words to thank Him enough. Not until the glory began
to fade could she tear herself away. Then she ran on so quickly that in a very little while
she caught sight of the tops of the fir trees above the hut roof, then the roof itself, and
at last the whole hut, and there was grandfather sitting as in old days smoking his pipe, and
she could see the fir trees waving in the wind. Quicker and quicker went her little feet, and
before Alm-Uncle had time to see who was coming, Heidi had rushed up to him, thrown down her
basket and flung her arms round his neck, unable in the excitement of seeing him again to say
more than "Grandfather! grandfather! grandfather!" over and over again.

And the old man himself said nothing. For the first time for many years his eyes were wet,
and he had to pass his hand across them. Then he unloosed Heidi's arms, put her on his knee,
and after looking at her for a moment, "So you have come back to me, Heidi," he said, "how
is that? You don't look much of a grand lady. Did they send you away?"

"Oh, no, grandfather," said Heidi eagerly, "you must not think that; they were all so kind--Clara,
and grandmamma, and Herr Sesemann. But you see, grandfather, I did not know how to bear myself
till I got home again to you. I used to think I should die, for I felt as if I could not breathe;
but I never said anything because it would have been ungrateful. And then suddenly one morning
quite early Herr Sesemann said to me--but I think it was partly the doctor's doing--but perhaps
it's all in the letter--" and Heidi jumped down and fetched the roll and the letter and handed
them both to her grandfather.

"That belongs to you," said the latter, laying the roll down on the bench beside him. Then
he opened the letter, read it through and without a word put it in his pocket.

"Do you think you can still drink milk with me, Heidi?" he asked, taking the child by the hand
to go into the hut. "But bring your money with you; you can buy a bed and bedclothes and dresses
for a couple of years with it."

"I am sure I do not want it," replied Heidi. "I have got a bed already, and Clara has put such
a lot of clothes in my box that I shall never want any more."

"Take it and put it in the cupboard; you will want it some day I have no doubt."

Heidi obeyed and skipped happily after her grandfather into the house; she ran into all the
corners, delighted to see everything again, and then went up the ladder--but there she came
to a pause and called down in a tone of surprise and distress, "Oh, grandfather, my bed's gone."

"We can soon make it up again," he answered her from below. "I did not know that you were coming
back; come along now and have your milk."

Heidi came down, sat herself on her high stool in the old place, and then taking up her bowl
drank her milk eagerly, as if she had never come across anything so delicious, and as she put
down her bowl, she exclaimed, "Our milk tastes nicer than anything else in the world, grandfather."

A shrill whistle was heard outside. Heidi darted out like a flash of lightning. There were
the goats leaping and springing among the rocks, with Peter in their midst. When he caught
sight of Heidi he stood still with astonishment and gazed speechlessly at her. Heidi called
out, "Good-evening, Peter," and then ran in among the goats. "Little Swan! Little Bear! do
you know me again?" And the animals evidently recognized her voice at once, for they began
rubbing their heads against her and bleating loudly as if for joy, and as she called the other
goats by name one after the other, they all came scampering towards her helter- skelter and
crowding round her. The impatient Greenfinch sprang into the air and over two of her companions
in order to get nearer, and even the shy little Snowflake butted the Great Turk out of her
way in quite a determined manner, which left him standing taken aback by her boldness, and
lifting his beard in the air as much as to say, You see who I am.

Heidi was out of her mind with delight at being among all her old friends again; she flung
her arms round the pretty little Snowflake, stroked the obstreperous Greenfinch, while she
herself was thrust at from all sides by the affectionate and confiding goats; and so at last
she got near to where Peter was still standing, not having yet got over his surprise.

"Come down, Peter," cried Heidi, "and say good-evening to me."

"So you are back again?" he found words to say at last, and now ran down and took Heidi's hand
which she was holding out in greeting, and immediately put the same question to her which he
had been in the habit of doing in the old days when they returned home in the evening, "Will
you come out with me again to- morrow?"

"Not to-morrow, but the day after perhaps, for to-morrow I must go down to grandmother."

"I am glad you are back," said Peter, while his whole face beamed with pleasure, and then he
prepared to go on with his goats; but he never had had so much trouble with them before, for
when at last, by coaxing and threats, he had got them all together, and Heidi had gone off
with an arm over either head of her grandfather's two, the whole flock suddenly turned and
ran after her. Heidi had to go inside the stall with her two and shut the door, or Peter would
never have got home that night. When Heidi went indoors after this she found her bed already
made up for her; the hay had been piled high for it and smelt deliciously, for it had only
just been got in, and the grandfather had carefully spread and tucked in the clean sheets.
It was with a happy heart that Heidi lay down in it that night, and her sleep was sounder than
it had been for a whole year past. The grandfather got up at least ten times during the night
and mounted the ladder to see if Heidi was all right and showing no signs of restlessness,
and to feel that the hay he had stuffed into the round window was keeping the moon from shining
too brightly upon her. But Heidi did not stir; she had no need now to wander about, for the
great burning longing of her heart was satisfied; she had seen the high mountains and rocks
alight in the evening glow, she had heard the wind in the fir trees, she was at home again
on the mountain.

CHAPTER XIV. SUNDAY BELLS

Heidi was standing under the waving fir trees waiting for her grandfather, who was going down
with her to grandmother's, and then on to Dorfli to fetch her box. She was longing to know
how grandmother had enjoyed her white bread and impatient to see and hear her again; but no
time seemed weary to her now, for she could not listen long enough to the familiar voice of
the trees, or drink in too much of the fragrance wafted to her from the green pastures where
the golden-headed flowers were glowing in the sun, a very feast to her eyes. The grandfather
came out, gave a look round, and then called to her in a cheerful voice, "Well, now we can be off."

It was Saturday, a day when Alm-Uncle made everything clean and tidy inside and outside the
house; he had devoted his morning to this work so as to be able to accompany Heidi in the afternoon,
and the whole place was now as spick and span as he liked to see it. They parted at the grandmother's
cottage and Heidi ran in. The grandmother had heard her steps approaching and greeted her as
she crossed the threshold, "Is it you, child? Have you come again?"

Then she took hold of Heidi's hand and held it fast in her own, for she still seemed to fear
that the child might be torn from her again. And now she had to tell Heidi how much she had
enjoyed the white bread, and how much stronger she felt already for having been able to eat
it, and then Peter's mother went on and said she was sure that if her mother could eat like
that for a week she would get back some of her strength, but she was so afraid of coming to
the end of the rolls, that she had only eaten one as yet. Heidi listened to all Brigitta said,
and sat thinking for a while. Then she suddenly thought of a way.

"I know, grandmother, what I will do," she said eagerly, "I will write to Clara, and she will
send me as many rolls again, if not twice as many as you have already, for I had ever such
a large heap in the wardrobe, and when they were all taken away she promised to give me as
many back, and she would do so I am sure."

"That is a good idea," said Brigitta; "but then, they would get hard and stale. The baker in
Dorfli makes the white rolls, and if we could get some of those he has over now and then--but
I can only just manage to pay for the black bread."

A further bright thought came to Heidi, and with a look of joy, "Oh, I have lots of money,
grandmother," she cried gleefully, skipping about the room in her delight, "and I know now
what I will do with it. You must have a fresh white roll every day, and two on Sunday, and
Peter can bring them up from Dorfli."

"No, no, child!" answered the grandmother, "I cannot let you do that; the money was not given
to you for that purpose; you must give it to your grandfather, and he will tell you how you
are to spend it."

But Heidi was not to be hindered in her kind intentions, and she continued to jump about, saying
over and over again in a tone of exultation, "Now, grandmother can have a roll every day and
will grow quite strong again--and, Oh, grandmother," she suddenly exclaimed with an increase
of jubilation in her voice, "if you get strong everything will grow light again for you; perhaps
it's only because you are weak that it is dark." The grandmother said nothing, she did not
wish to spoil the child's pleasure. As she went jumping about Heidi suddenly caught sight of
the grandmother's song book, and another happy idea struck her, "Grandmother, I can also read
now, would you like me to read you one of your hymns from your old book?"

"Oh, yes," said the grandmother, surprised and delighted; "but can you really read, child, really?"

Heidi had climbed on to a chair and had already lifted down the book, bringing a cloud of dust
with it, for it had lain untouched on the shelf for a long time. Heidi wiped it, sat herself
down on a stool beside the old woman, and asked her which hymn she should read.

"What you like, child, what you like," and the grandmother pushed her spinning-wheel aside
and sat in eager expectation waiting for Heidi to begin. Heidi turned over the leaves and read
a line out softly to herself here and there. At last she said,

"Here is one about the sun, grandmother, I will read you that." And Heidi began, reading with
more and more warmth of expression as she went on,--

     The morning breaks,
      And warm and bright
      The earth lies still
      In the golden light--
  For Dawn has scattered the clouds of night.

     God's handiwork
      Is seen around,
      Things great and small
      To His praise abound--
  Where are the signs of His love not found?

     All things must pass,
      But God shall still
      With steadfast power
      His will fulfil--
  Sure and unshaken is His will.

     His saving grace
      Will never fail,
      Though grief and fear
      The heart assail--
  O'er life's wild seas He will prevail.

     Joy shall be ours
      In that garden blest,
      Where after storm
      We find our rest--
  I wait in peace--God's time is best.

The grandmother sat with folded hands and a look of indescribable joy on her face, such as
Heidi had never seen there before, although at the same time the tears were running down her
cheeks. As Heidi finished, she implored her, saying, "Read it once again, child, just once again."

"Ah, Heidi, that brings light to the heart! What comfort you have brought me!"

And the old woman kept on repeating the glad words, while Heidi beamed with happiness, and
she could not take her eyes away from the grandmother's face, which had never looked like that
before. It had no longer the old troubled expression, but was alight with peace and joy as
if she were already looking with clear new eyes into the garden or Paradise.

Some one now knocked at the window and Heidi looked up and saw her grandfather beckoning her
to come home with him. She promised the grandmother before leaving her that she would be with
her the next day, and even if she went out with Peter she would only spend half the day with
him, for the thought that she might make it light and happy again for the grandmother gave
her the greatest pleasure, greater even than being out on the sunny mountain with the flowers
and goats. As she was going out Brigitta ran to her with the frock and hat she had left. Heidi
put the dress over her arm, for, as she thought to herself, the grandfather had seen that before,
but she obstinately refused to take back the hat; Brigitta could keep it, for she should never
put it on her head again. Heidi was so full of her morning's doings that she began at once
to tell her grandfather all about them: how the white bread could be fetched every day from
Dorfli if there was money for it, and how the grandmother had all at once grown stronger and
happier, and light had come to her. Then she returned to the subject of the rolls. "If the
grandmother won't take the money, grandfather, will you give it all to me, and I can then give
Peter enough every day to buy a roll and two on Sunday?"

"But how about the bed?" said her grandfather. "It would be nice for you to have a proper bed,
and there would then be plenty for the bread."

But Heidi gave her grandfather no peace till he consented to do what she wanted; she slept
a great deal better, she said, on her bed of hay than on her fine pillowed bed in Frankfurt.
So at last he said, "The money is yours, do what you like with it; you can buy bread for grandmother
for years to come with it."

Heidi shouted for joy at the thought that grandmother would never need any more to eat hard
black bread, and "Oh, grandfather!" she said, "everything is happier now than it has ever been
in our lives before!" and she sang and skipped along, holding her grandfather's hand as light-hearted
as a bird. But all at once she grew quiet and said, "If God had let me come at once, as I prayed,
then everything would have been different, I should only have had a little bread to bring to
grandmother, and I should not have been able to read, which is such a comfort to her; but God
has arranged it all so much better than I knew how to; everything has happened just as the
other grandmother said it would. Oh, how glad I am that God did not let me have at once all
I prayed and wept for! And now I shall always pray to God as she told me, and always thank
Him, and when He does not do anything I ask for I shall think to myself, It's just like it
was in Frankfurt: God, I am sure, is going to do something better still. So we will pray every
day, won't we, grandfather, and never forget Him again, or else He may forget us."

"And supposing one does forget Him?" said the grandfather in a low voice.

"Then everything goes wrong, for God lets us then go where we like, and when we get poor and
miserable and begin to cry about it no one pities us, but they say, You ran away from God,
and so God, who could have helped you, left you to yourself."

"That is true, Heidi; where did you learn that?"

"From grandmamma; she explained it all to me."

The grandfather walked on for a little while without speaking, then he said, as if following
his own train of thought: "And if it once is so, it is so always; no one can go back, and he
whom God has forgotten, is forgotten for ever."

"Oh, no, grandfather, we can go back, for grandmamma told me so, and so it was in the beautiful
tale in my book--but you have not heard that yet; but we shall be home directly now, and then
I will read it you, and you will see how beautiful it is." And in her eagerness Heidi struggled
faster and faster up the steep ascent, and they were no sooner at the top than she let go her
grandfather's hand and ran into the hut. The grandfather slung the basket off his shoulders
in which he had brought up a part of the contents of the trunk which was too heavy to carry
up as it was. Then he sat down on his seat and began thinking.

Heidi soon came running out with her book under her arm. "That's right, grandfather," she exclaimed
as she saw he had already taken his seat, and in a second she was beside him and had her book
open at the particular tale, for she had read it so often that the leaves fell open at it of
their own accord. And now in a sympathetic voice Heidi began to read of the son when he was
happily at home, and went out into the fields with his father's flocks, and was dressed in
a fine cloak, and stood leaning on his shepherd's staff watching as the sun went down, just
as he was to be seen in the picture. But then all at once he wanted to have his own goods and
money and to be his own master, and so he asked his father to give him his portion, and he
left his home and went and wasted all his substance. And when he had nothing left he hired
himself out to a master who had no flocks and fields like his father, but only swine to keep;
and so he was obliged to watch these, and he only had rags to wear and a few husks to eat such
as the swine fed upon. And then he thought of his old happy life at home and of how kindly
his father had treated him and how ungrateful he had been, and he wept for sorrow and longing.
And when he was yet a great way off his father saw him . . . Here Heidi paused in her reading.
"What do you think happens now, grandfather?" she said. "Do you think the father is still angry
and will say to him, 'I told you so!' Well, listen now to what comes next."

"Isn't that a beautiful tale, grandfather," said Heidi, as the latter continued to sit without
speaking, for she had expected him to express pleasure and astonishment.

"You are right, Heidi; it is a beautiful tale," he replied, but he looked so grave as he said
it that Heidi grew silent herself and sat looking quietly at her pictures. Presently she pushed
her book gently in front of him and said, "See how happy he is there," and she pointed with
her finger to the figure of the returned prodigal, who was standing by his father clad in fresh
raiment as one of his own sons again.

A few hours later, as Heidi lay fast asleep in her bed, the grandfather went up the ladder
and put his lamp down near her bed so that the light fell on the sleeping child. Her hands
were still folded as if she had fallen asleep saying her prayers, an expression of peace and
trust lay on the little face, and something in it seemed to appeal to the grandfather, for
he stood a long time gazing down at her without speaking. And two large tears rolled down the
old man's cheeks.

Early the next morning he stood in front of his hut and gazed quietly around him. The fresh
bright morning sun lay on mountain and valley. The sound of a few early bells rang up from
the valley, and the birds were singing their morning song in the fir trees. He stepped back
into the hut and called up, "Come along, Heidi! the sun is up! Put on your best frock, for
we are going to church together!"

Heidi was not long getting ready; it was such an unusual summons from her grandfather that
she must make haste. She put on her smart Frankfurt dress and soon went down, but when she
saw her grandfather she stood still, gazing at him in astonishment. "Why, grandfather!" she
exclaimed, "I never saw you look like that before! and the coat with the silver buttons! Oh,
you do look nice in your Sunday coat!"

The old man smiled and replied, "And you too; now come along!" He took Heidi's hand in his
and together they walked down the mountain side. The bells were ringing in every direction
now, sounding louder and fuller as they neared the valley, and Heidi listened to them with
delight. "Hark at them, grandfather! it's like a great festival!"

The congregation had already assembled and the singing had begun when Heidi and her grandfather
entered the church at Dorfli and sat down at the back. But before the hymn was over every one
was nudging his neighbor and whispering, "Do you see? Alm-Uncle is in church!"

Soon everybody in the church knew of Alm-Uncle's presence, and the women kept on turning round
to look and quite lost their place in the singing. But everybody became more attentive when
the sermon began, for the preacher spoke with such warmth and thankfulness that those present
felt the effect of his words, as if some great joy had come to them all. At the close of the
service Alm-Uncle took Heidi by the hand, and on leaving the church made his way towards the
pastor's house; the rest of the congregation looked curiously after him, some even following
to see whether he went inside the pastor's house, which he did. Then they collected in groups
and talked over this strange event, keeping their eyes on the pastor's door, watching to see
whether Alm-Uncle came out looking angry and quarrelsome, or as if the interview had been a
peaceful one, for they could not imagine what had brought the old man down, and what it all
meant. Some, however, adopted a new tone and expressed their opinion that Alm- Uncle was not
so bad after all as they thought, "for see how carefully he took the little one by the hand."
And others responded and said they had always thought people had exaggerated about him, that
if he was so downright bad he would be afraid to go inside the pastor's house. Then the miller
put in his word, "Did I not tell you so from the first? What child is there who would run away
from where she had plenty to eat and drink and everything of the best, home to a grandfather
who was cruel and unkind, and of whom she was afraid?"

And so everybody began to feel quite friendly towards Alm-Uncle, and the women now came up
and related all they had been told by Peter and his grandmother, and finally they all stood
there like people waiting for an old friend whom they had long missed from among their number.

Meanwhile Alm-Uncle had gone into the pastor's house and knocked at the study door. The latter
came out and greeted him, not as if he was surprised to see him, but as if he had quite expected
to see him there; he probably had caught sight of the old man in church. He shook hands warmly
with him, and Alm-Uncle was unable at first to speak, for he had not expected such a friendly
reception. At last he collected himself and said, "I have come to ask you, pastor, to forget
the words I spoke to you when you called on me, and to beg you not to owe me ill-will for having
been so obstinately set against your well-meant advice. You were right, and I was wrong, but
I have now made up my mind to follow your advice and to find a place for myself at Dorfli for
the winter, for the child is not strong enough to stand the bitter cold up on the mountain.
And if the people down here look askance at me, as at a person not to be trusted, I know it
is my own fault, and you will, I am sure, not do so."

The pastor's kindly eyes shone with pleasure. He pressed the old man's hand in his, and said
with emotion, "Neighbor, you went into the right church before you came to mine; I am greatly
rejoiced. You will not repent coming to live with us again; as for myself you will always be
welcome as a dear friend and neighbor, and I look forward to our spending many a pleasant winter
evening together, for I shall prize your companionship, and we will find some nice friends
too for the little one." And the pastor laid his hand kindly on the child's curly head and
took her by the hand as he walked to the door with the old man. He did not say good-bye to
him till they were standing outside, so that all the people standing about saw him shake hands
as if parting reluctantly from his best friend. The door had hardly shut behind him before
the whole congregation now came forward to greet Alm-Uncle, every one striving to be the first
to shake hands with him, and so many were held out that Alm-Uncle did not know with which to
begin; and some said, "We are so pleased to see you among us again," and another, "I have long
been wishing we could have a talk together again," and greetings of all kinds echoed from every
side, and when Alm-Uncle told them he was thinking of returning to his old quarters in Dorfli
for the winter, there was such a general chorus of pleasure that any one would have thought
he was the most beloved person in all Dorfli, and that they had hardly known how to live without
him. Most of his friends accompanied him and Heidi some way up the mountain, and each as they
bid him good-bye made him promise that when he next came down he would without fail come and
call. As the old man at last stood alone with the child, watching their retreating figures,
there was a light upon his face as if reflected from some inner sunshine of heart. Heidi, looking
up at him with her clear steady eyes, said, "Grandfather, you look nicer and nicer to-day,
I never saw you quite like that before."

"Do you think so?" he answered with a smile. "Well, yes, Heidi, I am happier to-day than I
deserve, happier than I had thought possible; it is good to be at peace with God and man! God
was good to me when He sent you to my hut."

When they reached Peter's home the grandfather opened the door and walked straight in. "Good-morning,
grandmother," he said. "I think we shall have to do some more patching, up before the autumn
winds come."

"Dear God, if it is not Uncle!" cried the grandmother in pleased surprise. "That I should live
to see such a thing! and now I can thank you for all that you have done for me. May God reward
you! may God reward you!" She stretched out a trembling hand to him, and when the grandfather
shook it warmly, she went on, still holding his, "And I have something on my heart I want to
say, a prayer to make to you! If I have injured you in any way, do not punish me by sending
the child away again before I lie under the grass. Oh, you do not know what that child is to
me!" and she clasped the child to her, for Heidi had already taken her usual stand close to
the grandmother.

"Have no fear, grandmother," said Uncle in a reassuring voice, "I shall not punish either you
or myself by doing so. We are all together now, and pray God we may continue so for long."

Brigitta now drew the Uncle aside towards a corner of the room and showed him the hat with
the feathers, explaining to him how it came there, and adding that of course she could not
take such a thing from a child.

But the grandfather looked towards Heidi without any displeasure of countenance and said, "The
hat is hers, and if she does not wish to wear it any more she has a right to say so and to
give it to you, so take it, pray."

Brigitta was highly delighted at this. "It is well worth more than ten shillings!" she said
as she held it up for further admiration. "And what a blessing Heidi has brought home with
her from Frankfurt! I have thought sometimes that it might be good to send Peter there for
a little while; what do you think, Uncle?"

A merry look came into the grandfather's eye. He thought it would do Peter no harm, but he
had better wait for a good opportunity before starting. At this moment the subject of their
conversation himself rushed in, evidently in a great hurry, knocking his head violently against
the door in his haste, so that everything in the room rattled. Gasping and breathless he stood
still after this and held out a letter. This was another great event, for such a thing had
never happened before; the letter was addressed to Heidi and had been delivered at the post-
office in Dorfli. They all sat down round the table to hear what was in it, for Heidi opened
it at once and read it without hesitation. The letter was from Clara. The latter wrote that
the house had been so dull since Heidi left that she did not know how to bear herself, and
she had at last persuaded her father to take her to the baths at Ragatz in the coming autumn;
grandmamma had arranged to join them there, and they both were looking forward to paying her
and her grandfather a visit. And grandmamma sent a further message to Heidi which was that
the latter had done quite right to take the rolls to the grandmother, and so that she might
not have to eat them dry, she was sending some coffee, which was already on its way, and grandmamma
hoped when she came to the Alm in the autumn that Heidi would take her to see her old friend.

There were exclamations of pleasure and astonishment on hearing all this news, and so much
to talk and ask about that even the grandfather did not notice how the time was passing; there
was general delight at the thought of the coming days, and even more at the meeting which had
taken place on this one, and the grandmother spoke and said, "The happiest of all things is
when an old friend comes and greets us as in former times; the heart is comforted with the
assurance that some day everything that we have loved will be given back to us.--You will come
soon again, uncle, and you child, to-morrow?"

The old man and Heidi promised her faithfully to do so; then it was time to break up the party,
and these two went back up the mountain. As they had been greeted with bells when they made
their journey down in the morning, so now they were accompanied by the peaceful evening chimes
as they climbed to the hut, which had quite a Sunday-like appearance as it stood bathed in
the light of the low evening sun.

But when grandmamma comes next autumn there will be many fresh joys and surprises both for
Heidi and grandmother; without doubt a proper bed will be put up in the hay-loft, for wherever
grandmamma steps in, there everything is soon in right order, outside and in.

CHAPTER XV. PREPARATIONS FOR A JOURNEY

The kind doctor who had given the order that Heidi was to be sent home was walking along one
of the broad streets towards Herr Sesemann's house. It was a sunny September morning, so full
of light and sweetness that it seemed as if everybody must rejoice. But the doctor walked with
his eyes fastened to the ground and did not once lift them to the blue sky above him. There
was an expression of sadness on his face, formerly so cheerful, and his hair had grown greyer
since the spring. The doctor had had an only daughter, who, after his wife's death, had been
his sole and constant companion, but only a few months previously death had deprived him of
his dear child, and he had never been the same bright and cheery man since.

Sebastian opened the door to him, greeting him with every mark of respectful civility, for
the doctor was not only the most cherished friend of the master and his daughter, but had by
his kindness won the hearts of the whole household.

"Everything as usual, Sebastian?" asked the doctor in his pleasant voice as he preceded Sebastian
up the stairs.

"I am glad you have come, doctor," exclaimed Herr Sesemann as the latter entered. "We must
really have another talk over this Swiss journey; do you still adhere to your decision, even
though Clara is decidedly improving in health?"

"My dear Sesemann, I never knew such a man as you!" said the doctor as he sat down beside his
friend. "I really wish your mother was here; everything would be clear and straightforward
then and she would soon put things in right train. You sent for me three times yesterday only
to ask me the same question, though you know what I think."

"Yes, I know, it's enough to make you out of patience with me; but you must understand, dear
friend"--and Herr Sesemann laid his hand imploringly on the doctor's shoulder--"that I feel
I have not the courage to refuse the child what I have been promising her all along, and for
months now she has been living on the thought of it day and night. She bore this last bad attack
so patiently because she was buoyed up with the hope that she should soon start on her Swiss
journey, and see her friend Heidi again; and now must I tell the poor child, who has to give
up so many pleasures, that this visit she has so long looked forward to must also be cancelled?
I really have not the courage to do it."

"You must make up your mind to it, Sesemann," said the doctor with authority, and as his friend
continued silent and dejected he went on after a pause, "Consider yourself how the matter stands.
Clara has not had such a bad summer as this last one for years. Only the worst results would
follow from the fatigue of such a journey, and it is out of the question for her. And then
we are already in September, and although it may still be warm and fine up there, it may just
as likely be already very cold. The days too are growing short, and as Clara cannot spend the
night up there she would only have a two hours' visit at the outside. The journey from Ragatz
would take hours, for she would have to be carried up the mountain in a chair. In short, Sesemann,
it is impossible. But I will go in with you and talk to Clara; she is a reasonable child, and
I will tell her what my plans are. Next May she shall be taken to the baths and stay there
for the cure until it is quite hot weather. Then she can be carried up the mountain from time
to time, and when she is stronger she will enjoy these excursions far more than she would now.
Understand, Sesemann, that if we want to give the child a chance of recovery we must use the
utmost care and watchfulness."

Herr Sesemann, who had listened to the doctor in sad and submissive silence, now suddenly jumped
up. "Doctor," he said, "tell me truly: have you really any hope of her final recovery?"

The doctor shrugged his shoulders. "Very little," he replied quietly. "But, friend, think of
my trouble. You have still a beloved child to look for you and greet you on your return home.
You do not come back to an empty house and sit down to a solitary meal. And the child is happy
and comfortable at home too. If there is much that she has to give up, she has on the other
hand many advantages. No, Sesemann, you are not so greatly to be pitied--you have still the
happiness of being together. Think of my lonely house!"

Herr Sesemann was now striding up and down the room as was his habit when deeply engaged in
thought. Suddenly he came to a pause beside his friend and laid his hand on his shoulder. "Doctor,
I have an idea; I cannot bear to see you look as you do; you are no longer the same man. You
must be taken out of yourself for a while, and what do you think I propose? That you shall
take the journey and go and pay Heidi a visit in our name."

The doctor was taken aback at this sudden proposal and wanted to make objections, but his friend
gave him no time to say anything. He was so delighted with his idea, that he seized the doctor
by the arm and drew him into Clara's room. The kind doctor was always a welcome visitor to
Clara, for he generally had something amusing to tell her. Lately, it is true, he had been
graver, but Clara knew the reason why and would have given much to see him his old lively self
again. She held out her hand to him as he came up to her; he took a seat beside her, and her
father also drew up his chair, and taking Clara's hand in his began to talk to her of the Swiss
journey and how he himself had looked forward to it. He passed as quickly as he could over
the main point that it was now impossible for her to undertake it, for he dreaded the tears
that would follow; but he went on without pause to tell her of his new plan, and dwelt on the
great benefit it would be to his friend if he could be persuaded to take this holiday.

The tears were indeed swimming in the blue eyes, although Clara struggled to keep them down
for her father's sake, but it was a bitter disappointment to give up the journey, the thought
of which had been her only joy and solace during the lonely hours of her long illness. She
knew, however, that her father would never refuse her a thing unless he was certain that it
would be harmful for her. So she swallowed her tears as well as she could and turned her thoughts
to the one hope still left her. Taking the doctor's hand and stroking it, she said pleadingly,--

"Dear doctor, you will go and see Heidi, won't you? and then you can come and tell me all about
it, what it is like up there, and what Heidi and the grandfather, and Peter and the goats do
all day. I know them all so well! And then you can take what I want to send to Heidi; I have
thought about it all, and also something for the grandmother. Do pray go, dear doctor, and
I will take as much cod liver oil as you like."

Whether this promise finally decided the doctor it is impossible to say, but it is certain
that he smiled and said,--

"Then I must certainly go, Clara, for you will then get as plump and strong as your father
and I wish to see you. And have you decided when I am to start?"

"To-morrow morning--early if possible," replied Clara.

"Yes, she is right," put in Herr Sesemann; "the sun is shining and the sky is blue, and there
is no time to be lost; it is a pity to miss a single one of these days on the mountain."

The doctor could not help laughing. "You will be reproaching me next for not being there already;
well, I must go and make arrangements for getting off."

But Clara would not let him go until she had given him endless messages for Heidi, and had
explained all he was to look at so as to give her an exact description on his return. Her presents
she would send round later, as Fraulein Rottenmeier must first help her to pack them up; at
that moment she was out on one of her excursions into the town which always kept her engaged
for some time. The doctor promised to obey Clara's directions in every particular; he would
start some time during the following day if not the first thing in the morning, and would bring
back a faithful account of his experiences and of all he saw and heard.

The servants of a household have a curious faculty of divining what is going on before they
are actually told about anything. Sebastian and Tinette must have possessed this faculty in
a high degree, for even as the doctor was going downstairs, Tinette, who had been rung for,
entered Clara's room.

"Take that box and bring it back filled with the soft cakes which we have with coffee," said
Clara, pointing to a box which had been brought long before in preparation for this. Tinette
took it up, and carried it out, dangling it contemptuously in her hand.

"Hardly worth the trouble I should have thought," she said pertly as she left the room.

As Sebastian opened the door for the doctor he said with a bow, "Will the Herr Doctor be so
kind as to give the little miss my greetings?"

"I see," said the doctor, "you know then already that I am off on a journey."

Sebastian hesitated and gave an awkward little cough. "I am--I have--I hardly know myself.
O yes, I remember; I happened to pass through the dining-room and caught little miss's name,
and I put two and two together--and so I thought--"

"I see, I see," smiled the doctor, "one can find out a great many thinks by thinking. Good-bye
till I see you again, Sebastian, I will be sure and give your message."

The doctor was hastening off when he met with a sudden obstacle; the violent wind had prevented
Fraulein Rottenmeier prosecuting her walk any farther, and she was just returning and had reached
the door as he was coming out. The white shawl she wore was so blown out by the wind that she
looked like a ship in full sail. The doctor drew back, but Fraulein Rottenmeier had always
evinced peculiar appreciation and respect for this man, and she also drew back with exaggerated
politeness to let him pass. The two stood for a few seconds, each anxious to make way for the
other, but a sudden gust of wind sent Fraulein Rottenmeier flying with all her sails almost
into the doctor's arms, and she had to pause and recover herself before she could shake hands
with the doctor with becoming decorum. She was put out at having been forced to enter in so
undignified a manner, but the doctor had a way of smoothing people's ruffled feathers, and
she was soon listening with her usual composure while he informed her of his intended journey,
begging her in his most conciliatory voice to pack up the parcels for Heidi as she alone knew
how to pack. And then he took his leave.

Clara quite expected to have a long tussle with Fraulein Rottenmeier before she would get the
latter to consent to sending all the things that she had collected as presents for Heidi. But
this time she was mistaken, for Fraulein Rottenmeier was in a more than usually good temper.
She cleared the large table so that all the things for Heidi could be spread out upon it and
packed under Clara's own eyes. It was no light job, for the presents were of all shapes and
sizes. First there was the little warm cloak with a hood, which had been designed by Clara
herself, in order that Heidi during the coming winter might be able to go and see grandmother
when she liked, and not have to wait till her grandfather could take her wrapped up in a sack
to keep her from freezing. Then came a thick warm shawl for the grandmother, in which she could
wrap herself well up and not feel the cold when the wind came sweeping in such terrible gusts
round the house. The next object was the large box full of cakes; these were also for the grandmother,
that she might have something to eat with her coffee besides bread. An immense sausage was
the next article; this had been originally intended for Peter, who never had anything but bread
and cheese, but Clara had altered her mind, fearing that in his delight he might eat it all
up at once and make himself ill. So she arranged to send it to Brigitta, who could take some
for herself and the grandmother and give Peter his portion out by degrees. A packet of tobacco
was a present for grandfather, who was fond of his pipe as he sat resting in the evening. Finally
there was a whole lot of mysterious little bags, and parcels, and boxes, which Clara had had
especial pleasure in collecting, as each was to be a joyful surprise for Heidi as she opened
it. The work came to an end at last, and an imposing-looking package lay on the floor ready
for transport. Fraulein Rottenmeier looked at it with satisfaction, lost in the consideration
of the art of packing. Clara eyed it too with pleasure, picturing Heidi's exclamations and
jumps of joy and surprise when the huge parcel arrived at the hut.

And now Sebastian came in, and lifting the package on to his shoulder, carried it off to be
forwarded at once to the doctor's house.

CHAPTER XVI. A VISITOR

The early light of morning lay rosy red upon the mountains, and a fresh breeze rustled through
the fir trees and set their ancient branches waving to and fro. The sound awoke Heidi and she
opened her eyes. The roaring in the trees always stirred a strong emotion within her and seemed
to drew her irresistibly to them. So she jumped out of bed and dressed herself as quickly as
she could, but it took her some time even then, for she was careful now to be always clean
and tidy.

When she went down her ladder she found her grandfather had already left the hut. He was standing
outside looking at the sky and examining the landscape as he did every morning, to see what
sort of weather it was going to be.

Little pink clouds were floating over the sky, that was growing brighter and bluer with every
minute, while the heights and the meadow lands were turning gold under the rising sun, which
was just appearing above the topmost peaks.

"O how beautiful! how beautiful! Good-morning, grandfather!" cried Heidi, running out.

"What, you are awake already, are you?" he answered, giving her a morning greeting.

Then Heidi ran round to the fir trees to enjoy the sound she loved so well, and with every
fresh gust of wind which came roaring through their branches she gave a fresh jump and cry
of delight.

Meanwhile the grandfather had gone to milk the goats; this done he brushed and washed them,
ready for their mountain excursion, and brought them out of their shed. As soon as Heidi caught
sight of her two friends she ran and embraced them, and they bleated in return, while they
vied with each other in showing their affection by poking their heads against her and trying
which could get nearest her, so that she was almost crushed between them. But Heidi was not
afraid of them, and when the lively Little Bear gave rather too violent a thrust, she only
said, "No, Little Bear, you are pushing like the Great Turk," and Little Bear immediately drew
back his head and left off his rough attentions, while Little Swan lifted her head and put
on an expression as much as to say, "No one shall ever accuse me of behaving like the Great
Turk." For White Swan was a rather more distinguished person than Brown Bear.

And now Peter's whistle was heard and all the goats came along, leaping and springing, and
Heidi soon found herself surrounded by the whole flock, pushed this way and that by their obstreperous
greetings, but at last she managed to get through them to where Snowflake was standing, for
the young goat had in vain striven to reach her.

Peter now gave a last tremendous whistle, in order to startle the goats and drive them off,
for he wanted to get near himself to say something to Heidi. The goats sprang aside and he
came up to her.

"Can you come out with me to-day?" he asked, evidently unwilling to hear her refuse.

"I am afraid I cannot, Peter," she answered. "I am expecting them every minute from Frankfurt,
and I must be at home when they come."

"You have said the same thing for days now," grumbled Peter.

"I must continue to say it till they come," replied Heidi. "How can you think, Peter, that
I would be away when they came? As if I could do such a thing?"

"They would find Uncle at home," he answered with a snarling voice.

But at this moment the grandfather's stentorian voice was heard. "Why is the army not marching
forward? Is it the field-marshal who is missing or some of the troops?"

Whereupon Peter turned and went off, swinging his stick round so that it whistled through the
air, and the goats, who understood the signal, started at full trot for their mountain pasture,
Peter following in their wake.

Since Heidi had been back with her grandfather things came now and then into her mind of which
she had never thought in former days. So now, with great exertion, she put her bed in order
every morning, patting and stroking it till she had got it perfectly smooth and flat. Then
she went about the room downstairs, put each chair back in its place, and if she found anything
lying about she put it in the cupboard. After that she fetched a duster, climbed on a chair,
and rubbed the table till it shone again. When the grandfather came in later he would look
round well pleased and say to himself, "We look like Sunday every day now; Heidi did not go
abroad for nothing."

After Peter had departed and she and her grandfather had breakfasted, Heidi began her daily
work as usual, but she did not get on with it very fast. It was so lovely out of doors to-
day, and every minute something happened to interrupt her in her work. Now it was a bright
beam of sun shining cheerfully through the open window, and seeming to say, "Come out, Heidi,
come out!" Heidi felt she could not stay indoors, and she ran out in answer to the call. The
sunlight lay sparkling on everything around the hut and on all the mountains and far away along
the valley, and the grass slope looked so golden and inviting that she was obliged to sit down
for a few minutes and look about her. Then she suddenly remembered that her stool was left
standing in the middle of the floor and that the table had not been rubbed, and she jumped
up and ran inside again. But it was not long before the fir trees began their old song; Heidi
felt it in all her limbs, and again the desire to run outside was irresistible, and she was
off to play and leap to the tune of the waving branches. The grandfather, who was busy in his
work-shed, stepped out from time to time smiling to watch her at her gambols. He had just gone
back to his work on one of these occasions when Heidi called out, "Grandfather! grandfather!
Come, come!"

He stepped quickly out, almost afraid something had happened to the child, but he saw her running
towards where the mountain path descended, crying, "They are coming! they are coming! and the
doctor is in front of them!"

Heidi rushed forward to welcome her old friend, who held out his hands in greeting to her.
When she came up to him she clung to his outstretched arm, and exclaimed in the joy of her
heart, "Good-morning, doctor, and thank you ever so many times."

"God bless you, child! what have you got to thank me for?" asked the doctor, smiling.

"For being at home again with grandfather," the child explained.

The doctor's face brightened as if a sudden ray of sunshine had passed across it; he had not
expected such a reception as this. Lost in the sense of his loneliness he had climbed the mountain
without heeding how beautiful it was on every side, and how more and more beautiful it became
the higher he got. He had quite thought that Heidi would have forgotten him; she had seen so
little of him, and he had felt rather like one bearing a message of disappointment, anticipating
no great show of favor, coming as he did without the expected friends. But instead, here was
Heidi, her eyes dancing for joy, and full of gratitude and affection, clinging to the arm of
her kind friend.

He took her by the hand with fatherly tenderness.

"Take me now to your grandfather, Heidi, and show me where you live."

But Heidi still remained standing, looking down the path with a questioning gaze. "Where are
Clara and grandmother?" she asked.

"Ah, now I have to tell you something which you will be as sorry about as I am," answered the
doctor. "You see, Heidi, I have come alone. Clara was very ill and could not travel, and so
the grandmother stayed behind too. But next spring, when the days grow warm and long again,
they are coming here for certain."

Heidi was greatly concerned; she could not at first bring herself to believe that what she
had for so long been picturing to herself was not going to happen after all. She stood motionless
for a second or two, overcome by the unexpected disappointment. The doctor said nothing further;
all around lay the silence, only the sighing of the fir trees could be heard from where they
stood. Then Heidi suddenly remembered why she had run down there, and that the doctor had really
come. She lifted her eyes and saw the sad expression in his as he looked down at her; she had
never seen him with that look on his face when she was in Frankfurt. It went to Heidi's heart;
she could not bear to see anybody unhappy, especially her dear doctor. No doubt it was because
Clara and grandmother could not come, and so she began to think how best she might console him.

"Oh, it won't be very long to wait for spring, and then they will be sure to come," she said
in a reassuring voice. "Time passes very quickly with us, and then they will be able to stay
longer when they are here, and Clara will be pleased at that. Now let us go and find grandfather."

Hand in hand with her friend she climbed up to the hut. She was so anxious to make the doctor
happy again that she began once more assuring him that the winter passed so quickly on the
mountain that it was hardly to be taken account of, and that summer would be back again before
they knew it, and she became so convinced of the truth of her own words that she called out
quite cheerfully to her grandfather as they approached, "They have not come to-day, but they
will be here in a very short time."

The doctor was no stranger to the grandfather, for the child had talked to him so much about
her friend. The old man held out his hand to his guest in friendly greeting. Then the two men
sat down in front of the hut, and Heidi had her little place too, for the doctor beckoned her
to come and sit beside him. The doctor told Uncle how Herr Sesemann had insisted on his taking
this journey, and he felt himself it would do him good as he had not been quite the thing for
a long time. Then he whispered to Heidi that there was something being brought up the mountain
which had travelled with him from Frankfurt, and which would give her even more pleasure than
seeing the old doctor. Heidi got into a great state of excitement on hearing this, wondering
what it could be, The old man urged the doctor to spend as many of the beautiful autumn days
on the mountain as he could, and at least to come up whenever it was fine; he could not offer
him a lodging, as he had no place to put him; he advised the doctor, however, not to go back
to Ragatz, but to stay at Dorfli, where there was a clean tidy little inn. Then the doctor
could come up every morning, which would do him no end of good, and if he liked, he, the grandfather,
would act as his guide to any part of the mountains he would like to see. The doctor was delighted
with this proposal, and it was settled that it should be as the grandfather suggested.

Meanwhile the sun had been climbing up the sky, and it was now noon. The wind had sunk and
the fir trees stood motionless. The air was still wonderfully warm and mild for that height,
while a delicious freshness was mingled with the warmth of the sun.

Alm-Uncle now rose and went indoors, returning in a few minutes with a table which he placed
in front of the seat.

"There, Heidi, now run in and bring us what we want for the table," he said. "The doctor must
take us as he finds us; if the food is plain, he will acknowledge that the dining-room is pleasant."

"I should think so indeed," replied the doctor as he looked down over the sun-lit valley, "and
I accept the kind invitation; everything must taste good up here."

Heidi ran backwards and forwards as busy as a bee and brought out everything she could find
in the cupboard, for she did not know how to be pleased enough that she could help to entertain
the doctor. The grandfather meanwhile had been preparing the meal, and now appeared with a
steaming jug of milk and golden- brown toasted cheese. Then he cut some thin slices from the
meat he had cured himself in the pure air, and the doctor enjoyed his dinner better than he
had for a whole year past.

"Our Clara must certainly come up here," he said, "it would make her quite a different person,
and if she ate for any length of time as I have to-day, she would grow plumper than any one
has ever known her before."

As he spoke a man was seen coming up the path carrying a large package on his back. When he
reached the hut he threw it on the ground and drew in two or three good breaths of the mountain
air.

"Ah, here's what travelled with me from Frankfurt," said the doctor, rising, and he went up
to the package and began undoing it, Heidi looking on in great expectation. After he had released
it from its heavy outer covering, "There, child," he said, "now you can go on unpacking your
treasures yourself."

Heidi undid her presents one by one until they were all displayed; she could not speak the
while for wonder and delight. Not till the doctor went up to her again and opened the large
box to show Heidi the cakes that were for the grandmother to eat with her coffee, did she at
last give a cry of joy, exclaiming, "Now grandmother will have nice things to eat," and she
wanted to pack everything up again and start at once to give them to her. But the grandfather
said he should walk down with the doctor that evening and she could go with them and take the
things. Heidi now found the packet of tobacco which she ran and gave to her grandfather; he
was so pleased with it that he immediately filled his pipe with some, and the two men then
sat down together again, the smoke curling up from their pipes as they talked of all kinds
of things, while Heidi continued to examine first one and then another of her presents. Suddenly
she ran up to them, and standing in front of the doctor waited till there was a pause in the
conversation, and then said, "No, the other thing has not given me more pleasure than seeing
you, doctor."

The two men could not help laughing, and the doctor answered that he should never have thought it.

As the sun began to sink behind the mountains the doctor rose, thinking it was time to return
to Dorfli and seek for quarters. The grandfather carried the cakes and the shawl and the large
sausage, and the doctor took Heidi's hand, so they all three started down the mountain. Arrived
at Peter's home Heidi bid the others good-bye; she was to wait at grandmother's till her grandfather,
who was going on to Dorfli with his guest, returned to fetch her. As the doctor shook hands
with her she asked, "Would you like to come out with the goats to-morrow morning?" for she
could think of no greater treat to offer him.

"Agreed!" answered the doctor, "we will go together,"

Heidi now ran in to the grandmother; she first, with some effort, managed to carry in the box
of cakes; then she ran out again and brought in the sausage--for her grandfather had put the
presents down by the door--and then a third time for the shawl. She had placed them as close
as she could to the grandmother, so that the latter might be able to feel them and understand
what was there. The shawl she laid over the old woman's knees.

"They are all from Frankfurt, from Clara and grandmamma," she explained to the astonished grandmother
and Brigitta, the latter having watched her dragging in all the heavy things, unable to imagine
what was happening.

"And you are very pleased with the cakes, aren't you, grandmother? taste how soft they are!"
said Heidi over and over again, to which the grandmother continued to answer, "Yes, yes, Heidi,
I should think so! what kind people they must be!" And then she would pass her hand over the
warm thick shawl and add, "This will be beautiful for the cold winter! I never thought I should
ever have such a splendid thing as this to put on."

Heidi could not help feeling some surprise at the grandmother seeming to take more pleasure
in the shawl than the cakes. Meanwhile Brigitta stood gazing at the sausage with almost an
expression of awe. She had hardly in her life seen such a monster sausage, much less owned
one, and she could scarcely believe her eyes. She shook her head and said doubtfully, "I must
ask Uncle what it is meant for,"

But Heidi answered without hesitation, "It is meant for eating, not for anything else."

Peter came tumbling in at this minute. "Uncle is just behind me, he is coming--" he began,
and then stopped short, for his eye had caught sight of the sausage, and he was too much taken
aback to say more. But Heidi understood that her grandfather was near and so said good-bye
to grandmother. The old man now never passed the door without going in to wish the old woman
good-day, and she liked to hear his footstep approaching, for he always had a cheery word for
her. But to-day it was growing late for Heidi, who was always up with the lark, and the grandfather
would never let her go to bed after hours; so this evening he only called good-night through
the open door and started home at once with the child, and the two climbed under the starlit
sky back to their peaceful dwelling.

CHAPTER XVII. A COMPENSATION

The next morning the doctor climbed up from Dorfli with Peter and the goats. The kindly gentleman
tried now and then to enter into conversation with the boy, but his attempts failed, for he
could hardly get a word out of Peter in answer to his questions. Peter was not easily persuaded
to talk. So the party silently made their way up to the hut, where they found Heidi awaiting
them with her two goats, all three as fresh and lively as the morning sun among the mountains.

"Are you coming to-day?" said Peter, repeating the words with which he daily greeted her, either
in question or in summons.

"Of course I am, if the doctor is coming too," replied Heidi.

Peter cast a sidelong glance at the doctor. The grandfather now came out with the dinner bag,
and after bidding good-day to the doctor he went up to Peter and slung it over his neck. It
was heavier than usual, for Alm-Uncle had added some meat to-day, as he thought the doctor
might like to have his lunch out and eat it when the children did. Peter gave a grin, for he
felt sure there was something more than ordinary in it.

And so the ascent began. The goats as usual came thronging around Heidi, each trying to be
nearest her, until at last she stood still and said, "Now you must go on in front and behave
properly, and not keep on turning back and pushing and poking me, for I want to talk to the
doctor," and she gave Snowflake a little pat on the back and told her to be good and obedient.
By degrees she managed to make her way out from among them and joined the doctor, who took
her by the hand. He had no difficulty now in conversing with his companion, for Heidi had a
great deal to say about the goats and their peculiarities, and about the flowers and the rocks
and the birds, and so they clambered on and reached their resting-place before they were aware.
Peter had sent a good many unfriendly glances towards the doctor on the way up, which might
have quite alarmed the latter if he had happened to notice them, which, fortunately, he did not.

Heidi now led her friend to her favorite spot where she was accustomed to sit and enjoy the
beauty around her; the doctor followed her example and took his seat beside her on the warm
grass. Over the heights and over the far green valley hung the golden glory of the autumn day.
The great snow-field sparkled in the bright sunlight, and the two grey rocky peaks rose in
their ancient majesty against the dark blue sky. A soft, light morning breeze blew deliciously
across the mountain, gently stirring the bluebells that still remained of the summer's wealth
of flowers, their slender heads nodding cheerfully in the sunshine. Overhead the great bird
was flying round and round in wide circles, but to- day he made no sound; poised on his large
wings he floated contentedly in the blue ether. Heidi looked about her first at one thing and
then at another. The waving flowers, the blue sky, the bright sunshine, the happy bird--everything
was so beautiful! so beautiful! Her eyes were alight with joy. And now she turned to her friend
to see if he too were enjoying the beauty. The doctor had been sitting thoughtfully gazing
around him. As he met her glad bright eyes, "Yes, Heidi," he responded, "I see how lovely it
all is, but tell me--if one brings a sad heart up here, how may it be healed so that it can
rejoice in all this beauty?"

"Oh, but," exclaimed Heidi, "no one is sad up here, only in Frankfurt."

The doctor smiled and then growing serious again he continued, "But supposing one is not able
to leave all the sadness behind at Frankfurt; can you tell me anything that will help then?"

"When you do not know what more to do you must go and tell everything to God," answered Heidi
with decision.

"Ah, that is a good thought of yours, Heidi," said the doctor. "But if it is God Himself who
has sent the trouble, what can we say to Him then?"

Heidi sat pondering for a while; she was sure in her heart that God could help out of every
trouble. She thought over her own experiences and then found her answer.

"Then you must wait," she said, "and keep on saying to yourself: God certainly knows of some
happiness for us which He is going to bring out of the trouble, only we must have patience
and not run away. And then all at once something happens and we see clearly ourselves that
God has had some good thought in His mind all along; but because we cannot see things beforehand,
and only know how dreadfully miserable we are, we think it is always going to be so."

"That is a beautiful faith, child, and be sure you hold it fast," replied the doctor. Then
he sat on a while in silence, looking at the great overshadowing mountains and the green, sunlit
valley below before he spoke again,--

"Can you understand, Heidi, that a man may sit here with such a shadow over his eyes that he
cannot feel and enjoy the beauty around him, while the heart grows doubly sad knowing how beautiful
it could be? Can you understand that?"

A pain shot through the child's young happy heart. The shadow over the eyes brought to her
remembrance the grandmother, who would never again be able to see the sunlight and the beauty
up here. This was Heidi's great sorrow, which re-awoke each time she thought about the darkness.
She did not speak for a few minutes, for her happiness was interrupted by this sudden pang.
Then in a grave voice she said,--

"Yes, I can understand it. And I know this, that then one must say one of grandmother's hymns,
which bring the light back a little, and often make it so bright for her that she is quite
happy again. Grandmother herself told me this."

"Which hymns are they, Heidi?" asked the doctor.

"I only know the one about the sun and the beautiful garden, and some of the verses of the
long one, which are favorites with her, and she always likes me to read them to her two or
three times over," replied Heidi.

"Well, say the verses to me then, I should like to hear them too," and the doctor sat up in
order to listen better.

Heidi put her hands together and sat collecting her thoughts for a second or two: "Shall I
begin at the verse that grandmother says gives her a feeling of hope and confidence?"

The doctor nodded his assent, and Heidi began,--

    Let not your heart be troubled  
    Nor fear your soul dismay,
    There is a wise Defender
    And He will be your stay.
    Where you have failed, He conquers,
    See, how the foeman flies!
    And all your tribulation  
    Is turned to glad surprise.

    If for a while it seemeth
    His mercy is withdrawn,
    That He no longer careth
    For His wandering child forlorn,
    Doubt not His great compassion,
    His love can never tire,
    To those who wait in patience
    He gives their heart's desire.

Heidi suddenly paused; she was not sure if the doctor was still listening. He was sitting motionless
with his hand before his eyes. She thought he had fallen asleep; when he awoke, if he wanted
to hear more verses, she would go on. There was no sound anywhere. The doctor sat in silence,
but he was certainly not asleep. His thoughts had carried him back to a long past time: he
saw himself as a little boy standing by his dear mother's chair; she had her arm round his
neck and was saying the very verses to him that Heidi had just recited--words which he had
not heard now for years. He could hear his mother's voice and see her loving eyes resting upon
him, and as Heidi ceased the old dear voice seemed to be saying other things to him; and the
words he heard again must have carried him far, far away, for it was a long time before he
stirred or took his hand from his eyes. When at last he roused himself he met Heidi's eyes
looking wonderingly at him.

"Heidi," he said, taking the child's hand in his, "that was a beautiful hymn of yours," and
there was a happier ring in his voice as he spoke. "We will come out here together another
day, and you will let me hear it again."

Peter meanwhile had had enough to do in giving vent to his anger. It was now some days since
Heidi had been out with him, and when at last she did come, there she sat the whole time beside
the old gentleman, and Peter could not get a word with her. He got into a terrible temper,
and at last went and stood some way back behind the doctor, where the latter could not see
him, and doubling his fist made imaginary hits at the enemy. Presently he doubled both fists,
and the longer Heidi stayed beside the gentleman, the more fiercely did he threaten with them.

Meanwhile the sun had risen to the height which Peter knew pointed to the dinner hour. All
of a sudden he called at the top of his voice, "It's dinner time."

Heidi was rising to fetch the dinner bag so that the doctor might eat his where he sat. But
he stopped her, telling her he was not hungry at all, and only cared for a glass of milk, as
he wanted to climb up a little higher. Then Heidi found that she also was not hungry and only
wanted milk, and she should like, she said, to take the doctor up to the large moss-covered
rock where Greenfinch had nearly jumped down and killed herself. So she ran and explained matters
to Peter, telling him to go and get milk for the two. Peter seemed hardly to understand. "Who
is going to eat what is in the bag then?" he asked.

"You can have it," she answered, "only first make haste and get the milk."

Peter had seldom performed any task more promptly, for he thought of the bag and its contents,
which now belonged to him. As soon as the other two were sitting quietly drinking their milk,
he opened it, and quite trembled for joy at the sight of the meat, and he was just putting
his hand in to draw it out when something seemed to hold him back. His conscience smote him
at the remembrance of how he had stood with his doubled fists behind the doctor, who was now
giving up to him his whole good dinner. He felt as if he could not now enjoy it. But all at
once he jumped up and ran back to the spot where he had stood before, and there held up his
open hands as a sign that he had no longer any wish to use them as fists, and kept them up
until he felt he had made amends for his past conduct. Then he rushed back and sat down to
the double enjoyment of a clear conscience and an unusually satisfying meal.

Heidi and the doctor climbed and talked for a long while, until the latter said it was time
for him to be going back, and no doubt Heidi would like to go and be with her goats. But Heidi
would not hear of this, as then the doctor would have to go the whole way down the mountain
alone. She insisted on accompanying him as far as the grandfather's hut, or even a little further.
She kept hold of her friend's hand all the time, and the whole way she entertained him with
accounts of this thing and that, showing him the spots where the goats loved best to feed,
and others where in summer the flowers of all colors grew in greatest abundance. She could
give them all their right names, for her grandfather had taught her these during the summer
months. But at last the doctor insisted on her going back; so they bid each other good-night
and the doctor continued his descent, turning now and again to look back, and each time he
saw Heidi standing on the same spot and waving her hand to him. Even so in the old days had
his own dear little daughter watched him when he went from home.

It was a bright sunny autumn month. The doctor came up to the hut every morning, and thence
made excursions over the mountain. Alm-Uncle accompanied him on some of his higher ascents,
when they climbed up to the ancient storm-beaten fir trees and often disturbed the great bird
which rose startled from its nest, with the whirl of wings and croakings, very near their heads.
The doctor found great pleasure in his companion's conversation, and was astonished at his
knowledge of the plants that grew on the mountain: he knew the uses of them all, from the aromatic
fir trees and the dark pines with their scented needles, to the curly moss that sprang up everywhere
about the roots of the trees and the smallest plant and tiniest flower. He was as well versed
also in the ways of the animals, great and small, and had many amusing anecdotes to tell of
these dwellers in caves and holes and in the tops of the fir trees. And so the time passed
pleasantly and quickly for the doctor, who seldom said good-bye to the old man at the end of
the day without adding, "I never leave you, friend, without having learnt something new from you."

On some of the very finest days, however, the doctor would wander out again with Heidi, and
then the two would sit together as on the first day, and the child would repeat her hymns and
tell the doctor things which she alone knew. Peter sat at a little distance from them, but
he was now quite reconciled in spirit and gave vent to no angry pantomime.

September had drawn to its close, and now one morning the doctor appeared looking less cheerful
than usual. It was his last day, he said, as he must return to Frankfurt, but he was grieved
at having to say good-bye to the mountain, which he had begun to feel quite like home. Alm-Uncle,
on his side, greatly regretted the departure of his guest, and Heidi had been now accustomed
for so long to see her good friend every day that she could hardly believe the time had suddenly
come to separate. She looked up at him in doubt, taken by surprise, but there was no help,
he must go. So he bid farewell to the old man and asked that Heidi might go with him part of
the return way, and Heidi took his hand and went down the mountain with him, still unable to
grasp the idea that he was going for good. After some distance the doctor stood still, and
passing his hand over the child's curly head said, "Now, Heidi, you must go back, and I must
say good-bye! If only I could take you with me to Frankfurt and keep you there!"

The picture of Frankfurt rose before the child's eyes, its rows of endless houses, its hard
streets, and even the vision of Fraulein Rottenmeier and Tinette, and she answered hesitatingly,
"I would rather that you came back to us."

"Yes, you are right, that would be better. But now good-bye, Heidi." The child put her hand
in his and looked up at him; the kind eyes looking down on her had tears in them. Then the
doctor tore himself away and quickly continued his descent.

Heidi remained standing without moving. The friendly eyes with the tears in them had gone to
her heart. All at once she burst into tears and started running as fast as she could after
the departing figure, calling out in broken tones: "Doctor! doctor!"

He turned round and waited till the child reached him. The tears were streaming down her face
and she sobbed out: "I will come to Frankfurt with you, now at once, and I will stay with you
as long as you like, only I must just run back and tell grandfather."

The doctor laid his hand on her and tried to calm her excitement. "No, no, dear child," he
said kindly, "not now; you must stay for the present under the fir trees, or I should have
you ill again. But hear now what I have to ask you. If I am ever ill and alone, will you come
then and stay with me? May I know that there would then be some one to look after me and care
for me?"

"Yes, yes, I will come the very day you send for me, and I love you nearly as much as grandfather,"
replied Heidi, who had not yet got over her distress.

And so the doctor again bid her good-bye and started on his way, while Heidi remained looking
after him and waving her hand as long as a speck of him could be seen. As the doctor turned
for the last time and looked back at the waving Heidi and the sunny mountain, he said to himself,
"It is good to be up there, good for body and soul, and a man might learn how to be happy once
more."

CHAPTER XVIII. WINTER IN DORFLI

The snow was lying so high around the hut that the windows looked level with the ground, and
the door had entirely disappeared from view. If Alm-Uncle had been up there he would have had
to do what Peter did daily, for fresh snow fell every night. Peter had to get out of the window
of the sitting-room every morning, and if the frost had not been very hard during the night,
he immediately sank up to his shoulders almost in the snow and had to struggle with hands,
feet, and head to extricate himself. Then his mother handed him the large broom, and with this
he worked hard to make a way to the door. He had to be careful to dig the snow well away, or
else as soon as the door was opened the whole soft mass would fall inside, or, if the frost
was severe enough, it would have made such a wall of ice in front of the house that no one
could have gone in or out, for the window was only big enough for Peter to creep through. The
fresh snow froze like this in the night sometimes, and this was an enjoyable time for Peter,
for he would get through the window on to the hard, smooth, frozen ground, and his mother would
hand him out the little sleigh, and he could then make his descent to Dorfli along any route
he chose, for the whole mountain was nothing but one wide, unbroken sleigh road.

Alm-Uncle had kept his word and was not spending the winter in his old home. As soon as the
first snow began to fall, he had shut up the hut and the outside buildings and gone down to
Dorfli with Heidi and the goats. Near the church was a straggling half-ruined building, which
had once been the house of a person of consequence. A distinguished soldier had lived there
at one time; he had taken service in Spain and had there performed many brave deeds and gathered
much treasure. When he returned home to Dorfli he spent part of his booty in building a fine
house, with the intention of living in it. But he had been too long accustomed to the noise
and bustle of arms and the world to care for a quiet country life, and he soon went off again,
and this time did not return. When after many long years it seemed certain that he was dead,
a distant relative took possession of the house, but it had already fallen into disrepair,
and he had no wish to rebuild it. So it was let to poor people, who paid but a small rent,
and when any part of the building fell it was allowed to remain. This had now gone on for many
years. As long ago as when his son Tobias was a child Alm-Uncle had rented the tumble- down
old place. Since then it had stood empty, for no one could stay in it who had not some idea
of how to stop up the holes and gaps and make it habitable. Otherwise the wind and rain and
snow blew into the rooms, so that it was impossible even to keep a candle alight, and the indwellers
would have been frozen to death during the long cold winters. Alm-Uncle, however, knew how
to mend matters. As soon as he made up his mind to spend the winter in Dorfli, he rented the
old place and worked during the autumn to get it sound and tight. In the middle of October
he and Heidi took up their residence there.

On approaching the house from the back one came first into an open space with a wall on either
side, of which one was half in ruins. Above this rose the arch of an old window thickly overgrown
with ivy, which spread over the remains of a domed roof that had evidently been part of a chapel.
A large hall came next, which lay open, without doors, to the square outside. Here also walls
and roof only partially remained, and indeed what was left of the roof looked as if it might
fall at any minute had it not been for two stout pillars that supported it. Alm-Uncle had here
put up a wooden partition and covered the floor with straw, for this was to be the goats' house.
Endless passages led from this, through the rents of which the sky as well as the fields and
the road outside could be seen at intervals; but at last one came to a stout oak door that
led into a room that still stood intact. Here the walls and the dark wainscoting remained as
good as ever, and in the corner was an immense stove reaching nearly to the ceiling, on the
white tiles of which were painted large pictures in blue. These represented old castles surrounded
with trees, and huntsmen riding out with their hounds; or else a quiet lake scene, with broad
oak trees and a man fishing. A seat ran all round the stove so that one could sit at one's
ease and study the pictures. These attracted Heidi's attention at once, and she had no sooner
arrived with her grandfather than she ran and seated herself and began to examine them. But
when she had gradually worked herself round to the back, something else diverted her attention.
In the large space between the stove and the wall four planks had been put together as if to
make a large receptacle for apples; there were no apples, however, inside, but something Heidi
had no difficulty in recognising, for it was her very own bed, with its hay mattress and sheets,
and sack for a coverlid, just as she had it up at the hut. Heidi clapped her hands for joy
and exclaimed, "O grandfather, this is my room, how nice! But where are you going to sleep?"

"Your room must be near the stove or you will freeze," he replied, "but you can come and see
mine too."

Heidi got down and skipped across the large room after her grandfather, who opened a door at
the farther end leading into a smaller one which was to be his bedroom. Then came another door.
Heidi pushed it open and stood amazed, for here was an immense room like a kitchen, larger
than anything of the kind that Heidi had seen before. There was still plenty of work for the
grandfather before this room could be finished, for there were holes and cracks in the walls
through which the wind whistled, and yet he had already nailed up so many new planks that it
looked as if a lot of small cupboards had been set up round the room. He had, however, made
the large old door safe with many screws and nails, as a protection against the outside air,
and this was very necessary, for just beyond was a mass of ruined buildings overgrown with
tall weeds, which made a dwelling-place for endless beetles and lizards.

Heidi was very delighted with her new home, and by the morning after their arrival she knew
every nook and corner so thoroughly that she could take Peter over it and show him all that
was to be seen; indeed she would not let him go till he had examined every single wonderful
thing contained in it.

Heidi slept soundly in her corner by the stove; but every morning when she first awoke she
still thought she was on the mountain, and that she must run outside at once to see if the
fir trees were so quiet because their branches were weighed down with the thick snow. She had
to look about her for some minutes before she felt quite sure where she was, and a certain
sensation of trouble and oppression would come over her as she grew aware that she was not
at home in the hut. But then she would hear her grandfather's voice outside, attending to the
goats, and these would give one or two loud bleats, as if calling to her to make haste and
go to them, and then Heidi was happy again, for she knew she was still at home, and she would
jump gladly out of bed and run out to the animals as quickly as she could. On the fourth morning,
as soon as she saw her grandfather, she said, "I must go up to see grandmother to-day; she
ought not to be alone so long."

But the grandfather would not agree to this. "Neither to-day nor to-morrow can you go," he
said; "the mountain is covered fathom- deep in snow, and the snow is still falling; the sturdy
Peter can hardly get along. A little creature like you would soon be smothered by it, and we
should not be able to find you again. Wait a bit till it freezes, then you will be able to
walk over the hard snow."

Heidi did not like the thought of having to wait, but the days were so busy that she hardly
knew how they went by.

Heidi now went to school in Dorfli every morning and afternoon, and eagerly set to work to
learn all that was taught her. She hardly ever saw Peter there, for as a rule he was absent.
The teacher was an easy-going man who merely remarked now and then, "Peter is not turning up
to-day again, it seems, but there is a lot of snow up on the mountain and I daresay he cannot
get along." Peter, however, always seemed able to make his way through the snow in the evening
when school was over, and he then generally paid Heidi a visit.

At last, after some days, the sun again appeared and shone brightly over the white ground,
but he went to bed again behind the mountains at a very early hour, as if he did not find such
pleasure in looking down on the earth as when everything was green and flowery. But then the
moon came out clear and large and lit up the great white snowfield all through the night, and
the next morning the whole mountain glistened and sparkled like a huge crystal. When Peter
got out of his window as usual, he was taken by surprise, for instead of sinking into the soft
snow he fell on the hard ground and went sliding some way down the mountain side like a sleigh
before he could stop himself. He picked himself up and tested the hardness of the ground by
stamping on it and trying with all his might to dig his heels into it, but even then he could
not break off a single little splinter of ice; the Alm was frozen hard as iron. This was just
what Peter had been hoping for, as he knew now that Heidi would be able to come up to them.
He quickly got back into the house, swallowed the milk which his mother had put ready for him,
thrust a piece of bread in his pocket, and said, "I must be off to school." "That's right,
go and learn all you can," said the grandmother encouragingly. Peter crept through the window
again-- the door was quite blocked by the frozen snow outside--pulling his little sleigh after
him, and in another minute was shooting down the mountain.

He went like lightning, and when he reached Dorfli, which stood on the direct road to Mayenfeld,
he made up his mind to go on further, for he was sure he could not stop his rapid descent without
hurting himself and the sleigh too. So down he still went till he reached the level ground,
where the sleigh came to a pause of its own accord. Then he got out and looked round. The impetus
with which he had made his journey down had carried him some little way beyond Mayenfeld. He
bethought himself that it was too late to get to school now, as lessons would already have
begun, and it would take him a good hour to walk back to Dorfli. So he might take his time
about returning, which he did, and reached Dorfli just as Heidi had got home from school and
was sitting at dinner with her grandfather. Peter walked in, and as on this occasion he had
something particular to communicate, he began without a pause, exclaiming as he stood still
in the middle of the room, "She's got it now."

"Got it? what?" asked the Uncle. "Your words sound quite warlike, general."

"The frost," explained Peter.

"Oh! then now I can go and see grandmother!" said Heidi joyfully, for she had understood Peter's
words at once. "But why were you not at school then? You could have come down in the sleigh,"
she added reproachfully, for it did not agree with Heidi's ideas of good behavior to stay away
when it was possible to be there.

"It carried me on too far and I was too late," Peter replied.

"I call that being a deserter," said the Uncle, "and deserters get their ears pulled, as you know."

Peter gave a tug to his cap in alarm, for there was no one of whom he stood in so much awe
as Alm-Uncle.

"And an army leader like yourself ought to be doubly ashamed of running away," continued Alm-Uncle.
"What would you think of your goats if one went off this way and another that, and refused
to follow and do what was good for them? What would you do then?"

"I should beat them," said Peter promptly.

"And if a boy behaved like these unruly goats, and he got a beating for it, what would you
say then?"

"Serve him right," was the answer.

"Good, then understand this: next time you let your sleigh carry you past the school when you
ought to be inside at your lessons, come on to me afterwards and receive what you deserve."

Peter now understood the drift of the old man's questions and that he was the boy who behaved
like the unruly goats, and he looked somewhat fearfully towards the corner to see if anything
happened to be there such as he used himself on such occasions for the punishment of his animals.

But now the grandfather suddenly said in a cheerful voice, "Come and sit down and have something,
and afterwards Heidi shall go with you. Bring her back this evening and you will find supper
waiting for you here."

This unexpected turn of conversation set Peter grinning all over with delight. He obeyed without
hesitation and took his seat beside Heidi. But the child could not eat any more in her excitement
at the thought of going to see grandmother. She pushed the potatoes and toasted cheese which
still stood on her plate towards him while Uncle was filling his plate from the other side,
so that he had quite a pile of food in front of him, but he attacked it without any lack of
courage. Heidi ran to the cupboard and brought out the warm cloak Clara had sent her; with
this on and the hood drawn over her head, she was all ready for her journey. She stood waiting
beside Peter, and as soon as his last mouthful had disappeared she said, "Come along now."
As the two walked together Heidi had much to tell Peter of her two goats that had been so unhappy
the first day in their new stall that they would not eat anything, but stood hanging their
heads, not even rousing themselves to bleat. And when she asked her grandfather the reason
of this, he told her it was with them as with her in Frankfurt, for it was the first time in
their lives they had come down from the mountain. "And you don't know what that is, Peter,
unless you have felt it yourself," added Heidi.

The children had nearly reached their destination before Peter opened his mouth; he appeared
to be so sunk in thought that he hardly heard what was said to him. As they neared home, however,
he stood still and said in a somewhat sullen voice, "I had rather go to school even than get
what Uncle threatened."

Heidi was of the same mind, and encouraged him in his good intention. They found Brigitta sitting
alone knitting, for the grandmother was not very well and had to stay the day in bed on account
of the cold. Heidi had never before missed the old figure in her place in the corner, and she
ran quickly into the next room. There lay grandmother on her little poorly covered bed, wrapped
up in her warm grey shawl.

"Thank God," she exclaimed as Heidi came running in; the poor old woman had had a secret fear
at heart all through the autumn, especially if Heidi was absent for any length of time, for
Peter had told her of a strange gentleman who had come from Frankfurt, and who had gone out
with them and always talked to Heidi, and she had felt sure he had come to take her away again.
Even when she heard he had gone off alone, she still had an idea that a messenger would be
sent over from Frankfurt to fetch the child. Heidi went up to the side of the bed and said,
"Are you very ill, grandmother?"

"No, no, child," answered the old woman reassuringly, passing her hand lovingly over the child's
head, "It's only the frost that has got into my bones a bit."

"Shall you be quite well then directly it turns warm again?"

"Yes, God willing, or even before that, for I want to get back to my spinning; I thought perhaps
I should do a little to-day, but to-morrow I am sure to be all right again." The old woman
had detected that Heidi was frightened and was anxious to set her mind at ease.

Her words comforted Heidi, who had in truth been greatly distressed, for she had never before
seen the grandmother ill in bed. She now looked at the old woman seriously for a minute or
two, and then said, "In Frankfurt everybody puts on a shawl to go out walking; did you think
it was to be worn in bed, grandmother?"

"I put it on, dear child, to keep myself from freezing, and I am so pleased with it, for my
bedclothes are not very thick," she answered.

"But, grandmother," continued Heidi, "your bed is not right, because it goes downhill at your
head instead of uphill."

"I know it, child, I can feel it," and the grandmother put up her hand to the thin flat pillow,
which was little more than a board under her head, to make herself more comfortable; "the pillow
was never very thick, and I have lain on it now for so many years that it has grown quite flat."

"Oh, if only I had asked Clara to let me take away my Frankfurt bed," said Heidi. "I had three
large pillows, one above the other, so that I could hardly sleep, and I used to slip down to
try and find a flat place, and then I had to pull myself up again, because it was proper to
sleep there like that. Could you sleep like that, grandmother?"

"Oh, yes! the pillows keep one warm, and it is easier to breathe when the head is high," answered
the grandmother, wearily raising her head as she spoke as if trying to find a higher resting-place.
"But we will not talk about that, for I have so much that other old sick people are without
for which I thank God; there is the nice bread I get every day, and this warm wrap, and your
visits, Heidi. Will you read me something to-day?"

Heidi ran into the next room to fetch the hymn book. Then she picked out the favorite hymns
one after another, for she knew them all by heart now, as pleased as the grandmother to hear
them again after so many days. The grandmother lay with folded hands, while a smile of peace
stole over the worn, troubled face, like one to whom good news has been brought.

Suddenly Heidi paused. "Grandmother, are you feeling quite well again already?"

"Yes, child, I have grown better while listening to you; read it to the end."

The child read on, and when she came to the last words:--

As the eyes grow dim, and darkness Closes round, the soul grows clearer,  Sees the goal to
which it travels,  Gladly feels its home is nearer."

the grandmother repeated them once or twice to herself, with a look of happy expectation on
her face. And Heidi took equal pleasure in them, for the picture of the beautiful sunny day
of her return home rose before her eyes, and she exclaimed joyfully, "Grandmother, I know exactly
what it is like to go home." The old woman did not answer, but she had heard Heidi's words,
and the expression that had made the child think she was better remained on her face.

A little later Heidi said, "It is growing dark and I must go home; I am glad to think, that
you are quite well again."

The grandmother took the child's hand in hers and held it closely. "Yes," she said, "I feel
quite happy again; even if I have to go on lying here, I am content. No one knows what it is
to lie here alone day after day, in silence and darkness, without hearing a voice or seeing
a ray of light. Sad thoughts come over me, and I do not feel sometimes as if I could bear it
any longer or as if it could ever be light again. But when you come and read those words to
me, then I am comforted and my heart rejoices once more."

Then she let the child go, and Heidi ran into the next room, and bid Peter come quickly, for
it had now grown quite dark. But when they got outside they found the moon shining down on
the white snow and everything as clear as in the daylight. Peter got his sleigh, put Heidi
at the back, he himself sitting in front to guide, and down the mountain they shot like two
birds darting through the air.

When Heidi was lying that night on her high bed of hay she thought of the grandmother on her
low pillow, and of all she had said about the light and comfort that awoke in her when she
heard the hymns, and she thought: if I could read to her every day, then I should go on making
her better. But she knew that it would be a week, if not two, before she would be able to go
up the mountain again. This was a thought of great trouble to Heidi, and she tried hard to
think of some way which would enable the grandmother to hear the words she loved every day.
Suddenly an idea struck her, and she was so delighted with it that she could hardly bear to
wait for morning, so eager was she to begin carrying out her plan. All at once she sat upright
in her bed, for she had been so busy with her thoughts that she had forgotten to say her prayers,
and she never now finished her day without saying them.

When she had prayed with all her heart for herself, her grandfather and grandmother, she lay
back again on the warm soft hay and slept soundly and peacefully till morning broke. Till one
o'clock they might all do as they liked, and then school began again. When Peter had finished
his lessons on the days he attended school, he went over to Uncle's to see Heidi.

When he walked into the large room at Uncle's to-day, Heidi immediately rushed forward and
took hold of him, for it was for Peter she had been waiting. "I've thought of something, Peter,"
she said hastily.

"What is it?" he asked.

"You must learn to read," she informed him.

"I have learnt," was the answer.

"Yes, yes, but I mean so that you can really make use of it," continued Heidi eagerly.

"I never shall," was the prompt reply.

"Nobody believes that you cannot learn, nor I either now," said Heidi in a very decided tone
of voice. "Grandmamma in Frankfurt said long ago that it was not true, and she told me not
to believe you."

Peter looked rather taken aback at this piece of intelligence.

"I will soon teach you to read, for I know how," continued Heidi. "You must learn at once,
and then you can read one or two hymns every day to grandmother."

"Oh, I don't care about that," he grumbled in reply.

This hard-hearted way of refusing to agree to what was right and kind, and to what Heidi had
so much at heart, aroused her anger. With flashing eyes she stood facing the boy and said threateningly,
"If you won't learn as I want you to, I will tell you what will happen; you know your mother
has often spoken of sending you to Frankfurt, that you may learn a lot of things, and I know
where the boys there have to go to school; Clara pointed out the great house to me when we
were driving together. And they don't only go when they are boys, but have more lessons still
when they are grown men. I have seen them myself, and you mustn't think they have only one
kind teacher like we have. There are ever so many of them, all in the school at the same time,
and they are all dressed in black, as if they were going to church, and have black hats on
their heads as high as that--" and Heidi held out her hand to show their height from the floor.

Peter felt a cold shudder run down his back.

"And you will have to go in among all those gentlemen," continued Heidi with increasing animation,
"and when it comes to your turn you won't be able to read and will make mistakes in your spelling.
Then you'll see how they'll make fun of you; even worse than Tinette, and you ought to have
seen what she was like when she was scornful."

"Well, I'll learn then," said Peter, half sorrowfully and half angrily.

Heidi was instantly mollified. "That's right, then we'll begin at once," she said cheerfully,
and went busily to work on the spot, dragging Peter to the table and fetching her books.

Among other presents Clara had sent Heidi a book which the latter had decided, in bed the night
before, would serve capitally for teaching Peter, for it was an A B C book with rhyming lines.
And now the two sat together at the table with their heads bent over the book, for the lesson
had begun.

Peter was made to spell out the first sentence two or three times over, for Heidi wished him
to get it correct and fluent. At last she said, "You don't seem able to get it right, but I
will read it aloud to you once; when you know what it ought to be you will find it easier."
And she read out:--

          A B C must be learnt to-day
           Or the judge will call you up to pay.

"I shan't go," said Peter obstinately.

"Go where?" asked Heidi.

"Before the judge," he answered.

"Well then make haste and learn these three letters, then you won't have to go."

Peter went at his task again and repeated the three letters so many times and with such determination
that she said at last,--

"You must know those three now."

Seeing what an effect the first two lines of verse had had upon him, she thought she would
prepare the ground a little for the following lessons.

"Wait, and I will read you some of the next sentences," she continued, "then you will see what
else there is to expect."

And she began in a clear slow voice:--

          D E F G must run with ease
           Or something will follow that does not please.

          Should H I J K be now forgot
           Disgrace is yours upon the spot.

          And then L M must follow at once
           Or punished you'll be for a sorry dunce.

          If you knew what next awaited you
           You'd haste to learn N O P Q.

          Now R S T be quick about
           Or worse will follow there's little doubt.

Heidi paused, for Peter was so quiet that she looked to see what he was doing. These many secret
threats and hints of dreadful punishments had so affected him that he sat as if petrified and
stared at Heidi with horror-stricken eyes. Her kind heart was moved at once, and she said,
wishing to reassure him, "You need not be afraid, Peter; come here to me every evening, and
if you learn as you have to-day you will at last know all your letters, and the other things
won't come. But you must come regularly, not now and then as you do to school; even if it snows
it won't hurt you."

Peter promised, for the trepidation he had been in had made him quite tame and docile. Lessons
being finished for this day he now went home.

Peter obeyed Heidi's instructions punctually, and every evening went diligently to work to
learn the following letters, taking the sentences thoroughly to heart. The grandfather was
frequently in the room smoking his pipe comfortably while the lesson was going on, and his
face twitched occasionally as if he was overtaken with a sudden fit of merriment. Peter was
often invited to stay to supper after the great exertion he had gone through, which richly
compensated him for the anguish of mind he had suffered with the sentence for the day.

So the winter went by, and Peter really made progress with his letters; but he went through
a terrible fight each day with the sentences.

He had got at last to U. Heidi read out:--

          And if you put the U for V, 
           You'll go where you would not like to be.

Peter growled, "Yes, but I shan't go!" But he was very diligent that day, as if under the impression
that some one would seize him suddenly by the collar and drag him where he would rather not
go. The next evening Heidi read:--

          If you falter at W, worst of all, 
           Look at the stick against the wall.

Peter looked at the wall and said scornfully, "There isn't one."

"Yes, but do you know what grandfather has in his box?" asked Heidi. "A stick as thick almost
as your arm, and if he took that out, you might well say, look at the stick on the wall."

Peter knew that thick hazel stick, and immediately bent his head over the W and struggled to
master it. Another day the lines ran:--

          Then comes the X for you to say 
           Or be sure you'll get no food to-day.

Peter looked towards the cupboard where the bread and cheese were kept and said crossly, "I
never said that I should forget the X."

"That's all right; if you don't forget it we can go on to learn the next, and then you will
only have one more," replied Heidi, anxious to encourage him.

Peter did not quite understand, but when Heidi went on and read:--

          And should you make a stop at Y, 
           They'll point at you and cry, Fie, fie.

All the gentlemen in Frankfurt with tall black hats on their heads, and scorn and mockery in
their faces rose up before his mind's eye, and he threw himself with energy on the Y, not letting
it go till at last he knew it so thoroughly that he could see what it was like even when he
shut his eyes.

He arrived on the following day in a somewhat lofty frame of mind, for there was now only one
letter to struggle over, and when Heidi began the lesson with reading aloud:--

          Make haste with Z, if you're too slow 
           Off to the Hottentots you'll go.

Peter remarked scornfully, "I dare say, when no one knows even where such people live."

"I assure you, Peter," replied Heidi, "grandfather knows all about them. Wait a second and
I will run and ask him, for he is only over the way with the pastor." And she rose and ran
to the door to put her words into action, but Peter cried out in a voice of agony,--

"Stop!" for he already saw himself being carried off by Alm- Uncle and the pastor and sent
straight away to the Hottentots, since as yet he did not know his last letter. His cry of fear
brought Heidi back.

"What is the matter?" she asked in astonishment.

"Nothing! come back! I am going to learn my letter," he said, stammering with fear. Heidi,
however, herself wished to know where the Hottentots lived and persisted that she should ask
her grandfather, but she gave in at last to Peter's despairing entreaties. She insisted on
his doing something in return, and so not only had he to repeat his Z until it was so fixed
in his memory that he could never forget it again, but she began teaching him to spell, and
Peter really made a good start that evening. So it went on from day to day.

The frost had gone and the snow was soft again, and moreover fresh snow continually fell, so
that it was quite three weeks before Heidi could go to the grandmother again. So much the more
eagerly did she pursue her teaching so that Peter might compensate for her absence by reading
hymns to the old woman. One evening he walked in home after leaving Heidi, and as he entered
he said, "I can do it now."

"Do what, Peter?" asked his mother.

"Read," he answered.

"Do you really mean it? Did you hear that, grandmother?" she called out.

The grandmother had heard, and was already wondering how such a thing could have come to pass.

"I must read one of the hymns now; Heidi told me to," he went on to inform them. His mother
hastily fetched the book, and the grandmother lay in joyful expectation, for it was so long
since she had heard the good words. Peter sat down to the table and began to read. His mother
sat beside him listening with surprise and exclaiming at the close of each verse, "Who would
have thought it possible!"

The grandmother did not speak though she followed the words he read with strained attention.

It happened on the day following this that there was a reading lesson in Peter's class. When
it came to his turn, the teacher said,--

"We must pass over Peter as usual, or will you try again once more--I will not say to read,
but to stammer through a sentence."

Peter took the book and read off three lines without the slightest hesitation.

The teacher put down his book and stared at Peter as at some out- of-the-way and marvellous
thing unseen before. At last he spoke,--

"Peter, some miracle has been performed upon you! Here have I been striving with unheard-of
patience to teach you and you have not hitherto been able to say your letters even. And now,
just as I had made up my mind not to waste any more trouble upon you, you suddenly are able
to read a consecutive sentence properly and distinctly. How has such a miracle come to pass
in our days?"

"It was Heidi," answered Peter.

The teacher looked in astonishment towards Heidi, who was sitting innocently on her bench with
no appearance of anything supernatural about her. He continued, "I have noticed a change in
you altogether, Peter. Whereas formerly you often missed coming to school for a week, or even
weeks at a time, you have lately not stayed away a single day. Who has wrought this change
for good in you?"

"It was Uncle," answered Peter.

With increasing surprise the teacher looked from Peter to Heidi and back again at Peter.

"We will try once more," he said cautiously, and Peter had again to show off his accomplishment
by reading another three lines. There was no mistake about it--Peter could read. As soon as
school was over the teacher went over to the pastor to tell him this piece of news, and to
inform him of the happy result of Heidi's and the grandfather's combined efforts.

Every evening Peter read one hymn aloud; so far he obeyed Heidi. Nothing would induce him to
read a second, and indeed the grandmother never asked for it. His mother Brigitta could not
get over her surprise at her son's attainment, and when the reader was in bed would often express
her pleasure at it. "Now he has learnt to read there is no knowing what may be made of him yet."

On one of these occasions the grandmother answered, "Yes, it is good for him to have learnt
something, but I shall indeed be thankful when spring is here again and Heidi can come; they
are not like the same hymns when Peter reads them. So many words seem missing, and I try to
think what they ought to be and then I lose the sense, and so the hymns do not come home to
my heart as when Heidi reads them."

The truth was that Peter arranged to make his reading as little troublesome for himself as
possible. When he came upon a word that he thought was too long or difficult in any other way,
he left it out, for he decided that a word or two less in a verse, where there were so many
of them, could make no difference to his grandmother. And so it came about that most of the
principal words were missing in the hymns that Peter read aloud.

CHAPTER XX. NEWS FROM DISTANT FRIENDS

It was the month of May. From every height the full fresh streams of spring were flowing down
into the valley. The clear warm sunshine lay upon the mountain, which had turned green again.
The last snows had disappeared and the sun had already coaxed many of the flowers to show their
bright heads above the grass. Up above the gay young wind of spring was singing through the
fir trees, and shaking down the old dark needles to make room for the new bright green ones
that were soon to deck out the trees in their spring finery. Higher up still the great bird
went circling round in the blue ether as of old, while the golden sunshine lit up the grandfather's
hut, and all the ground about it was warm and dry again so that one might sit out where one
liked. Heidi was at home again on the mountain, running backwards and forwards in her accustomed
way, not knowing which spot was most delightful. Now she stood still to listen to the deep,
mysterious voice of the wind, as it blew down to her from the mountain summits, coming nearer
and nearer and gathering strength as it came, till it broke with force against the fir trees,
bending and shaking them, and seeming to shout for joy, so that she too, though blown about
like a feather, felt she must join in the chorus of exulting sounds. Then she would run round
again to the sunny space in front of the hut, and seating herself on the ground would peer
closely into the short grass to see how many little flower cups were open or thinking of opening.
She rejoiced with all the myriad little beetles and winged insects that jumped and crawled
and danced in the sun, and drew in deep draughts of the spring scents that rose from the newly-awakened
earth, and thought the mountain was more beautiful than ever. All the tiny living creatures
must be as happy as she, for it seemed to her there were little voices all round her singing
and humming in joyful tones, "On the mountain! on the mountain!"

From the shed at the back came the sound of sawing and chopping, and Heidi listened to it with
pleasure, for it was the old familiar sound she had known from the beginning of her life up
here. Suddenly she jumped up and ran round, for she must know what her grandfather was doing.
In front of the shed door already stood a finished new chair, and a second was in course of
construction under the grandfather's skilful hand.

"Oh, I know what these are for," exclaimed Heidi in great glee. "We shall want them when they
all come from Frankfurt. This one is for Grandmamma, and the one you are now making is for
Clara, and then--then, there will, I suppose, have to be another," continued Heidi with more
hesitation in her voice, "or do you think, grandfather, that perhaps Fraulein Rottenmeier will
not come with them?"

"Well, I cannot say just yet," replied her grandfather, "but it will be safer to make one so
that we can offer her a seat if she does."

Heidi looked thoughtfully at the plain wooden chair without arms as if trying to imagine how
Fraulein Rottenmeier and a chair of this sort would suit one another. After a few minutes'
contemplation, "Grandfather," she said, shaking her head doubtfully, "I don't think she would
be able to sit on that."

"Then we will invite her on the couch with the beautiful green turf feather-bed," was her grandfather's
quiet rejoinder.

While Heidi was pausing to consider what this might be there approached from above a whistling,
calling, and other sounds which Heidi immediately recognised. She ran out and found herself
surrounded by her four-footed friends. They were apparently as pleased as she was to be among
the heights again, for they leaped about and bleated for joy, pushing Heidi this way and that,
each anxious to express his delight with some sign of affection. But Peter sent them flying
to right and left, for he had something to give to Heidi. When he at last got up to her he
handed her a letter.

"There!" he exclaimed, leaving the further explanation of the matter to Heidi herself.

"Did some one give you this while you were out with the goats," she asked, in her surprise.

"No," was the answer.

"Where did you get it from then?

"I found it in the dinner bag."

Which was true to a certain extent. The letter to Heidi had been given him the evening before
by the postman at Dorfli, and Peter had put it into his empty bag. That morning he had stuffed
his bread and cheese on the top of it, and had forgotten it when he fetched Alm-Uncle's two
goats; only when he had finished his bread and cheese at mid-day and was searching in the bag
for any last crumbs did he remember the letter which lay at the bottom.

Heidi read the address carefully; then she ran back to the shed holding out her letter to her
grandfather in high glee. "From Frankfurt! from Clara! Would you like to hear it?"

The grandfather was ready and pleased to do so, as also Peter, who had followed Heidi into
the shed. He leant his back against the door post, as he felt he could follow Heidi's reading
better if firmly supported from behind, and so stood prepared to listen.

"Dearest Heidi,-- Everything is packed and we shall start now in two or three days, as soon
as papa himself is ready to leave; he is not coming with us as he has first to go to Paris.
The doctor comes every day, and as soon as he is inside the door, he cries, 'Off now as quickly
as you can, off to the mountain.' He is most impatient about our going. You cannot think how
much he enjoyed himself when he was with you! He has called nearly every day this winter, and
each time he has come in to my room and said he must tell me about everything again. And then
he sits down and describes all he did with you and the grandfather, and talks of the mountains
and the flowers and of the great silence up there far above all towns and the villages, and
of the fresh delicious air, and often adds, 'No one can help getting well up there.' He himself
is quite a different man since his visit, and looks quite young again and happy, which he had
not been for a long time before. Oh, how I am looking forward to seeing everything and to being
with you on the mountain, and to making the acquaintance of Peter and the goats.

