Then as regards clogs, my suggestion of them seems to have aroused a great deal of terror.
Fashion in her high-heeled boots has screamed, and the dreadful word "anachronism" has been
used.  Now, whatever is useful cannot be an anachronism.  Such a word is applicable only to
the revival of some folly; and, besides, in the England of our own day clogs are still worn
in many of our manufacturing towns, such as Oldham.  I fear that in Oldham they may not be
dreams of beauty; in Oldham the art of inlaying them with ivory and with pearl may possibly
be unknown; yet in Oldham they serve their purpose.  Nor is it so long since they were worn
by the upper classes of this country generally.  Only a few days ago I had the pleasure of
talking to a lady who remembered with affectionate regret the clogs of her girlhood; they were,
according to her, not too high nor too heavy, and were provided, besides, with some kind of
spring in the sole so as to make them the more supple for the foot in walking.  Personally,
I object to all additional height being given to a boot or shoe; it is really against the proper
principles of dress, although, if any such height is to be given it should be by means of two
props; not one; but what I should prefer to see is some adaptation of the divided skirt or
long and moderately loose knickerbockers.  If, however, the divided skirt is to be of any positive
value, it must give up all idea of "being identical in appearance with an ordinary skirt";
it must diminish the moderate width of each of its divisions, and sacrifice its foolish frills
and flounces; the moment it imitates a dress it is lost; but let it visibly announce itself
as what it actually is, and it will go far towards solving a real difficulty. I feel sure that
there will be found many graceful and charming girls ready to adopt a costume founded on these
principles, in spite of Mr. Wentworth Huyshe's terrible threat that he will not propose to
them as long as they wear it, for all charges of a want of womanly character in these forms
of dress are really meaningless; every right article of apparel belongs equally to both sexes,
and there is absolutely no such thing as a definitely feminine garment.  One word of warning
I should like to be allowed to give:  The over-tunic should be made full and moderately loose;
it may, if desired, be shaped more or less to the figure, but in no case should it be confined
at the waist by any straight band or belt; on the contrary, it should fall from the shoulder
to the knee, or below it, in fine curves and vertical lines, giving more freedom and consequently
more grace.  Few garments are so absolutely unbecoming as a belted tunic that reaches to the
knees, a fact which I wish some of our Rosalinds would consider when they don doublet and hose;
indeed, to the disregard of this artistic principle is due the ugliness, the want of proportion,
in the Bloomer costume, a costume which in other respects is sensible.

COSTUME

Are we not all weary of him, that venerable impostor fresh from the steps of the Piazza di
Spagna, who, in the leisure moments that he can spare from his customary organ, makes the round
of the studios and is waited for in Holland Park?  Do we not all recognize him, when, with
the gay insouciance of his nation, he reappears on the walls of our summer exhibitions as everything
that he is not, and as nothing that he is, glaring at us here as a patriarch of Canaan, here
beaming as a brigand from the Abruzzi?  Popular is he, this poor peripatetic professor of posing,
with those whose joy it is to paint the posthumous portrait of the last philanthropist who
in his lifetime had neglected to be photographed,--yet he is the sign of the decadence, the
symbol of decay.

For all costumes are caricatures.  The basis of Art is not the Fancy Ball.  Where there is
loveliness of dress, there is no dressing up.  And so, were our national attire delightful
in colour, and in construction simple and sincere; were dress the expression of the loveliness
that it shields and of the swiftness and motion that it does not impede; did its lines break
from the shoulder instead of bulging from the waist; did the inverted wineglass cease to be
the ideal of form; were these things brought about, as brought about they will be, then would
painting be no longer an artificial reaction against the ugliness of life, but become, as it
should be, the natural expression of life's beauty. Nor would painting merely, but all the
other arts also, be the gainers by a change such as that which I propose; the gainers, I mean,
through the increased atmosphere of Beauty by which the artists would be surrounded and in
which they would grow up.  For Art is not to be taught in Academies.  It is what one looks
at, not what one listens to, that makes the artist.  The real schools should be the streets.
There is not, for instance, a single delicate line, or delightful proportion, in the dress
of the Greeks, which is not echoed exquisitely in their architecture.  A nation arrayed in
stove-pipe hats and dress-improvers might have built the Pantechnichon possibly, but the Parthenon
never.  And finally, there is this to be said:  Art, it is true, can never have any other claim
but her own perfection, and it may be that the artist, desiring merely to contemplate and to
create, is wise in not busying himself about change in others:  yet wisdom is not always the
best; there are times when she sinks to the level of common-sense; and from the passionate
folly of those--and there are many--who desire that Beauty shall be confined no longer to the
bric-a-brac of the collector and the dust of the museum, but shall be, as it should be, the
natural and national inheritance of all,-- from this noble unwisdom, I say, who knows what
new loveliness shall be given to life, and, under these more exquisite conditions, what perfect
artist born?  Le milieu se renouvelant, l'art se renouvelle.

THE AMERICAN INVASION

A terrible danger is hanging over the Americans in London.  Their future and their reputation
this season depend entirely on the success of Buffalo Bill and Mrs. Brown-Potter.  The former
is certain to draw; for English people are far more interested in American barbarism than they
are in American civilization.  When they sight Sandy Hook they look to their rifles and ammunition;
and, after dining once at Delmonico's, start off for Colorado or California, for Montana or
the Yellow Stone Park.  Rocky Mountains charm them more than riotous millionaires; they have
been known to prefer buffaloes to Boston.  Why should they not?  The cities of America are
inexpressibly tedious.  The Bostonians take their learning too sadly; culture with them is
an accomplishment rather than an atmosphere; their "Hub," as they call it, is the paradise
of prigs.  Chicago is a sort of monster-shop, full of bustle and bores.  Political life at
Washington is like political life in a suburban vestry.  Baltimore is amusing for a week, but
Philadelphia is dreadfully provincial; and though one can dine in New York one could not dwell
there.  Better the Far West with its grizzly bears and its untamed cowboys, its free open-air
life and its free open- air manners, its boundless prairie and its boundless mendacity! This
is what Buffalo Bill is going to bring to London; and we have no doubt that London will fully
appreciate his show.

With regard to Mrs. Brown-Potter, as acting is no longer considered absolutely essential for
success on the English stage, there is really no reason why the pretty bright-eyed lady who
charmed us all last June by her merry laugh and her nonchalant ways, should not-- to borrow
an expression from her native language--make a big boom and paint the town red.  We sincerely
hope she will; for, on the whole, the American invasion has done English society a great deal
of good.  American women are bright, clever, and wonderfully cosmopolitan.  Their patriotic
feelings are limited to an admiration for Niagara and a regret for the Elevated Railway; and,
unlike the men, they never bore us with Bunkers Hill.  They take their dresses from Paris and
their manners from Piccadilly, and wear both charmingly.  They have a quaint pertness, a delightful
conceit, a native self-assertion.  They insist on being paid compliments and have almost succeeded
in making Englishmen eloquent.  For our aristocracy they have an ardent admiration; they adore
titles and are a permanent blow to Republican principles.  In the art of amusing men they are
adepts, both by nature and education, and can actually tell a story without forgetting the
point--an accomplishment that is extremely rare among the women of other countries.  It is
true that they lack repose and that their voices are somewhat harsh and strident when they
land first at Liverpool; but after a time one gets to love those pretty whirlwinds in petticoats
that sweep so recklessly through society and are so agitating to all duchesses who have daughters.
There is something fascinating in their funny, exaggerated gestures and their petulant way
of tossing the head.  Their eyes have no magic nor mystery in them, but they challenge us for
combat; and when we engage we are always worsted.  Their lips seem made for laughter and yet
they never grimace.  As for their voices they soon get them into tune.  Some of them have been
known to acquire a fashionable drawl in two seasons; and after they have been presented to
Royalty they all roll their R's as vigorously as a young equerry or an old lady-in-waiting.
Still, they never really lose their accent; it keeps peeping out here and there, and when they
chatter together they are like a bevy of peacocks.  Nothing is more amusing than to watch two
American girls greeting each other in a drawing-room or in the Row.  They are like children
with their shrill staccato cries of wonder, their odd little exclamations.  Their conversation
sounds like a series of exploding crackers; they are exquisitely incoherent and use a sort
of primitive, emotional language.  After five minutes they are left beautifully breathless
and look at each other half in amusement and half in affection.  If a stolid young Englishman
is fortunate enough to be introduced to them he is amazed at their extraordinary vivacity,
their electric quickness of repartee, their inexhaustible store of curious catchwords.  He
never really understands them, for their thoughts flutter about with the sweet irresponsibility
of butterflies; but he is pleased and amused and feels as if he were in an aviary.  On the
whole, American girls have a wonderful charm and, perhaps, the chief secret of their charm
is that they never talk seriously except about amusements.  They have, however, one grave fault--their
mothers.  Dreary as were those old Pilgrim Fathers who left our shores more than two centuries
ago to found a New England beyond the seas, the Pilgrim Mothers who have returned to us in
the nineteenth century are drearier still.

Here and there, of course, there are exceptions, but as a class they are either dull, dowdy
or dyspeptic.  It is only fair to the rising generation of America to state that they are not
to blame for this.  Indeed, they spare no pains at all to bring up their parents properly and
to give them a suitable, if somewhat late, education.  From its earliest years every American
child spends most of its time in correcting the faults of its father and mother; and no one
who has had the opportunity of watching an American family on the deck of an Atlantic steamer,
or in the refined seclusion of a New York boarding-house, can fail to have been struck by this
characteristic of their civilization.  In America the young are always ready to give to those
who are older than themselves the full benefits of their inexperience.  A boy of only eleven
or twelve years of age will firmly but kindly point out to his father his defects of manner
or temper; will never weary of warning him against extravagance, idleness, late hours, unpunctuality,
and the other temptations to which the aged are so particularly exposed; and sometimes, should
he fancy that he is monopolizing too much of the conversation at dinner, will remind him, across
the table, of the new child's adage, "Parents should be seen, not heard."  Nor does any mistaken
idea of kindness prevent the little American girl from censuring her mother whenever it is
necessary.  Often, indeed, feeling that a rebuke conveyed in the presence of others is more
truly efficacious than one merely whispered in the quiet of the nursery, she will call the
attention of perfect strangers to her mother's general untidiness, her want of intellectual
Boston conversation, immoderate love of iced water and green corn, stinginess in the matter
of candy, ignorance of the usages of the best Baltimore Society, bodily ailments, and the like.
In fact, it may be truly said that no American child is ever blind to the deficiencies of its
parents, no matter how much it may love them.

Yet, somehow, this educational system has not been so successful as it deserved.  In many cases,
no doubt, the material with which the children had to deal was crude and incapable of real
development; but the fact remains that the American mother is a tedious person. The American
father is better, for he is never seen in London.  He passes his life entirely in Wall Street
and communicates with his family once a month by means of a telegram in cipher.  The mother,
however, is always with us, and, lacking the quick imitative faculty of the younger generation,
remains uninteresting and provincial to the last.  In spite of her, however, the American girl
is always welcome.  She brightens our dull dinner parties for us and makes life go pleasantly
by for a season.  In the race for coronets she often carries off the prize; but, once she has
gained the victory, she is generous and forgives her English rivals everything, even their beauty.

Warned by the example of her mother that American women do not grow old gracefully, she tries
not to grow old at all and often succeeds.  She has exquisite feet and hands, is always bien
chaussee et bien gantee and can talk brilliantly upon any subject, provided that she knows
nothing about it.

Her sense of humour keeps her from the tragedy of a grande passion, and, as there is neither
romance nor humility in her love, she makes an excellent wife.  What her ultimate influence
on English life will be it is difficult to estimate at present; but there can be no doubt that,
of all the factors that have contributed to the social revolution of London, there are few
more important, and none more delightful, than the American Invasion.

SERMONS IN STONES AT BLOOMSBURY THE NEW SCULPTURE ROOM AT THE BRITISH MUSEUM

Through the exertions of Sir Charles Newton, to whom every student of classic art should be
grateful, some of the wonderful treasures so long immured in the grimy vaults of the British
Museum have at last been brought to light, and the new Sculpture Room now opened to the public
will amply repay the trouble of a visit, even from those to whom art is a stumbling-block and
a rock of offence.  For setting aside the mere beauty of form, outline and mass, the grace
and loveliness of design and the delicacy of technical treatment, here we have shown to us
what the Greeks and Romans thought about death; and the philosopher, the preacher, the practical
man of the world, and even the Philistine himself, cannot fail to be touched by these "sermons
in stones," with their deep significance, their fertile suggestion, their plain humanity. 
Common tombstones they are, most of them, the work not of famous artists but of simple handicraftsmen,
only they were wrought in days when every handicraft was an art.  The finest specimens, from
the purely artistic point of view, are undoubtedly the two stelai found at Athens.  They are
both the tombstones of young Greek athletes.  In one the athlete is represented handing his
strigil to his slave, in the other the athlete stands alone, strigil in hand.  They do not
belong to the greatest period of Greek art, they have not the grand style of the Phidian age,
but they are beautiful for all that, and it is impossible not to be fascinated by their exquisite
grace and by the treatment which is so simple in its means, so subtle in its effect.  All the
tombstones, however, are full of interest.  Here is one of two ladies of Smyrna who were so
remarkable in their day that the city voted them honorary crowns; here is a Greek doctor examining
a little boy who is suffering from indigestion; here is the memorial of Xanthippus who, probably,
was a martyr to gout, as he is holding in his hand the model of a foot, intended, no doubt,
as a votive offering to some god.  A lovely stele from Rhodes gives us a family group.  The
husband is on horseback and is bidding farewell to his wife, who seems as if she would follow
him but is being held back by a little child.  The pathos of parting from those we love is
the central motive of Greek funeral art.  It is repeated in every possible form, and each mute
marble stone seems to murmur [Greek text].  Roman art is different.  It introduces vigorous
and realistic portraiture and deals with pure family life far more frequently than Greek art
does.  They are very ugly, those stern-looking Roman men and women whose portraits are exhibited
on their tombs, but they seem to have been loved and respected by their children and their
servants.  Here is the monument of Aphrodisius and Atilia, a Roman gentleman and his wife,
who died in Britain many centuries ago, and whose tombstone was found in the Thames; and close
by it stands a stele from Rome with the busts of an old married couple who are certainly marvellously
ill-favoured. The contrast between the abstract Greek treatment of the idea of death and the
Roman concrete realization of the individuals who have died is extremely curious.

