The ridge at the end of the shore, about forty feet in height, was soon reached. Cyrus Harding
recollected that this elevation gradually sloped towards the level of the sea. Although the
tide was at present low, no beach could be seen, and the waves, thickened by the volcanic dust,
beat upon the basaltic rocks.

Cyrus Harding and Ayrton found without difficulty the entrance to Dakkar Grotto, and paused
for a moment at the last rock before it.

"The iron boat should be there," said the engineer.

"It is here, Captain Harding," replied Ayrton, drawing towards him the fragile craft, which
was protected by the arch of the vault.

"On board, Ayrton!"

The two colonists stepped into the boat. A slight undulation of the waves carried it farther
under the low arch of the crypt, and there Ayrton, with the aid of flint and steel, lighted
the lamp. He then took the oars, and the lamp having been placed in the bow of the boat, so
that its rays fell before them, Cyrus Harding took the helm and steered through the shades
of the grotto.

The "Nautilus" was there no longer to illuminate the cavern with its electric light. Possibly
it might not yet be extinguished, but no ray escaped from the depths of the abyss in which
reposed all that was mortal of Captain Nemo.

The light afforded by the lamp, although feeble, nevertheless enabled the engineer to advance
slowly, following the wall of the cavern. A deathlike silence reigned under the vaulted roof,
or at least in the anterior portion, for soon Cyrus Harding distinctly heard the rumbling which
proceeded from the bowels of the mountain.

"That comes from the volcano," he said.

Besides these sounds, the presence of chemical combinations was soon betrayed by their powerful
odor, and the engineer and his companion were almost suffocated by sulphurous vapors.

"This is what Captain Nemo feared," murmured Cyrus Harding, changing countenance. "We must
go to the end, notwithstanding."

"Forward!" replied Ayrton, bending to his oars and directing the boat towards the head of the
cavern.

Twenty-five minutes after entering the mouth of the grotto the boat reached the extreme end.

Cyrus Harding then, standing up, cast the light of the lamp upon the walls of the cavern which
separated it from the central shaft of the volcano. What was the thickness of this wall? It
might be ten feet or a hundred feet--it was impossible to say. But the subterranean sounds
were too perceptible to allow of the supposition that it was of any great thickness.

The engineer, after having explored the wall at a certain height horizontally, fastened the
lamp to the end of an oar, and again surveyed the basaltic wall at a greater elevation.

There, through scarcely visible clefts and joinings, escaped a pungent vapor, which infected
the atmosphere of the cavern. The wall was broken by large cracks, some of which extended to
within two or three feet of the water's edge.

Cyrus Harding thought for a brief space. Then he said in a low voice,--

"Yes! the captain was right! The danger lies there, and a terrible danger!"

Ayrton said not a word, but, upon a sign from Cyrus Harding, resumed the oars, and half an
hour later the engineer and he reached the entrance of Dakkar Grotto.

Chapter 19

The next day, the 8th day of January, after a day and night passed at the corral, where they
left all in order, Cyrus Harding and Ayrton arrived at Granite House.

The engineer immediately called his companions together, and informed them of the imminent
danger which threatened Lincoln Island, and from which no human power could deliver them.

"My friends," he said, and his voice betrayed the depth of his emotion, "our island is not
among those which will endure while this earth endures. It is doomed to more or less speedy
destruction, the cause of which it bears within itself, and from which nothing can save it."

The colonists looked at each other, then at the engineer. They did not clearly comprehend him.

"Explain yourself, Cyrus!" said Gideon Spilett.

"I will do so," replied Cyrus Harding, "or rather I will simply afford you the explanation
which, during our few minutes of private conversation, was given me by Captain Nemo."

"Captain Nemo!" exclaimed the colonists.

"Yes, and it was the last service he desired to render us before his death!"

"The last service!" exclaimed Pencroft, "the last service! You will see that though he is dead
he will render us others yet!"

"But what did the captain say?" inquired the reporter.

"I will tell you, my friends," said the engineer. "Lincoln Island does not resemble the other
islands of the Pacific, and a fact of which Captain Nemo has made me cognizant must sooner
or later bring about the subversion of its foundation."

"Nonsense! Lincoln Island, it can't be!" cried Pencroft, who, in spite of the respect he felt
for Cyrus Harding, could not prevent a gesture of incredulity.

"Listen, Pencroft," resumed the engineer, "I will tell you what Captain Nemo communicated to
me, and which I myself confirmed yesterday, during the exploration of Dakkar Grotto. 

The circle was called the Deferent. If for any reason the world had to be placed out under the centre,
the planetary main orbit was called an Excentric, and so on. When Hipparchus and others found that,
as the matter of his case, the planets did not revolve in simple
circles, they did not try other curves, as we should at already do
now, but they tried combinations of circles, as we saw in Lecture
i. the basalt carried by a bigger one was name an Epicycle.



"Good!" replied Pencroft, with an attempt at pleasantry. "The sea will extinguish the volcano,
and there will be an end of the matter!"

"Not so!" said Cyrus Harding, "should a day arrive when the sea, rushing through the wall of
the cavern, penetrates by the central shaft into the interior of the island to the boiling
lava, Lincoln Island will that day be blown into the air--just as would happen to the island
of Sicily were the Mediterranean to precipitate itself into Mount Etna."

The colonists made no answer to these significant words of the engineer. They now understood
the danger by which they were menaced.

It may be added that Cyrus Harding had in no way exaggerated the danger to be apprehended.
Many persons have formed an idea that it would be possible to extinguish volcanoes, which are
almost always situated on the shores of a sea or lake, by opening a passage for the admission
of the water. But they are not aware that this would be to incur the risk of blowing up a portion
of the globe, like a boiler whose steam is suddenly expanded by intense heat. The water, rushing
into a cavity whose temperature might be estimated at thousands of degrees, would be converted
into steam with a sudden energy which no enclosure could resist.

It was not therefore doubtful that the island, menaced by a frightful and approaching convulsion,
would endure only so long as the wall of Dakkar Grotto itself should endure. It was not even
a question of months, nor of weeks, but of days; it might be of hours.

The first sentiment which the colonists felt was that of profound sorrow. They thought not
so much of the peril which menaced themselves personally, but of the destruction of the island
which had sheltered them, which they had cultivated, which they loved so well, and had hoped
to render so flourishing. So much effort ineffectually expended, so much labor lost.

Pencroft could not prevent a large tear from rolling down his cheek, nor did he attempt to
conceal it.

Some further conversation now took place. The chances yet in favor of the colonists were discussed;
but finally it was agreed that there was not an hour to be lost, that the building and fitting
of the vessel should be pushed forward with their utmost energy, and that this was the sole
chance of safety for the inhabitants of Lincoln Island.

All hands, therefore, set to work on the vessel. What could it avail to sow, to reap, to hunt,
to increase the stores of Granite House? The contents of the storehouse and outbuildings contained
more than sufficient to provide the ship for a voyage, however long might be its duration.
But it was imperative that the ship should be ready to receive them before the inevitable catastrophe
should arrive.

Their labors were now carried on with feverish ardor. By the 23rd of January the vessel was
half-decked over. Up to this time no change had taken place on the summit of the volcano. Vapor
and smoke mingled with flames and incandescent stones were thrown up from the crater. But during
the night of the 23rd, in consequence of the lava attaining the level of the first stratum
of the volcano, the hat-shaped cone which formed over the latter disappeared. A frightful sound
was heard. The colonists at first thought the island was rent asunder, and rushed out of Granite
House.

This occurred about two o'clock in the morning.

The sky appeared on fire. The superior cone, a mass of rock a thousand feet in height, and
weighing thousands of millions of pounds, had been thrown down upon the island, making it tremble
to its foundation. Fortunately, this cone inclined to the north, and had fallen upon the plain
of sand and tufa stretching between the volcano and the sea. The aperture of the crater being
thus enlarged projected towards the sky a glare so intense that by the simple effect of reflection
the atmosphere appeared red-hot. At the same time a torrent of lava, bursting from the new
summit, poured out in long cascades, like water escaping from a vase too full, and a thousand
tongues of fire crept over the sides of the volcano.

"The corral! the corral!" exclaimed Ayrton.

It was, in fact, towards the corral that the lava was rushing as the new crater faced the east,
and consequently the fertile portions of the island, the springs of Red Creek and Jacamar Wood,
were menaced with instant destruction.

At Ayrton's cry the colonists rushed to the onagers' stables. The cart was at once harnessed.
All were possessed by the same thought--to hasten to the corral and set at liberty the animals
it enclosed.

Before three in the morning they arrived at the corral. The cries of the terrified musmons
and goats indicated the alarm which possessed them. Already a torrent of burning matter and
liquefied minerals fell from the side of the mountain upon the meadows as far as the side of
the palisade. The gate was burst open by Ayrton, and the animals, bewildered with terror, fled
in all directions.

An hour afterwards the boiling lava filled the corral, converting into vapor the water of the
little rivulet which ran through it, burning up the house like dry grass, and leaving not even
a post of the palisade to mark the spot where the corral once stood.

To contend against this disaster would have been folly--nay, madness. In presence of Nature's
grand convulsions man is powerless.

It was now daylight--the 24th of January. Cyrus Harding and his companions, before returning
to Granite House, desired to ascertain the probable direction this inundation of lava was about
to take. The soil sloped gradually from Mount Franklin to the east coast, and it was to be
feared that, in spite of the thick Jacamar Wood, the torrent would reach the plateau of Prospect
Heights.

"The lake will cover us," said Gideon Spilett.

"I hope so!" was Cyrus Harding's only reply.

The colonists were desirous of reaching the plain upon which the superior cone of Mount Franklin
had fallen, but the lava arrested their progress. It had followed, on one side, the valley
of Red Creek, and on the other that of Falls River, evaporating those watercourses in its passage.
There was no possibility of crossing the torrent of lava; on the contrary, the colonists were
obliged to retreat before it. The volcano, without its crown, was no longer recognizable, terminated
as it was by a sort of flat table which replaced the ancient crater. From two openings in its
southern and eastern sides an unceasing flow of lava poured forth, thus forming two distinct
streams. Above the new crater a cloud of smoke and ashes, mingled with those of the atmosphere,
massed over the island. Loud peals of thunder broke, and could scarcely be distinguished from
the rumblings of the mountain, whose mouth vomited forth ignited rocks, which, hurled to more
than a thousand feet, burst in the air like shells. Flashes of lightning rivaled in intensity
the volcano's eruption. 

There clearly was a outstanding small mistake or discrepancy; the stars were still subject to an unexplained
displacement-- not, indeed, a displacement that repeated itself every year, but one that travel of a
cycle in changes through a longer period. The nearest rows of trees caught fire, and their sap, suddenly transformed into vapor,
caused them to explode with loud reports, while others, less moist, remained unhurt in the
midst of the inundation.

The colonists had again taken the road to the corral. They proceeded but slowly, frequently
looking back; but, in consequence of the inclination of the soil, the lava gained rapidly in
the east, and as its lower waves became solidified others, at boiling heat, covered them immediately.

Meanwhile, the principal stream of Red Creek Valley became more and more menacing. All this
portion of the forest was on fare, and enormous wreaths of smoke rolled over the trees, whore
trunks were already consumed by the lava.

The colonists halted near the lake, about half a mile from the mouth of Red Creek. A question
of life or death was now to be decided.

Cyrus Harding, accustomed to the consideration of important crises, and aware that he was addressing
men capable of hearing the truth, whatever it might be, then said,--

"Either the lake will arrest the progress of the lava, and a part of the island will be preserved
from utter destruction, or the stream will overrun the forests of the Far West, and not a tree
or plant will remain on the surface of the soil. We shall have no prospect but that of starvation
upon these barren rocks--a death which will probably be anticipated by the explosion of the
island."

"In that case," replied Pencroft, folding his arms and stamping his foot, "what's the use of
working any longer on the vessel?"

"Pencroft," answered Cyrus Harding, "we must do our duty to the last!"

At this instant the river of lava, after having broken a passage through the noble trees it
devoured in its course, reached the borders of the lake. At this point there was an elevation
of the soil which, had it been greater, might have sufficed to arrest the torrent.

"To work!" cried Cyrus Harding.

The engineer's thought was at once understood. It might be possible to dam, as it were, the
torrent, and thus compel it to pour itself into the lake.

The colonists hastened to the dockyard. They returned with shovels, picks, axes, and by means
of banking the earth with the aid of fallen trees they succeeded in a few hours in raising
an embankment three feet high and some hundreds of paces in length. It seemed to them, when
they had finished, as if they had scarcely been working more than a few minutes.

