But there came in due time the wedding and the wedding-reception, and we all went to see Bill
in his new house, splendidly lighted up and complete from top to toe, and everybody said what
a lucky fellow he was; but that was about the end of it, so far as our visiting was concerned.
The running in, and dropping in, and keeping latch-keys, and making informal calls, that had
been forespoken, seemed about as likely as if Bill had lodged in the Tuileries.

Sophie, who had always been one of your snapping, sparkling, busy sort of girls, began at once
to develop her womanhood and show her principles, and was as different from her former self
as your careworn, mousing old cat is from your rollicking, frisky kitten. Not but that Sophie
was a good girl. She had a capital heart, a good, true womanly one, and was loving and obliging;
but still she was one of the desperately painstaking, conscientious sort of women whose very
blood, as they grow older, is devoured with anxiety, and she came of a race of women in whom
housekeeping was more than an art or a science,--it was, so to speak, a religion. Sophie's
mother, aunts, and grandmothers, for nameless generations back, were known and celebrated housekeepers.
They might have been genuine descendants of the inhabitants of that Hollandic town of Broeck,
celebrated by Washington Irving, where the cows' tails are kept tied up with unsullied blue
ribbons, and the ends of the fire-wood are painted white. He relates how a celebrated preacher,
visiting this town, found it impossible to draw these housewives from their earthly views and
employments, until he took to preaching on the neatness of the celestial city, the unsullied
crystal of its walls and the polish of its golden pavement, when the faces of all the housewives
were set Zionward at once.

Now this solemn and earnest view of housekeeping is onerous enough when a poor girl first enters
on the care of a moderately furnished house, where the articles are not too expensive to be
reasonably renewed as time and use wear them; but it is infinitely worse when a cataract of
splendid furniture is heaped upon her care,--when splendid crystals cut into her conscience,
and mirrors reflect her duties, and moth and rust stand ever ready to devour and sully in every
room and passageway.

Sophie was solemnly warned and instructed by all the mothers and aunts,--she was warned of
moths, warned of cockroaches, warned of flies, warned of dust; all the articles of furniture
had their covers, made of cold Holland linen, in which they looked like bodies laid out,--even
the curtain tassels had each its little shroud,--and bundles of receipts, and of rites and
ceremonies necessary for the preservation and purification and care of all these articles,
were stuffed into the poor girl's head, before guiltless of cares as the feathers that floated
above it.

Poor Bill found very soon that his house and furniture were to be kept at such an ideal point
of perfection that he needed another house to live in,--for, poor fellow, he found the difference
between having a house and a home. It was only a year or two after that my wife and I started
our ménage on very different principles, and Bill would often drop in upon us, wistfully lingering
in the cosy armchair between my writing-table and my wife's sofa, and saying with a sigh how
confoundedly pleasant things looked there,--so pleasant to have a bright, open fire, and geraniums
and roses and birds, and all that sort of thing, and to dare to stretch out one's legs and
move without thinking what one was going to hit. "Sophie is a good girl!" he would say, "and
wants to have everything right, but you see they won't let her. They've loaded her with so
many things that have to be kept in lavender that the poor girl is actually getting thin and
losing her health; and then, you see, there's Aunt Zeruah, she mounts guard at our house, and
keeps up such strict police regulations that a fellow can't do a thing. The parlors are splendid,
but so lonesome and dismal!--not a ray of sunshine, in fact not a ray of light, except when
a visitor is calling, and then they open a crack. They're afraid of flies, and yet, dear knows,
they keep every looking-glass and picture-frame muffled to its throat from March to December.
I'd like, for curiosity, to see what a fly would do in our parlors!"

"Well," said I, "can't you have some little family sitting-room where you can make yourselves
cosy?"

"Not a bit of it. Sophie and Aunt Zeruah have fixed their throne up in our bedroom, and there
they sit all day long, except at calling-hours, and then Sophie dresses herself and comes down.
Aunt Zeruah insists upon it that the way is to put the whole house in order, and shut all the
blinds, and sit in your bedroom, and then, she says, nothing gets out of place; and she tells
poor Sophie the most hocus-pocus stories about her grandmothers and aunts, who always kept
everything in their houses so that they could go and lay their hands on it in the darkest night.
I'll bet they could in our house. From end to end it is kept looking as if we had shut it up
and gone to Europe,--not a book, not a paper, not a glove, or any trace of a human being in
sight; the piano shut tight, the bookcases shut and locked, the engravings locked up, all the
drawers and closets locked. Why, if I want to take a fellow into the library, in the first
place it smells like a vault, and I have to unbarricade windows, and unlock and rummage for
half an hour before I can get at anything; and I know Aunt Zeruah is standing tiptoe at the
door, ready to whip everything back and lock up again. A fellow can't be social, or take any
comfort in showing his books and pictures that way. Then there's our great, light dining-room,
with its sunny south windows,--Aunt Zeruah got us out of that early in April, because she said
the flies would speck the frescoes and get into the china-closet, and we have been eating in
a little dingy den, with a window looking out on a back alley, ever since; and Aunt Zeruah
says that now the dining-room is always in perfect order, and that it is such a care off Sophie's
mind that I ought to be willing to eat down cellar to the end of the chapter. Now, you see,
Chris, my position is a delicate one, because Sophie's folks all agree that, if there is anything
in creation that is ignorant and dreadful and mustn't be allowed his way anywhere, it's 'a
man.' Why, you'd think, to hear Aunt Zeruah talk, that we were all like bulls in a china-shop,
ready to toss and tear and rend, if we are not kept down cellar and chained; and she worries
Sophie, and Sophie's mother comes in and worries, and if I try to get anything done differently
Sophie cries, and says she don't know what to do, and so I give it up. Now, if I want to ask
a few of our set in sociably to dinner, I can't have them where we eat down cellar,--oh, that
would never do! Aunt Zeruah and Sophie's mother and the whole family would think the family
honor was forever ruined and undone. We mustn't ask them unless we open the dining-room, and
have out all the best china, and get the silver home from the bank; and if we do that, Aunt
Zeruah doesn't sleep for a week beforehand, getting ready for it, and for a week after, getting
things put away; and then she tells me that, in Sophie's delicate state, it really is abominable
for me to increase her cares, and so I invite fellows to dine with me at Delmonico's, and then
Sophie cries, and Sophie's mother says it doesn't look respectable for a family man to be dining
at public places; but, hang it, a fellow wants a home somewhere!"

My wife soothed the chafed spirit, and spake comfortably unto him, and told him that he knew
there was the old lounging-chair always ready for him at our fireside. "And you know," she
said, "our things are all so plain that we are never tempted to mount any guard over them;
our carpets are nothing, and therefore we let the sun fade them, and live on the sunshine and
the flowers."

"That's it," said Bill bitterly. "Carpets fading,--that's Aunt Zeruah's monomania. These women
think that the great object of houses is to keep out sunshine. What a fool I was when I gloated
over the prospect of our sunny south windows! Why, man, there are three distinct sets of fortifications
against the sunshine in those windows: first, outside blinds; then solid, folding, inside shutters;
and, lastly, heavy, thick, lined damask curtains, which loop quite down to the floor. What's
the use of my pictures, I desire to know? They are hung in that room, and it's a regular campaign
to get light enough to see what they are."

"But, at all events, you can light them up with gas in the evening."

"In the evening! Why, do you know my wife never wants to sit there in the evening? She says
she has so much sewing to do that she and Aunt Zeruah must sit up in the bedroom, because it
wouldn't do to bring work into the parlor. Didn't you know that? Don't you know there mustn't
be such a thing as a bit of real work ever seen in a parlor? What if some threads should drop
on the carpet? Aunt Zeruah would have to open all the fortifications next day, and search Jerusalem
with candles to find them. No; in the evening the gas is lighted at half-cock, you know; and
if I turn it up, and bring in my newspapers and spread about me, and pull down some books to
read, I can feel the nervousness through the chamber floor. Aunt Zeruah looks in at eight,
and at a quarter past, and at half past, and at nine, and at ten, to see if I am done, so that
she may fold up the papers and put a book on them, and lock up the books in their cases. Nobody
ever comes in to spend an evening. They used to try it when we were first married, but I believe
the uninhabited appearance of our parlors discouraged them. Everybody has stopped coming now,
and Aunt Zeruah says 'it is such a comfort, for now the rooms are always in order. How poor
Mrs. Crowfield lives, with her house such a thoroughfare, she is sure she can't see. Sophie
never would have strength for it; but then, to be sure, some folks ain't as particular as others.
Sophie was brought up in a family of very particular housekeepers.'"

My wife smiled, with that calm, easy, amused smile that has brightened up her sofa for so many
years.

Bill added bitterly,--

"Of course, I couldn't say that I wished the whole set and system of housekeeping women at
the--what-'s-his-name?--because Sophie would have cried for a week, and been utterly forlorn
and disconsolate. I know it's not the poor girl's fault; I try sometimes to reason with her,
but you can't reason with the whole of your wife's family, to the third and fourth generation
backwards; but I'm sure it's hurting her health,--wearing her out. Why, you know Sophie used
to be the life of our set; and now she really seems eaten up with care from morning to night,
there are so many things in the house that something dreadful is happening to all the while,
and the servants we get are so clumsy. Why, when I sit with Sophie and Aunt Zeruah, it's nothing
but a constant string of complaints about the girls in the kitchen. We keep changing our servants
all the time, and they break and destroy so that now we are turned out of the use of all our
things. We not only eat in the basement, but all our pretty table-things are put away, and
we have all the cracked plates and cracked tumblers and cracked teacups and old buck-handled
knives that can be raised out of chaos. I could use these things and be merry if I didn't know
we had better ones; and I can't help wondering whether there isn't some way that our table
could be set to look like a gentleman's table; but Aunt Zeruah says that 'it would cost thousands,
and what difference does it make as long as nobody sees it but us?' You see, there is no medium
in her mind between china and crystal and cracked earthenware. Well, I'm wondering how all
these laws of the Medes and Persians are going to work when the children come along. I'm in
hopes the children will soften off the old folks, and make the house more habitable."

Well, children did come, a good many of them, in time. There was Tom, a broad-shouldered, chubby-cheeked,
active, hilarious son of mischief, born in the very image of his father; and there was Charlie,
and Jim, and Louisa, and Sophie the second, and Frank,--and a better, brighter, more joy-giving
household, as far as temperament and nature were concerned, never existed.

But their whole childhood was a long battle,--children versus furniture, and furniture always
carried the day. The first step of the housekeeping powers was to choose the least agreeable
and least available room in the house for the children's nursery, and to fit it up with all
the old, cracked, rickety furniture a neighboring auction-shop could afford, and then to keep
them in it. Now everybody knows that to bring up children to be upright, true, generous, and
religious needs so much discipline, so much restraint and correction, and so many rules and
regulations, that it is all that the parents can carry out, and all the children can bear.
There is only a certain amount of the vital force for parents or children to use in this business
of education, and one must choose what it shall be used for. The Aunt Zeruah faction chose
to use it for keeping the house and furniture, and the children's education proceeded accordingly.
The rules of right and wrong of which they heard most frequently were all of this sort: Naughty
children were those who went up the front stairs, or sat on the best sofa, or fingered any
of the books in the library, or got out one of the best teacups, or drank out of the cut-glass
goblets.

Why did they ever want to do it? If there ever is a forbidden fruit in an Eden, will not our
young Adams and Eves risk soul and body to find out how it tastes? Little Tom, the oldest boy,
had the courage and enterprise and perseverance of a Captain Parry or Dr. Kane, and he used
them all in voyages of discovery to forbidden grounds. He stole Aunt Zeruah's keys, unlocked
her cupboards and closets, saw, handled, and tasted everything for himself, and gloried in
his sins.

"Don't you know, Tom," said the nurse to him once, "if you are so noisy and rude, you'll disturb
your dear mamma? She's sick, and she may die, if you're not careful."

"Will she die?" says Tom gravely.

"Why, she may."

"Then," said Tom, turning on his heel,--"then I'll go up the front stairs."

As soon as ever the little rebel was old enough, he was sent away to boarding-school, and then
there was never found a time when it was convenient to have him come home again. He could not
come in the spring, for then they were house-cleaning, nor in the autumn, because then they
were house-cleaning; and so he spent his vacations at school, unless, by good luck, a companion
who was so fortunate as to have a home invited him there. His associations, associates, habits,
principles, were as little known to his mother as if she had sent him to China. Aunt Zeruah
used to congratulate herself on the rest there was at home, now he was gone, and say she was
only living in hopes of the time when Charlie and Jim would be big enough to send away, too;
and meanwhile Charlie and Jim, turned out of the charmed circle which should hold growing boys
to the father's and mother's side, detesting the dingy, lonely playroom, used to run the city
streets, and hang round the railroad depots or docks. Parents may depend upon it that, if they
do not make an attractive resort for their boys, Satan will. There are places enough, kept
warm and light and bright and merry, where boys can go whose mothers' parlors are too fine
for them to sit in. There are enough to be found to clap them on the back, and tell them stories
that their mothers must not hear, and laugh when they compass with their little piping voices
the dreadful litanies of sin and shame. In middle life, our poor Sophie, who as a girl was
so gay and frolicsome, so full of spirits, had dried and sharpened into a hard-visaged, angular
woman,--careful and troubled about many things, and forgetful that one thing is needful. One
of the boys had run away to sea; I believe he has never been heard of. As to Tom, the eldest,
he ran a career wild and hard enough for a time, first at school and then in college, and there
came a time when he came home, in the full might of six feet two, and almost broke his mother's
heart with his assertions of his home rights and privileges. Mothers who throw away the key
of their children's hearts and childhood sometimes have a sad retribution. As the children
never were considered when they were little and helpless, so they do not consider when they
are strong and powerful. Tom spread wide desolation among the household gods, lounging on the
sofas, spitting tobacco juice on the carpets, scattering books and engravings hither and thither,
and throwing all the family traditions into wild disorder, as he would never have done had
not all his childish remembrances of them been embittered by the association of restraint and
privation. He actually seemed to hate any appearance of luxury or taste or order,--he was a
perfect Philistine.

As for my friend Bill, from being the pleasantest and most genial of fellows, he became a morose,
misanthropic man. Dr. Franklin has a significant proverb,--"Silks and satins put out the kitchen
fire." Silks and satins--meaning by them the luxuries of housekeeping--often put out not only
the parlor fire, but that more sacred flame, the fire of domestic love. It is the greatest
possible misery to a man and to his children to be homeless; and many a man has a splendid
house, but no home.

"Papa," said Jenny, "you ought to write and tell what are your ideas of keeping a home."

"Girls, you have only to think how your mother has brought you up."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nevertheless, I think, being so fortunate a husband, I might reduce my wife's system to an
analysis, and my next paper shall be, What is a Home, and How to Keep it.

III

WHAT IS A HOME

It is among the sibylline secrets which lie mysteriously between you and me, O reader, that
these papers, besides their public aspect, have a private one proper to the bosom of mine own
particular family. They are not merely an ex post facto protest in regard to that carpet and
parlor of celebrated memory, but they are forth-looking towards other homes that may yet arise
near us. For, among my other confidences, you may recollect I stated to you that our Marianne
was busy in those interesting cares and details which relate to the preparing and ordering
of another dwelling.

Now, when any such matter is going on in a family, I have observed that every feminine instinct
is in a state of fluttering vitality,--every woman, old or young, is alive with womanliness
to the tips of her fingers; and it becomes us of the other sex, however consciously respected,
to walk softly and put forth our sentiments discreetly, and with due reverence for the mysterious
powers that reign in the feminine breast.

I had been too well advised to offer one word of direct counsel on a subject where there were
such charming voices, so able to convict me of absurdity at every turn. I had merely so arranged
my affairs as to put into the hands of my bankers, subject to my wife's order, the very modest
marriage portion which I could place at my girl's disposal; and Marianne and Jenny, unused
to the handling of money, were incessant in their discussions with ever patient mamma as to
what was to be done with it. I say Marianne and Jenny, for, though the case undoubtedly is
Marianne's, yet, like everything else in our domestic proceedings, it seems to fall, somehow
or other, into Jenny's hands, through the intensity and liveliness of her domesticity of nature.
Little Jenny is so bright and wide awake, and with so many active plans and fancies touching
anything in the housekeeping world, that, though the youngest sister and second party in this
affair, a stranger, hearkening to the daily discussions, might listen a half-hour at a time
without finding out that it was not Jenny's future establishment that was in question. Marianne
is a soft, thoughtful, quiet girl, not given to many words; and though, when you come fairly
at it, you will find that, like most quiet girls, she has a will five times as inflexible as
one who talks more, yet in all family counsels it is Jenny and mamma that do the discussion,
and her own little well-considered "Yes" or "No" that finally settles each case.

I must add to this family tableau the portrait of the excellent Bob Stephens, who figured as
future proprietor and householder in these consultations. So far as the question of financial
possibilities is concerned, it is important to remark that Bob belongs to the class of young
Edmunds celebrated by the poet:--

  "Wisdom and worth were all he had."

He is, in fact, an excellent-hearted and clever fellow, with a world of agreeable talents,
a good tenor in a parlor duet, a good actor at a charade, a lively, off-hand conversationist,
well up in all the current literature of the day, and what is more, in my eyes, a well-read
lawyer, just admitted to the bar, and with as fair business prospects as usually fall to the
lot of young aspirants in that profession.

Of course, he and my girl are duly and truly in love, in all the proper moods and tenses; but
as to this work they have in hand of being householders, managing fuel, rent, provision, taxes,
gas and water rates, they seem to my older eyes about as sagacious as a pair of this year's
robins. Nevertheless, as the robins of each year do somehow learn to build nests as well as
their ancestors, there is reason to hope as much for each new pair of human creatures. But
it is one of the fatalities of our ill-jointed life that houses are usually furnished for future
homes by young people in just this state of blissful ignorance of what they are really wanted
for, or what is likely to be done with the things in them.

Now, to people of large incomes, with ready wealth for the rectification of mistakes, it doesn't
much matter how the ménage is arranged at first; they will, if they have good sense, soon rid
themselves of the little infelicities and absurdities of their first arrangements, and bring
their establishment to meet their more instructed tastes.

But to that greater class who have only a modest investment for this first start in domestic
life, mistakes are far more serious. I have known people go on for years groaning under the
weight of domestic possessions they did not want, and pining in vain for others which they
did, simply from the fact that all their first purchases were made in this time of blissful
ignorance.

I had been a quiet auditor to many animated discussions among the young people as to what they
wanted and were to get, in which the subject of prudence and economy was discussed, with quotations
of advice thereon given in serious good faith by various friends and relations who lived easily
on incomes four or five times larger than our own. Who can show the ways of elegant economy
more perfectly than people thus at ease in their possessions? From what serene heights do they
instruct the inexperienced beginners! Ten thousand a year gives one leisure for reflection,
and elegant leisure enables one to view household economies dispassionately; hence the unction
with which these gifted daughters of upper air delight to exhort young neophytes.

"Depend upon it, my dear," Aunt Sophia Easygo had said, "it's always the best economy to get
the best things. They cost more in the beginning, but see how they last! These velvet carpets
on my floor have been in constant wear for ten years, and look how they wear! I never have
an ingrain carpet in my house,--not even on the chambers. Velvet and Brussels cost more to
begin with, but then they last. Then I cannot recommend the fashion that is creeping in of
having plate instead of solid silver. Plate wears off, and has to be renewed, which comes to
about the same thing in the end as if you bought all solid at first. If I were beginning as
Marianne is, I should just set aside a thousand dollars for my silver, and be content with
a few plain articles. She should buy all her furniture at Messrs. David & Saul's. People call
them dear, but their work will prove cheapest in the end, and there is an air and style about
their things that can be told anywhere. Of course, you won't go to any extravagant lengths,--simplicity
is a grace of itself."

The waters of the family council were troubled when Jenny, flaming with enthusiasm, brought
home the report of this conversation. When my wife proceeded, with her well-trained business
knowledge, to compare the prices of the simplest elegancies recommended by Aunt Easygo with
the sum total to be drawn on, faces lengthened perceptibly.

"How are people to go to housekeeping," said Jenny, "if everything costs so much?"

My wife quietly remarked that we had had great comfort in our own home,--had entertained unnumbered
friends, and had only ingrain carpets on our chambers and a three-ply on our parlor, and she
doubted if any guest had ever thought of it,--if the rooms had been a shade less pleasant;
and as to durability, Aunt Easygo had renewed her carpets oftener than we. Such as ours were,
they had worn longer than hers.

"But, mamma, you know everything has gone on since your day. Everybody must at least approach
a certain style nowadays. One can't furnish so far behind other people."

My wife answered in her quiet way, setting forth her doctrine of a plain average to go through
the whole establishment, placing parlors, chambers, kitchen, pantries, and the unseen depths
of linen-closets in harmonious relations of just proportion, and showed by calm estimates how
far the sum given could go towards this result. There the limits were inexorable. There is
nothing so damping to the ardor of youthful economies as the hard, positive logic of figures.
It is so delightful to think in some airy way that the things we like best are the cheapest,
and that a sort of rigorous duty compels us to get them at any sacrifice. There is no remedy
for this illusion but to show by the multiplication and addition tables what things are and
are not possible. My wife's figures met Aunt Easygo's assertions, and there was a lull among
the high contracting parties for a season; nevertheless, I could see Jenny was secretly uneasy.
I began to hear of journeys made to far places, here and there, where expensive articles of
luxury were selling at reduced prices. Now a gilded mirror was discussed, and now a velvet
carpet which chance had brought down temptingly near the sphere of financial possibility. I
thought of our parlor, and prayed the good fairies to avert the advent of ill-assorted articles.

"Pray keep common sense uppermost in the girls' heads, if you can," said I to Mrs. Crowfield,
"and don't let the poor little puss spend her money for what she won't care a button about
by and by."

"I shall try," she said; "but you know Marianne is inexperienced, and Jenny is so ardent and
active, and so confident, too. Then they both, I think, have the impression that we are a little
behind the age. To say the truth, my dear, I think your papers afford a good opportunity of
dropping a thought now and then in their minds. Jenny was asking last night when you were going
to write your next paper. The girl has a bright, active mind, and thinks of what she hears."

So flattered, by the best of flatterers, I sat down to write on my theme; and that evening,
at firelight time, I read to my little senate as follows:--

WHAT IS A HOME, AND HOW TO KEEP IT

I have shown that a dwelling, rented or owned by a man, in which his own wife keeps house,
is not always, or of course, a home. What is it, then, that makes a home? All men and women
have the indefinite knowledge of what they want and long for when that word is spoken. "Home!"
sighs the disconsolate bachelor, tired of boarding-house fare and buttonless shirts. "Home!"
says the wanderer in foreign lands, and thinks of mother's love, of wife and sister and child.
Nay, the word has in it a higher meaning hallowed by religion; and when the Christian would
express the highest of his hopes for a better life, he speaks of his home beyond the grave.
The word "home" has in it the elements of love, rest, permanency, and liberty; but, besides
these, it has in it the idea of an education by which all that is purest within us is developed
into nobler forms, fit for a higher life. The little child by the home-fireside was taken on
the Master's knee when he would explain to his disciples the mysteries of the kingdom.

Of so great dignity and worth is this holy and sacred thing, that the power to create a HOME
ought to be ranked above all creative faculties. The sculptor who brings out the breathing
statue from cold marble, the painter who warms the canvas into a deathless glow of beauty,
the architect who built cathedrals and hung the world-like dome of St. Peter's in midair, is
not to be compared, in sanctity and worthiness, to the humblest artist who, out of the poor
materials afforded by this shifting, changing, selfish world, creates the secure Eden of a home.

A true home should be called the noblest work of art possible to human creatures, inasmuch
as it is the very image chosen to represent the last and highest rest of the soul, the consummation
of man's blessedness.

Not without reason does the oldest Christian church require of those entering on marriage the
most solemn review of all the past life, the confession and repentance of every sin of thought,
word, and deed, and the reception of the holy sacrament; for thus the man and woman who approach
the august duty of creating a home are reminded of the sanctity and beauty of what they undertake.

In this art of homemaking I have set down in my mind certain first principles, like the axioms
of Euclid, and the first is,--

No home is possible without love.

All business marriages and marriages of convenience, all mere culinary marriages and marriages
of mere animal passion, make the creation of a true home impossible in the outset. Love is
the jeweled foundation of this New Jerusalem descending from God out of heaven, and takes as
many bright forms as the amethyst, topaz, and sapphire of that mysterious vision. In this range
of creative art all things are possible to him that loveth, but without love nothing is possible.

We hear of most convenient marriages in foreign lands, which may better be described as commercial
partnerships. The money on each side is counted; there is enough between the parties to carry
on the firm, each having the appropriate sum allotted to each. No love is pretended, but there
is great politeness. All is so legally and thoroughly arranged that there seems to be nothing
left for future quarrels to fasten on. Monsieur and Madame have each their apartments, their
carriages, their servants, their income, their friends, their pursuits,--understand the solemn
vows of marriage to mean simply that they are to treat each other with urbanity in those few
situations where the path of life must necessarily bring them together.

We are sorry that such an idea of marriage should be gaining foothold in America. It has its
root in an ignoble view of life,--an utter and pagan darkness as to all that man and woman
are called to do in that highest relation where they act as one. It is a mean and low contrivance
on both sides, by which all the grand work of home-building, all the noble pains and heroic
toils of home education--that education where the parents learn more than they teach--shall
be (let us use the expressive Yankee idiom) shirked.

It is a curious fact that, in those countries where this system of marriages is the general
rule, there is no word corresponding to our English word "home." In many polite languages of
Europe it would be impossible neatly to translate the sentiment with which we began this essay,
that a man's house is not always his home.

Let any one try to render the song, "Sweet Home," into French, and one finds how Anglo-Saxon
is the very genius of the word. The structure of life, in all its relations, in countries where
marriages are matter of arrangement and not of love, excludes the idea of home.

How does life run in such countries? The girl is recalled from her convent or boarding-school,
and told that her father has found a husband for her. No objection on her part is contemplated
or provided for; none generally occurs, for the child is only too happy to obtain the fine
clothes and the liberty which she has been taught come only with marriage. Be the man handsome
or homely, interesting or stupid, still he brings these.

How intolerable such a marriage! we say, with the close intimacies of Anglo-Saxon life in our
minds. They are not intolerable, because they are provided for by arrangements which make it
possible for each to go his or her several way, seeing very little of the other. The son or
daughter, which in due time makes its appearance in this ménage, is sent out to nurse in infancy,
sent to boarding-school in youth, and in maturity portioned and married, to repeat the same
process for another generation. Meanwhile father and mother keep a quiet establishment and
pursue their several pleasures. Such is the system.

Houses built for this kind of life become mere sets of reception-rooms, such as are the greater
proportion of apartments to let in Paris, where a hearty English or American family, with their
children about them, could scarcely find room to establish themselves. Individual character,
it is true, does something to modify this programme. There are charming homes in France and
Italy, where warm and noble natures, thrown together perhaps by accident, or mated by wise
paternal choice, infuse warmth into the coldness of the system under which they live. There
are in all states of society some of such domesticity of nature that they will create a home
around themselves under any circumstances, however barren. Besides, so kindly is human nature,
that Love, uninvited before marriage, often becomes a guest after, and with Love always comes
a home.

My next axiom is,--

There can be no true home without liberty.

The very idea of home is of a retreat where we shall be free to act out personal and individual
tastes and peculiarities, as we cannot do before the wide world. We are to have our meals at
what hour we will, served in what style suits us. Our hours of going and coming are to be as
we please. Our favorite haunts are to be here or there; our pictures and books so disposed
as seems to us good; and our whole arrangements the expression, so far as our means can compass
it, of our own personal ideas of what is pleasant and desirable in life. This element of liberty,
if we think of it, is the chief charm of home. "Here I can do as I please," is the thought
with which the tempest-tossed earth-pilgrim blesses himself or herself, turning inward from
the crowded ways of the world. This thought blesses the man of business, as he turns from his
day's care and crosses the sacred threshold. It is as restful to him as the slippers and gown
and easy-chair by the fireside. Everybody understands him here. Everybody is well content that
he should take his ease in his own way. Such is the case in the ideal home. That such is not
always the case in the real home comes often from the mistakes in the house-furnishing. Much
house-furnishing is too fine for liberty.

In America there is no such thing as rank and station which impose a sort of prescriptive style
on people of certain income. The consequence is that all sorts of furniture and belongings,
which in the Old World have a recognized relation to certain possibilities of income, and which
require certain other accessories to make them in good keeping, are thrown in the way of all
sorts of people.

Young people who cannot expect by any reasonable possibility to keep more than two or three
servants, if they happen to have the means in the outset furnish a house with just such articles
as in England would suit an establishment of sixteen. We have seen houses in England having
two or three housemaids, and tables served by a butler and two waiters, where the furniture,
carpets, china, crystal, and silver were in one and the same style with some establishments
in America where the family was hard pressed to keep three Irish servants.

This want of servants is the one thing that must modify everything in American life; it is,
and will long continue to be, a leading feature in the life of a country so rich in openings
for man and woman that domestic service can be only the stepping-stone to something higher.
Nevertheless we Americans are great travelers; we are sensitive, appreciative, fond of novelty,
apt to receive and incorporate into our own life what seems fair and graceful in that of other
people. Our women's wardrobes are made elaborate with the thousand elegancies of French toilet,--our
houses filled with a thousand knick-knacks of which our plain ancestors never dreamed. Cleopatra
did not set sail on the Nile in more state and beauty than that in which our young American
bride is often ushered into her new home,--her wardrobe all gossamer lace and quaint frill
and crimp and embroidery, her house a museum of elegant and costly gewgaws, and, amid the whole
collection of elegancies and fragilities, she, perhaps, the frailest.

Then comes the tug of war. The young wife becomes a mother, and while she is retired to her
chamber, blundering Biddy rusts the elegant knives, or takes off the ivory handles by soaking
in hot water; the silver is washed in greasy soapsuds, and refreshed now and then with a thump,
which cocks the nose of the teapot awry, or makes the handle assume an air of drunken defiance.
The fragile china is chipped here and there around its edges with those minute gaps so vexatious
to a woman's soul; the handles fly hither and thither in the wild confusion of Biddy's washing-day
hurry, when cook wants her to help hang out the clothes. Meanwhile Bridget sweeps the parlor
with a hard broom, and shakes out showers of ashes from the grate, forgetting to cover the
damask lounges, and they directly look as rusty and time-worn as if they had come from an auction-store;
and all together unite in making such havoc of the delicate ruffles and laces of the bridal
outfit and baby layette that, when the poor young wife comes out of her chamber after her nurse
has left her, and, weakened and embarrassed with the demands of the newcomer, begins to look
once more into the affairs of her little world, she is ready to sink with vexation and discouragement.
Poor little princess! Her clothes are made as princesses wear them, her baby's clothes like
a young duke's, her house furnished like a lord's, and only Bridget and Biddy and Polly to
do the work of cook, scullery-maid, butler, footman, laundress, nursery-maid, housemaid, and
lady's maid. Such is the array that in the Old Country would be deemed necessary to take care
of an establishment got up like hers. Everything in it is too fine,--not too fine to be pretty,
not in bad taste in itself, but too fine for the situation, too fine for comfort or liberty.

What ensues in a house so furnished? Too often, ceaseless fretting of the nerves, in the wife's
despairing, conscientious efforts to keep things as they should be. There is no freedom in
a house where things are too expensive and choice to be freely handled and easily replaced.
Life becomes a series of petty embarrassments and restrictions, something is always going wrong,
and the man finds his fireside oppressive,--the various articles of his parlor and table seem
like so many temper-traps and spring-guns, menacing explosion and disaster.

There may be, indeed, the most perfect home-feeling, the utmost cosiness and restfulness, in
apartments crusted with gilding, carpeted with velvet, and upholstered with satin. I have seen
such, where the home-like look and air of free use was as genuine as in a Western log cabin;
but this was in a range of princely income that made all these things as easy to be obtained
or replaced as the most ordinary of our domestic furniture. But so long as articles must be
shrouded from use, or used with fear and trembling, because their cost is above the general
level of our means, we had better be without them, even though the most lucky of accidents
may put their possession in our power.

But it is not merely by the effort to maintain too much elegance that the sense of home liberty
is banished from a house. It is sometimes expelled in another way, with all painstaking and
conscientious strictness, by the worthiest and best of human beings, the blessed followers
of Saint Martha. Have we not known them, the deaf, worthy creatures, up before daylight, causing
most scrupulous lustrations of every pane of glass and inch of paint in our parlors, in consequence
whereof every shutter and blind must be kept closed for days to come, lest the flies should
speck the freshly washed windows and wainscoting? Dear shade of Aunt Mehitabel, forgive our
boldness! Have we not been driven for days, in our youth, to read our newspaper in the front
veranda, in the kitchen, out in the barn,--anywhere, in fact, where sunshine could be found,--because
there was not a room in the house that was not cleaned, shut up, and darkened? Have we not
shivered with cold, all the glowering, gloomy month of May, because, the august front parlor
having undergone the spring cleaning, the andirons were snugly tied up in the tissue-paper,
and an elegant frill of the same material was trembling before the mouth of the once glowing
fireplace? Even so, dear soul, full of loving-kindness and hospitality as thou wast, yet ever
making our house seem like a tomb! And with what patience wouldst thou sit sewing by a crack
in the shutters an inch wide, rejoicing in thy immaculate paint and clear glass! But was there
ever a thing of thy spotless and unsullied belongings which a boy might use? How I trembled
to touch thy scoured tins, that hung in appalling brightness! with what awe I asked for a basket
to pick strawberries! and where in the house could I find a place to eat a piece of gingerbread?
How like a ruffian, a Tartar, a pirate, I always felt when I entered thy domains! and how,
from day to day, I wondered at the immeasurable depths of depravity which were always leading
me to upset something, or break or tear or derange something, in thy exquisitely kept premises!
Somehow the impression was burned with overpowering force into my mind that houses and furniture,
scrubbed floors, white curtains, bright tins and brasses, were the great, awful, permanent
facts of existence; and that men and women, and particularly children, were the meddlesome
intruders upon this divine order, every trace of whose intermeddling must be scrubbed out and
obliterated in the quickest way possible. It seemed evident to me that houses would be far
more perfect if nobody lived in them at all, but that, as men had really and absurdly taken
to living in them, they must live as little as possible. My only idea of a house was a place
full of traps and pitfalls for boys, a deadly temptation to sins which beset one every moment;
and when I read about a sailor's free life on the ocean, I felt an untold longing to go forth
and be free in like manner.

But a truce to these fancies, and back again to our essay.

If liberty in a house is a comfort to a husband, it is a necessity to children. When we say
liberty, we do not mean license. We do not mean that Master Johnny be allowed to handle elegant
volumes with bread-and-butter fingers, or that little Miss be suffered to drum on the piano,
or practice line-drawing with a pin on varnished furniture. Still it is essential that the
family parlors be not too fine for the family to sit in,--too fine for the ordinary accidents,
haps and mishaps of reasonably well-trained children. The elegance of the parlor where papa
and mamma sit and receive their friends should wear an inviting, not a hostile and bristling,
aspect to little people. Its beauty and its order gradually form in the little mind a love
of beauty and order, and the insensible carefulness of regard.

Nothing is worse for a child than to shut him up in a room which he understands is his, because
he is disorderly,--where he is expected, of course, to maintain and keep disorder. We have
sometimes pitied the poor little victims who show their faces longingly at the doors of elegant
parlors, and are forthwith collared by the domestic police and consigned to some attic apartment,
called a playroom, where chaos continually reigns. It is a mistake to suppose, because children
derange a well-furnished apartment, that they like confusion. Order and beauty are always pleasant
to them as to grown people, and disorder and defacement are painful; but they know neither
how to create the one nor to prevent the other,--their little lives are a series of experiments,
often making disorder by aiming at some new form of order. Yet, for all this, I am not one
of those who feel that in a family everything should bend to the sway of these little people.
They are the worst of tyrants in such houses: still, where children are, though the fact must
not appear to them, nothing must be done without a wise thought of them.

Here, as in all high art, the old motto is in force, "Ars est celare artem." Children who are
taught too plainly, by every anxious look and word of their parents, by every family arrangement,
by the impressment of every chance guest into the service, that their parents consider their
education as the one important matter in creation, are apt to grow up fantastical, artificial,
and hopelessly self-conscious. The stars cannot stop in their courses, even for our personal
improvement, and the sooner children learn this the better. The great art is to organize a
home which shall move on with a strong, wide, generous movement, where the little people shall
act themselves out as freely and impulsively as can consist with the comfort of the whole,
and where the anxious watching and planning for them shall be kept as secret from them as possible.

It is well that one of the sunniest and airiest rooms in the house be the children's nursery.
It is good philosophy, too, to furnish it attractively, even if the sum expended lower the
standard of parlor luxuries. It is well that the children's chamber, which is to act constantly
on their impressible natures for years, should command a better prospect, a sunnier aspect,
than one which serves for a day's occupancy of the transient guest. It is well that journeys
should be made or put off in view of the interests of the children; that guests should be invited
with a view to their improvement; that some intimacies should be chosen and some rejected on
their account. But it is not well that all this should, from infancy, be daily talked out before
the child, and he grow up in egotism from moving in a sphere where everything from first to
last is calculated and arranged with reference to himself. A little appearance of wholesome
neglect combined with real care and never ceasing watchfulness has often seemed to do wonders
in this work of setting human beings on their own feet for the life journey.

Education is the highest object of home, but education in the widest sense,--education of the
parents no less than of the children. In a true home the man and the woman receive, through
their cares, their watchings, their hospitality, their charity, the last and highest finish
that earth can put upon them. From that they must pass upward, for earth can teach them no more.

The home education is incomplete unless it include the idea of hospitality and charity. Hospitality
is a Biblical and apostolic virtue, and not so often recommended in Holy Writ without reason.
Hospitality is much neglected in America for the very reasons touched upon above. We have received
our ideas of propriety and elegance of living from old countries, where labor is cheap, where
domestic service is a well-understood, permanent occupation, adopted cheerfully for life, and
where of course there is such a subdivision of labor as insures great thoroughness in all its
branches. We are ashamed or afraid to conform honestly and hardily to a state of things purely
American. We have not yet accomplished what our friend the Doctor calls "our weaning," and
learned that dinners with circuitous courses and divers other Continental and English refinements,
well enough in their way, cannot be accomplished in families with two or three untrained servants,
without an expense of care and anxiety which makes them heart-withering to the delicate wife,
and too severe a trial to occur often. America is the land of subdivided fortunes, of a general
average of wealth and comfort, and there ought to be, therefore, an understanding in the social
basis far more simple than in the Old World.

Many families of small fortunes know this,--they are quietly living so,--but they have not
the steadiness to share their daily average living with a friend, a traveler, or guest, just
as the Arab shares his tent and the Indian his bowl of succotash. They cannot have company,
they say. Why? Because it is such a fuss to get out the best things, and then to put them back
again. But why get out the best things! Why not give your friend what he would like a thousand
times better,--a bit of your average home life, a seat at any time at your board, a seat at
your fire? If he sees that there is a handle off your teacup, and that there is a crack across
one of your plates, he only thinks, with a sigh of relief, "Well, mine aren't the only things
that meet with accidents," and he feels nearer to you ever after; he will let you come to his
table and see the cracks in his teacups, and you will condole with each other on the transient
nature of earthly possessions. If it become apparent in these entirely undressed rehearsals
that your children are sometimes disorderly, and that your cook sometimes overdoes the meat,
and that your second girl sometimes is awkward in waiting, or has forgotten a table propriety,
your friend only feels, "Ah, well, other people have trials as well as I," and he thinks, if
you come to see him, he shall feel easy with you.

"Having company" is an expense that may always be felt; but easy daily hospitality, the plate
always on your table for a friend, is an expense that appears on no accounts book, and a pleasure
that is daily and constant.

Under this head of hospitality, let us suppose a case. A traveler comes from England; he comes
in good faith and good feeling to see how Americans live. He merely wants to penetrate into
the interior of domestic life, to see what there is genuinely and peculiarly American about
it. Now here is Smilax, who is living, in a small, neat way, on his salary from the daily press.
He remembers hospitalities received from our traveler in England, and wants to return them.
He remembers, too, with dismay, a well-kept establishment, the well-served table, the punctilious,
orderly servants. Smilax keeps two, a cook and chambermaid, who divide the functions of his
establishment between them. What shall he do? Let him say, in a fair, manly way, "My dear fellow,
I'm delighted to see you. I live in a small way, but I'll do my best for you, and Mrs. Smilax
will be delighted. Come and dine with us, so and so, and we'll bring in one or two friends."
So the man comes, and Mrs. Smilax serves up such a dinner as lies within the limits of her
knowledge and the capacities of her servants. All plain, good of its kind, unpretending, without
an attempt to do anything English or French,--to do anything more than if she were furnishing
a gala dinner for her father or returned brother. Show him your house freely, just as it is,
talk to him freely of it, just as he in England showed you his larger house and talked to you
of his finer things. If the man is a true man, he will thank you for such unpretending, sincere
welcome; if he is a man of straw, then he is not worth wasting Mrs. Smilax's health and spirits
for, in unavailing efforts to get up a foreign dinner-party.

A man who has any heart in him values a genuine, little bit of home more than anything else
you can give him. He can get French cooking at a restaurant; he can buy expensive wines at
first-class hotels, if he wants them; but the traveler, though ever so rich and ever so well-served
at home, is, after all, nothing but a man as you are, and he is craving something that doesn't
seem like an hotel,--some bit of real, genuine heart life. Perhaps he would like better than
anything to show you the last photograph of his wife, or to read to you the great, round-hand
letter of his ten-year-old which he has got to-day. He is ready to cry when he thinks of it.
In this mood he goes to see you, hoping for something like, home, and you first receive him
in a parlor opened only on state occasions, and that has been circumstantially and exactly
furnished, as the upholsterer assures you, as every other parlor of the kind in the city is
furnished. You treat him to a dinner got up for the occasion, with hired waiters,--a dinner
which it has taken Mrs. Smilax a week to prepare for, and will take her a week to recover from,--for
which the baby has been snubbed and turned off, to his loud indignation, and your young four-year-old
sent to his aunts. Your traveler eats your dinner, and finds it inferior, as a work of art,
to other dinners,--a poor imitation. He goes away and criticises; you hear of it, and resolve
never to invite a foreigner again. But if you had given him a little of your heart, a little
home warmth and feeling,--if you had shown him your baby, and let him romp with your four-year-old,
and eat a genuine dinner with you,--would he have been false to that? Not so likely. He wanted
something real and human,--you gave him a bad dress rehearsal, and dress rehearsals always
provoke criticism.

Besides hospitality, there is, in a true home, a mission of charity. It is a just law which
regulates the possession of great or beautiful works of art in the Old World, that they shall
in some sense be considered the property of all who can appreciate. Fine grounds have hours
when the public may be admitted; pictures and statues may be shown to visitors: and this is
a noble charity. In the same manner the fortunate individuals who have achieved the greatest
of all human works of art should employ it as a sacred charity. How many, morally wearied,
wandering, disabled, are healed and comforted by the warmth of a true home! When a mother has
sent her son to the temptations of a distant city, what news is so glad to her heart as that
he has found some quiet family where he visits often and is made to feel at HOME? How many
young men have good women saved from temptation and shipwreck by drawing them often to the
sheltered corner by the fireside! The poor artist; the wandering genius who has lost his way
in this world, and stumbles like a child among hard realities; the many men and women who,
while they have houses, have no homes, see from afar, in their distant, bleak life journey,
the light of a true home fire, and, if made welcome there, warm their stiffened limbs, and
go forth stronger to their pilgrimage. Let those who have accomplished this beautiful and perfect
work of divine art be liberal of its influence. Let them not seek to bolt the doors and draw
the curtains; for they know not, and will never know till the future life, of the good they
may do by the ministration of this great charity of home.

We have heard much lately of the restricted sphere of woman. We have been told how many spirits
among women are of a wider, stronger, more heroic mould than befits the mere routine of housekeeping.
It may be true that there are many women far too great, too wise, too high, for mere housekeeping.
But where is the woman in any way too great, or too high, or too wise, to spend herself in
creating a home? What can any woman make diviner, higher, better? From such homes go forth
all heroisms, all inspirations, all great deeds. Such mothers and such homes have made the
heroes and martyrs, faithful unto death, who have given their precious lives to us during these
three years of our agony!

Homes are the work of art peculiar to the genius of woman. Man helps in this work, but woman
leads; the hive is always in confusion without the queen bee. But what a woman must she be
who does this work perfectly! She comprehends all, she balances and arranges all; all different
tastes and temperaments find in her their rest, and she can unite at one hearthstone the most
discordant elements. In her is order, yet an order ever veiled and concealed by indulgence.
None are checked, reproved, abridged of privileges by her love of system; for she knows that
order was made for the family, and not the family for order. Quietly she takes on herself what
all others refuse or overlook. What the unwary disarrange she silently rectifies. Everybody
in her sphere breathes easy, feels free; and the driest twig begins in her sunshine to put
out buds and blossoms. So quiet are her operations and movements that none sees that it is
she who holds all things in harmony; only, alas, when she is gone, how many things suddenly
appear disordered, inharmonious, neglected! All these threads have been smilingly held in her
weak hand. Alas, if that is no longer there!

Can any woman be such a housekeeper without inspiration? No. In the words of the old church
service, "her soul must ever have affiance in God." The New Jerusalem of a perfect home cometh
down from God out of heaven. But to make such a home is ambition high and worthy enough for
any woman, be she what she may.

One thing more. Right on the threshold of all perfection lies the cross to be taken up. No
one can go over or around that cross in science or in art. Without labor and self-denial neither
Raphael nor Michel Angelo nor Newton was made perfect. Nor can man or woman create a true home
who is not willing in the outset to embrace life heroically to encounter labor and sacrifice.
Only to such shall this divinest power be given to create on earth that which is the nearest
image of heaven.

IV

THE ECONOMY OF THE BEAUTIFUL

Talking to you in this way once a month, O my confidential reader, there seems to be danger,
as in all intervals of friendship, that we shall not readily be able to take up our strain
of conversation just where we left off. Suffer me, therefore, to remind you that the month
past left us seated at the fireside, just as we had finished reading of what a home was, and
how to make one.

The fire had burned low, and great, solid hickory coals were winking dreamily at us from out
their fluffy coats of white ashes,--just as if some household sprite there were opening now
one eye and then the other, and looking in a sleepy, comfortable way at us.

The close of my piece about the good house mother had seemed to tell on my little audience.
Marianne had nestled close to her mother, and laid her head on her knee; and though Jenny sat
up straight as a pin, yet her ever busy knitting was dropped in her lap, and I saw the glint
of a tear in her quick, sparkling eye,--yes, actually a little bright bead fell upon her work;
whereupon she started up actively, and declared that the fire wanted just one more stick to
make a blaze before bedtime; and then there was such a raking among the coals, such an adjusting
of the andirons, such vigorous arrangement of the wood, and such a brisk whisking of the hearth-brush,
that it was evident Jenny had something on her mind. When all was done, she sat down again
and looked straight into the blaze, which went dancing and crackling up, casting glances and
flecks of light on our pictures and books, and making all the old, familiar furniture seem
full of life and motion.

"I think that's a good piece," she said decisively. "I think those are things that should be
thought about."

Now Jenny was the youngest of our flock, and therefore, in a certain way, regarded by my wife
and me as perennially "the baby;" and these little, old-fashioned, decisive ways of announcing
her opinions seemed so much a part of her nature, so peculiarly "Jennyish," as I used to say,
that my wife and I only exchanged amused glances over her head when they occurred.

In a general way, Jenny, standing in the full orb of her feminine instincts like Diana in the
moon, rather looked down on all masculine views of women's matters as tolerabiles ineptioe;
but towards her papa she had gracious turns of being patronizing to the last degree; and one
of these turns was evidently at its flood-tide, as she proceeded to say,--

"I think papa is right,--that keeping house and having a home, and all that, is a very serious
thing, and that people go into it with very little thought about it. I really think those things
papa has been saying there ought to be thought about."

"Papa," said Marianne, "I wish you would tell me exactly how you would spend that money you
gave me for house-furnishing. I should like just your views."

"Precisely," said Jenny with eagerness; "because it is just as papa says,--a sensible man,
who has thought and had experience, can't help having some ideas, even about women's affairs,
that are worth attending to. I think so, decidedly."

I acknowledged the compliment for my sex and myself with my best bow.

"But then, papa," said Marianne, "I can't help feeling sorry that one can't live in such a
way as to have beautiful things around one. I'm sorry they must cost so much, and take so much
care, for I am made so that I really want them. I do so like to see pretty things! I do like
rich carpets and elegant carved furniture, and fine china and cut-glass and silver. I can't
bear mean, common-looking rooms. I should so like to have my house look beautiful!"

"Your house ought not to look mean and common,--your house ought to look beautiful," I replied.
"It would be a sin and a shame to have it otherwise. No house ought to be fitted up for a future
home without a strong and a leading reference to beauty in all its arrangements. If I were
a Greek, I should say that the first household libation should be made to beauty; but, being
an old-fashioned Christian, I would say that he who prepares a home with no eye to beauty neglects
the example of the great Father who has filled our earth home with such elaborate ornament."

"But then, papa, there's the money!" said Jenny, shaking her little head wisely. "You men don't
think of that. You want us girls, for instance, to be patterns of economy, but we must always
be wearing fresh, nice things; you abhor soiled gloves and worn shoes; and yet how is all this
to be done without money? And it's just so in housekeeping. You sit in your armchairs, and
conjure up visions of all sorts of impossible things to be done; but when mamma there takes
out that little account-book, and figures away on the cost of things, where do the visions go?"

"You are mistaken, my little dear, and you talk just like a woman,"--this was my only way of
revenging myself; "that is to say, you jump to conclusions, without sufficient knowledge. I
maintain that in house-furnishing, as well as woman-furnishing, there's nothing so economical
as beauty."

"There's one of papa's paradoxes!" said Jenny.

"Yes," said I, "that is my thesis, which I shall nail up over the mantelpiece there, as Luther
nailed his to the church door. It is time to rake up the fire now; but to-morrow night I will
give you a paper on the Economy of the Beautiful."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Come, now we are to have papa's paradox," said Jenny, as soon as the tea-things had been carried
out.

Entre nous, I must tell you that insensibly we had fallen into the habit of taking our tea
by my study fire. Tea, you know, is a mere nothing in itself, its only merit being its social
and poetic associations, its warmth and fragrance; and the more socially and informally it
can be dispensed, the more in keeping with its airy and cheerful nature.

Our circle was enlightened this evening by the cheery visage of Bob Stephens, seated, as of
right, close to Marianne's work-basket.

"You see, Bob," said Jenny, "papa has undertaken to prove that the most beautiful things are
always the cheapest."

"I'm glad to hear that," said Bob; "for there's a carved antique bookcase and study-table that
I have my eye on, and if this can in any way be made to appear"--

"Oh, it won't be made to appear," said Jenny, settling herself at her knitting, "only in some
transcendental, poetic sense, such as papa can always make out. Papa is more than half a poet,
and his truths turn out to be figures of rhetoric when one comes to apply them to matters of fact."

"Now, Miss Jenny, please remember my subject and thesis," I replied,--"that in house-furnishing
there is nothing so economical as beauty; and I will make it good against all comers, not by
figures of rhetoric, but by figures of arithmetic. I am going to be very matter-of-fact and
commonplace in my details, and keep ever in view the addition table. I will instance a case
which has occurred under my own observation."

THE ECONOMY OF THE BEAUTIFUL

Two of the houses lately built on the new land in Boston were bought by two friends, Philip
and John. Philip had plenty of money, and paid the cash down for his house, without feeling
the slightest vacancy in his pocket. John, who was an active, rising young man, just entering
on a flourishing business, had expended all his moderate savings for years in the purchase
of his dwelling, and still had a mortgage remaining, which he hoped to clear off by his future
successes. Philip begins the work of furnishing as people do with whom money is abundant, and
who have simply to go from shop to shop and order all that suits their fancy and is considered
"the thing" in good society. John begins to furnish with very little money. He has a wife and
two little ones, and he wisely deems that to insure to them a well-built house, in an open,
airy situation, with conveniences for warming, bathing, and healthy living, is a wise beginning
in life; but it leaves him little or nothing beyond.

Behold, then, Philip and his wife, well pleased, going the rounds of shops and stores in fitting
up their new dwelling, and let us follow step by step. To begin with the wall-paper. Imagine
a front and back parlor, with folding-doors, with two south windows on the front, and two looking
on a back court, after the general manner of city houses. We will suppose they require about
thirty rolls of wall-paper. Philip buys the heaviest French velvet, with gildings and traceries,
at four dollars a roll. This, by the time it has been put on, with gold mouldings, according
to the most established taste of the best paper-hangers, will bring the wall-paper of the two
rooms to a figure something like two hundred dollars. Now they proceed to the carpet stores,
and there are thrown at their feet by obsequious clerks velvets and Axminsters, with flowery
convolutions and medallion centres, as if the flower gardens of the tropics were whirling in
waltzes, with graceful lines of arabesque,--roses, callas, lilies, knotted, wreathed, twined,
with blue and crimson and golden ribbons, dazzling marvels of color and tracery. There is no
restraint in price,--four or six dollars a yard, it is all the same to them,--and soon a magic
flower garden blooms on the floors, at a cost of five hundred dollars. A pair of elegant rugs,
at fifty dollars apiece, complete the inventory, and bring our rooms to the mark of eight hundred
dollars for papering and carpeting alone. Now come the great mantel-mirrors for four hundred
more, and our rooms progress. Then comes the upholsterer, and measures our four windows, that
he may skillfully barricade them from air and sunshine. The fortifications against heaven,
thus prepared, cost, in the shape of damask, cord, tassels, shades, laces, and cornices, about
two hundred dollars per window. To be sure, they make the rooms close and sombre as the grave,
but they are of the most splendid stuffs; and if the sun would only reflect, he would see,
himself, how foolish it was for him to try to force himself into a window guarded by his betters.
If there is anything cheap and plebeian, it is sunshine and fresh air! Behold us, then, with
our two rooms papered, carpeted, and curtained for two thousand dollars; and now are to be
put in them sofas, lounges, étagères, centre-tables, screens, chairs of every pattern and device,
for which it is but moderate to allow a thousand more. We have now two parlors furnished at
an outlay of three thousand dollars, without a single picture, a single article of statuary,
a single object of art of any kind, and without any light to see them by if they were there.
We must say for our Boston upholsterers and furniture-makers that such good taste generally
reigns in their establishments that rooms furnished at haphazard from them cannot fail of a
certain air of good taste, so far as the individual things are concerned. But the different
articles we have supposed, having been ordered without reference to one another or the rooms,
have, when brought together, no unity of effect, and the general result is scattering and confused.
If asked how Philip's parlors look, your reply is, "Oh, the usual way of such parlors,--everything
that such people usually get,--medallion carpets, carved furniture, great mirrors, bronze mantel
ornaments, and so on." The only impression a stranger receives, while waiting in the dim twilight
of these rooms, is that their owner is rich, and able to get good, handsome things, such as
all other rich people get.

Now our friend John, as often happens in America, is moving in the same social circle with
Philip, visiting the same people,--his house is the twin of the one Philip has been furnishing,--and
how shall he, with a few hundred dollars, make his rooms even presentable beside those which
Philip has fitted up elegantly at three thousand?

Now for the economy of beauty. Our friend must make his prayer to the Graces,--for, if they
cannot save him, nobody can. One thing John has to begin with, that rare gift to man, a wife
with the magic cestus of Venus,--not around her waist, but, if such a thing could be, in her
finger-ends. All that she touches falls at once into harmony and proportion. Her eye for color
and form is intuitive: let her arrange a garret, with nothing but boxes, barrels, and cast-off
furniture in it, and ten to one she makes it seem the most attractive place in the house. It
is a veritable "gift of good faërie," this tact of beautifying and arranging, that some women
have; and, on the present occasion, it has a real, material value, that can be estimated in
dollars and cents. Come with us and you can see the pair taking their survey of the yet unfurnished
parlors, as busy and happy as a couple of bluebirds picking up the first sticks and straws
for their nest.

"There are two sunny windows to begin with," says the good fairy, with an appreciative glance.
"That insures flowers all winter."

"Yes," says John; "I never would look at a house without a good sunny exposure. Sunshine is
the best ornament of a house, and worth an extra thousand a year."

"Now for our wall-paper," says she. "Have you looked at wall-papers, John?"

"Yes; we shall get very pretty ones for thirty-seven cents a roll; all you want of a paper,
you know, is to make a ground-tint to throw out your pictures and other matters, and to reflect
a pleasant tone of light."

"Well, John, you know Uncle James says that a stone color is the best, but I can't bear those
cold blue grays."

"Nor I," says John. "If we must have gray, let it at least be a gray suffused with gold or
rose color, such as you see at evening in the clouds."

"So I think," responds she; "but, better, I should like a paper with a tone of buff,--something
that produces warm yellowish reflections, and will almost make you think the sun is shining
in cold gray weather; and then there is nothing that lights up so cheerfully in the evening.
In short, John, I think the color of a zafferano rose will be just about the shade we want."

"Well, I can find that, in good American paper, as I said before, at from thirty-seven to forty
cents a roll. Then our bordering: there's an important question, for that must determine the
carpet, the chairs, and everything else. Now what shall be the ground-tint of our rooms?"

"There are only two to choose between," says the lady,--"green and maroon: which is the best
for the picture?"

"I think," says John, looking above the mantelpiece, as if he saw a picture there,--"I think
a border of maroon velvet, with maroon furniture, is the best for the picture."

"I think so, too," said she; "and then we will have that lovely maroon and crimson carpet that
I saw at Lowe's; it is an ingrain, to be sure, but has a Brussels pattern, a mossy, mixed figure,
of different shades of crimson; it has a good warm, strong color, and when I come to cover
the lounges and our two old armchairs with maroon rep, it will make such a pretty effect."

"Yes," said John; "and then, you know, our picture is so bright, it will light up the whole.
Everything depends on the picture."

Now as to "the picture," it has a story which must be told. John, having been all his life
a worshiper and adorer of beauty and beautiful things, had never passed to or from his business
without stopping at the print-shop windows, and seeing a little of what was there.

On one of these occasions he was smitten to the heart with the beauty of an autumn landscape,
where the red maples and sumachs, the purple and crimson oaks, all stood swathed and harmonized
together in the hazy Indian summer atmosphere. There was a great yellow chestnut tree, on a
distant hill, which stood out so naturally that John instinctively felt his fingers tingling
for a basket, and his heels alive with a desire to bound over on to the rustling hillside and
pick up the glossy brown nuts. Everything was there of autumn, even to the goldenrod and purple
asters and scarlet creepers in the foreground.

John went in and inquired. It was by an unknown French artist, without name or patrons, who
had just come to our shores to study our scenery, and this was the first picture he had exposed
for sale. John had just been paid a quarter's salary; he bethought him of board-bill and washerwoman,
sighed, and faintly offered fifty dollars.

To his surprise he was taken up at once, and the picture became his. John thought himself dreaming.
He examined his treasure over and over, and felt sure that it was the work of no amateur beginner,
but of a trained hand and a true artist soul. So he found his way to the studio of the stranger,
and apologized for having got such a gem for so much less than its worth. "It was all I could
give, though," he said; "and one who paid four times as much could not value it more." And
so John took one and another of his friends, with longer purses than his own, to the studio
of the modest stranger; and now his pieces command their full worth in the market, and he works
with orders far ahead of his ability to execute, giving to the canvas the trails of American
scenery as appreciated and felt by the subtile delicacy of the French mind,--our rural summer
views, our autumn glories, and the dreamy, misty delicacy of our snowy winter landscapes. Whoso
would know the truth of the same, let him inquire for the modest studio of Morvillier, at Maiden,
scarce a bowshot from our Boston.

This picture had always been the ruling star of John's house, his main dependence for brightening
up his bachelor apartments; and when he came to the task of furbishing those same rooms for
a fair occupant, the picture was still his mine of gold. For a picture painted by a real artist,
who studies Nature minutely and conscientiously, has something of the charm of the good Mother
herself,--something of her faculty of putting on different aspects under different lights.
John and his wife had studied their picture at all hours of the day: they had seen how it looked
when the morning sun came aslant the scarlet maples and made a golden shimmer over the blue
mountains, how it looked toned down in the cool shadows of afternoon, and how it warmed up
in the sunset and died off mysteriously into the twilight; and now, when larger parlors were
to be furnished, the picture was still the tower of strength, the rallying-point of their hopes.

"Do you know, John," said the wife, hesitating, "I am really in doubt whether we shall not
have to get at least a few new chairs and a sofa for our parlors? They are putting in such
splendid things at the other door that I am positively ashamed of ours; the fact is, they look
almost disreputable,--like a heap of rubbish."

"Well," said John, laughing, "I don't suppose all together sent to an auction-room would bring
us fifty dollars, and yet, such as they are, they answer the place of better things for us;
and the fact is, Mary, the hard impassable barrier in the case is that there really is no money
to get any more."

"Ah, well, then, if there isn't, we must see what we can do with these, and summon all the
good fairies to our aid," said Mary. "There's your little cabinet-maker, John, will look over
the things and furbish them up; there's that broken arm of the chair must be mended, and everything
re-varnished; then I have found such a lovely rep, of just the richest shade of maroon, inclining
to crimson, and when we come to cover the lounges and armchairs and sofas and ottomans all
alike, you know they will be quite another thing."

"Trust you for that, Mary! By the bye, I've found a nice little woman, who has worked on upholstery,
who will come in by the day, and be the hands that shall execute the decrees of your taste."

"Yes, I am sure we shall get on capitally. Do you know that I'm almost glad we can't get new
things? It's a sort of enterprise to see what we can do with old ones."

"Now, you see, Mary," said John, seating himself on a lime-cask which the plasterers had left,
and taking out his memorandum-book,--"you see, I've calculated this thing all over; I've found
a way by which I can make our rooms beautiful and attractive without a cent expended on new
furniture."

"Well, let's hear."

"Well, my way is short and simple. We must put things into our rooms that people will look
at, so that they will forget to look at the furniture, and never once trouble their heads about
it. People never look at furniture so long as there is anything else to look at; just as Napoleon,
when away on one of his expeditions, being told that the French populace were getting disaffected,
wrote back, 'Gild the dome des Invalides,' and so they gilded it, and the people, looking at
that, forgot everything else."

"But I'm not clear yet," said Mary, "what is coming of this rhetoric."

"Well, then, Mary, I'll tell you. A suit of new carved black-walnut furniture, severe in taste
and perfect in style, such as I should choose at David & Saul's, could not be got under three
hundred dollars, and I haven't the three hundred to give. What, then, shall we do? We must
fall back on our resources; we must look over our treasures. We have our proof cast of the
great glorious head of the Venus di Milo; we have those six beautiful photographs of Rome,
that Brown brought to us; we have the great German lithograph of the San Sisto Mother and Child,
and we have the two angel heads, from the same; we have that lovely golden twilight sketch
of Heade's; we have some sea photographs of Bradford's; we have an original pen-and-ink sketch
by Billings; and then, as before, we have 'our picture.' What has been the use of our watching
at the gates and waiting at the doors of Beauty all our lives, if she hasn't thrown us out
a crust now and then, so that we might have it for time of need? Now, you see, Mary, we must
make the toilet of our rooms just as a pretty woman makes hers when money runs low, and she
sorts and freshens her ribbons, and matches them to her hair and eyes, and, with a bow here
and a bit of fringe there, and a button somewhere else, dazzles us into thinking that she has
an infinity of beautiful attire. Our rooms are new and pretty of themselves, to begin with;
the tint of the paper, and the rich coloring of the border, corresponding with the furniture
and carpets, will make them seem prettier. And now for arrangement. Take this front room. I
propose to fill those two recesses each side of the fireplace with my books, in their plain
pine cases, just breast-high from the floor: they are stained a good dark color, and nobody
need stick a pin in them to find out that they are not rosewood. The top of these shelves on
either side to be covered with the same stuff as the furniture, finished with a crimson fringe.
On top of the shelves on one side of the fireplace I shall set our noble Venus di Milo, and
I shall buy at Cicci's the lovely Clytie, and put it the other side. Then I shall get of Williams
& Everett two of their chromo lithographs, which give you all the style and charm of the best
English watercolor school. I will have the lovely Bay of Amalfi over my Venus, because she
came from those suns and skies of southern Italy, and I will hang Lake Como over my Clytie.
Then, in the middle, over the fireplace, shall be 'our picture.' Over each door shall hang
one of the lithographed angel heads of the San Sisto, to watch our going out and coming in;
and the glorious Mother and Child shall hang opposite the Venus di Milo, to show how Greek
and Christian unite in giving the noblest type to womanhood. And then, when we have all our
sketches and lithographs framed and hung here and there, and your flowers blooming as they
always do, and your ivies wandering and rambling as they used to, and hanging in the most graceful
ways and places, and all those little shells and ferns and vases, which you are always conjuring
with, tastefully arranged, I'll venture to say that our rooms will be not only pleasant, but
beautiful, and that people will oftener say, 'How beautiful!' when they enter, than if we spent
three times the money on new furniture."

In the course of a year after this conversation, one and another of my acquaintances were often
heard speaking of John Morton's house. "Such beautiful rooms,--so charmingly furnished,--you
must go and see them. What does make them so much pleasanter than those rooms in the other
house, which have everything in them that money can buy?" So said the folk; for nine people
out of ten only feel the effect of a room, and never analyze the causes from which it flows:
they know that certain rooms seem dull and heavy and confused, but they don't know why; that
certain others seem cheerful, airy, and beautiful, but they know not why. The first exclamation,
on entering John's parlors, was so often "How beautiful!" that it became rather a byword in
the family. Estimated by their mere money value, the articles in the rooms were of very trifling
worth; but, as they stood arranged and combined, they had all the effect of a lovely picture.
Although the statuary was only plaster, and the photographs and lithographs such as were all
within the compass of limited means, yet every one of them was a good thing of its own kind,
or a good reminder of some of the greatest works of art. A good plaster cast is a daguerreotype,
so to speak, of a great statue, though it may be bought for five or six dollars, while its
original is not to be had for any namable sum. A chromo lithograph of the best sort gives all
the style and manner and effect of Turner or Stanfield, or any of the best of modern artists,
though you buy it for five or ten dollars, and though the original would command a thousand
guineas. The lithographs from Raphael's immortal picture give you the results of a whole age
of artistic culture, in a form within the compass of very humble means. There is now selling
for five dollars at Williams & Everett's a photograph of Cheney's crayon drawing of the San
Sisto Madonna and Child, which has the very spirit of the glorious original. Such a picture,
hung against the wall of a child's room, would train its eye from infancy; and yet how many
will freely spend five dollars in embroidery on its dress, that say they cannot afford works
of art!

There was one advantage which John and his wife found, in the way in which they furnished their
house, that I have hinted at before: it gave freedom to their children. Though their rooms
were beautiful, it was not with the tantalizing beauty of expensive and frail knick-knacks.
Pictures hung against the wall, and statuary safely lodged on brackets, speak constantly to
the childish eye, but are out of the reach of childish fingers, and are not upset by childish
romps. They are not, like china and crystal, liable to be used and abused by servants; they
do not wear out; they are not spoiled by dust, nor consumed by moths. The beauty once there
is always there; though the mother be ill and in her chamber, she has no fears that she shall
find it all wrecked and shattered. And this style of beauty, inexpensive as it is, compared
with luxurious furniture, is a means of cultivation. No child is ever stimulated to draw or
to read by an Axminster carpet or a carved centre-table; but a room surrounded with photographs
and pictures and fine casts suggests a thousand inquiries, stimulates the little eye and hand.
The child is found with its pencil, drawing, or he asks for a book on Venice, or wants to hear
the history of the Roman Forum.

But I have made my article too long. I will write another on the moral and intellectual effects
of house-furnishing.

"I have proved my point, Miss Jenny, have I not? In house-furnishing nothing is more economical
than beauty."

"Yes, papa," said Jenny; "I give it up."

V

RAKING UP THE FIRE

We have a custom at our house which we call raking up the fire. That is to say, the last half
hour before bedtime, we draw in, shoulder to shoulder, around the last brands and embers of
our hearth, which we prick up and brighten, and dispose for a few farewell flickers and glimmers.
This is a grand time for discussion. Then we talk over parties, if the young people have been
out of an evening,--a book, if we have been reading one; we discuss and analyze characters,--give
our views on all subjects, æsthetic, theological, and scientific, in a way most wonderful to
hear; and, in fact, we sometimes get so engaged in our discussions that every spark of the
fire burns out, and we begin to feel ourselves shivering around the shoulders, before we can
remember that it is bedtime.

So, after the reading of my last article, we had a "raking-up talk,"--to wit, Jenny, Marianne,
and I, with Bob Stephens: my wife, still busy at her work-basket, sat at the table a little
behind us. Jenny, of course, opened the ball in her usual incisive manner.

"But now, papa, after all you say in your piece there, I cannot help feeling that, if I had
the taste and the money too, it would be better than the taste alone with no money. I like
the nice arrangements and the books and the drawings, but I think all these would appear better
still with really elegant furniture."

"Who doubts that?" said I. "Give me a large tub of gold coin to dip into, and the furnishing
and beautifying of a house is a simple affair. The same taste that could make beauty out of
cents and dimes could make it more abundantly out of dollars and eagles. But I have been speaking
for those who have not and cannot get riches, and who wish to have agreeable houses; and I
begin in the outset by saying that beauty is a thing to be respected, reverenced, and devoutly
cared for, and then I say that BEAUTY IS CHEAP,--nay, to put it so that the shrewdest Yankee
will understand it,--BEAUTY IS THE CHEAPEST THING YOU CAN HAVE, because in many ways it is
a substitute for expense. A few vases of flowers in a room, a few blooming, well-kept plants,
a few prints framed in fanciful frames of cheap domestic fabric, a statuette, a bracket, an
engraving, a pencil-sketch,--above all, a few choice books,--all these arranged by a woman
who has the gift in her finger-ends, often produce such an illusion on the mind's eye that
one goes away without once having noticed that the cushion of the armchair was worn out, and
that some veneering had fallen off the centre-table.

"I have a friend, a schoolmistress, who lives in a poor little cottage enough, which, let alone
of the Graces, might seem mean and sordid, but a few flower-seeds and a little weeding in the
spring make it, all summer, an object which everybody stops to look at. Her æsthetic soul was
at first greatly tried with the water-barrel which stood under the eaves spout,--a most necessary
evil, since only thus could her scanty supply of soft water for domestic purposes be secured.
One of the Graces, however, suggested to her a happy thought. She planted a row of morning-glories
round the bottom of her barrel, and drove a row of tacks around the top, and strung her water-butt
with twine, like a great harpsichord. A few weeks covered the twine with blossoming plants,
which every morning were a mass of many-colored airy blooms, waving in graceful sprays, and
looking at themselves in the water. The water-barrel, in fact, became a celebrated stroke of
ornamental gardening, which the neighbors came to look at."

"Well, but," said Jenny, "everybody hasn't mamma's faculty with flowers. Flowers will grow
for some people, and for some they won't. Nobody can see what mamma does so very much, but
her plants always look fresh and thriving and healthy,--her things blossom just when she wants
them, and do anything else she wishes them to; and there are other people that fume and fuss
and try, and their things won't do anything at all. There's Aunt Easygo has plant after plant
brought from the greenhouse, and hanging-baskets, and all sorts of things; but her plants grow
yellow and drop their leaves, and her hanging-baskets get dusty and poverty-stricken, while
mamma's go on flourishing as heart could desire."

"I can tell you what your mother puts into her plants," said I,--"just what she has put into
her children, and all her other home-things,--her heart. She loves them; she lives in them;
she has in herself a plant-life and a plant-sympathy. She feels for them as if she herself
were a plant; she anticipates their wants,--always remembers them without an effort, and so
the care flows to them daily and hourly. She hardly knows when she does the things that make
them grow, but she gives them a minute a hundred times a day. She moves this nearer the glass,--draws
that back,--detects some thief of a worm on one,--digs at the root of another, to see why it
droops,--washes these leaves and sprinkles those,--waters, and refrains from watering, all
with the habitual care of love. Your mother herself doesn't know why her plants grow; it takes
a philosopher and a writer for the 'Atlantic' to tell her what the cause is."

Here I saw my wife laughing over her work-basket as she answered,--

"Girls, one of these days I will write an article for the 'Atlantic,' that your papa need not
have all the say to himself; however, I believe he has hit the nail on the head this time."

"Of course he has," said Marianne. "But, mamma, I am afraid to begin to depend much on plants
for the beauty of my rooms, for fear I should not have your gift,--and, of all forlorn and
hopeless things in a room, ill-kept plants are the most so."

"I would not recommend," said I, "a young housekeeper, just beginning, to rest much for her
home ornament on plant-keeping, unless she has an experience of her own love and talent in
this line which makes her sure of success; for plants will not thrive if they are forgotten
or overlooked, and only tended in occasional intervals; and, as Marianne says, neglected plants
are the most forlorn of all things."

"But, papa," said Marianne anxiously, "there, in those patent parlors of John's that you wrote
of, flowers acted a great part."

"The charm of those parlors of John's may be chemically analyzed," I said. "In the first place,
there is sunshine, a thing that always affects the human nerves of happiness. Why else is it
that people are always so glad to see the sun after a long storm? why are bright days matters
of such congratulation? Sunshine fills a house with a thousand beautiful and fanciful effects
of light and shade,--with soft, luminous, reflected radiances, that give picturesque effects
to the pictures, books, statuettes of an interior. John, happily, had no money to buy brocatelle
curtains, and, besides this, he loved sunshine too much to buy them, if he could. He had been
enough with artists to know that heavy damask curtains darken precisely that part of the window
where the light proper for pictures and statuary should come in, namely, the upper part. The
fashionable system of curtains lights only the legs of the chairs and the carpets, and leaves
all the upper portion of the room in shadow. John's windows have shades which can at pleasure
be drawn down from the top or up from the bottom, so that the best light to be had may always
be arranged for his little interior."

"Well, papa," said Marianne, "in your chemical analysis of John's rooms, what is the next thing
to the sunshine?"

"The next," said I, "is harmony of color. The wall-paper, the furniture, the carpets, are of
tints that harmonize with one another. This is a grace in rooms always, and one often neglected.
The French have an expressive phrase with reference to articles which are out of accord,--they
say that they swear at each other, I have been in rooms where I seemed to hear the wall-paper
swearing at the carpet, and the carpet swearing back at the wall-paper, and each article of
furniture swearing at the rest. These appointments may all of them be of the most expensive
kind, but with such dis-harmony no arrangement can ever produce anything but a vulgar and disagreeable
effect. On the other hand, I have been in rooms where all the material was cheap and the furniture
poor, but where, from some instinctive knowledge of the reciprocal effect of colors, everything
was harmonious, and produced a sense of elegance.

"I recollect once traveling on a Western canal through a long stretch of wilderness, and stopping
to spend the night at an obscure settlement of a dozen houses. We were directed to lodgings
in a common frame house at a little distance, where, it seemed, the only hotel was kept. When
we entered the parlor, we were struck with utter amazement at its prettiness, which affected
us before we began to ask ourselves how it came to be pretty. It was, in fact, only one of
the miracles of harmonious color working with very simple materials. Some woman had been busy
there, who had both eyes and fingers. The sofa, the common wooden rocking-chairs, and some
ottomans, probably made of old soap-boxes, were all covered with American nankeen of a soft
yellowish-brown, with a bordering of blue print. The window-shades, the table-cover, and the
piano-cloth all repeated the same colors, in the same cheap material. A simple straw matting
was laid over the floor, and, with a few books, a vase of flowers, and one or two prints, the
room had a home-like and even elegant air, that struck us all the more forcibly from its contrast
with the usual tawdry, slovenly style of such parlors.

"The means used for getting up this effect were the most inexpensive possible,--simply the
following out, in cheap material, a law of uniformity and harmony, which always will produce
beauty. In the same manner, I have seen a room furnished, whose effect was really gorgeous
in color, where the only materials used were Turkey-red cotton and a simple ingrain carpet
of corresponding color.

"Now, you girls have been busy lately in schemes for buying a velvet carpet for the new parlor
that is to be, and the only points that have seemed to weigh in the council were that it was
velvet, that it was cheaper than velvets usually are, and that it was a genteel pattern."

"Now, papa," said Jenny, "what ears you have! We thought you were reading all the time!"

"I see what you are going to say," said Marianne. "You think that we have not once mentioned
the consideration which should determine the carpet, whether it will harmonize with our other
things. But you see, papa, we don't really know what our other things are to be."

"Yes," said Jenny, "and Aunt Easygo said it was an unusually good chance to get a velvet carpet."

"Yet, good as the chance is, it costs just twice as much as an ingrain."

"Yes, papa, it does."

"And you are not sure that the effect of it, after you get it down, will be as good as a well-chosen
ingrain one."

"That's true," said Marianne reflectively.

"But then, papa," said Jenny, "Aunt Easygo said she never heard of such a bargain; only think,
two dollars a yard for a velvet!"

"And why is it two dollars a yard? Is the man a personal friend, that he wishes to make you
a present of a dollar on the yard, or is there some reason why it is undesirable?" said I.

"Well, you know, papa, he said those large patterns were not so salable."

"To tell the truth," said Marianne, "I never did like the pattern exactly; as to uniformity
of tint, it might match with anything, for there's every color of the rainbow in it."

"You see, papa, it's a gorgeous flower-pattern," said Jenny.

"Well, Marianne, how many yards of this wonderfully cheap carpet do you want?"

"We want sixty yards for both rooms," said Jenny, always primed with statistics.

"That will be a hundred and twenty dollars," I said.

"Yes," said Jenny; "and we went over the figures together, and thought we could make it out
by economizing in other things. Aunt Easygo said that the carpet was half the battle,--that
it gave the air to everything else."

"Well, Marianne, if you want a man's advice in the case, mine is at your service."

"That is just what I want, papa."

"Well, then, my dear, choose your wall-papers and borderings, and, when they are up, choose
an ingrain carpet to harmonize with them, and adapt your furniture to the same idea. The sixty
dollars that you save on your carpet spend on engravings, chromo lithographs, or photographs
of some good works of art, to adorn your walls."

"Papa, I'll do it," said Marianne.

"My little dear," said I, "your papa may seem to be a sleepy old book-worm, yet he has his
eyes open. Do you think I don't know why my girls have the credit of being the best-dressed
girls on the street?"

"Oh papa!" cried out both girls in a breath.

"Fact, that!" said Bob, with energy, pulling at his mustache. "Everybody talks about your dress,
and wonders how you make it out."

"Well," said I, "I presume you do not go into a shop and buy a yard of ribbon because it is
selling at half price, and put it on without considering complexion, eyes, hair, and shade
of the dress, do you?"

"Of course we don't!" chimed in the duo with energy.

"Of course you don't. Haven't I seen you mincing downstairs, with all your colors harmonized,
even to your gloves and gaiters? Now, a room must be dressed as carefully as a lady."

"Well, I'm convinced," said Jenny, "that papa knows how to make rooms prettier than Aunt Easygo;
but then she said this was cheap, because it would outlast two common carpets."

"But, as you pay double price," said I, "I don't see that. Besides, I would rather, in the
course of twenty years, have two nice, fresh ingrain carpets, of just the color and pattern
that suited my rooms, than labor along with one ill-chosen velvet that harmonized with nothing."

"I give it up," said Jenny; "I give it up."

"Now, understand me," said I; "I am not traducing velvet or Brussels or Axminster. I admit
that more beautiful effects can be found in those goods than in the humbler fabrics of the
carpet rooms. Nothing would delight me more than to put an unlimited credit to Marianne's account,
and let her work out the problems of harmonious color in velvet and damask. All I have to say
is, that certain unities of color, certain general arrangements, will secure very nearly as
good general effects in either material. A library with a neat, mossy green carpet on the floor,
harmonizing with wall-paper and furniture, looks generally as well, whether the mossy green
is made in Brussels or in ingrain. In the carpet stores, these two materials stand side by
side in the very same pattern, and one is often as good for the purpose as the other. A lady
of my acquaintance, some years since, employed an artist to decorate her parlors. The walls
being frescoed and tinted to suit his ideal, he immediately issued his decree that her splendid
velvet carpets must be sent to auction, and others bought of certain colors harmonizing with
the walls. Unable to find exactly the color and pattern he wanted, he at last had the carpets
woven in a neighboring factory, where, as yet, they had only the art of weaving ingrains. Thus
was the material sacrificed at once to the harmony."

I remarked, in passing, that this was before Bigelow's mechanical genius had unlocked for America
the higher secrets of carpet-weaving, and made it possible to have one's desires accomplished
in Brussels or velvet. In those days, English carpet-weavers did not send to America for their
looms, as they now do.

"But now to return to my analysis of John's rooms.

"Another thing which goes a great way towards giving them their agreeable air is the books
in them. Some people are fond of treating books as others do children. One room in the house
is selected, and every book driven into it and kept there. Yet nothing makes a room so home-like,
so companionable, and gives it such an air of refinement, as the presence of books. They change
the aspect of a parlor from that of a mere reception-room, where visitors perch for a transient
call, and give it the air of a room where one feels like taking off one's things to stay. It
gives the appearance of permanence and repose and quiet fellowship; and, next to pictures on
the walls, the many-colored bindings and gildings of books are the most agreeable adornment
of a room."

"Then, Marianne," said Bob, "we have something to start with, at all events. There are my English
Classics and English Poets, and my uniform editions of Scott and Thackeray and Macaulay and
Prescott and Irving and Longfellow and Lowell and Hawthorne and Holmes and a host more. We
really have something pretty there."

"You are a lucky girl," I said, "to have so much secured. A girl brought up in a house full
of books, always able to turn to this or that author and look for any passage or poem when
she thinks of it, doesn't know what a blank a house without books might be."

"Well," said Marianne, "mamma and I were counting over my treasures the other day. Do you know,
I have one really fine old engraving, that Bob says is quite a genuine thing; and then there
is that pencil-sketch that poor Schöne made for me the month before he died,--it is truly artistic."

"And I have a couple of capital things of Landseer's," said Bob.

"There's no danger that your rooms will not be pretty," said I, "now you are fairly on the
right track."

"But, papa," said Marianne, "I am troubled about one thing. My love of beauty runs into everything.
I want pretty things for my table; and yet, as you say, servants are so careless, one cannot
use such things freely without great waste."

"For my part," said my wife, "I believe in best china, to be kept carefully on an upper shelf,
and taken down for high-days and holidays; it may be a superstition, but I believe in it. It
must never be taken out except when the mistress herself can see that it is safely cared for.
My mother always washed her china herself; and it was a very pretty social ceremony, after
tea was over, while she sat among us washing her pretty cups, and wiping them on a fine damask
towel."

"With all my heart," said I; "have your best china and venerate it,--it is one of the loveliest
of domestic superstitions; only do not make it a bar to hospitality, and shrink from having
a friend to tea with you, unless you feel equal to getting up to the high shelf where you keep
it, getting it down, washing, and putting it up again.

"But in serving a table, I say, as I said of a house, beauty is a necessity, and beauty is
cheap. Because you cannot afford beauty in one form, it does not follow that you cannot have
it in another. Because one cannot afford to keep up a perennial supply of delicate china and
crystal, subject to the accidents of raw, untrained servants, it does not follow that the every-day
table need present a sordid assortment of articles chosen simply for cheapness, while the whole
capacity of the purse is given to the set forever locked away for state occasions.

"A table-service all of simple white, of graceful forms, even though not of china, if arranged
with care, with snowy, well-kept table-linen, clear glasses, and bright American plate in place
of solid silver, may be made to look inviting; add a glass of flowers every day, and your table
may look pretty: and it is far more important that it should look pretty for the family every
day than for company once in two weeks."

"I tell my girls," said my wife, "as the result of my experience, you may have your pretty
china and your lovely fanciful articles for the table only so long as you can take all the
care of them yourselves. As soon as you get tired of doing this, and put them into the hands
of the trustiest servants, some good, well-meaning creature is sure to break her heart and
your own and your very pet darling china pitcher all in one and the same minute, and then her
frantic despair leaves you not even the relief of scolding."

"I have become perfectly sure," said I "that there are spiteful little brownies, intent on
seducing good women to sin, who mount guard over the special idols of the china closet. If
you hear a crash, and a loud Irish wail from the inner depths, you never think of its being
a yellow pie-plate, or that dreadful one-handled tureen that you have been wishing were broken
these five years; no, indeed,--it is sure to be the lovely painted china bowl, wreathed with
morning-glories and sweet-peas, or the engraved glass goblet, with quaint Old English initials.
China sacrificed must be a great means of saintship to women. Pope, I think, puts it as the
crowning grace of his perfect woman that she is

  "'Mistress of herself though china fall.'"

"I ought to be a saint by this time, then," said mamma; "for in the course of my days I have
lost so many idols by breakage, and peculiar accidents that seemed by a special fatality to
befall my prettiest and most irreplaceable things, that in fact it has come to be a superstitious
feeling now with which I regard anything particularly pretty of a breakable nature."

"Well," said Marianne, "unless one has a great deal of money, it seems to me that the investment
in these pretty fragilities is rather a poor one."

"Yet," said I, "the principle of beauty is never so captivating as when it presides over the
hour of daily meals. I would have the room where they are served one of the pleasantest and
sunniest in the house. I would have its coloring cheerful, and there should be companionable
pictures and engravings on the walls. Of all things, I dislike a room that seems to be kept,
like a restaurant, merely to eat in. I like to see in a dining-room something that betokens
a pleasant sitting-room at other hours. I like there some books, a comfortable sofa or lounge,
and all that should make it cosy and inviting. The custom in some families, of adopting for
the daily meals one of the two parlors which a city house furnishes, has often seemed to me
a particularly happy one. You take your meals, then, in an agreeable place, surrounded by the
little pleasant arrangements of your daily sitting-room; and after the meal, if the lady of
the house does the honors of her own pretty china herself, the office may be a pleasant and
social one.

"But in regard to your table-service I have my advice at hand. Invest in pretty table-linen,
in delicate napkins, have your vase of flowers, and be guided by the eye of taste in the choice
and arrangement of even the every-day table articles, and have no ugly things when you can
have pretty ones by taking a little thought. If you are sore tempted with lovely china and
crystal, too fragile to last, too expensive to be renewed, turn away to a print-shop and comfort
yourself by hanging around the walls of your dining-room beauty that will not break or fade,
that will meet your eye from year to year, though plates, tumblers, and teasets successively
vanish. There is my advice for you, Marianne."

At the same time let me say, in parenthesis, that my wife, whose weakness is china, informed
me that night, when we were by ourselves, that she was ordering secretly a teaset as a bridal
gift for Marianne every cup of which was to be exquisitely painted with the wild flowers of
America, from designs of her own,--a thing, by the by, that can now be very nicely executed
in our country, as one may find by looking in at our friend Briggs's on School Street. "It
will last her all her life," she said, "and always be such a pleasure to look at; and a pretty
tea-table is such a pretty sight!" So spoke Mrs. Crowfield, "unweaned from china by a thousand
falls." She spoke even with tears in her eyes. Verily these women are harps of a thousand strings!

But to return to my subject.

"Finally and lastly," I said, "in my analysis and explication of the agreeableness of those
same parlors, comes the growing grace,--their homeliness. By 'homeliness' I mean not ugliness,
as the word is apt to be used, but the air that is given to a room by being really at home
in it. Not the most skillful arrangement can impart this charm.

"It is said that a king of France once remarked, 'My son, you must seem to love your people.'

"'Father, how shall I seem to love them?'

"'My son, you must love them.'

"So, to make rooms seem home-like, you must be at home in them. Human light and warmth are
so wanting in some rooms, it is so evident that they are never used, that you can never be
at ease there. In vain the housemaid is taught to wheel the sofa and turn chair toward chair;
in vain it is attempted to imitate a negligent arrangement of the centre-table.

"Books that have really been read and laid down, chairs that have really been moved here and
there in the animation of social contact, have a sort of human vitality in them; and a room
in which people really live and enjoy is as different from a shut-up apartment as a live woman
from a wax image.

"Even rooms furnished without taste often become charming from this one grace, that they seem
to let you into the home life and home current. You seem to understand in a moment that you
are taken into the family, and are moving in its inner circles, and not revolving at a distance
in some outer court of the gentiles.

"How many people do we call on from year to year and know no more of their feelings, habits,
tastes, family ideas and ways, than if they lived in Kamtschatka! And why? Because the room
which they call a front parlor is made expressly so that you never shall know. They sit in
a back room,--work, talk, read, perhaps. After the servant has let you in and opened a crack
of the shutters, and while you sit waiting for them to change their dress and come in, you
speculate as to what they may be doing. From some distant region, the laugh of a child, the
song of a canary-bird reaches you, and then a door claps hastily to. Do they love plants? Do
they write letters, sew, embroider, crochet? Do they ever romp and frolic? What books do they
read? Do they sketch or paint? Of all these possibilities the mute and muffled room says nothing.
A sofa and six chairs, two ottomans fresh from the upholsterer's, a Brussels carpet, a centre-table
with four gilt Books of Beauty on it, a mantel-clock from Paris, and two bronze vases,--all
those tell you only in frigid tones, 'This is the best room,'--only that, and nothing more,--and
soon she trips in in her best clothes, and apologizes for keeping you waiting, asks how your
mother is, and you remark that it is a pleasant day, and thus the acquaintance progresses from
year to year. One hour in the back room, where the plants and canary-bird and children are,
might have made you fast friends for life; but, little as it is, you care no more for them
than for the gilt clock on the mantel.

"And now, girls," said I, pulling a paper out of my pocket, "you must know that your father
is getting to be famous by means of these 'House and Home Papers.' Here is a letter I have
just received:--

  "MOST EXCELLENT MR. CROWFIELD,--Your thoughts have lighted into
  our family circle and echoed from our fireside. We all feel the
  force of them, and are delighted with the felicity of your
  treatment of the topic you have chosen. You have taken hold of a
  subject that lies deep in our hearts, in a genial, temperate, and
  convincing spirit. All must acknowledge the power of your
  sentiments upon their imaginations; if they could only trust to
  them in actual life! There is the rub.

  "Omitting further upon these points, there is a special feature of
  your articles upon which we wish to address you. You seem as yet
  (we do not know, of course, what you may hereafter do) to speak
  only of homes whose conduct depends upon the help of servants. Now
  your principles apply, as some of us well conceive, to nearly all
  classes of society; yet most people, to take an impressive hint,
  must have their portraits drawn out more exactly. We therefore
  hope that you will give a reasonable share of your attention to us
  who do not employ servants, so that you may ease us of some of our
  burdens, which, in spite of common sense, we dare not throw off.
  For instance, we have company,--a friend from afar (perhaps
  wealthy), or a minister, or some other man of note. What do we do?
  Sit down and receive our visitor with all good will and the
  freedom of a home? No; we (the lady of the house) flutter about to
  clear up things, apologizing about this, that, and the other
  condition of unpreparedness, and, having settled the visitor in
  the parlor, set about marshaling the elements of a grand dinner or
  supper, such as no person but a gourmand wants to sit down to,
  when at home and comfortable; and in getting up this meal,
  clearing away and washing the dishes, we use up a good half of the
  time which our guest spends with us. We have spread ourselves, and
  shown him what we could do; but what a paltry, heart-sickening
  achievement! Now, good Mr. Crowfield, thou friend of the robbed
  and despairing, wilt thou not descend into our purgatorial circle,
  and tell the world what thou hast seen there of doleful
  remembrance? Tell us how we, who must do and desire to do our own
  work, can show forth in our homes a homely yet genial hospitality,
  and entertain our guests without making a fuss and hurlyburly, and
  seeming to be anxious for their sake about many things, and
  spending too much time getting meals, as if eating were the chief
  social pleasure. Won't you do this, Mr. Crowfield?

  "Yours beseechingly,

  "R. H. A."

"That's a good letter," said Jenny.

"To be sure it is," said I.

"And shall you answer it, papa?"

"In the very next 'Atlantic,' you may be sure I shall. The class that do their own work are
the strongest, the most numerous, and, taking one thing with another, quite as well cultivated
a class as any other. They are the anomaly of our country,--the distinctive feature of the
new society that we are building up here; and, if we are to accomplish our national destiny,
that class must increase rather than diminish. I shall certainly do my best to answer the very
sensible and pregnant questions of that letter."

Here Marianne shivered and drew up a shawl, and Jenny gaped; my wife folded up the garment
in which she had set the last stitch, and the clock struck twelve.

Bob gave a low whistle. "Who knew it was so late?"

"We have talked the fire fairly out," said Jenny.

VI

THE LADY WHO DOES HER OWN WORK

"My dear Chris," said my wife, "isn't it time to be writing the next 'House and Home Paper'?"

I was lying back in my study-chair, with my heels luxuriously propped on an ottoman, reading
for the two-hundredth time Hawthorne's "Mosses from an Old Manse," or his "Twice-Told Tales,"
I forget which,--I only know that these books constitute my cloud-land, where I love to sail
away in dreamy quietude, forgetting the war, the price of coal and flour, the rates of exchange,
and the rise and fall of gold. What do all these things matter, as seen from those enchanted
gardens in Padua where the weird Rappaccini tends his enchanted plants, and his gorgeous daughter
fills us with the light and magic of her presence, and saddens us with the shadowy allegoric
mystery of her preternatural destiny? But my wife represents the positive forces of time, place,
and number in our family, and, having also a chronological head, she knows the day of the month,
and therefore gently reminded me that by inevitable dates the time drew near for preparing
my--which is it, now, May or June number?

"Well, my dear, you are right," I said, as by an exertion I came head-uppermost, and laid down
the fascinating volume. "Let me see, what was I to write about?"

"Why, you remember you were to answer that letter from the lady who does her own work."

"Enough!" said I, seizing the pen with alacrity; "you have hit the exact phrase:--

"'The lady who does her own work.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

America is the only country where such a title is possible,--the only country where there is
a class of women who may be described as ladies who do their own work. By a lady we mean a
woman of education, cultivation, and refinement, of liberal tastes and ideas, who, without
any very material additions or changes, would be recognized as a lady in any circle of the
Old World or the New.

What I have said is, that the existence of such a class is a fact peculiar to American society,
a clear, plain result of the new principles involved in the doctrine of universal equality.

When the colonists first came to this country, of however mixed ingredients their ranks might
have been composed, and however imbued with the spirit of feudal and aristocratic ideas, the
discipline of the wilderness soon brought them to a democratic level; the gentleman felled
the wood for his log-cabin side by side with the ploughman, and thews and sinews rose in the
market. "A man was deemed honorable in proportion as he lifted his hand upon the high trees
of the forest." So in the interior domestic circle. Mistress and maid, living in a log-cabin
together, became companions, and sometimes the maid, as the more accomplished and stronger,
took precedence of the mistress. It became natural and unavoidable that children should begin
to work as early as they were capable of it. The result was a generation of intelligent people
brought up to labor from necessity, but turning on the problem of labor the acuteness of a
disciplined brain. The mistress, outdone in sinews and muscles by her maid, kept her superiority
by skill and contrivance. If she could not lift a pail of water she could invent methods which
made lifting the pail unnecessary; if she could not take a hundred steps without weariness,
she could make twenty answer the purpose of a hundred.

Slavery, it is true, was to some extent introduced into New England, but it never suited the
genius of the people, never struck deep root, or spread so as to choke the good seed of self-helpfulness.
Many were opposed to it from conscientious principle,--many from far-sighted thrift, and from
a love of thoroughness and well-doing which despised the rude, unskilled work of barbarians.
People, having once felt the thorough neatness and beauty of execution which came of free,
educated, and thoughtful labor, could not tolerate the clumsiness of slavery. Thus it came
to pass that for many years the rural population of New England, as a general rule, did their
own work, both out doors and in. If there were a black man or black woman or bound girl, they
were emphatically only the helps, following humbly the steps of master and mistress, and used
by them as instruments of lightening certain portions of their toil. The master and mistress
with their children were the head workers.

Great merriment has been excited in the Old Country because years ago the first English travelers
found that the class of persons by them denominated servants were in America denominated help
or helpers. But the term was the very best exponent of the state of society. There were few
servants in the European sense of the word; there was a society of educated workers, where
all were practically equal, and where, if there was a deficiency in one family and an excess
in another, a helper, not a servant, was hired. Mrs. Brown, who has six sons and no daughters,
enters into agreement with Mrs. Jones, who has six daughters and no sons. She borrows a daughter,
and pays her good wages to help in her domestic toil, and sends a son to help the labors of
Mr. Jones. These two young people go into the families in which they are to be employed in
all respects as equals and companions, and so the work of the community is equalized. Hence
arose, and for many years continued, a state of society more nearly solving than any other
ever did the problem of combining the highest culture of the mind with the highest culture
of the muscles and the physical faculties.

Then were to be seen families of daughters, handsome, strong females, rising each day to their
indoor work with cheerful alertness,--one to sweep the room, another to make the fire, while
a third prepared the breakfast for the father and brothers who were going out to manly labor;
and they chatted meanwhile of books, studies, embroidery, discussed the last new poem, or some
historical topic started by graver reading, or perhaps a rural ball that was to come off the
next week. They spun with the book tied to the distaff; they wove; they did all manner of fine
needlework; they made lace, painted flowers, and, in short, in the boundless consciousness
of activity, invention, and perfect health, set themselves to any work they had ever read or
thought of. A bride in those days was married with sheets and tablecloths of her own weaving,
with counterpanes and toilet-covers wrought in divers embroidery by her own and her sisters'
hands. The amount of fancy work done in our days by girls who have nothing else to do will
not equal what was done by these, who performed besides, among them, the whole work of the family.

For many years these habits of life characterized the majority of our rural towns. They still
exist among a class respectable in numbers and position, though perhaps not as happy in perfect
self-satisfaction and a conviction of the dignity and desirableness of its lot as in former
days. Human nature is above all things--lazy. Every one confesses in the abstract that exertion
which brings out all the powers of body and mind is the best thing for us all; but practically
most people do all they can to get rid of it, and as a general rule nobody does much more than
circumstances drive him to do. Even I would not write this article were not the publication-day
hard on my heels. I should read Hawthorne and Emerson and Holmes, and dream in my armchair,
and project in the clouds those lovely unwritten stories that curl and veer and change like
mist-wreaths in the sun. So also, however dignified, however invigorating, however really desirable,
are habits of life involving daily physical toil, there is a constant evil demon at every one's
elbow, seducing him to evade it, or to bear its weight with sullen, discontented murmurs.

I will venture to say that there are at least, to speak very moderately, a hundred houses where
these humble lines will be read and discussed, where there are no servants except the ladies
of the household. I will venture to say, also, that these households, many of them, are not
inferior in the air of cultivation and refined elegance to many which are conducted by the
ministration of domestics. I will venture to assert furthermore that these same ladies who
live thus find quite as much time for reading, letter-writing, drawing, embroidery, and fancy
work as the women of families otherwise arranged. I am quite certain that they would be found
on an average to be in the enjoyment of better health, and more of that sense of capability
and vitality which gives one confidence in one's ability to look into life and meet it with
cheerful courage, than three quarters of the women who keep servants; and that, on the whole,
their domestic establishment is regulated more exactly to their mind, their food prepared and
served more to their taste. And yet, with all this, I will not venture to assert that they
are satisfied with this way of living, and that they would not change it forthwith if they
could. They have a secret feeling all the while that they are being abused, that they are working
harder than they ought to, and that women who live in their houses like boarders, who have
only to speak and it is done, are the truly enviable ones. One after another of their associates,
as opportunity offers and means increase, deserts the ranks, and commits her domestic affairs
to the hands of hired servants. Self-respect takes the alarm. Is it altogether genteel to live
as we do? To be sure, we are accustomed to it; we have it all systematized and arranged; the
work of our own hands suits us better than any we can hire; in fact, when we do hire, we are
discontented and uncomfortable, for who will do for us what we will do for ourselves? But when
we have company! there's the rub, to get out all our best things and put them back,--to cook
the meals and wash the dishes ingloriously,--and to make all appear as if we didn't do it,
and had servants like other people.

There, after all, is the rub. A want of hardy self-respect, an unwillingness to face with dignity
the actual facts and necessities of our situation in life,--this, after all, is the worst and
most dangerous feature of the case. It is the same sort of pride which makes Smilax think he
must hire a waiter in white gloves, and get up a circuitous dinner party on English principles,
to entertain a friend from England. Because the friend in England lives in such and such a
style, he must make believe for a day that he lives so, too, when in fact it is a whirlwind
in his domestic establishment equal to a removal or a fire, and threatens the total extinction
of Mrs. Smilax. Now there are two principles of hospitality that people are very apt to overlook.
One is, that their guests like to be made at home, and treated with confidence; and another
is, that people are always interested in the details of a way of life that is new to them.
The Englishman comes to America as weary of his old, easy, family-coach life as you can be
of yours: he wants to see something new under the sun,--something American; and forthwith we
all bestir ourselves to give him something as near as we can fancy exactly like what he is
already tired of. So city people come to the country, not to sit in the best parlor and to
see the nearest imitation of city life, but to lie on the haymow, to swing in the barn, to
form intimacy with the pigs, chickens, and ducks, and to eat baked potatoes, exactly on the
critical moment when they are done, from the oven of the cooking-stove,--and we remark, en
passant, that nobody has ever truly eaten a baked potato unless he has seized it at that precise
and fortunate moment.

I fancy you now, my friends, whom I have in my eye. You are three happy women together. You
are all so well that you know not how it feels to be sick. You are used to early rising, and
would not lie in bed if you could. Long years of practice have made you familiar with the shortest,
neatest, most expeditious method of doing every household office, so that really, for the greater
part of the time in your house, there seems to a looker-on to be nothing to do. You rise in
the morning and dispatch your husband, father, and brothers to the farm or wood-lot; you go
sociably about chatting with each other, while you skim the milk, make the butter, turn the
cheeses. The forenoon is long; it's ten to one that all the so-called morning work is over,
and you have leisure for an hour's sewing or reading before it is time to start the dinner
preparations. By two o'clock your housework is done, and you have the long afternoon for books,
needlework, or drawing,--for perhaps there is among you one with a gift at her pencil. Perhaps
one of you reads aloud while the others sew, and you manage in that way to keep up with a great
deal of reading. I see on your bookshelves Prescott, Macaulay, Irving, besides the lighter
fry of poems and novels, and, if I mistake not, the friendly covers of the "Atlantic." When
you have company, you invite Mrs. Smith or Brown or Jones to tea: you have no trouble--they
come early, with their knitting or sewing; your particular crony sits with you by your polished
stove while you watch the baking of those light biscuits and tea rusks for which you are so
famous, and Mrs. Somebodyelse chats with your sister, who is spreading the table with your
best china in the best room. When tea is over, there is plenty of volunteering to help you
wash your pretty India teacups, and get them back into the cupboard. There is no special fatigue
or exertion in all this, though you have taken down the best things and put them back, because
you have done all without anxiety or effort, among those who would do precisely the same if
you were their visitors.

But now comes down pretty Mrs. Simmons and her pretty daughter to spend a week with you, and
forthwith you are troubled. Your youngest, Fanny, visited them in New York last fall, and tells
you of their cook and chambermaid, and the servant in white gloves that waits on the table.
You say in your soul, "What shall we do? they never can be contented to live as we do; how
shall we manage?" And now you long for servants.

This is the very time that you should know that Mrs. Simmons is tired to death of her fine
establishment, and weighed down with the task of keeping the peace among her servants. She
is a quiet soul, dearly loving her ease and hating strife; and yet last week she had five quarrels
to settle between her invaluable cook and the other members of her staff, because invaluable
cook, on the strength of knowing how to get up state dinners and to manage all sorts of mysteries
which her mistress knows nothing about, asserts the usual right of spoiled favorites to insult
all her neighbors with impunity, and rule with a rod of iron over the whole house. Anything
that is not in the least like her own home and ways of living will be a blessed relief and
change to Mrs. Simmons. Your clean, quiet house, your delicate cookery, your cheerful morning
tasks, if you will let her follow you about, and sit and talk with you while you are at your
work, will all seem a pleasant contrast to her own life. Of course, if it came to the case
of offering to change lots in life, she would not do it; but very likely she thinks she would,
and sighs over and pities herself, and thinks sentimentally how fortunate you are, how snugly
and securely you live, and wishes she were as untrammeled and independent as you. And she is
more than half right; for, with her helpless habits, her utter ignorance of the simplest facts
concerning the reciprocal relations of milk, eggs, butter, saleratus, soda, and yeast, she
is completely the victim and slave of the person she pretends to rule.

Only imagine some of the frequent scenes and rehearsals in her family. After many trials, she
at last engages a seamstress who promises to prove a perfect treasure,--neat, dapper, nimble,
skillful, and spirited. The very soul of Mrs. Simmons rejoices in heaven. Illusive bliss! The
newcomer proves to be no favorite with Madam Cook, and the domestic fates evolve the catastrophe,
as follows. First, low murmur of distant thunder in the kitchen; then a day or two of sulky
silence, in which the atmosphere seems heavy with an approaching storm. At last comes the climax.
The parlor door flies open during breakfast. Enter seamstress in tears, followed by Mrs. Cook,
with a face swollen and red with wrath, who tersely introduces the subject-matter of the drama
in a voice trembling with rage.

"Would you be plased, ma'am, to suit yerself with another cook? Me week will be up next Tuesday,
and I want to be going."

"Why, Bridget, what's the matter?"

"Matter enough, ma'am! I niver could live with them Cork girls in a house, nor I won't; them
as likes the Cork girls is welcome for all me; but it's not for the likes of me to live with
them, and she been in the kitchen a-upsettin' of me gravies with her flatirons and things."

Here bursts in the seamstress with a whirlwind of denial, and the altercation wages fast and
furious, and poor, little, delicate Mrs. Simmons stands like a kitten in a thunderstorm in
the midst of a regular Irish row.

Cook, of course, is sure of her victory. She knows that a great dinner is to come off Wednesday,
and that her mistress has not the smallest idea how to manage it, and that therefore, whatever
happens, she must be conciliated.

Swelling with secret indignation at the tyrant, poor Mrs. Simmons dismisses her seamstress
with longing looks. She suited her mistress exactly, but she didn't suit cook!

Now, if Mrs. Simmons had been brought up in early life with the experience that you have, she
would be mistress in her own house. She would quietly say to Madam Cook, "If my family arrangements
do not suit you, you can leave. I can see to the dinner myself." And she could do it. Her well-trained
muscles would not break down under a little extra work; her skill, adroitness, and perfect
familiarity with everything that is to be done would enable her at once to make cooks of any
bright girls of good capacity who might still be in her establishment; and, above all, she
would feel herself mistress in her own house. This is what would come of an experience in doing
her own work as you do. She who can at once put her own trained hand to the machine in any
spot where a hand is needed never comes to be the slave of a coarse, vulgar Irishwoman.

So, also, in forming a judgment of what is to be expected of servants in a given time, and
what ought to be expected of a given amount of provisions, poor Mrs. Simmons is absolutely
at sea. If even for one six months in her life she had been a practical cook, and had really
had the charge of the larder, she would not now be haunted, as she constantly is, by an indefinite
apprehension of an immense wastefulness, perhaps of the disappearance of provisions through
secret channels of relationship and favoritism. She certainly could not be made to believe
in the absolute necessity of so many pounds of sugar, quarts of milk, and dozens of eggs, not
to mention spices and wine, as are daily required for the accomplishment of Madam Cook's purposes.
But though now she does suspect and apprehend, she cannot speak with certainty. She cannot
say, "I have made these things. I know exactly what they require. I have done this and that
myself, and know it can be done, and done well, in a certain time." It is said that women who
have been accustomed to doing their own work become hard mistresses. They are certainly more
sure of the ground they stand on,--they are less open to imposition,--they can speak and act
in their own houses more as those "having authority," and therefore are less afraid to exact
what is justly their due, and less willing to endure impertinence and unfaithfulness. Their
general error lies in expecting that any servant ever will do as well for them as they will
do for themselves, and that an untrained, undisciplined human being ever can do housework,
or any other work, with the neatness and perfection that a person of trained intelligence can.
It has been remarked in our armies that the men of cultivation, though bred in delicate and
refined spheres, can bear up under the hardships of camp-life better and longer than rough
laborers. The reason is, that an educated mind knows how to use and save its body, to work
it and spare it, as an uneducated mind cannot; and so the college-bred youth brings himself
safely through fatigues which kill the unreflective laborer. Cultivated, intelligent women,
who are brought up to do the work of their own families, are labor-saving institutions. They
make the head save the wear of the muscles. By forethought, contrivance, system, and arrangement,
they lessen the amount to be done, and do it with less expense of time and strength than others.
The old New England motto, Get your work done up in the forenoon, applied to an amount of work
which would keep a common Irish servant toiling from daylight to sunset.

A lady living in one of our obscure New England towns, where there were no servants to be hired,
at last by sending to a distant city succeeded in procuring a raw Irish maid of all work, a
creature of immense bone and muscle, but of heavy, unawakened brain. In one fortnight she established
such a reign of Chaos and old Night in the kitchen and through the house that her mistress,
a delicate woman, incumbered with the care of young children, began seriously to think that
she made more work each day than she performed, and dismissed her. What was now to be done?
Fortunately, the daughter of a neighboring farmer was going to be married in six months, and
wanted a little ready money for her trousseau. The lady was informed that Miss So-and-so would
come to her, not as a servant, but as hired "help." She was fain to accept any help with gladness.
Forthwith came into the family circle a tall, well-dressed young person, grave, unobtrusive,
self-respecting, yet not in the least presuming, who sat at the family table and observed all
its decorums with the modest self-possession of a lady. The newcomer took a survey of the labors
of a family of ten members, including four or five young children, and, looking, seemed at
once to throw them into system, matured her plans, arranged her hours of washing, ironing,
baking, cleaning, rose early, moved deftly, and in a single day the slatternly and littered
kitchen assumed that neat, orderly appearance that so often strikes one in New England farmhouses.
The work seemed to be all gone. Everything was nicely washed, brightened, put in place, and
stayed in place: the floors, when cleaned, remained clean; the work was always done, and not
doing; and every afternoon the young lady sat neatly dressed in her own apartment, either writing
letters to her betrothed, or sewing on her bridal outfit. Such is the result of employing those
who have been brought up to do their own work. That tall, fine-looking girl, for aught we know,
may yet be mistress of a fine house on Fifth Avenue; and, if she is, she will, we fear, prove
rather an exacting mistress to Irish Biddy and Bridget; but she will never be threatened by
her cook and chambermaid, after the first one or two have tried the experiment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having written thus far on my article I laid it aside till evening, when, as usual, I was saluted
by the inquiry, "Has papa been writing anything to-day?" and then followed loud petitions to
hear it; and so I read as far, reader, as you have.

"Well, papa," said Jenny, "what are you meaning to make out there? Do you really think it would
be best for us all to try to go back to that old style of living you describe? After all, you
have shown only the dark side of an establishment with servants, and the bright side of the
other way of living. Mamma does not have such trouble with her servants; matters have always
gone smoothly in our family; and, if we are not such wonderful girls as those you describe,
yet we may make pretty good housekeepers on the modern system, after all."

"You don't know all the troubles your mamma has had in your day," said my wife. "I have often,
in the course of my family history, seen the day when I have heartily wished for the strength
and ability to manage my household matters as my grandmother of notable memory managed hers.
But I fear that those remarkable women of the olden times are like the ancient painted glass,--the
art of making them is lost; my mother was less than her mother, and I am less than my mother."

"And Marianne and I come out entirely at the little end of the horn," said Jenny, laughing;
"yet I wash the breakfast cups and dust the parlors, and have always fancied myself a notable
housekeeper."

"It is just as I told you," I said. "Human nature is always the same. Nobody ever is or does
more than circumstances force him to be and do. Those remarkable women of old were made by
circumstances. There were, comparatively speaking, no servants to be had, and so children were
trained to habits of industry and mechanical adroitness from the cradle, and every household
process was reduced to the very minimum of labor. Every step required in a process was counted,
every movement calculated; and she who took ten steps, when one would do, lost her reputation
for 'faculty.' Certainly such an early drill was of use in developing the health and the bodily
powers, as well as in giving precision to the practical mental faculties. All household economies
were arranged with equal niceness in those thoughtful minds. A trained housekeeper knew just
how many sticks of hickory of a certain size were required to heat her oven, and how many of
each different kind of wood. She knew by a sort of intuition just what kind of food would yield
the most palatable nutriment with the least outlay of accessories in cooking. She knew to a
minute the time when each article must go into and be withdrawn from her oven; and, if she
could only lie in her chamber and direct, she could guide an intelligent child through the
processes with mathematical certainty. It is impossible, however, that anything but early training
and long experience can produce these results, and it is earnestly to be wished that the grandmothers
of New England had only written down their experiences for our children; they would have been
a mine of maxims and traditions, better than any other traditions of the elders which we know of."

"One thing I know," said Marianne, "and that is, I wish I had been brought up so, and knew
all that I should, and had all the strength and adroitness that those women had. I should not
dread to begin housekeeping, as I now do. I should feel myself independent. I should feel that
I knew how to direct my servants, and what it was reasonable and proper to expect of them;
and then, as you say, I shouldn't be dependent on all their whims and caprices of temper. I
dread those household storms, of all things."

Silently pondering these anxieties of the young expectant housekeeper, I resumed my pen, and
concluded my paper as follows:--

       *       *       *       *       *

In this country, our democratic institutions have removed the superincumbent pressure which
in the Old World confines the servants to a regular orbit. They come here feeling that this
is somehow a land of liberty, and with very dim and confused notions of what liberty is. They
are for the most part the raw, untrained Irish peasantry, and the wonder is, that, with all
the unreasoning heats and prejudices of the Celtic blood, all the necessary ignorance and rawness,
there should be the measure of comfort and success there is in our domestic arrangements. But,
so long as things are so, there will be constant changes and interruptions in every domestic
establishment, and constantly recurring interregnums when the mistress must put her own hand
to the work, whether the hand be a trained or an untrained one. As matters now are, the young
housekeeper takes life at the hardest. She has very little strength,--no experience to teach
her how to save her strength. She knows nothing experimentally of the simplest processes necessary
to keep her family comfortably fed and clothed; and she has a way of looking at all these things
which makes them particularly hard and distasteful to her. She does not escape being obliged
to do housework at intervals, but she does it in a weak, blundering, confused way, that makes
it twice as hard and disagreeable as it need be.

Now what I have to say is, that, if every young woman learned to do housework and cultivated
her practical faculties in early life, she would, in the first place, be much more likely to
keep her servants, and, in the second place, if she lost them temporarily, would avoid all
that wear and tear of the nervous system which comes from constant ill-success in those departments
on which family health and temper mainly depend. This is one of the peculiarities of our American
life which require a peculiar training. Why not face it sensibly?

The second thing I have to say is, that our land is now full of motorpathic institutions to
which women are sent at great expense to have hired operators stretch and exercise their inactive
muscles. They lie for hours to have their feet twigged, their arms flexed, and all the different
muscles of the body worked for them, because they are so flaccid and torpid that the powers
of life do not go on. Would it not be quite as cheerful and less expensive a process if young
girls from early life developed the muscles in sweeping, dusting, ironing, rubbing furniture,
and all the multiplied domestic processes which our grandmothers knew of? A woman who did all
these, and diversified the intervals with spinning on the great and little wheel, never came
to need the gymnastics of Dio Lewis or of the Swedish motorpathist, which really are a necessity
now. Does it not seem poor economy to pay servants for letting our muscles grow feeble, and
then to pay operators to exercise them for us? I will venture to say that our grandmothers
in a week went over every movement that any gymnast has invented, and went over them to some
productive purpose, too.

Lastly, my paper will not have been in vain if those ladies who have learned and practice the
invaluable accomplishment of doing their own work will know their own happiness and dignity,
and properly value their great acquisition, even though it may have been forced upon them by
circumstances.

VII

WHAT CAN BE GOT IN AMERICA

While I was preparing my article for the "Atlantic," our friend Bob Stephens burst in upon
us, in some considerable heat, with a newspaper in his hand.

"Well, girls, your time is come now! You women have been preaching heroism and sacrifice to
us,--'so splendid to go forth and suffer and die for our country,'--and now comes the test
of feminine patriotism."

"Why, what's the matter now?" said Jenny, running eagerly to look over his shoulder at the paper.

"No more foreign goods," said he, waving it aloft,--"no more gold shipped to Europe for silks,
laces, jewels, kid gloves, and what not. Here it is,--great movement, headed by senators' and
generals' wives, Mrs. General Butler, Mrs. John P. Hale, Mrs. Henry Wilson, and so on, a long
string of them, to buy no more imported articles during the war."

"But I don't see how it can be done," said Jenny.

"Why," said I, "do you suppose that 'nothing to wear' is made in America?"

"But, dear Mr. Crowfield," said Miss Featherstone, a nice girl, who was just then one of our
family circle, "there is not, positively, much that is really fit to use or wear made in America,--is
there now? Just think: how is Marianne to furnish her house here without French papers and
English carpets?--those American papers are so very ordinary, and, as to American carpets,
everybody knows their colors don't hold; and then, as to dress, a lady must have gloves, you
know,--and everybody knows no such things are made in America as gloves."

"I think," I said, "that I have heard of certain fair ladies wishing that they were men, that
they might show with what alacrity they would sacrifice everything on the altar of their country:
life and limb would be nothing; they would glory in wounds and bruises, they would enjoy losing
a right arm, they wouldn't mind limping about on a lame leg the rest of their lives, if they
were John or Peter, if only they might serve their dear country."

"Yes," said Bob, "that's female patriotism! Girls are always ready to jump off from precipices,
or throw themselves into abysses, but as to wearing an unfashionable hat or thread gloves,
that they can't do,--not even for their dear country. No matter whether there's any money left
to pay for the war or not, the dear souls must have twenty yards of silk in a dress,--it's
the fashion, you know."

"Now, isn't he too bad?" said Marianne. "As if we'd ever been asked to make these sacrifices
and refused! I think I have seen women ready to give up dress and fashion and everything else
for a good cause."

"For that matter," said I, "the history of all wars has shown women ready to sacrifice what
is most intimately feminine in times of peril to their country. The women of Carthage not only
gave up their jewels in the siege of their city, but, in the last extremity, cut off their
hair for bowstrings. The women of Hungary and Poland, in their country's need, sold their jewels
and plate and wore ornaments of iron and lead. In the time of our own Revolution, our women
dressed in plain homespun and drank herb-tea,--and certainly nothing is more feminine than
a cup of tea. And in this very struggle, the women of the Southern States have cut up their
carpets for blankets, have borne the most humiliating retrenchments and privations of all kinds
without a murmur. So let us exonerate the female sex of want of patriotism, at any rate."

"Certainly," said my wife; "and if our Northern women have not retrenched and made sacrifices,
it has been because it has not been impressed on them that there is any particular call for
it. Everything has seemed to be so prosperous and plentiful in the Northern States, money has
been so abundant and easy to come by, that it has really been difficult to realize that a dreadful
and destructive war was raging. Only occasionally, after a great battle, when the lists of
the killed and wounded have been sent through the country, have we felt that we were making
a sacrifice. The women who have spent such sums for laces and jewels and silks have not had
it set clearly before them why they should not do so. The money has been placed freely in their
hands, and the temptation before their eyes."

"Yes," said Jenny, "I am quite sure that there are hundreds who have been buying foreign goods
who would not do it if they could see any connection between their not doing it and the salvation
of the country; but when I go to buy a pair of gloves, I naturally want the best pair I can
find, the pair that will last the longest and look the best, and these always happen to be
French gloves."

"Then," said Miss Featherstone, "I never could clearly see why people should confine their
patronage and encouragement to works of their own country. I'm sure the poor manufacturers
of England have shown the very noblest spirit with relation to our cause, and so have the silk
weavers and artisans of France,--at least, so I have heard; why should we not give them a fair
share of encouragement, particularly when they make things that we are not in circumstances
to make, have not the means to make?"

"Those are certainly sensible questions," I replied, "and ought to meet a fair answer, and
I should say that, were our country in a fair ordinary state of prosperity, there would be
no reason why our wealth should not flow out for the encouragement of well-directed industry
in any part of the world; from this point of view we might look on the whole world as our country,
and cheerfully assist in developing its wealth and resources. But our country is now in the
situation of a private family whose means are absorbed by an expensive sickness, involving
the life of its head: just now it is all we can do to keep the family together; all our means
are swallowed up by our own domestic wants; we have nothing to give for the encouragement of
other families, we must exist ourselves; we must get through this crisis and hold our own,
and, that we may do it, all the family expenses must be kept within ourselves as far as possible.
If we drain off all the gold of the country to send to Europe to encourage her worthy artisans,
we produce high prices and distress among equally worthy ones at home, and we lessen the amount
of our resources for maintaining the great struggle for national existence. The same amount
of money which we pay for foreign luxuries, if passed into the hands of our own manufacturers
and producers, becomes available for the increasing expenses of the war."

"But, papa," said Jenny, "I understood that a great part of our governmental income was derived
from the duties on foreign goods, and so I inferred that the more foreign goods were imported
the better it would be."

"Well, suppose," said I, "that for every hundred thousand dollars we send out of the country
we pay the government ten thousand; that is about what our gain as a nation would be: we send
our gold abroad in a great stream, and give our government a little driblet."

"Well, but," said Miss Featherstone, "what can be got in America? Hardly anything, I believe,
except common calicoes."

"Begging your pardon, my dear lady," said I, "there is where you and multitudes of others are
greatly mistaken. Your partiality for foreign things has kept you ignorant of what you have
at home. Now I am not blaming the love of foreign things: it is not peculiar to us Americans;
all nations have it. It is a part of the poetry of our nature to love what comes from afar,
and reminds us of lands distant and different from our own. The English belles seek after French
laces; the French beauty enumerates English laces among her rarities; and the French dandy
piques himself upon an English tailor. We Americans are great travelers, and few people travel,
I fancy, with more real enjoyment than we; our domestic establishments, as compared with those
of the Old World, are less cumbrous and stately, and so our money is commonly in hand as pocket-money,
to be spent freely and gayly in our tours abroad.

"We have such bright and pleasant times in every country that we conceive a kindliness for
its belongings. To send to Paris for our dresses and our shoes and our gloves may not be a
mere bit of foppery, but a reminder of the bright, pleasant hours we have spent in that city
of boulevards and fountains. Hence it comes, in a way not very blamable, that many people have
been so engrossed with what can be got from abroad that they have neglected to inquire what
can be found at home: they have supposed, of course, that to get a decent watch they must send
to Geneva or to London; that to get thoroughly good carpets they must have the English manufacture;
that a really tasteful wall-paper could be found only in Paris; and that flannels and broadcloths
could come only from France, Great Britain, or Germany."

"Well, isn't it so?" said Miss Featherstone. "I certainly have always thought so; I never heard
of American watches, I'm sure."

"Then," said I, "I'm sure you can't have read an article that you should have read on the Waltham
watches, written by our friend George W. Curtis, in the 'Atlantic' for January of last year.
I must refer you to that to learn that we make in America watches superior to those of Switzerland
or England, bringing into the service machinery and modes of workmanship unequaled for delicacy
and precision; as I said before, you must get the article and read it, and, if some sunny day
you could make a trip to Waltham and see the establishment, it would greatly assist your comprehension."

"Then, as to men's clothing," said Bob, "I know to my entire satisfaction that many of the
most popular cloths for men's wear are actually American fabrics baptized with French and English
names to make them sell."

"Which shows," said I, "the use of a general community movement to employ American goods. It
will change the fashion. The demand will create the supply. When the leaders of fashion are
inquiring for American instead of French and English fabrics, they will be surprised to find
what nice American articles there are. The work of our own hands will no more be forced to
skulk into the market under French and English names, and we shall see, what is really true,
that an American gentleman need not look beyond his own country for a wardrobe befitting him.
I am positive that we need not seek broadcloth or other woolen goods from foreign lands,--that
better hats are made in America than in Europe, and better boots and shoes; and I should be
glad to send an American gentleman to the World's Fair dressed from top to toe in American
manufactures, with an American watch in his pocket, and see if he would suffer in comparison
with the gentlemen of any other country."

"Then, as to house-furnishing," began my wife, "American carpets are getting to be every way
equal to the English."

"Yes," said I, "and, what is more, the Brussels carpets of England are woven on looms invented
by an American, and bought of him. Our countryman, Bigelow, went to England to study carpet-weaving
in the English looms, supposing that all arts were generously open for the instruction of learners.
He was denied the opportunity of studying the machinery and watching the processes by a shortsighted
jealousy. He immediately sat down with a yard of carpeting, and, patiently unraveling it thread
by thread, combined and calculated till he invented the machinery on which the best carpets
of the Old and the New World are woven. No pains which such ingenuity and energy can render
effective are spared to make our fabrics equal those of the British market, and we need only
to be disabused of the old prejudice, and to keep up with the movement of our own country,
and find out our own resources. The fact is, every year improves our fabrics. Our mechanics,
our manufacturers, are working with an energy, a zeal, and a skill that carry things forward
faster than anybody dreams of; and nobody can predicate the character of American articles
in any department now by their character even five years ago."

"Well, as to wall-papers," said Miss Featherstone, "there you must confess the French are and
must be unequaled."

"I do not confess any such thing," said I hardily. "I grant you that, in that department of
paper-hangings which exhibits floral decoration, the French designs and execution are, and
must be for some time to come, far ahead of all the world: their drawing of flowers, vines,
and foliage has the accuracy of botanical studies and the grace of finished works of art, and
we cannot as yet pretend in America to do anything equal to it. But for satin finish, and for
a variety of exquisite tints of plain colors, American papers equal any in the world: our gilt
papers even surpass in the heaviness and polish of the gilding those of foreign countries;
and we have also gorgeous velvets. All I have to say is, let people who are furnishing houses
inquire for articles of American manufacture, and they will be surprised at what they will
see. We need go no farther than our Cambridge glassworks to see that the most dainty devices
of cut-glass, crystal, ground and engraved glass of every color and pattern, may be had of
American workmanship, every way equal to the best European make, and for half the price. And
American painting on china is so well executed, both in Boston and New York, that deficiencies
in the finest French or English sets can be made up in a style not distinguishable from the
original, as one may easily see by calling on our worthy next neighbor, Briggs, who holds the
opposite corner to our 'Atlantic Monthly.' No porcelain, it is true, is yet made in America,
these decorative arts being exercised on articles imported from Europe. Our tables must, therefore,
perforce, be largely indebted to foreign lands for years to come. Exclusive of this item, however,
I believe it would require very little self-denial to paper, carpet, and furnish a house entirely
from the manufactures of America. I cannot help saying one word here in favor of the cabinet-makers
of Boston. There is so much severity of taste, such a style and manner about the best-made
Boston furniture, as raises it really quite into the region of the fine arts. Our artisans
have studied foreign models with judicious eyes, and so transferred to our country the spirit
of what is best worth imitating that one has no need to import furniture from Europe."

"Well," said Miss Featherstone, "there is one point you cannot make out,--gloves; certainly
the French have the monopoly of that article."

"I am not going to ruin my cause by asserting too much," said I. "I haven't been with nicely
dressed women so many years not to speak with proper respect of Alexander's gloves; and I confess
honestly that to forego them must be a fair, square sacrifice to patriotism. But then, on the
other hand, it is nevertheless true that gloves have long been made in America and surreptitiously
brought into market as French. I have lately heard that very nice kid gloves are made at Watertown
and in Philadelphia. I have only heard of them and not seen. A loud demand might bring forth
an unexpected supply from these and other sources. If the women of America were bent on having
gloves made in their own country, how long would it be before apparatus and factories would
spring into being? Look at the hoop-skirt factories; women wanted hoop-skirts,--would have
them or die,--and forthwith factories arose, and hoop-skirts became as the dust of the earth
for abundance."

"Yes," said Miss Featherstone, "and, to say the truth, the American hoop-skirts are the only
ones fit to wear. When we were living on the Champs Élysées, I remember we searched high and
low for something like them, and finally had to send home to America for some."

"Well," said I, "that shows what I said. Let there be only a hearty call for an article and
it will come. These spirits of the vasty deep are not so very far off, after all, as we may
imagine, and women's unions and leagues will lead to inquiries and demands which will as infallibly
bring supplies as a vacuum will create a draught of air."

"But, at least, there are no ribbons made in America," said Miss Featherstone.

"Pardon, my lady, there is a ribbon factory now in operation in Boston, and ribbons of every
color are made in New York; there is also in the vicinity of Boston a factory which makes Roman
scarfs. This shows that the faculty of weaving ribbons is not wanting to us Americans, and
a zealous patronage would increase the supply.

"Then, as for a thousand and one little feminine needs, I believe our manufacturers can supply
them. The Portsmouth Steam Company makes white spool-cotton equal to any in England, and colored
spool-cotton, of every shade and variety, such as is not made either in England or France.
Pins are well made in America; so are hooks and eyes, and a variety of buttons. Straw bonnets
of American manufacture are also extensively in market, and quite as pretty ones as the double-priced
ones which are imported.

"As to silks and satins, I am not going to pretend that they are to be found here. It is true,
there are silk manufactories, like that of the Cheneys in Connecticut, where very pretty foulard
dress-silks are made, together with sewing-silk enough to supply a large demand. Enough has
been done to show that silks might be made in America; but at present, as compared with Europe,
we claim neither silks nor thread laces among our manufactures.

"But what then? These are not necessaries of life. Ladies can be very tastefully dressed in
other fabrics besides silks. There are many pretty American dress-goods which the leaders of
fashion might make fashionable, and certainly no leader of fashion could wish to dress for
a nobler object than to aid her country in deadly peril.

"It is not a life-pledge, not a total abstinence, that is asked,--only a temporary expedient
to meet a stringent crisis. We only ask a preference for American goods where they can be found.
Surely, women whose exertions in Sanitary Fairs have created an era in the history of the world
will not shrink from so small a sacrifice for so obvious a good.

"Here is something in which every individual woman can help. Every woman who goes into a shop
and asks for American goods renders an appreciable aid to our cause. She expresses her opinion
and her patriotism, and her voice forms a part of that demand which shall arouse and develop
the resources of her country. We shall learn to know our own country. We shall learn to respect
our own powers, and every branch of useful labor will spring and flourish under our well-directed
efforts. We shall come out of our great contest, not bedraggled, ragged, and poverty-stricken,
but developed, instructed, and rich. Then will we gladly join with other nations in the free
interchange of manufactures, and gratify our eye and taste with what is foreign, while we can
in turn send abroad our own productions in equal ratio."

"Upon my word," said Miss Featherstone, "I should think it was the Fourth of July; but I yield
the point. I am convinced; and henceforth you will see me among the most stringent of the leaguers."

"Right!" said I.

And, fair lady reader, let me hope you will say the same. You can do something for your country,--it
lies right in your hand. Go to the shops, determined on supplying your family and yourself
with American goods. Insist on having them; raise the question of origin over every article
shown to you. In the Revolutionary times, some of the leading matrons of New England gave parties
where the ladies were dressed in homespun and drank sage tea. Fashion makes all things beautiful,
and you, my charming and accomplished friend, can create beauty by creating fashion. What makes
the beauty of half the Cashmere shawls? Not anything in the shawls themselves, for they often
look coarse and dingy and barbarous. It is the association with style and fashion. Fair lady,
give style and fashion to the products of your own country,--resolve that the money in your
hand shall go to your brave brothers, to your co-Americans, now straining every nerve to uphold
the nation and cause it to stand high in the earth. What are you without your country? As Americans
you can hope for no rank but the rank of your native land, no badge of nobility but her beautiful
stars. It rests with this conflict to decide whether those stars shall be badges of nobility
to you and your children in all lands. Women of America, your country expects every woman to
do her duty!

VIII

ECONOMY

"The fact is," said Jenny, as she twirled a little hat on her hand, which she had been making
over, with nobody knows what of bows and pompons, and other matters for which the women have
curious names,--"the fact is, American women and girls must learn to economize; it isn't merely
restricting one's self to American goods, it is general economy, that is required. Now here's
this hat,--costs me only three dollars, all told; and Sophie Page bought an English one this
morning at Madam Meyer's for which she gave fifteen. And I really don't think hers has more
of an air than mine. I made this over, you see, with things I had in the house, bought nothing
but the ribbon, and paid for altering and pressing, and there you see what a stylish hat I have!"

"Lovely! admirable!" said Miss Featherstone. "Upon my word, Jenny, you ought to marry a poor
parson; you would be quite thrown away upon a rich man."

"Let me see," said I. "I want to admire intelligently. That isn't the hat you were wearing
yesterday?"

"Oh no, papa! This is just done. The one I wore yesterday was my waterfall-hat, with the green
feather; this, you see, is an oriole."

"A what?"

"An oriole. Papa, how can you expect to learn about these things?"

"And that plain little black one, with the stiff crop of scarlet feathers sticking straight up?"

"That's my jockey, papa, with a plume en militaire."

"And did the waterfall and the jockey cost anything?"

"They were very, very cheap, papa, all things considered. Miss Featherstone will remember that
the waterfall was a great bargain, and I had the feather from last year; and as to the jockey,
that was made out of my last year's white one, dyed over. You know, papa, I always take care
of my things, and they last from year to year."

"I do assure you, Mr. Crowfield," said Miss Featherstone, "I never saw such little economists
as your daughters; it is perfectly wonderful what they contrive to dress on. How they manage
to do it I'm sure I can't see. I never could, I'm convinced."

"Yes," said Jenny, "I've bought but just one new hat. I only wish you could sit in church where
we do, and see those Miss Fielders. Marianne and I have counted six new hats apiece of those
girls',--new, you know, just out of the milliner's shop; and last Sunday they came out in such
lovely puffed tulle bonnets! Weren't they lovely, Marianne? And next Sunday, I don't doubt,
there'll be something else."

"Yes," said Miss Featherstone,--"their father, they say, has made a million dollars lately
on government contracts."

"For my part," said Jenny, "I think such extravagance, at such a time as this, is shameful."

"Do you know," said I, "that I'm quite sure the Misses Fielder think they are practicing rigorous
economy?"

"Papa! Now there you are with your paradoxes! How can you say so?"

"I shouldn't be afraid to bet a pair of gloves, now," said I, "that Miss Fielder thinks herself
half ready for translation, because she has bought only six new hats and a tulle bonnet so
far in the season. If it were not for her dear bleeding country, she would have had thirty-six,
like the Misses Sibthorpe. If we were admitted to the secret councils of the Fielders, doubtless
we should perceive what temptations they daily resist; how perfectly rubbishy and dreadful
they suffer themselves to be, because they feel it important now, in this crisis, to practice
economy; how they abuse the Sibthorpes, who have a new hat every time they drive out, and never
think of wearing one more than two or three times; how virtuous and self-denying they feel
when they think of the puffed tulle, for which they only gave eighteen dollars, when Madame
Caradori showed them those lovely ones, like the Misses Sibthorpe's, for forty-five; and how
they go home descanting on virgin simplicity, and resolving that they will not allow themselves
to be swept into the vortex of extravagance, whatever other people may do."

"Do you know," said Miss Featherstone, "I believe your papa is right? I was calling on the
oldest Miss Fielder the other day, and she told me that she positively felt ashamed to go looking
as she did, but that she really did feel the necessity of economy. 'Perhaps we might afford
to spend more than some others,' she said; 'but it's so much better to give the money to the
Sanitary Commission!'"

"Furthermore," said I, "I am going to put forth another paradox, and say that very likely there
are some people looking on my girls, and commenting on them for extravagance in having three
hats, even though made over, and contrived from last year's stock."

"They can't know anything about it, then," said Jenny decisively; "for, certainly, nobody can
be decent and invest less in millinery than Marianne and I do."

"When I was a young lady," said my wife, "a well-dressed girl got her a new bonnet in the spring,
and another in the fall; that was the extent of her purchases in this line. A second-best bonnet,
left of last year, did duty to relieve and preserve the best one. My father was accounted well-to-do,
but I had no more, and wanted no more. I also bought myself, every spring, two pair of gloves,
a dark and a light pair, and wore them through the summer, and another two through the winter;
one or two pair of white kids, carefully cleaned, carried me through all my parties. Hats had
not been heard of, and the great necessity which requires two or three new ones every spring
and fall had not arisen. Yet I was reckoned a well-appearing girl, who dressed liberally. Now,
a young lady who has a waterfall-hat, an oriole-hat, and a jockey must still be troubled with
anxious cares for her spring and fall and summer and winter bonnets,--all the variety will
not take the place of them. Gloves are bought by the dozen; and as to dresses, there seems
to be no limit to the quantity of material and trimming that may be expended upon them. When
I was a young lady, seventy-five dollars a year was considered by careful parents a liberal
allowance for a daughter's wardrobe. I had a hundred, and was reckoned rich; and I sometimes
used a part to make up the deficiencies in the allowance of Sarah Evans, my particular friend,
whose father gave her only fifty. We all thought that a very scant allowance; yet she generally
made a very pretty and genteel appearance, with the help of occasional presents from friends."

"How could a girl dress for fifty dollars?" said Marianne.

"She could get a white muslin and a white cambric, which, with different sortings of ribbons,
served her for all dress occasions. A silk, in those days, took only ten yards in the making,
and one dark silk was considered a reasonable allowance to a lady's wardrobe. Once made, it
stood for something,--always worn carefully, it lasted for years. One or two calico morning-dresses,
and a merino for winter wear, completed the list. Then, as to collars, capes, cuffs, etc.,
we all did our own embroidering, and very pretty things we wore, too. Girls looked as prettily
then as they do now, when four or five hundred dollars a year is insufficient to clothe them."

"But, mamma, you know our allowance isn't anything like that,--it is quite a slender one, though
not so small as yours was," said Marianne. "Don't you think the customs of society make a difference?
Do you think, as things are, we could go back and dress for the sum you did?"

"You cannot," said my wife, "without a greater sacrifice of feeling than I wish to impose on
you. Still, though I don't see how to help it, I cannot but think that the requirements of
fashion are becoming needlessly extravagant, particularly in regard to the dress of women.
It seems to me, it is making the support of families so burdensome that young men are discouraged
from marriage. A young man, in a moderately good business, might cheerfully undertake the world
with a wife who could make herself pretty and attractive for seventy-five dollars a year, when
he might sigh in vain for one who positively could not get through, and be decent, on four
hundred. Women, too, are getting to be so attached to the trappings and accessories of life
that they cannot think of marriage without an amount of fortune which few young men possess."

"You are talking in very low numbers about the dress of women," said Miss Featherstone. "I
do assure you that it is the easiest thing in the world for a girl to make away with a thousand
dollars a year, and not have so much to show for it, either, as Marianne and Jenny."

"To be sure," said I. "Only establish certain formulas of expectation, and it is the easiest
thing in the world. For instance, in your mother's day girls talked of a pair of gloves,--now
they talk of a pack; then it was a bonnet summer and winter,--now it is a bonnet spring, summer,
autumn, and winter, and hats like monthly roses,--a new blossom every few weeks."

"And then," said my wife, "every device of the toilet is immediately taken up and varied and
improved on, so as to impose an almost monthly necessity for novelty. The jackets of May are
outshone by the jackets of June; the buttons of June are antiquated in July; the trimmings
of July are passées by September; side-combs, back-combs, puffs, rats, and all sorts of such
matters, are in a distracted race of improvement; every article of feminine toilet is on the
move towards perfection. It seems to me that an infinity of money must be spent in these trifles
by those who make the least pretension to keep in the fashion."

"Well, papa," said Jenny, "after all, it's just the way things always have been since the world
began. You know the Bible says, 'Can a maid forget her ornaments?' It's clear she can't. You
see, it's a law of nature; and you remember all that long chapter in the Bible that we had
read in church last Sunday about the curls and veils and tinkling ornaments and crimping-pins,
and all that, of those wicked daughters of Zion in old times. Women always have been too much
given to dress, and they always will be."

"The thing is," said Marianne, "how can any woman, I, for example, know what is too much or
too little? In mamma's day, it seems, a girl could keep her place in society, by hard economy,
and spend only fifty dollars a year on her dress. Mamma found a hundred dollars ample. I have
more than that, and find myself quite straitened to keep myself looking well. I don't want
to live for dress, to give all my time and thoughts to it; I don't wish to be extravagant:
and yet I wish to be lady-like--it annoys and makes me unhappy not to be fresh and neat and
nice, shabbiness and seediness are my aversion. I don't see where the fault is. Can one individual
resist the whole current of society? It certainly is not strictly necessary for us girls to
have half the things we do. We might, I suppose, live without many of them, and, as mamma says,
look just as well, because girls did so before these things were invented. Now I confess I
flatter myself, generally, that I am a pattern of good management and economy, because I get
so much less than other girls I associate with. I wish you could see Miss Thorne's fall dresses
that she showed me last year when she was visiting here. She had six gowns, and no one of them
could have cost less than seventy or eighty dollars, and some of them must have been even more
expensive, and yet I don't doubt that this fall she will feel that she must have just as many
more. She runs through and wears out these expensive things, with all their velvet and thread
lace, just as I wear my commonest ones; and at the end of the season they are really gone,--spotted,
stained, frayed, the lace all pulled to pieces,--nothing left to save or make over. I feel
as if Jenny and I were patterns of economy when I see such things. I really don't know what
economy is. What is it?"

"There is the same difficulty in my housekeeping," said my wife. "I think I am an economist.
I mean to be one. All our expenses are on a modest scale, and yet I can see much that really
is not strictly necessary; but if I compare myself with some of my neighbors, I feel as if
I were hardly respectable. There is no subject on which all the world are censuring one another
so much as this. Hardly any one but thinks her neighbors extravagant in some one or more particulars,
and takes for granted that she herself is an economist."

"I'll venture to say," said I, "that there isn't a woman of my acquaintance that does not think
she is an economist."

"Papa is turned against us women, like all the rest of them," said Jenny. "I wonder if it isn't
just so with the men?"

"Yes," said Marianne, "it's the fashion to talk as if all the extravagance of the country was
perpetrated by women. For my part, I think young men are just as extravagant. Look at the sums
they spend for cigars and meerschaums,--an expense which hasn't even the pretense of usefulness
in any way; it's a purely selfish, nonsensical indulgence. When a girl spends money in making
herself look pretty, she contributes something to the agreeableness of society; but a man's
cigars and pipes are neither ornamental nor useful."

"Then look at their dress," said Jenny: "they are to the full as fussy and particular about
it as girls; they have as many fine, invisible points of fashion, and their fashions change
quite as often; and they have just as many knick-knacks, with their studs and their sleeve
buttons and waistcoat buttons, their scarfs and scarf pins, their watch chains and seals and
seal rings, and nobody knows what. Then they often waste and throw away more than women, because
they are not good judges of material, nor saving in what they buy, and have no knowledge of
how things should be cared for, altered, or mended. If their cap is a little too tight, they
cut the lining with a penknife, or slit holes in a new shirt-collar because it does not exactly
fit to their mind. For my part, I think men are naturally twice as wasteful as women. A pretty
thing, to be sure, to have all the waste of the country laid to us!"

"You are right, child," said I; "women are by nature, as compared with men, the care-taking
and saving part of creation,--the authors and conservators of economy. As a general rule, man
earns and woman saves and applies. The wastefulness of woman is commonly the fault of man."

"I don't see into that," said Bob Stevens.

"In this way. Economy is the science of proportion. Whether a particular purchase is extravagant
depends mainly on the income it is taken from. Suppose a woman has a hundred and fifty a year
for her dress, and gives fifty dollars for a bonnet, she gives a third of her income,--it is
a horrible extravagance; while for the woman whose income is ten thousand it may be no extravagance
at all. The poor clergyman's wife, when she gives five dollars for a bonnet, may be giving
as much in proportion to her income as the woman who gives fifty. Now the difficulty with the
greater part of women is, that the men, who make the money and hold it, give them no kind of
standard by which to measure their expenses. Most women and girls are in this matter entirely
at sea, without chart or compass. They don't know in the least what they have to spend. Husbands
and fathers often pride themselves about not saying a word on business matters to their wives
and daughters. They don't wish them to understand them, or to inquire into them, or to make
remarks or suggestions concerning them. 'I want you to have everything that is suitable and
proper,' says Jones to his wife, 'but don't be extravagant.'

"'But, my dear,' says Mrs. Jones, 'what is suitable and proper depends very much on our means;
if you could allow me any specific sum for dress and housekeeping, I could tell better.'

"'Nonsense, Susan! I can't do that,--it's too much trouble. Get what you need, and avoid foolish
extravagances; that's all I ask.'

"By and by Mrs. Jones's bills are sent in, in an evil hour, when Jones has heavy notes to meet,
and then comes a domestic storm.

"'I shall just be ruined, madam, if that's the way you are going on. I can't afford to dress
you and the girls in the style you have set up: look at this milliner's bill!'

"'I assure you,' says Mrs. Jones, 'we haven't got any more than the Stebbinses, nor so much.'

"'Don't you know that the Stebbinses are worth five times as much as ever I was?'

"No, Mrs. Jones did not know it: how should she, when her husband makes it a rule never to
speak of his business to her, and she has not the remotest idea of his income?

"Thus multitudes of good, conscientious women and girls are extravagant from pure ignorance.
The male provider allows bills to be run up in his name, and they have no earthly means of
judging whether they are spending too much or too little, except the semi-annual hurricane
which attends the coming in of these bills.

"The first essential in the practice of economy is a knowledge of one's income, and the man
who refuses to accord to his wife and children this information has never any right to accuse
them of extravagance, because he himself deprives them of that standard of comparison which
is an indispensable requisite in economy. As early as possible in the education of children,
they should pass from that state of irresponsible waiting to be provided for by parents, and
be trusted with the spending of some fixed allowance, that they may learn prices and values,
and have some notion of what money is actually worth and what it will bring. The simple fact
of the possession of a fixed and definite income often suddenly transforms a giddy, extravagant
girl into a care-taking, prudent little woman. Her allowance is her own; she begins to plan
upon it,--to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and do numberless sums in her little head. She
no longer buys everything she fancies; she deliberates, weighs, compares. And now there is
room for self-denial and generosity to come in. She can do without this article; she can furbish
up some older possession to do duty a little longer, and give this money to some friend poorer
than she; and ten to one the girl whose bills last year were four or five hundred finds herself
bringing through this year creditably on a hundred and fifty. To be sure, she goes without
numerous things which she used to have. From the standpoint of a fixed income she sees that
these are impossible, and no more wants them than the green cheese of the moon. She learns
to make her own taste and skill take the place of expensive purchases. She refits her hats
and bonnets, retrims her dresses, and in a thousand busy, earnest, happy little ways sets herself
to make the most of her small income.

"So the woman who has her definite allowance for housekeeping finds at once a hundred questions
set at rest. Before it was not clear to her why she should not 'go and do likewise' in relation
to every purchase made by her next neighbor. Now, there is a clear logic of proportion. Certain
things are evidently not to be thought of, though next neighbors do have them; and we must
resign ourselves to find some other way of living."

"My dear," said my wife, "I think there is a peculiar temptation in a life organized as ours
is in America. There are here no settled classes, with similar ratios of income. Mixed together
in the same society, going to the same parties, and blended in daily neighborly intercourse,
are families of the most opposite extremes in point of fortune. In England there is a very
well understood expression, that people should not dress or live above their station; in America
none will admit that they have any particular station, or that they can live above it. The
principle of democratic equality unites in society people of the most diverse positions and means.

"Here, for instance, is a family like Dr. Selden's: an old and highly respected one, with an
income of only two or three thousand; yet they are people universally sought for in society,
and mingle in all the intercourse of life with merchant millionaires whose incomes are from
ten to thirty thousand. Their sons and daughters go to the same schools, the same parties,
and are thus constantly meeting upon terms of social equality.

"Now it seems to me that our danger does not lie in the great and evident expenses of our richer
friends. We do not expect to have pineries, graperies, equipages, horses, diamonds,--we say
openly and of course that we do not. Still, our expenses are constantly increased by the proximity
of these things, unless we understand ourselves better than most people do. We don't, of course,
expect to get a fifteen-hundred-dollar Cashmere, like Mrs. So-and-so, but we begin to look
at hundred-dollar shawls and nibble about the hook. We don't expect sets of diamonds, but a
diamond ring, a pair of solitaire diamond ear-rings, begin to be speculated about among the
young people as among possibilities. We don't expect to carpet our house with Axminster and
hang our windows with damask, but at least we must have Brussels and brocatelle,--it would
not do not to. And so we go on getting hundreds of things that we don't need, that have no
real value except that they soothe our self-love; and for these inferior articles we pay a
higher proportion of our income than our rich neighbor does for his better ones. Nothing is
uglier than low-priced Cashmere shawls; and yet a young man just entering business will spend
an eighth of a year's income to put one on his wife, and when he has put it there it only serves
as a constant source of disquiet, for, now that the door is opened and Cashmere shawls are
possible, she is consumed with envy at the superior ones constantly sported around her. So,
also, with point-lace, velvet dresses, and hundreds of things of that sort, which belong to
a certain rate of income, and are absurd below it."

"And yet, mamma, I heard Aunt Easygo say that velvet, point-lace, and Cashmere were the cheapest
finery that could be bought, because they lasted a lifetime."

"Aunt Easygo speaks from an income of ten thousand a year: they may be cheap for her rate of
living; but for us, for example, by no magic of numbers can it be made to appear that it is
cheaper to have the greatest bargain in the world in Cashmere, lace, and diamonds than not
to have them at all. I never had a diamond, never wore a piece of point-lace, never had a velvet
dress, and have been perfectly happy, and just as much respected as if I had. Who ever thought
of objecting to me for not having them? Nobody, that I ever heard."

"Certainly not, mamma," said Marianne.

"The thing I have always said to you girls is, that you were not to expect to live like richer
people, not to begin to try, not to think or inquire about certain rates of expenditure, or
take the first step in certain directions. We have moved on all our life after a very antiquated
and old-fashioned mode. We have had our little, old-fashioned house, our little old-fashioned
ways."

"Except the parlor carpet, and what came of it, my dear," said I mischievously.

"Yes, except the parlor carpet," said my wife, with a conscious twinkle, "and the things that
came of it; there was a concession there, but one can't be wise always."

"We talked mamma into that," said Jenny.

"But one thing is certain," said my wife,--"that, though I have had an antiquated, plain house,
and plain furniture, and plain dress, and not the beginning of a thing such as many of my neighbors
have possessed, I have spent more money than many of them for real comforts. While I had young
children, I kept more and better servants than many women who wore Cashmere and diamonds. I
thought it better to pay extra wages to a really good, trusty woman who lived with me from
year to year, and relieved me of some of my heaviest family cares, than to have ever so much
lace locked away in my drawers. We always were able to go into the country to spend our summers,
and to keep a good family horse and carriage for daily driving,--by which means we afforded,
as a family, very poor patronage to the medical profession. Then we built our house, and, while
we left out a great many expensive commonplaces that other people think they must have, we
put in a profusion of bathing accommodations such as very few people think of having. There
never was a time when we did not feel able to afford to do what was necessary to preserve or
to restore health; and for this I always drew on the surplus fund laid up by my very unfashionable
housekeeping and dressing."

"Your mother has had," said I, "what is the great want in America, perfect independence of
mind to go her own way without regard to the way others go. I think there is, for some reason,
more false shame among Americans about economy than among Europeans. 'I cannot afford it' is
more seldom heard among us. A young man beginning life, whose income may be from five to eight
hundred a year, thinks it elegant and gallant to affect a careless air about money, especially
among ladies,--to hand it out freely, and put back his change without counting it,--to wear
a watch chain and studs and shirt-fronts like those of some young millionaire. None but the
most expensive tailors, shoemakers, and hatters will do for him; and then he grumbles at the
dearness of living, and declares that he cannot get along on his salary. The same is true of
young girls, and of married men and women, too,--the whole of them are ashamed of economy.
The cares that wear out life and health in many households are of a nature that cannot be cast
on God, or met by any promise from the Bible: it is not care for 'food convenient,' or for
comfortable raiment, but care to keep up false appearances, and to stretch a narrow income
over the space that can be covered only by a wider one.

"The poor widow in her narrow lodgings, with her monthly rent staring her hourly in the face,
and her bread and meat and candles and meal all to be paid for on delivery or not obtained
at all, may find comfort in the good old Book, reading of that other widow whose wasting measure
of oil and last failing handful of meal were of such account before her Father in heaven that
a prophet was sent to recruit them; and when customers do not pay, or wages are cut down, she
can enter into her chamber, and, when she hath shut her door, present to her Father in heaven
His sure promise that with the fowls of the air she shall be fed and with the lilies of the
field she shall be clothed: but what promises are there for her who is racking her brains on
the ways and means to provide as sumptuous an entertainment of oysters and champagne at her
next party as her richer neighbor, or to compass that great bargain which shall give her a
point-lace set almost as handsome as that of Mrs. Croesus, who has ten times her income?"

"But, papa," said Marianne, with a twinge of that exacting sensitiveness by which the child
is characterized, "I think I am an economist, thanks to you and mamma, so far as knowing just
what my income is, and keeping within it; but that does not satisfy me, and it seems that isn't
all of economy; the question that haunts me is, Might I not make my little all do more and
better than I do?"

"There," said I, "you have hit the broader and deeper signification of economy, which is, in
fact, the science of comparative values. In its highest sense, economy is a just judgment of
the comparative value of things,--money only the means of enabling one to express that value.
This is the reason why the whole matter is so full of difficulty,--why every one criticises
his neighbor in this regard. Human beings are so various, the necessities of each are so different,
they are made comfortable or uncomfortable by such opposite means, that the spending of other
people's incomes must of necessity often look unwise from our standpoint. For this reason multitudes
of people who cannot be accused of exceeding their incomes often seem to others to be spending
them foolishly and extravagantly."

"But is there no standard of value?" said Marianne.

"There are certain things upon which there is a pretty general agreement, verbally, at least,
among mankind. For instance, it is generally agreed that health is an indispensable good,--that
money is well spent that secures it, and worse than ill spent that ruins it.

"With this standard in mind, how much money is wasted even by people who do not exceed their
income! Here a man builds a house, and pays, in the first place, ten thousand more than he
need, for a location in a fashionable part of the city, though the air will be closer and the
chances of health less; he spends three or four thousand more on a stone front, on marble mantels
imported from Italy, on plate-glass windows, plated hinges, and a thousand nice points of finish,
and has perhaps but one bath-room for a whole household, and that so connected with his own
apartment that nobody but himself and his wife can use it.

"Another man buys a lot in an open, airy situation, which fashion has not made expensive, and
builds without a stone front, marble mantels, or plate-glass windows, but has a perfect system
of ventilation through his house, and bathing-rooms in every story, so that the children and
guests may all, without inconvenience, enjoy the luxury of abundant water.

"The first spends for fashion and show, the second for health and comfort.

"Here is a man that will buy his wife a diamond bracelet and a lace shawl, and take her yearly
to Washington to show off her beauty in ball dresses, who yet will not let her pay wages which
will command any but the poorest and most inefficient domestic service. The woman is worn out,
her life made a desert by exhaustion consequent on a futile attempt to keep up a showy establishment
with only half the hands needed for the purpose. Another family will give brilliant parties,
have a gay season every year at the first hotels at Newport, and not be able to afford the
wife a fire in her chamber in midwinter, or the servants enough food to keep them from constantly
deserting. The damp, mouldy, dingy cellar-kitchen, the cold, windy, desolate attic, devoid
of any comfort, where the domestics are doomed to pass their whole time, are witnesses to what
such families consider economy. Economy in the view of some is undisguised slipshod slovenliness
in the home circle for the sake of fine clothes to be shown abroad; it is undisguised hard
selfishness to servants and dependants, counting their every approach to comfort a needless
waste,--grudging the Roman Catholic cook her cup of tea at dinner on Friday, when she must
not eat meat,--and murmuring that a cracked, second-hand looking-glass must be got for the
servants' room: what business have they to want to know how they look?

"Some families will employ the cheapest physician, without regard to his ability to kill or
cure; some will treat diseases in their incipiency with quack medicines, bought cheap, hoping
thereby to fend off the doctor's bill. Some women seem to be pursued by an evil demon of economy,
which, like an ignis fatuus in a bog, delights constantly to tumble them over into the mire
of expense. They are dismayed at the quantity of sugar in the recipe for preserves, leave out
a quarter, and the whole ferments and is spoiled. They cannot by any means be induced at any
one time to buy enough silk to make a dress, and the dress finally, after many convulsions
and alterations, must be thrown by altogether as too scanty. They get poor needles, poor thread,
poor sugar, poor raisins, poor tea, poor coal. One wonders, in looking at their blackened,
smouldering grates in a freezing day, what the fire is there at all for,--it certainly warms
nobody. The only thing they seem likely to be lavish in is funeral expenses, which come in
the wake of leaky shoes and imperfect clothing. These funeral expenses at last swallow all,
since nobody can dispute an undertaker's bill. One pities these joyless beings. Economy, instead
of a rational act of the judgment, is a morbid monomania, eating the pleasure out of life,
and haunting them to the grave.

"Some people's ideas of economy seem to run simply in the line of eating. Their flour is of
an extra brand, their meat the first cut; the delicacies of every season, in their dearest
stages, come home to their table with an apologetic smile,--'It was scandalously dear, my love,
but I thought we must just treat ourselves.' And yet these people cannot afford to buy books,
and pictures they regard as an unthought-of extravagance. Trudging home with fifty dollars'
worth of delicacies on his arm, Smith meets Jones, who is exulting with a bag of crackers under
one arm and a choice little bit of an oil painting under the other, which he thinks a bargain
at fifty dollars. 'I can't afford to buy pictures,' Smith says to his spouse, 'and I don't
know how Jones and his wife manage.' Jones and his wife will live on bread and milk for a month,
and she will turn her best gown the third time, but they will have their picture, and they
are happy. Jones's picture remains, and Smith's fifty dollars' worth of oysters and canned
fruit to-morrow will be gone forever. Of all modes of spending money, the swallowing of expensive
dainties brings the least return. There is one step lower than this,--the consuming of luxuries
that are injurious to the health. If all the money spent on tobacco and liquors could be spent
in books and pictures, I predict that nobody's health would be a whit less sound, and houses
would be vastly more attractive. There is enough money spent in smoking, drinking, and over-eating
to give every family in the community a good library, to hang everybody's parlor walls with
lovely pictures, to set up in every house a conservatory which should bloom all winter with
choice flowers, to furnish every dwelling with ample bathing and warming accommodations, even
down to the dwellings of the poor; and in the millennium I believe this is the way things are
to be.

"In these times of peril and suffering, if the inquiry arises, How shall there be retrenchment?
I answer, First and foremost, retrench things needless, doubtful, and positively hurtful, as
rum, tobacco, and all the meerschaums of divers colors that do accompany the same. Second,
retrench all eating not necessary to health and comfort. A French family would live in luxury
on the leavings that are constantly coming from the tables of those who call themselves in
middling circumstances. There are superstitions of the table that ought to be broken through.
Why must you always have cake in your closet? why need you feel undone to entertain a guest
with no cake on your tea-table? Do without it a year, and ask yourselves if you or your children,
or any one else, have suffered materially in consequence.

"Why is it imperative that you should have two or three courses at every meal? Try the experiment
of having but one, and that a very good one, and see if any great amount of suffering ensues.
Why must social intercourse so largely consist in eating? In Paris there is a very pretty custom.
Each family has one evening in the week when it stays at home and receives friends. Tea, with
a little bread and butter and cake, served in the most informal way, is the only refreshment.
The rooms are full, busy, bright,--everything as easy and joyous as if a monstrous supper,
with piles of jelly and mountains of cake, were waiting to give the company a nightmare at
the close.

"Said a lady, pointing to a gentleman and his wife in a social circle of this kind, 'I ought
to know them well,--I have seen them every week for twenty years.' It is certainly pleasant
and confirmative of social enjoyment for friends to eat together; but a little enjoyed in this
way answers the purpose as well as a great deal, and better, too."

"Well, papa," said Marianne, "in the matter of dress, now,--how much ought one to spend just
to look as others do?"

"I will tell you what I saw the other night, girls, in the parlor of one of our hotels. Two
middle-aged Quaker ladies came gliding in, with calm, cheerful faces, and lustrous dove-colored
silks. By their conversation I found that they belonged to that class of women among the Friends
who devote themselves to traveling on missions of benevolence. They had just completed a tour
of all the hospitals for wounded soldiers in the country, where they had been carrying comforts,
arranging, advising, and soothing by their cheerful, gentle presence. They were now engaged
on another mission, to the lost and erring of their own sex; night after night, guarded by
a policeman, they had ventured after midnight into the dance-houses where girls are being led
to ruin, and with gentle words of tender, motherly counsel sought to win them from their fatal
ways,--telling them where they might go the next day to find friends who would open to them
an asylum and aid them to seek a better life.

"As I looked upon these women, dressed with such modest purity, I began secretly to think that
the Apostle was not wrong when he spoke of women adorning themselves with the ornament of a
meek and quiet spirit; for the habitual gentleness of their expression, the calmness and purity
of the lines in their faces, the delicacy and simplicity of their apparel, seemed of themselves
a rare and peculiar beauty. I could not help thinking that fashionable bonnets, flowing lace
sleeves, and dresses elaborately trimmed could not have improved even their outward appearance.
Doubtless their simple wardrobe needed but a small trunk in traveling from place to place,
and hindered but little their prayers and ministrations.

"Now, it is true, all women are not called to such a life as this; but might not all women
take a leaf at least from their book? I submit the inquiry humbly. It seems to me that there
are many who go monthly to the sacrament, and receive it with sincere devotion, and who give
thanks each time sincerely that they are thus made 'members incorporate in the mystical body
of Christ,' who have never thought of this membership as meaning that they should share Christ's
sacrifices for lost souls, or abridge themselves of one ornament or encounter one inconvenience
for the sake of those wandering sheep for whom he died. Certainly there is a higher economy
which we need to learn,--that which makes all things subservient to the spiritual and immortal,
and that not merely to the good of our own souls and those of our family, but of all who are
knit with us in the great bonds of human brotherhood.

"There have been from time to time, among well-meaning Christian people, retrenchment societies
on high moral grounds, which have failed for want of knowledge how to manage the complicated
question of necessaries and luxuries. These words have a signification in the case of different
people as varied as the varieties of human habit and constitution. It is a department impossible
to be bound by external rules, but none the less should every high-minded Christian soul in
this matter have a law unto itself. It may safely be laid down as a general rule, that no income,
however large or however small, should be unblessed by the divine touch of self-sacrifice.
Something for the poor, the sorrowing, the hungry, the tempted, and the weak should be taken
from what is our own at the expense of some personal sacrifice, or we suffer more morally than
the brother from whom we withdraw it. Even the Lord of all, when dwelling among men, out of
that slender private purse which he accepted for his little family of chosen ones, had ever
something reserved to give to the poor. It is easy to say, 'It is but a drop in the bucket.
I cannot remove the great mass of misery in the world. What little I could save or give does
nothing.' It does this, if no more,--it prevents one soul, and that soul your own, from drying
and hardening into utter selfishness and insensibility; it enables you to say, I have done
something; taken one atom from the great heap of sins and miseries and placed it on the side
of good.

"The Sisters of Charity and the Friends, each with their different costume of plainness and
self-denial, and other noble-hearted women of no particular outward order, but kindred in spirit,
have shown to womanhood, on the battlefield and in the hospital, a more excellent way,--a beauty
and nobility before which all the common graces and ornaments of the sex fade, appear like
dim candles by the pure, eternal stars."

IX

SERVANTS

In the course of my papers various domestic revolutions have occurred. Our Marianne has gone
from us with a new name to a new life, and a modest little establishment not many squares off
claims about as much of my wife's and Jenny's busy thoughts as those of the proper mistress.

Marianne, as I always foresaw, is a careful and somewhat anxious housekeeper. Her tastes are
fastidious; she is made for exactitude: the smallest departures from the straight line appear
to her shocking deviations. She had always lived in a house where everything had been formed
to quiet and order under the ever-present care and touch of her mother; nor had she ever participated
in those cares more than to do a little dusting of the parlor ornaments, or wash the best china,
or make sponge-cake or chocolate-caramels. Certain conditions of life had always appeared so
to be matters of course that she had never conceived of a house without them. It never occurred
to her that such bread and biscuit as she saw at the home table would not always and of course
appear at every table,--that the silver would not always be as bright, the glass as clear,
the salt as fine and smooth, the plates and dishes as nicely arranged, as she had always seen
them, apparently without the thought or care of any one; for my wife is one of those housekeepers
whose touch is so fine that no one feels it. She is never heard scolding or reproving,--never
entertains her company with her recipes for cookery or the faults of her servants. She is so
unconcerned about receiving her own personal share of credit for the good appearance of her
establishment that even the children of the house have not supposed that there is any particular
will of hers in the matter: it all seems the natural consequence of having very good servants.

One phenomenon they had never seriously reflected on,--that, under all the changes of the domestic
cabinet which are so apt to occur in American households, the same coffee, the same bread and
biscuit, the same nicely prepared dishes and neatly laid table, always gladdened their eyes;
and from this they inferred only that good servants were more abundant than most people had
supposed. They were somewhat surprised when these marvels were wrought by professedly green
hands, but were given to suppose that these green hands must have had some remarkable quickness
or aptitude for acquiring. That sparkling jelly, well-flavored ice-creams, clear soups, and
delicate biscuits could be made by a raw Irish girl, fresh from her native Erin, seemed to
them a proof of the genius of the race; and my wife, who never felt it important to attain
to the reputation of a cook, quietly let it pass.

For some time, therefore, after the inauguration of the new household, there was trouble in
the camp. Sour bread had appeared on the table; bitter, acrid coffee had shocked and astonished
the palate; lint had been observed on tumblers, and the spoons had sometimes dingy streaks
on the brightness of their first bridal polish; beds were detected made shockingly awry: and
Marianne came burning with indignation to her mother.

"Such a little family as we have, and two strong girls," said she,--"everything ought to be
perfect; there is really nothing to do. Think of a whole batch of bread absolutely sour! and
when I gave that away, then this morning another exactly like it! and when I talked to cook
about it, she said she had lived in this and that family, and her bread had always been praised
as equal to the baker's!"

"I don't doubt she is right," said I. "Many families never have anything but sour bread from
one end of the year to the other, eating it unperceiving, and with good cheer; and they buy
also sour bread of the baker, with like approbation,--lightness being in their estimation the
only virtue necessary in the article."

"Could you not correct her fault?" suggested my wife.

"I have done all I can. I told her we could not have such bread, that it was dreadful; Bob
says it would give him the dyspepsia in a week; and then she went and made exactly the same!
It seems to me mere willfulness."

"But," said I, "suppose, instead of such general directions, you should analyze her proceedings
and find out just where she makes her mistake: is the root of the trouble in the yeast, or
in the time she begins it, letting it rise too long?--the time, you know, should vary so much
with the temperature of the weather."

"As to that," said Marianne, "I know nothing. I never noticed; it never was my business to
make bread; it always seemed quite a simple process, mixing yeast and flour and kneading it;
and our bread at home was always good."

"It seems, then, my dear, that you have come to your profession without even having studied it."

My wife smiled and said,--

"You know, Marianne, I proposed to you to be our family bread-maker for one month of the year
before you married."

"Yes, mamma, I remember; but I was like other girls: I thought there was no need of it. I never
liked to do such things; perhaps I had better have done it."

"You certainly had," said I, "for the first business of a housekeeper in America is that of
a teacher. She can have a good table only by having practical knowledge, and tact in imparting
it. If she understands her business practically and experimentally, her eye detects at once
the weak spot; it requires only a little tact, some patience, some clearness in giving directions,
and all comes right. I venture to say that your mother would have exactly such bread as always
appears on our table, and have it by the hands of your cook, because she could detect and explain
to her exactly her error."

"Do you know," said my wife, "what yeast she uses?"

"I believe," said Marianne, "it's a kind she makes herself. I think I heard her say so. I know
she makes a great fuss about it, and rather values herself upon it. She is evidently accustomed
to being praised for her bread, and feels mortified and angry, and I don't know how to manage her."

"Well," said I, "if you carry your watch to a watchmaker, and undertake to show him how to
regulate the machinery, he laughs and goes on his own way; but if a brother-machinist makes
suggestions, he listens respectfully. So, when a woman who knows nothing of woman's work undertakes
to instruct one who knows more than she does, she makes no impression; but a woman who has
been trained experimentally, and shows she understands the matter thoroughly, is listened to
with respect."

"I think," said my wife, "that your Bridget is worth teaching. She is honest, well-principled,
and tidy. She has good recommendations from excellent families, whose ideas of good bread,
it appears, differ from ours; and with a little good-nature, tact, and patience, she will come
into your ways."

"But the coffee, mamma,--you would not imagine it to be from the same bag with your own, so
dark and so bitter; what do you suppose she has done to it?"

"Simply this," said my wife. "She has let the berries stay a few moments too long over the
fire,--they are burnt, instead of being roasted; and there are people who think it essential
to good coffee that it should look black, and have a strong, bitter flavor. A very little change
in the preparing will alter this."

"Now," said I, "Marianne, if you want my advice, I'll give it to you gratis: make your own
bread for one month. Simple as the process seems, I think it will take as long as that to give
you a thorough knowledge of all the possibilities in the case; but after that you will never
need to make any more,--you will be able to command good bread by the aid of all sorts of servants;
you will, in other words, be a thoroughly prepared teacher."

"I did not think," said Marianne, "that so simple a thing required so much attention."

"It is simple," said my wife, "and yet requires a delicate care and watchfulness. There are
fifty ways to spoil good bread; there are a hundred little things to be considered and allowed
for that require accurate observation and experience. The same process that will raise good
bread in cold weather will make sour bread in the heat of summer; different qualities of flour
require variations in treatment, as also different sorts and conditions of yeast; and when
all is done, the baking presents another series of possibilities which require exact attention."

"So it appears," said Marianne gayly, "that I must begin to study my profession at the eleventh
hour."

"Better late than never," said I. "But there is this advantage on your side: a well-trained
mind, accustomed to reflect, analyze, and generalize, has an advantage over uncultured minds
even of double experience. Poor as your cook is, she now knows more of her business than you
do. After a very brief period of attention and experiment you will not only know more than
she does, but you will convince her that you do, which is quite as much to the purpose."

"In the same manner," said my wife, "you will have to give lessons to your other girl on the
washing of silver and the making of beds. Good servants do not often come to us: they must
be made by patience and training; and if a girl has a good disposition and a reasonable degree
of handiness, and the housekeeper understands her profession, she may make a good servant out
of an indifferent one. Some of my best girls have been those who came to me directly from the
ship, with no preparation but docility and some natural quickness. The hardest cases to be
managed are not of those who have been taught nothing, but of those who have been taught wrongly,--who
come to you self-opinionated, with ways which are distasteful to you, and contrary to the genius
of your housekeeping. Such require that their mistress shall understand at least so much of
the actual conduct of affairs as to prove to the servant that there are better ways than those
in which she has hitherto been trained."

"Don't you think, mamma," said Marianne, "that there has been a sort of reaction against woman's
work in our day? So much has been said of the higher sphere of woman, and so much has been
done to find some better work for her, that insensibly, I think, almost everybody begins to
feel that it is rather degrading for a woman in good society to be much tied down to family
affairs."

"Especially," said my wife, "since in these Woman's Rights Conventions there is so much indignation
expressed at those who would confine her ideas to the kitchen and nursery."

"There is reason in all things," said I. "Woman's Rights Conventions are a protest against
many former absurd, unreasonable ideas,--the mere physical and culinary idea of womanhood as
connected only with puddings and shirt-buttons, the unjust and unequal burdens which the laws
of harsher ages had cast upon the sex. Many of the women connected with these movements are
as superior in everything properly womanly as they are in exceptional talent and culture. There
is no manner of doubt that the sphere of woman is properly to be enlarged, and that republican
governments in particular are to be saved from corruption and failure only by allowing to woman
this enlarged sphere. Every woman has rights as a human being first, which belong to no sex,
and ought to be as freely conceded to her as if she were a man,--and, first and foremost, the
great right of doing anything which God and Nature evidently have fitted her to excel in. If
she be made a natural orator, like Miss Dickinson, or an astronomer, like Mrs. Somerville,
or a singer, like Grisi, let not the technical rules of womanhood be thrown in the way of her
free use of her powers. Nor can there be any reason shown why a woman's vote in the state should
not be received with as much respect as in the family. A state is but an association of families,
and laws relate to the rights and immunities which touch woman's most private and immediate
wants and dearest hopes; and there is no reason why sister, wife, and mother should be more
powerless in the state than in the home. Nor does it make a woman unwomanly to express an opinion
by dropping a slip of paper into a box, more than to express that same opinion by conversation.
In fact, there is no doubt that, in all matters relating to the interests of education, temperance,
and religion, the state would be a material gainer by receiving the votes of women.

"But, having said all this, I must admit, per contra, not only a great deal of crude, disagreeable
talk in these conventions, but a too great tendency of the age to make the education of women
anti-domestic. It seems as if the world never could advance except like ships under a head
wind, tacking and going too far, now in this direction and now in the opposite. Our common-school
system now rejects sewing from the education of girls, which very properly used to occupy many
hours daily in school a generation ago. The daughters of laborers and artisans are put through
algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and the higher mathematics, to the entire neglect of that
learning which belongs distinctively to woman. A girl cannot keep pace with her class if she
gives any time to domestic matters, and accordingly she is excused from them all during the
whole term of her education. The boy of a family, at an early age, is put to a trade, or the
labors of a farm; the father becomes impatient of his support, and requires of him to care
for himself. Hence an interrupted education,--learning coming by snatches in the winter months,
or in the intervals of work. As the result, the females in our country towns are commonly,
in mental culture, vastly in advance of the males of the same household; but with this comes
a physical delicacy, the result of an exclusive use of the brain and a neglect of the muscular
system, with great inefficiency in practical domestic duties. The race of strong, hardy, cheerful
girls, that used to grow up in country places, and made the bright, neat, New England kitchens
of old times,--the girls that could wash, iron, brew, bake, harness a horse and drive him,
no less than braid straw, embroider, draw, paint, and read innumerable books,--this race of
women, pride of olden time, is daily lessening; and in their stead come the fragile, easily
fatigued, languid girls of a modern age, drilled in book-learning, ignorant of common things.
The great danger of all this, and of the evils that come from it, is that society by and by
will turn as blindly against female intellectual culture as it now advocates it, and, having
worked disproportionately one way, will work disproportionately in the opposite direction."

"The fact is," said my wife, "that domestic service is the great problem of life here in America;
the happiness of families, their thrift, well-being, and comfort, are more affected by this
than by any one thing else. Our girls, as they have been brought up, cannot perform the labor
of their own families, as in those simpler, old-fashioned days you tell of; and, what is worse,
they have no practical skill with which to instruct servants, and servants come to us, as a
class, raw and untrained; so what is to be done? In the present state of prices, the board
of a domestic costs double her wages, and the waste she makes is a more serious matter still.
Suppose you give us an article upon this subject in your 'House and Home Papers.' You could
not have a better one."

       *       *       *       *       *

So I sat down, and wrote thus on

SERVANTS AND SERVICE

Many of the domestic evils in America originate in the fact that, while society here is professedly
based on new principles which ought to make social life in every respect different from the
life of the Old World, yet these principles have never been so thought out and applied as to
give consistency and harmony to our daily relations. America starts with a political organization
based on a declaration of the primitive freedom and equality of all men. Every human being,
according to this principle, stands on the same natural level with every other, and has the
same chance to rise, according to the degree of power or capacity given by the Creator. All
our civil institutions are designed to preserve this equality, as far as possible, from generation
to generation: there is no entailed property, there are no hereditary titles, no monopolies,
no privileged classes,--all are to be as free to rise and fall as the waves of the sea.

The condition of domestic service, however, still retains about it something of the influences
from feudal times, and from the near presence of slavery in neighboring States. All English
literature, all the literature of the world, describes domestic service in the old feudal spirit
and with the old feudal language, which regarded the master as belonging to a privileged class
and the servant to an inferior one. There is not a play, not a poem, not a novel, not a history,
that does not present this view. The master's rights, like the rights of kings, were supposed
to rest in his being born in a superior rank. The good servant was one who, from childhood,
had learned "to order himself lowly and reverently to all his betters." When New England brought
to these shores the theory of democracy, she brought, in the persons of the first pilgrims,
the habits of thought and of action formed in aristocratic communities. Winthrop's Journal,
and all the old records of the earlier colonists, show households where masters and mistresses
stood on the "right divine" of the privileged classes, howsoever they might have risen up against
authorities themselves.

The first consequence of this state of things was a universal rejection of domestic service
in all classes of American-born society. For a generation or two, there was, indeed, a sort
of interchange of family strength,--sons and daughters engaging in the service of neighboring
families, in default of a sufficient working force of their own, but always on conditions of
strict equality. The assistant was to share the table, the family sitting-room, and every honor
and attention that might be claimed by son or daughter. When families increased in refinement
and education so as to make these conditions of close intimacy with more uncultured neighbors
disagreeable, they had to choose between such intimacies and the performance of their own domestic
toil. No wages could induce a son or daughter of New England to take the condition of a servant
on terms which they thought applicable to that of a slave. The slightest hint of a separate
table was resented as an insult; not to enter the front door, and not to sit in the front parlor
on state occasions, was bitterly commented on as a personal indignity.

The well-taught, self-respecting daughters of farmers, the class most valuable in domestic
service, gradually retired from it. They preferred any other employment, however laborious.
Beyond all doubt, the labors of a well-regulated family are more healthy, more cheerful, more
interesting, because less monotonous, than the mechanical toils of a factory; yet the girls
of New England, with one consent, preferred the factory, and left the whole business of domestic
service to a foreign population; and they did it mainly because they would not take positions
in families as an inferior laboring class by the side of others of their own age who assumed
as their prerogative to live without labor.

"I can't let you have one of my daughters," said an energetic matron to her neighbor from the
city, who was seeking for a servant in her summer vacation; "if you hadn't daughters of your
own, maybe I would; but my girls ain't going to work so that your girls may live in idleness."

It was vain to offer money. "We don't need your money, ma'am, we can support ourselves in other
ways; my girls can braid straw and bind shoes, but they ain't going to be slaves to anybody."

In the Irish and German servants who took the place of Americans in families, there was, to
begin with, the tradition of education in favor of a higher class; but even the foreign population
became more or less infected with the spirit of democracy. They came to this country with vague
notions of freedom and equality, and in ignorant and uncultivated people such ideas are often
more unreasonable for being vague. They did not, indeed, claim a seat at the table and in the
parlor, but they repudiated many of those habits of respect and courtesy which belonged to
their former condition, and asserted their own will and way in the round, unvarnished phrase
which they supposed to be their right as republican citizens. Life became a sort of domestic
wrangle and struggle between the employers, who secretly confessed their weakness, but endeavored
openly to assume the air and bearing of authority, and the employed, who knew their power and
insisted on their privileges. From this cause domestic service in America has had less of mutual
kindliness than in old countries. Its terms have been so ill understood and defined that both
parties have assumed the defensive; and a common topic of conversation in American female society
has often been the general servile war which in one form or another was going on in their different
families,--a war as interminable as would be a struggle between aristocracy and common people,
undefined by any bill of rights or constitution, and therefore opening fields for endless disputes.
In England, the class who go to service are a class, and service is a profession; the distance
between them and their employers is so marked and defined, and all the customs and requirements
of the position are so perfectly understood, that the master or mistress has no fear of being
compromised by condescension, and no need of the external voice or air of authority. The higher
up in the social scale one goes, the more courteous seems to become the intercourse of master
and servant; the more perfect and real the power, the more is it veiled in outward expression,--commands
are phrased as requests, and gentleness of voice and manner covers an authority which no one
would think of offending without trembling.

But in America all is undefined. In the first place, there is no class who mean to make domestic
service a profession to live and die in. It is universally an expedient, a stepping-stone to
something higher; your best servants always have something else in view as soon as they have
laid by a little money; some form of independence which shall give them a home of their own
is constantly in mind. Families look forward to the buying of landed homesteads, and the scattered
brothers and sisters work awhile in domestic service to gain the common fund for the purpose;
your seamstress intends to become a dressmaker, and take in work at her own house; your cook
is pondering a marriage with the baker, which shall transfer her toils from your cooking-stove
to her own. Young women are eagerly rushing into every other employment, till female trades
and callings are all overstocked. We are continually harrowed with tales of the sufferings
of distressed needlewomen, of the exactions and extortions practiced on the frail sex in the
many branches of labor and trade at which they try their hands; and yet women will encounter
all these chances of ruin and starvation rather than make up their minds to permanent domestic
service. Now what is the matter with domestic service? One would think, on the face of it,
that a calling which gives a settled home, a comfortable room, rent-free, with fire and lights,
good board and lodging, and steady, well-paid wages, would certainly offer more attractions
than the making of shirts for tenpence, with all the risks of providing one's own sustenance
and shelter.

I think it is mainly from the want of a definite idea of the true position of a servant under
our democratic institutions that domestic service is so shunned and avoided in America, that
it is the very last thing which an intelligent young woman will look to for a living. It is
more the want of personal respect toward those in that position than the labors incident to
it which repels our people from it. Many would be willing to perform these labors, but they
are not willing to place themselves in a situation where their self-respect is hourly wounded
by the implication of a degree of inferiority which does not follow any kind of labor or service
in this country but that of the family.

There exists in the minds of employers an unsuspected spirit of superiority, which is stimulated
into an active form by the resistance which democracy inspires in the working class. Many families
think of servants only as a necessary evil, their wages as exactions, and all that is allowed
them as so much taken from the family; and they seek in every way to get from them as much
and to give them as little as possible. Their rooms are the neglected, ill-furnished, incommodious
ones,--and the kitchen is the most cheerless and comfortless place in the house. Other families,
more good-natured and liberal, provide their domestics with more suitable accommodations, and
are more indulgent; but there is still a latent spirit of something like contempt for the position.
That they treat their servants with so much consideration seems to them a merit entitling them
to the most prostrate gratitude; and they are constantly disappointed and shocked at that want
of sense of inferiority on the part of these people which leads them to appropriate pleasant
rooms, good furniture, and good living as mere matters of common justice.

It seems to be a constant surprise to some employers that servants should insist on having
the same human wants as themselves. Ladies who yawn in their elegantly furnished parlors, among
books and pictures, if they have not company, parties, or opera to diversify the evening, seem
astonished and half indignant that cook and chambermaid are more disposed to go out for an
evening gossip than to sit on hard chairs in the kitchen where they have been toiling all day.
The pretty chambermaid's anxieties about her dress, the time she spends at her small and not
very clear mirror, are sneeringly noticed by those whose toilet-cares take up serious hours;
and the question has never apparently occurred to them why a serving-maid should not want to
look pretty as well as her mistress. She is a woman as well as they, with all a woman's wants
and weaknesses; and her dress is as much to her as theirs to them.

A vast deal of trouble among servants arises from impertinent interferences and petty tyrannical
exactions on the part of employers. Now the authority of the master and mistress of a house
in regard to their domestics extends simply to the things they have contracted to do and the
hours during which they have contracted to serve; otherwise than this, they have no more right
to interfere with them in the disposal of their time than with any mechanic whom they employ.
They have, indeed, a right to regulate the hours of their own household, and servants can choose
between conformity to these hours and the loss of their situation; but, within reasonable limits,
their right to come and go at their own discretion, in their own time, should be unquestioned.

If employers are troubled by the fondness of their servants for dancing, evening company, and
late hours, the proper mode of proceeding is to make these matters a subject of distinct contract
in hiring. The more strictly and perfectly the business matters of the first engagement of
domestics are conducted, the more likelihood there is of mutual quiet and satisfaction in the
relation. It is quite competent to every housekeeper to say what practices are or are not consistent
with the rules of her family, and what will be inconsistent with the service for which she
agrees to pay. It is much better to regulate such affairs by cool contract in the outset than
by warm altercations and protracted domestic battles.

As to the terms of social intercourse, it seems somehow to be settled in the minds of many
employers that their servants owe them and their family more respect than they and the family
owe to the servants. But do they? What is the relation of servant to employer in a democratic
country? Precisely that of a person who for money performs any kind of service for you. The
carpenter comes into your house to put up a set of shelves,--the cook comes into your kitchen
to cook your dinner. You never think that the carpenter owes you any more respect than you
owe to him because he is in your house doing your behests; he is your fellow-citizen, you treat
him with respect, you expect to be treated with respect by him. You have a claim on him that
he shall do your work according to your directions,--no more. Now I apprehend that there is
a very common notion as to the position and rights of servants which is quite different from
this. Is it not a common feeling that a servant is one who may be treated with a degree of
freedom by every member of the family which he or she may not return? Do not people feel at
liberty to question servants about their private affairs, to comment on their dress and appearance,
in a manner which they would feel to be an impertinence if reciprocated? Do they not feel at
liberty to express dissatisfaction with their performances in rude and unceremonious terms,
to reprove them in the presence of company, while yet they require that the dissatisfaction
of servants shall be expressed only in terms of respect? A woman would not feel herself at
liberty to talk to her milliner or her dressmaker in language as devoid of consideration as
she will employ towards her cook or chambermaid. Yet both are rendering her a service which
she pays for in money, and one is no more made her inferior thereby than the other. Both have
an equal right to be treated with courtesy. The master and mistress of a house have a right
to require respectful treatment from all whom their roof shelters, but they have no more right
to exact it of servants than of every guest and every child, and they themselves owe it as
much to servants as to guests.

In order that servants may be treated with respect and courtesy, it is not necessary, as in
simpler patriarchal days, that they sit at the family table. Your carpenter or plumber does
not feel hurt that you do not ask him to dine with you, nor your milliner and mantua-maker
that you do not exchange ceremonious calls and invite them to your parties. It is well understood
that your relations with them are of a mere business character. They never take it as an assumption
of superiority on your part that you do not admit them to relations of private intimacy. There
may be the most perfect respect and esteem and even friendship between them and you, notwithstanding.
So it may be in the case of servants. It is easy to make any person understand that there are
quite other reasons than the assumption of personal superiority for not wishing to admit servants
to the family privacy. It was not, in fact, to sit in the parlor or at the table, in themselves
considered, that was the thing aimed at by New England girls,--these were valued only as signs
that they were deemed worthy of respect and consideration, and, where freely conceded, were
often in point of fact declined.

Let servants feel, in their treatment by their employers, and in the atmosphere of the family,
that their position is held to be a respectable one, let them feel in the mistress of the family
the charm of unvarying consideration and good manners, let their work rooms be made convenient
and comfortable, and their private apartments bear some reasonable comparison in point of agreeableness
to those of other members of the family, and domestic service will be more frequently sought
by a superior and self-respecting class. There are families in which such a state of things
prevails; and such families, amid the many causes which unite to make the tenure of service
uncertain, have generally been able to keep good permanent servants.

There is an extreme into which kindly disposed people often run with regard to servants, which
may be mentioned here. They make pets of them. They give extravagant wages and indiscreet indulgences,
and, through indolence and easiness of temper, tolerate neglect of duty. Many of the complaints
of the ingratitude of servants come from those who have spoiled them in this way; while many
of the longest and most harmonious domestic unions have sprung from a simple, quiet course
of Christian justice and benevolence, a recognition of servants as fellow-beings and fellow-Christians,
and a doing to them as we would in like circumstances that they should do to us.

The mistresses of American families, whether they like it or not, have the duties of missionaries
imposed upon them by that class from which our supply of domestic servants is drawn. They may
as well accept the position cheerfully, and, as one raw, untrained hand after another passes
through their family, and is instructed by them in the mysteries of good housekeeping, comfort
themselves with the reflection that they are doing something to form good wives and mothers
for the Republic.

The complaints made of Irish girls are numerous and loud; the failings of green Erin, alas!
are but too open and manifest; yet, in arrest of judgment, let us move this consideration:
let us imagine our own daughters between the ages of sixteen and twenty-four, untaught and
inexperienced in domestic affairs as they commonly are, shipped to a foreign shore to seek
service in families. It may be questioned whether as a whole they would do much better. The
girls that fill our families and do our housework are often of the age of our own daughters,
standing for themselves, without mothers to guide them, in a foreign country, not only bravely
supporting themselves, but sending home in every ship remittances to impoverished friends left
behind. If our daughters did as much for us, should we not be proud of their energy and heroism?

When we go into the houses of our country, we find a majority of well-kept, well-ordered, and
even elegant establishments where the only hands employed are those of the daughters of Erin.
True, American women have been their instructors, and many a weary hour of care have they had
in the discharge of this office; but the result on the whole is beautiful and good, and the
end of it, doubtless, will be peace.

In speaking of the office of the American mistress as being a missionary one, we are far from
recommending any controversial interference with the religious faith of our servants. It is
far better to incite them to be good Christians in their own way than to run the risk of shaking
their faith in all religion by pointing out to them the errors of that in which they have been
educated. The general purity of life and propriety of demeanor of so many thousands of undefended
young girls cast yearly upon our shores, with no home but their church, and no shield but their
religion, are a sufficient proof that this religion exerts an influence over them not to be
lightly trifled with. But there is a real unity even in opposite Christian forms; and the Roman
Catholic servant and the Protestant mistress, if alike possessed by the spirit of Christ, and
striving to conform to the Golden Rule, cannot help being one in heart, though one go to mass
and the other to meeting.

Finally, the bitter baptism through which we are passing, the life blood dearer than our own
which is drenching distant fields, should remind us of the preciousness of distinctive American
ideas. They who would seek in their foolish pride to establish the pomp of liveried servants
in America are doing that which is simply absurd. A servant can never in our country be the
mere appendage to another man, to be marked like a sheep with the color of his owner; he must
be a fellow-citizen, with an established position of his own, free to make contracts, free
to come and go, and having in his sphere titles to consideration and respect just as definite
as those of any trade or profession whatever.

Moreover, we cannot in this country maintain to any great extent large retinues of servants.
Even with ample fortunes they are forbidden by the general character of society here, which
makes them cumbrous and difficult to manage. Every mistress of a family knows that her cares
increase with every additional servant. Two keep the peace with each other and their employer;
three begin a possible discord, which possibility increases with four, and becomes certain
with five or six. Trained housekeepers, such as regulate the complicated establishments of
the Old World, form a class that are not, and from the nature of the case never will be, found
in any great numbers in this country. All such women, as a general thing, are keeping, and
prefer to keep, houses of their own.

A moderate style of housekeeping, small, compact, and simple domestic establishments, must
necessarily be the general order of life in America. So many openings of profit are to be found
in this country that domestic service necessarily wants the permanence which forms so agreeable
a feature of it in the Old World. This being the case, it should be an object in America to
exclude from the labors of the family all that can, with greater advantage, be executed out
of it by combined labor.

Formerly, in New England, soap and candles were to be made in each separate family; now, comparatively
few take this toil upon them. We buy soap of the soap-maker, and candles of the candle-factor.
This principle might be extended much further. In France no family makes its own bread, and
better bread cannot be eaten than what can be bought at the appropriate shops. No family does
its own washing; the family's linen is all sent to women who, making this their sole profession,
get it up with a care and nicety which can seldom be equaled in any family.

How would it simplify the burdens of the American housekeeper to have washing and ironing day
expunged from her calendar! How much more neatly and compactly could the whole domestic system
be arranged! If all the money that each separate family spends on the outfit and accommodations
for washing and ironing, on fuel, soap, starch, and the other et ceteras, were united in a
fund to create a laundry for every dozen families, one or two good women could do in firstrate
style what now is very indifferently done by the disturbance and disarrangement of all other
domestic processes in these families. Whoever sets neighborhood laundries on foot will do much
to solve the American housekeeper's hardest problem.

Finally, American women must not try with three servants to carry on life in the style which
in the Old World requires sixteen: they must thoroughly understand, and be prepared to teach,
every branch of housekeeping; they must study to make domestic service desirable by treating
their servants in a way to lead them to respect themselves and to feel themselves respected;
and there will gradually be evolved from the present confusion a solution of the domestic problem
which shall be adapted to the life of a new and growing world.

X

COOKERY

My wife and I were sitting at the open bow-window of my study, watching the tuft of bright-red
leaves on our favorite maple, which warned us that summer was over. I was solacing myself,
like all the world in our days, with reading the "Schönberg Cotta Family," when my wife made
her voice heard through the enchanted distance, and dispersed the pretty vision of German cottage
life.

"Chris!"

"Well, my dear."

"Do you know the day of the month?"

Now my wife knows this is a thing that I never do know, that I can't know, and in fact that
there is no need I should trouble myself about, since she always knows, and, what is more,
always tells me. In fact, the question, when asked by her, meant more than met the ear. It
was a delicate way of admonishing me that another paper for the "Atlantic" ought to be in train;
and so I answered, not to the external form, but to the internal intention,--

"Well, you see, my dear, I haven't made up my mind what my next paper shall be about."

"Suppose, then, you let me give you a subject."

"Sovereign lady, speak on! Your slave hears!"

"Well, then, take Cookery. It may seem a vulgar subject, but I think more of health and happiness
depends on that than on any other one thing. You may make houses enchantingly beautiful, hang
them with pictures, have them clean and airy and convenient; but if the stomach is fed with
sour bread and burnt coffee, it will raise such rebellions that the eyes will see no beauty
anywhere. Now, in the little tour that you and I have been taking this summer, I have been
thinking of the great abundance of splendid material we have in America, compared with the
poor cooking. How often, in our stoppings, we have sat down to tables loaded with material,
originally of the very best kind, which had been so spoiled in the treatment that there was
really nothing to eat! Green biscuits with acrid spots of alkali; sour yeast-bread; meat slowly
simmered in fat till it seemed like grease itself, and slowly congealing in cold grease; and,
above all, that unpardonable enormity, strong butter! How often I have longed to show people
what might have been done with the raw material out of which all these monstrosities were concocted!"

"My dear," said I, "you are driving me upon delicate ground. Would you have your husband appear
in public with that most opprobrious badge of the domestic furies, a dishcloth, pinned to his
coat-tail? It is coming to exactly the point I have always predicted, Mrs. Crowfield: you must
write yourself. I always told you that you could write far better than I, if you would only
try. Only sit down and write as you sometimes talk to me, and I might hang up my pen by the
side of 'Uncle Ned's' fiddle and bow."

"Oh, nonsense!" said my wife. "I never could write. I know what ought to be said, and I could
say it to any one; but my ideas freeze in the pen, cramp in my fingers, and make my brain seem
like heavy bread. I was born for extemporary speaking. Besides, I think the best things on
all subjects in this world of ours are said, not by the practical workers, but by the careful
observers."

"Mrs. Crowfield, that remark is as good as if I had made it myself," said I. "It is true that
I have been all my life a speculator and observer in all domestic matters, having them so confidentially
under my eye in our own household; and so, if I write on a pure woman's matter, it must be
understood that I am only your pen and mouthpiece,--only giving tangible form to wisdom which
I have derived from you."

So down I sat and scribbled, while my sovereign lady quietly stitched by my side. And here
I tell my reader that I write on such a subject under protest,--declaring again my conviction
that, if my wife only believed in herself as firmly as I do, she would write so that nobody
would ever want to listen to me again.

COOKERY

We in America have the raw material of provision in greater abundance than any other nation.
There is no country where an ample, well-furnished table is more easily spread, and for that
reason, perhaps, none where the bounties of Providence are more generally neglected. I do not
mean to say that the traveler through the length and breadth of our land could not, on the
whole, find an average of comfortable subsistence; yet, considering that our resources are
greater than those of any other civilized people, our results are comparatively poorer.

It is said that, a list of the summer vegetables which are exhibited on New York hotel tables
being shown to a French artiste, he declared that to serve such a dinner properly would take
till midnight. I recollect how I was once struck with our national plenteousness on returning
from a Continental tour, and going directly from the ship to a New York hotel, in the bounteous
season of autumn. For months I had been habituated to my neat little bits of chop or poultry
garnished with the inevitable cauliflower or potato, which seemed to be the sole possibility
after the reign of green peas was over. Now I sat down all at once to a carnival of vegetables,--ripe,
juicy tomatoes, raw or cooked; cucumbers in brittle slices; rich, yellow sweet potatoes; broad
Lima-beans, and beans of other and various names; tempting ears of Indian corn steaming in
enormous piles, and great smoking tureens of the savory succotash, an Indian gift to the table
for which civilization need not blush; sliced egg-plant in delicate fritters; and marrow squashes,
of creamy pulp and sweetness: a rich variety, embarrassing to the appetite, and perplexing
to the choice. Verily, the thought has often impressed itself on my mind that the vegetarian
doctrine preached in America left a man quite as much as he had capacity to eat or enjoy, and
that in the midst of such tantalizing abundance he really lost the apology which elsewhere
bears him out in preying upon his less gifted and accomplished animal neighbors.

But with all this, the American table, taken as a whole, is inferior to that of England or
France. It presents a fine abundance of material, carelessly and poorly treated. The management
of food is nowhere in the world, perhaps, more slovenly and wasteful. Everything betokens that
want of care that waits on abundance; there are great capabilities and poor execution. A tourist
through England can seldom fail, at the quietest country inn, of finding himself served with
the essentials of English table comfort,--his mutton-chop done to a turn, his steaming little
private apparatus for concocting his own tea, his choice pot of marmalade or slice of cold
ham, and his delicate rolls and creamy butter, all served with care and neatness. In France,
one never asks in vain for delicious café-au-lait, good bread and butter, a nice omelet, or
some savory little portion of meat with a French name. But to a tourist taking like chance
in American country fare, what is the prospect? What is the coffee? what the tea? and the meat?
and, above all, the butter?

In lecturing on cookery, as on housebuilding, I divide the subject into, not four, but five
grand elements: first, Bread; second, Butter; third, Meat; fourth, Vegetables; and fifth, Tea,--by
which I mean, generically, all sorts of warm, comfortable drinks served out in teacups, whether
they be called tea, coffee, chocolate, broma, or what not.

I affirm that, if these five departments are all perfect, the great ends of domestic cookery
are answered, so far as the comfort and well-being of life are concerned. I am aware that there
exists another department, which is often regarded by culinary amateurs and young aspirants
as the higher branch and very collegiate course of practical cookery; to wit, confectionery,
by which I mean to designate all pleasing and complicated compounds of sweets and spices, devised
not for health and nourishment, and strongly suspected of interfering with both,--mere tolerated
gratifications of the palate, which we eat, not with the expectation of being benefited, but
only with the hope of not being injured by them. In this large department rank all sorts of
cakes, pies, preserves, ices, etc. I shall have a word or two to say under this head before
I have done. I only remark now that, in my tours about the country, I have often had a virulent
ill-will excited towards these works of culinary supererogation, because I thought their excellence
was attained by treading under foot and disregarding the five grand essentials. I have sat
at many a table garnished with three or four kinds of well-made cake, compounded with citron
and spices and all imaginable good things, where the meat was tough and greasy, the bread some
hot preparation of flour, lard, saleratus, and acid, and the butter unutterably detestable.
At such tables I have thought that, if the mistress of the feast had given the care, time,
and labor to preparing the simple items of bread, butter, and meat that she evidently had given
to the preparation of these extras, the lot of a traveler might be much more comfortable. Evidently
she never had thought of these common articles as constituting a good table. So long as she
had puff pastry, rich black cake, clear jelly, and preserves, she seemed to consider that such
unimportant matters as bread, butter, and meat could take care of themselves. It is the same
inattention to common things as that which leads people to build houses with stone fronts and
window-caps and expensive front-door trimmings, without bathing-rooms or fireplaces or ventilators.

Those who go into the country looking for summer board in farmhouses know perfectly well that
a table where the butter is always fresh, the tea and coffee of the best kinds and well made,
and the meats properly kept, dressed, and served, is the one table of a hundred, the fabulous
enchanted island. It seems impossible to get the idea into the minds of people that what is
called common food, carefully prepared, becomes, in virtue of that very care and attention,
a delicacy, superseding the necessity of artificially compounded dainties.

To begin, then, with the very foundation of a good table,--Bread: What ought it to be? It should
be light, sweet, and tender.

This matter of lightness is the distinctive line between savage and civilized bread. The savage
mixes simple flour and water into balls of paste, which he throws into boiling water, and which
come out solid, glutinous masses, of which his common saying is, "Man eat dis, he no die,"--which
a facetious traveler who was obliged to subsist on it interpreted to mean, "Dis no kill you,
nothing will." In short, it requires the stomach of a wild animal or of a savage to digest
this primitive form of bread, and of course more or less attention in all civilized modes of
bread making is given to producing lightness. By lightness is meant simply that the particles
are to be separated from each other by little holes or air-cells; and all the different methods
of making light bread are neither more nor less than the formation in bread of these air-cells.

So far as we know, there are four practicable methods of aerating bread, namely, by fermentation;
by effervescence of an acid and an alkali; by aerated egg, or egg which has been filled with
air by the process of beating; and, lastly, by pressure of some gaseous substance into the
paste, by a process much resembling the impregnation of water in a soda fountain. All these
have one and the same object,--to give us the cooked particles of our flour separated by such
permanent air-cells as will enable the stomach more readily to digest them.

A very common mode of aerating bread in America is by the effervescence of an acid and an alkali
in the flour. The carbonic acid gas thus formed produces minute air-cells in the bread, or,
as the cook says, makes it light. When this process is performed with exact attention to chemical
laws, so that the acid and alkali completely neutralize each other, leaving no overplus of
either, the result is often very palatable. The difficulty is, that this is a happy conjunction
of circumstances which seldom occurs. The acid most commonly employed is that of sour milk,
and, as milk has many degrees of sourness, the rule of a certain quantity of alkali to the
pint must necessarily produce very different results at different times. As an actual fact,
where this mode of making bread prevails, as we lament to say it does to a great extent in
this country, one finds five cases of failure to one of success. It is a woful thing that the
daughters of New England have abandoned the old respectable mode of yeast brewing and bread
raising for this specious substitute, so easily made, and so seldom well made. The green, clammy,
acrid substance called biscuit, which many of our worthy republicans are obliged to eat in
these days, is wholly unworthy of the men and women of the Republic. Good patriots ought not
to be put off in that way,--they deserve better fare.

As an occasional variety, as a household convenience for obtaining bread or biscuit at a moment's
notice, the process of effervescence may be retained; but we earnestly entreat American housekeepers,
in Scriptural language, to stand in the way and ask for the old paths, and return to the good
yeast-bread of their sainted grandmothers.

If acid and alkali must be used, by all means let them be mixed in due proportions. No cook
should be left to guess and judge for herself about this matter. There is an article, called
"Preston's Infallible Yeast Powder," which is made by chemical rule, and produces very perfect
results. The use of this obviates the worst dangers in making bread by effervescence.

Of all processes of aeration in bread-making, the oldest and most time-honored is by fermentation.
That this was known in the days of our Saviour is evident from the forcible simile in which
he compares the silent permeating force of truth in human society to the very familiar household
process of raising bread by a little yeast.

There is, however, one species of yeast, much used in some parts of the country, against which
I have to enter my protest. It is called salt-risings, or milk-risings, and is made by mixing
flour, milk, and a little salt together and leaving them to ferment. The bread thus produced
is often very attractive, when new and made with great care. It is white and delicate, with
fine, even air-cells. It has, however, when kept, some characteristics which remind us of the
terms in which our old English Bible describes the effect of keeping the manna of the ancient
Israelites, which we are informed, in words more explicit than agreeable, "stank, and bred
worms." If salt-rising bread does not fulfill the whole of this unpleasant description, it
certainly does emphatically a part of it. The smell which it has in baking, and when more than
a day old, suggests the inquiry whether it is the saccharine or the putrid fermentation with
which it is raised. Whoever breaks a piece of it after a day or two will often see minute filaments
or clammy strings drawing out from the fragments, which, with the unmistakable smell, will
cause him to pause before consummating a nearer acquaintance.

The fermentation of flour by means of brewer's or distiller's yeast produces, if rightly managed,
results far more palatable and wholesome. The only requisites for success in it are, first,
good materials, and, second, great care in a few small things. There are certain low-priced
or damaged kinds of flour which can never by any kind of domestic chemistry be made into good
bread; and to those persons whose stomachs forbid them to eat gummy, glutinous paste, under
the name of bread, there is no economy in buying these poor brands, even at half the price
of good flour.

But good flour and good yeast being supposed, with a temperature favorable to the development
of fermentation, the whole success of the process depends on the thorough diffusion of the
proper proportion of yeast through the whole mass, and on stopping the subsequent fermentation
at the precise and fortunate point. The true housewife makes her bread the sovereign of her
kitchen,--its behests must be attended to in all critical points and moments, no matter what
else be postponed. She who attends to her bread when she has done this, and arranged that,
and performed the other, very often finds that the forces of nature will not wait for her.
The snowy mass, perfectly mixed, kneaded with care and strength, rises in its beautiful perfection
till the moment comes for fixing the air-cells by baking. A few minutes now, and the acetous
fermentation will begin, and the whole result be spoiled. Many bread-makers pass in utter carelessness
over this sacred and mysterious boundary. Their oven has cake in it, or they are skimming jelly,
or attending to some other of the so-called higher branches of cookery, while the bread is
quickly passing into the acetous stage. At last, when they are ready to attend to it, they
find that it has been going its own way,--it is so sour that the pungent smell is plainly perceptible.
Now the saleratus-bottle is handed down, and a quantity of the dissolved alkali mixed with
the paste,--an expedient sometimes making itself too manifest by greenish streaks or small
acrid spots in the bread. As the result, we have a beautiful article spoiled,--bread without
sweetness, if not absolutely sour.

In the view of many, lightness is the only property required in this article. The delicate,
refined sweetness which exists in carefully kneaded bread, baked just before it passes to the
extreme point of fermentation, is something of which they have no conception; and thus they
will even regard this process of spoiling the paste by the acetous fermentation, and then rectifying
that acid by effervescence with an alkali, as something positively meritorious. How else can
they value and relish baker's loaves, such as some are, drugged with ammonia and other disagreeable
things, light indeed, so light that they seem to have neither weight nor substance, but with
no more sweetness or taste than so much white cotton?

Some persons prepare bread for the oven by simply mixing it in the mass, without kneading,
pouring it into pans, and suffering it to rise there. The air-cells in bread thus prepared
are coarse and uneven; the bread is as inferior in delicacy and nicety to that which is well
kneaded as a raw Irish servant to a perfectly educated and refined lady. The process of kneading
seems to impart an evenness to the minute air-cells, a fineness of texture, and a tenderness
and pliability to the whole substance, that can be gained in no other way.

The divine principle of beauty has its reign over bread as well as over all other things; it
has its laws of æsthetics; and that bread which is so prepared that it can be formed into separate
and well-proportioned loaves, each one carefully worked and moulded, will develop the most
beautiful results. After being moulded, the loaves should stand a little while, just long enough
to allow the fermentation going on in them to expand each little air-cell to the point at which
it stood before it was worked down, and then they should be immediately put into the oven.

Many a good thing, however, is spoiled in the oven. We cannot but regret, for the sake of bread,
that our old steady brick ovens have been almost universally superseded by those of ranges
and cooking-stoves, which are infinite in their caprices, and forbid all general rules. One
thing, however, may be borne in mind as a principle,--that the excellence of bread in all its
varieties, plain or sweetened, depends on the perfection of its air-cells, whether produced
by yeast, egg, or effervescence; that one of the objects of baking is to fix these air-cells,
and that the quicker this can be done through the whole mass, the better will the result be.
When cake or bread is made heavy by baking too quickly, it is because the immediate formation
of the top crust hinders the exhaling of the moisture in the centre, and prevents the air-cells
from cooking. The weight also of the crust pressing down on the doughy air-cells below destroys
them, producing that horror of good cooks, a heavy streak. The problem in baking, then, is
the quick application of heat rather below than above the loaf, and its steady continuance
till all the air-cells are thoroughly dried into permanent consistency. Every housewife must
watch her own oven to know how this can be best accomplished.

Bread-making can be cultivated to any extent as a fine art; and the various kinds of biscuit,
tea-rusks, twists, rolls, into which bread may be made, are much better worth a housekeeper's
ambition than the getting up of rich and expensive cake or confections. There are also varieties
of material which are rich in good effects. Unbolted flour, altogether more wholesome than
the fine wheat, and when properly prepared more palatable, rye-flour and corn-meal, each affording
a thousand attractive possibilities,--each and all of these come under the general laws of
breadstuffs, and are worth a careful attention.

A peculiarity of our American table, particularly in the Southern and Western States, is the
constant exhibition of various preparations of hot bread. In many families of the South and
West, bread in loaves to be eaten cold is an article quite unknown. The effect of this kind
of diet upon the health has formed a frequent subject of remark among travelers; but only those
know the full mischiefs of it who have been compelled to sojourn for a length of time in families
where it is maintained. The unknown horrors of dyspepsia from bad bread are a topic over which
we willingly draw a veil.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next to bread comes butter,--on which we have to say that, when we remember what butter is
in civilized Europe, and compare it with what it is in America, we wonder at the forbearance
and lenity of travelers in their strictures on our national commissariat.

Butter in England, France, and Italy is simply solidified cream, with all the sweetness of
the cream in its taste, freshly churned each day, and unadulterated by salt. At the present
moment, when salt is five cents a pound and butter fifty, we Americans are paying, I should
judge from the taste, for about one pound of salt to every ten of butter, and those of us who
have eaten the butter of France and England do this with rueful recollections.

There is, it is true, an article of butter made in the American style with salt, which, in
its own kind and way, has a merit not inferior to that of England and France. Many prefer it,
and it certainly takes a rank equally respectable with the other. It is yellow, hard, and worked
so perfectly free from every particle of buttermilk that it might make the voyage of the world
without spoiling. It is salted, but salted with care and delicacy, so that it may be a question
whether even a fastidious Englishman might not prefer its golden solidity to the white, creamy
freshness of his own. Now I am not for universal imitation of foreign customs, and where I
find this butter made perfectly I call it our American style, and am not ashamed of it. I only
regret that this article is the exception, and not the rule, on our tables. When I reflect
on the possibilities which beset the delicate stomach in this line, I do not wonder that my
venerated friend Dr. Mussey used to close his counsels to invalids with the direction, "And
don't eat grease on your bread."

America must, I think, have the credit of manufacturing and putting into market more bad butter
than all that is made in all the rest of the world together. The varieties of bad tastes and
smells which prevail in it are quite a study. This has a cheesy taste, that a mouldy,--this
is flavored with cabbage, and that again with turnip; and another has the strong, sharp savor
of rancid animal fat. These varieties, I presume, come from the practice of churning only at
long intervals, and keeping the cream meanwhile in unventilated cellars or dairies, the air
of which is loaded with the effluvia of vegetable substances. No domestic articles are so sympathetic
as those of the milk tribe: they readily take on the smell and taste of any neighboring substance,
and hence the infinite variety of flavors on which one mournfully muses who has late in autumn
to taste twenty firkins of butter in hopes of finding one which will simply not be intolerable
on his winter table.

A matter for despair as regards bad butter is that, at the tables where it is used, it stands
sentinel at the door to bar your way to every other kind of food. You turn from your dreadful
half-slice of bread, which fills your mouth with bitterness, to your beefsteak, which proves
virulent with the same poison; you think to take refuge in vegetable diet, and find the butter
in the string-beans, and polluting the innocence of early peas; it is in the corn, in the succotash,
in the squash; the beets swim in it, the onions have it poured over them. Hungry and miserable,
you think to solace yourself at the dessert; but the pastry is cursed, the cake is acrid with
the same plague. You are ready to howl with despair, and your misery is great upon you, especially
if this is a table where you have taken board for three months with your delicate wife and
four small children. Your case is dreadful,--and it is hopeless, because long usage and habit
have rendered your host perfectly incapable of discovering what is the matter. "Don't like
the butter, sir? I assure you I paid an extra price for it, and it's the very best in the market.
I looked over as many as a hundred tubs, and picked out this one." You are dumb, but not less
despairing.

Yet the process of making good butter is a very simple one. To keep the cream in a perfectly
pure, cool atmosphere, to churn while it is yet sweet, to work out the buttermilk thoroughly,
and to add salt with such discretion as not to ruin the fine, delicate flavor of the fresh
cream,--all this is quite simple, so simple that one wonders at thousands and millions of pounds
of butter yearly manufactured which are merely a hobgoblin-bewitchment of cream into foul and
loathsome poisons.

       *       *       *       *       *

The third head of my discourse is that of Meat, of which America furnishes, in the gross material,
enough to spread our tables royally, were it well cared for and served.

The faults in the meat generally furnished to us are, first, that it is too new. A beefsteak,
which three or four days of keeping might render practicable, is served up to us palpitating
with freshness, with all the toughness of animal muscle yet warm. In the Western country, the
traveler, on approaching an hotel, is often saluted by the last shrieks of the chickens which
half an hour afterward are presented to him à la spread-eagle for his dinner. The example of
the Father of the Faithful, most wholesome to be followed in so many respects, is imitated
only in the celerity with which the young calf, tender and good, was transformed into an edible
dish for hospitable purposes. But what might be good housekeeping in a nomadic Emir, in days
when refrigerators were yet in the future, ought not to be so closely imitated as it often
is in our own land.

In the next place, there is a woful lack of nicety in the butcher's work of cutting and preparing
meat. Who that remembers the neatly trimmed mutton-chop of an English inn, or the artistic
little circle of lamb-chop fried in bread-crumbs coiled around a tempting centre of spinach
which can always be found in France, can recognize any family resemblance to these dapper civilized
preparations in those coarse, roughly hacked strips of bone, gristle, and meat which are commonly
called mutton-chop in America? There seems to be a large dish of something resembling meat,
in which each fragment has about two or three edible morsels, the rest being composed of dry
and burnt skin, fat, and ragged bone.

Is it not time that civilization should learn to demand somewhat more care and nicety in the
modes of preparing what is to be cooked and eaten? Might not some of the refinement and trimness
which characterize the preparations of the European market be with advantage introduced into
our own? The housekeeper who wishes to garnish her table with some of those nice things is
stopped in the outset by the butcher. Except in our large cities, where some foreign travel
may have created the demand, it seems impossible to get much in this line that is properly
prepared.

I am aware that, if this is urged on the score of æsthetics, the ready reply will be, "Oh,
we can't give time here in America to go into niceties and French whim-whams!" But the French
mode of doing almost all practical things is based on that true philosophy and utilitarian
good sense which characterize that seemingly thoughtless people. Nowhere is economy a more
careful study, and their market is artistically arranged to this end. The rule is so to cut
their meats that no portion designed to be cooked in a certain manner shall have wasteful appendages
which that mode of cooking will spoil. The French soup kettle stands ever ready to receive
the bones, the thin fibrous flaps, the sinewy and gristly portions, which are so often included
in our roasts or broilings, which fill our plates with unsightly débris, and finally make an
amount of blank waste for which we pay our butcher the same price that we pay for what we have
eaten.

The dead waste of our clumsy, coarse way of cutting meats is immense. For example, at the beginning
of the present season, the part of a lamb denominated leg and loin, or hind-quarter, sold for
thirty cents a pound. Now this includes, besides the thick, fleshy portions, a quantity of
bone, sinew, and thin fibrous substance, constituting full one third of the whole weight. If
we put it into the oven entire, in the usual manner, we have the thin parts overdone, and the
skinny and fibrous parts utterly dried up, by the application of the amount of heat necessary
to cook the thick portion. Supposing the joint to weigh six pounds, at thirty cents, and that
one third of the weight is so treated as to become perfectly useless, we throw away sixty cents.
Of a piece of beef at twenty-five cents a pound, fifty cents' worth is often lost in bone,
fat, and burnt skin.

The fact is, this way of selling and cooking meat in large, gross portions is of English origin,
and belongs to a country where all the customs of society spring from a class who have no particular
occasion for economy. The practice of minute and delicate division comes from a nation which
acknowledges the need of economy, and has made it a study. A quarter of lamb in this mode of
division would be sold in three nicely prepared portions. The thick part would be sold by itself,
for a neat, compact little roast; the rib-bones would be artistically separated, and all the
edible matters scraped away would form those delicate dishes of lamb-chop which, fried in bread-crumbs
to a golden brown, are so ornamental and so palatable a side-dish; the trimmings which remain
after this division would be destined to the soup kettle or stew pan. In a French market is
a little portion for every purse, and the far-famed and delicately flavored soups and stews
which have arisen out of French economy are a study worth a housekeeper's attention. Not one
atom of food is wasted in the French modes of preparation; even tough animal cartilages and
sinews, instead of appearing burnt and blackened in company with the roast meat to which they
happen to be related, are treated according to their own laws, and come out either in savory
soups, or those fine, clear meat-jellies which form a garnish no less agreeable to the eye
than palatable to the taste.

Whether this careful, economical, practical style of meat cooking can ever to any great extent
be introduced into our kitchens now is a question. Our butchers are against it; our servants
are wedded to the old wholesale wasteful ways, which seem to them easier because they are accustomed
to them. A cook who will keep and properly tend a soup kettle which shall receive and utilize
all that the coarse preparations of the butcher would require her to trim away, who understands
the art of making the most of all these remains, is a treasure scarcely to be hoped for. If
such things are to be done, it must be primarily through the educated brain of cultivated women
who do not scorn to turn their culture and refinement upon domestic problems.

When meats have been properly divided--so that each portion can receive its own appropriate
style of treatment--next comes the consideration of the modes of cooking. These may be divided
into two great general classes: those where it is desired to keep the juices within the meat,
as in baking, broiling, and frying; and those whose object is to extract the juice and dissolve
the fibre, as in the making of soups and stews. In the first class of operations, the process
must be as rapid as may consist with the thorough cooking of all the particles. In this branch
of cookery, doing quickly is doing well. The fire must be brisk, the attention alert. The introduction
of cooking-stoves offers to careless domestics facilities for gradually drying up meats, and
despoiling them of all flavor and nutriment,--facilities which appear to be very generally
laid hold of. They have almost banished the genuine, old-fashioned roast meat from our tables,
and left in its stead dried meats with their most precious and nutritive juices evaporated.
How few cooks, unassisted, are competent to the simple process of broiling a beefsteak or mutton-chop!
how very generally one has to choose between these meats gradually dried away, or burned on
the outside and raw within! Yet in England these articles never come on table done amiss; their
perfect cooking is as absolute a certainty as the rising of the sun.

No one of these rapid processes of cooking, however, is so generally abused as frying. The
frying-pan has awful sins to answer for. What untold horrors of dyspepsia have arisen from
its smoky depths, like the ghosts from witches' caldrons! The fizzle of frying meat is as a
warning knell on many an ear, saying, "Touch not, taste not, if you would not burn and writhe!"

Yet those who have traveled abroad remember that some of the lightest, most palatable, and
most digestible preparations of meat have come from this dangerous source. But we fancy quite
other rites and ceremonies inaugurated the process, and quite other hands performed its offices,
than those known to our kitchens. Probably the delicate côte-lettes of France are not flopped
down into half-melted grease, there gradually to warm and soak and fizzle, while Biddy goes
in and out on her other ministrations, till finally, when thoroughly saturated and dinner-hour
impends, she bethinks herself, and crowds the fire below to a roaring heat, and finishes the
process by a smart burn, involving the kitchen and surrounding precincts in volumes of Stygian
gloom.

From such preparations has arisen the very current medical opinion that fried meats are indigestible.
They are indigestible if they are greasy; but French cooks have taught us that a thing has
no more need to be greasy because emerging from grease than Venus had to be salt because she
rose from the sea.

There are two ways of frying employed by the French cook. One is, to immerse the article to
be cooked in boiling fat, with an emphasis on the present participle,--and the philosophical
principle is, so immediately to crisp every pore at the first moment or two of immersion as
effectually to seal the interior against the intrusion of greasy particles; it can then remain
as long as may be necessary thoroughly to cook it, without imbibing any more of the boiling
fluid than if it were enclosed in an eggshell. The other method is, to rub a perfectly smooth
iron surface with just enough of some oily substance to prevent the meat from adhering, and
cook it with a quick heat, as cakes are baked on a griddle. In both these cases there must
be the most rapid application of heat that can be made without burning, and by the adroitness
shown in working out this problem the skill of the cook is tested. Any one whose cook attains
this important secret will find fried things quite as digestible and often more palatable than
any other.

In the second department of meat cookery, to wit, the slow and gradual application of heat
for the softening and dissolution of its fibre and the extraction of its juices, common cooks
are equally untrained. Where is the so-called cook who understands how to prepare soups and
stews? These are precisely the articles in which a French kitchen excels. The soup kettle,
made with a double bottom to prevent burning, is a permanent, ever-present institution, and
the coarsest and most impracticable meats distilled through that alembic come out again in
soups, jellies, or savory stews. The toughest cartilage, even the bones, being first cracked,
are here made to give forth their hidden virtues, and to rise in delicate and appetizing forms.
One great law governs all these preparations: the application of heat must be gradual, steady,
long protracted, never reaching the point of active boiling. Hours of quiet simmering dissolve
all dissoluble parts, soften the sternest fibre, and unlock every minute cell in which Nature
has stored away her treasures of nourishment. This careful and protracted application of heat
and the skillful use of flavors constitute the two main points in all those nice preparations
of meat for which the French have so many names,--processes by which a delicacy can be imparted
to the coarsest and cheapest food superior to that of the finest articles under less philosophic
treatment.

French soups and stews are a study, and they would not be an unprofitable one to any person
who wishes to live with comfort and even elegance on small means.

John Bull looks down from the sublime of ten thousand a year on French kickshaws, as he calls
them: "Give me my meat cooked so I may know what it is!" An ox roasted whole is dear to John's
soul, and his kitchen arrangements are Titanic. What magnificent rounds and sirloins of beef,
revolving on self-regulating spits, with a rich click of satisfaction, before grates piled
with roaring fires! Let us do justice to the royal cheer. Nowhere are the charms of pure, unadulterated
animal food set forth in more imposing style. For John is rich, and what does he care for odds
and ends and parings? Has he not all the beasts of the forest, and the cattle on a thousand
hills? What does he want of economy? But his brother Jean has not ten thousand pounds a year,--nothing
like it; but he makes up for the slenderness of his purse by boundless fertility of invention
and delicacy of practice. John began sneering at Jean's soups and ragouts, but all John's modern
sons and daughters send to Jean for their cooks, and the sirloins of England rise up and do
obeisance to this Joseph with a white apron who comes to rule in their kitchens.

