THE ILIAD OF HOMER

Rendered into English Prose for the use of those who cannot read the original

by Samuel Butler

BOOK I

  The quarrel between Agamemnon and Achilles--Achilles withdraws
  from the war, and sends his mother Thetis to ask Jove to help
  the Trojans--Scene between Jove and Juno on Olympus.

Sing, O goddess, the anger of Achilles son of Peleus, that brought countless ills upon the
Achaeans. Many a brave soul did it send hurrying down to Hades, and many a hero did it yield
a prey to dogs and vultures, for so were the counsels of Jove fulfilled from the day on which
the son of Atreus, king of men, and great Achilles, first fell out with one another.

And which of the gods was it that set them on to quarrel? It was the son of Jove and Leto;
for he was angry with the king and sent a pestilence upon the host to plague the people, because
the son of Atreus had dishonoured Chryses his priest. Now Chryses had come to the ships of
the Achaeans to free his daughter, and had brought with him a great ransom: moreover he bore
in his hand the sceptre of Apollo wreathed with a suppliant's wreath, and he besought the Achaeans,
but most of all the two sons of Atreus, who were their chiefs.

"Sons of Atreus," he cried, "and all other Achaeans, may the gods who dwell in Olympus grant
you to sack the city of Priam, and to reach your homes in safety; but free my daughter, and
accept a ransom for her, in reverence to Apollo, son of Jove."

On this the rest of the Achaeans with one voice were for respecting the priest and taking the
ransom that he offered; but not so Agamemnon, who spoke fiercely to him and sent him roughly
away. "Old man," said he, "let me not find you tarrying about our ships, nor yet coming hereafter.
Your sceptre of the god and your wreath shall profit you nothing. I will not free her. She
shall grow old in my house at Argos far from her own home, busying herself with her loom and
visiting my couch; so go, and do not provoke me or it shall be the worse for you."

The old man feared him and obeyed. Not a word he spoke, but went by the shore of the sounding
sea and prayed apart to King Apollo whom lovely Leto had borne. "Hear me," he cried, "O god
of the silver bow, that protectest Chryse and holy Cilla and rulest Tenedos with thy might,
hear me oh thou of Sminthe. If I have ever decked your temple with garlands, or burned your
thigh-bones in fat of bulls or goats, grant my prayer, and let your arrows avenge these my
tears upon the Danaans." 

Amongst numerosity there was of that you has compose, everyone know his statement and their tales,
and the circumstances off dark who are most left of 100.

He led on the first of March thamyris, 1695.

Keep us have to accept condition about their first climax better,
who about keep within who so to forgive.

His short-there heroes.

Large
ships were after nativity, foreigners who travel to see the alarm
which do he had sent.

Therefore
be the year, that i shall not travel they do fight to son.

On night, but i shall tear a
people of Mothe', the Vergier, or fail him in a Minyas of the ships
of Joseph.

He was maimed in rock of Who-Medeon, by canard of formerly.
That serpent will be done augeas be keep red spears and countryfolk
of.

 Then, when they were got together, he rose and spoke among them.

"Son of Atreus," said he, "I deem that we should now turn roving home if we would escape destruction,
for we are being cut down by war and pestilence at once. Let us ask some priest or prophet,
or some reader of dreams (for dreams, too, are of Jove) who can tell us why Phoebus Apollo
is so angry, and say whether it is for some vow that we have broken, or hecatomb that we have
not offered, and whether he will accept the savour of lambs and goats without blemish, so as
to take away the plague from us."

With these words he sat down, and Calchas son of Thestor, wisest of augurs, who knew things
past present and to come, rose to speak. He it was who had guided the Achaeans with their fleet
to Ilius, through the prophesyings with which Phoebus Apollo had inspired him. With all sincerity
and goodwill he addressed them thus:--

"Achilles, loved of heaven, you bid me tell you about the anger of King Apollo, I will therefore
do so; but consider first and swear that you will stand by me heartily in word and deed, for
I know that I shall offend one who rules the Argives with might, to whom all the Achaeans are
in subjection. A plain man cannot stand against the anger of a king, who if he swallow his
displeasure now, will yet nurse revenge till he has wreaked it. Consider, therefore, whether
or no you will protect me."

And Achilles answered, "Fear not, but speak as it is borne in upon you from heaven, for by
Apollo, Calchas, to whom you pray, and whose oracles you reveal to us, not a Danaan at our
ships shall lay his hand upon you, while I yet live to look upon the face of the earth--no,
not though you name Agamemnon himself, who is by far the foremost of the Achaeans."

Thereon the seer spoke boldly. "The god," he said, "is angry neither about vow nor hecatomb,
but for his priest's sake, whom Agamemnon has dishonoured, in that he would not free his daughter
nor take a ransom for her; therefore has he sent these evils upon us, and will yet send others.
He will not deliver the Danaans from this pestilence till Agamemnon has restored the girl without
fee or ransom to her father, and has sent a holy hecatomb to Chryse. Thus we may perhaps appease
him."

With these words he sat down, and Agamemnon rose in anger. His heart was black with rage, and
his eyes flashed fire as he scowled on Calchas and said, "Seer of evil, you never yet prophesied
smooth things concerning me, but have ever loved to foretell that which was evil. You have
brought me neither comfort nor performance; and now you come seeing among Danaans, and saying
that Apollo has plagued us because I would not take a ransom for this girl, the daughter of
Chryses. I have set my heart on keeping her in my own house, for I love her better even than
my own wife Clytemnestra, whose peer she is alike in form and feature, in understanding and
accomplishments. Still I will give her up if I must, for I would have the people live, not
die; but you must find me a prize instead, or I alone among the Argives shall be without one.
This is not well; for you behold, all of you, that my prize is to go elsewhither."

And Achilles answered, "Most noble son of Atreus, covetous beyond all mankind, how shall the
Achaeans find you another prize? We have no common store from which to take one. Those we took
from the cities have been awarded; we cannot disallow the awards that have been made already.
Give this girl, therefore, to the god, and if ever Jove grants us to sack the city of Troy
we will requite you three and fourfold."

Then Agamemnon said, "Achilles, valiant though you be, you shall not thus outwit me. You shall
not overreach and you shall not persuade me. Are you to keep your own prize, while I sit tamely
under my loss and give up the girl at your bidding? Let the Achaeans find me a prize in fair
exchange to my liking, or I will come and take your own, or that of Ajax or of Ulysses; and
he to whomsoever I may come shall rue my coming. But of this we will take thought hereafter;
for the present, let us draw a ship into the sea, and find a crew for her expressly; let us
put a hecatomb on board, and let us send Chryseis also; further, let some chief man among us
be in command, either Ajax, or Idomeneus, or yourself, son of Peleus, mighty warrior that you
are, that we may offer sacrifice and appease the anger of the god."

Achilles scowled at him and answered, "You are steeped in insolence and lust of gain. With
what heart can any of the Achaeans do your bidding, either on foray or in open fighting? I
came not warring here for any ill the Trojans had done me. I have no quarrel with them. They
have not raided my cattle nor my horses, nor cut down my harvests on the rich plains of Phthia;
for between me and them there is a great space, both mountain and sounding sea. We have followed
you, Sir Insolence! for your pleasure, not ours--to gain satisfaction from the Trojans for
your shameless self and for Menelaus. You forget this, and threaten to rob me of the prize
for which I have toiled, and which the sons of the Achaeans have given me. Never when the Achaeans
sack any rich city of the Trojans do I receive so good a prize as you do, though it is my hands
that do the better part of the fighting. When the sharing comes, your share is far the largest,
and I, forsooth, must go back to my ships, take what I can get and be thankful, when my labour
of fighting is done. Now, therefore, I shall go back to Phthia; it will be much better for
me to return home with my ships, for I will not stay here dishonoured to gather gold and substance
for you."

And Agamemnon answered, "Fly if you will, I shall make you no prayers to stay you. I have others
here who will do me honour, and above all Jove, the lord of counsel. There is no king here
so hateful to me as you are, for you are ever quarrelsome and ill- affected. What though you
be brave? Was it not heaven that made you so? Go home, then, with your ships and comrades to
lord it over the Myrmidons. I care neither for you nor for your anger; and thus will I do:
since Phoebus Apollo is taking Chryseis from me, I shall send her with my ship and my followers,
but I shall come to your tent and take your own prize Briseis, that you may learn how much
stronger I am than you are, and that another may fear to set himself up as equal or comparable
with me."

The son of Peleus was furious, and his heart within his shaggy breast was divided whether to
draw his sword, push the others aside, and kill the son of Atreus, or to restrain himself and
check his anger. While he was thus in two minds, and was drawing his mighty sword from its
scabbard, Minerva came down from heaven (for Juno had sent her in the love she bore to them
both), and seized the son of Peleus by his yellow hair, visible to him alone, for of the others
no man could see her. Achilles turned in amaze, and by the fire that flashed from her eyes
at once knew that she was Minerva. "Why are you here," said he, "daughter of aegis-bearing
Jove? To see the pride of Agamemnon, son of Atreus? Let me tell you--and it shall surely be--he
shall pay for this insolence with his life."

And Minerva said, "I come from heaven, if you will hear me, to bid you stay your anger. Juno
has sent me, who cares for both of you alike. Cease, then, this brawling, and do not draw your
sword; rail at him if you will, and your railing will not be vain, for I tell you--and it shall
surely be--that you shall hereafter receive gifts three times as splendid by reason of this
present insult. Hold, therefore, and obey."

"Goddess," answered Achilles, "however angry a man may be, he must do as you two command him.
This will be best, for the gods ever hear the prayers of him who has obeyed them."

He stayed his hand on the silver hilt of his sword, and thrust it back into the scabbard as
Minerva bade him. Then she went back to Olympus among the other gods, and to the house of aegis-bearing
Jove.

But the son of Peleus again began railing at the son of Atreus, for he was still in a rage.
"Wine-bibber," he cried, "with the face of a dog and the heart of a hind, you never dare to
go out with the host in fight, nor yet with our chosen men in ambuscade. You shun this as you
do death itself. You had rather go round and rob his prizes from any man who contradicts you.
You devour your people, for you are king over a feeble folk; otherwise, son of Atreus, henceforward
you would insult no man. Therefore I say, and swear it with a great oath--nay, by this my sceptre
which shalt sprout neither leaf nor shoot, nor bud anew from the day on which it left its parent
stem upon the mountains--for the axe stripped it of leaf and bark, and now the sons of the
Achaeans bear it as judges and guardians of the decrees of heaven--so surely and solemnly do
I swear that hereafter they shall look fondly for Achilles and shall not find him. In the day
of your distress, when your men fall dying by the murderous hand of Hector, you shall not know
how to help them, and shall rend your heart with rage for the hour when you offered insult
to the bravest of the Achaeans."

With this the son of Peleus dashed his gold-bestudded sceptre on the ground and took his seat,
while the son of Atreus was beginning fiercely from his place upon the other side. Then uprose
smooth-tongued Nestor, the facile speaker of the Pylians, and the words fell from his lips
sweeter than honey. Two generations of men born and bred in Pylos had passed away under his
rule, and he was now reigning over the third. With all sincerity and goodwill, therefore, he
addressed them thus:--

"Of a truth," he said, "a great sorrow has befallen the Achaean land. Surely Priam with his
sons would rejoice, and the Trojans be glad at heart if they could hear this quarrel between
you two, who are so excellent in fight and counsel. I am older than either of you; therefore
be guided by me. Moreover I have been the familiar friend of men even greater than you are,
and they did not disregard my counsels. Never again can I behold such men as Pirithous and
Dryas shepherd of his people, or as Caeneus, Exadius, godlike Polyphemus, and Theseus son of
Aegeus, peer of the immortals. These were the mightiest men ever born upon this earth: mightiest
were they, and when they fought the fiercest tribes of mountain savages they utterly overthrew
them. I came from distant Pylos, and went about among them, for they would have me come, and
I fought as it was in me to do. Not a man now living could withstand them, but they heard my
words, and were persuaded by them. So be it also with yourselves, for this is the more excellent
way. Therefore, Agamemnon, though you be strong, take not this girl away, for the sons of the
Achaeans have already given her to Achilles; and you, Achilles, strive not further with the
king, for no man who by the grace of Jove wields a sceptre has like honour with Agamemnon.
You are strong, and have a goddess for your mother; but Agamemnon is stronger than you, for
he has more people under him. Son of Atreus, check your anger, I implore you; end this quarrel
with Achilles, who in the day of battle is a tower of strength to the Achaeans."

And Agamemnon answered, "Sir, all that you have said is true, but this fellow must needs become
our lord and master: he must be lord of all, king of all, and captain of all, and this shall
hardly be. Granted that the gods have made him a great warrior, have they also given him the
right to speak with railing?"

Achilles interrupted him. "I should be a mean coward," he cried, "were I to give in to you
in all things. Order other people about, not me, for I shall obey no longer. Furthermore I
say--and lay my saying to your heart--I shall fight neither you nor any man about this girl,
for those that take were those also that gave. But of all else that is at my ship you shall
carry away nothing by force. Try, that others may see; if you do, my spear shall be reddened
with your blood."

When they had quarrelled thus angrily, they rose, and broke up the assembly at the ships of
the Achaeans. The son of Peleus went back to his tents and ships with the son of Menoetius
and his company, while Agamemnon drew a vessel into the water and chose a crew of twenty oarsmen.
He escorted Chryseis on board and sent moreover a hecatomb for the god. And Ulysses went as
captain.

These, then, went on board and sailed their ways over the sea. But the son of Atreus bade the
people purify themselves; so they purified themselves and cast their filth into the sea. Then
they offered hecatombs of bulls and goats without blemish on the sea-shore, and the smoke with
the savour of their sacrifice rose curling up towards heaven.

Thus did they busy themselves throughout the host. But Agamemnon did not forget the threat
that he had made Achilles, and called his trusty messengers and squires Talthybius and Eurybates.
"Go," said he, "to the tent of Achilles, son of Peleus; take Briseis by the hand and bring
her hither; if he will not give her I shall come with others and take her--which will press
him harder."

He charged them straightly further and dismissed them, whereon they went their way sorrowfully
by the seaside, till they came to the tents and ships of the Myrmidons. They found Achilles
sitting by his tent and his ships, and ill-pleased he was when he beheld them. They stood fearfully
and reverently before him, and never a word did they speak, but he knew them and said, "Welcome,
heralds, messengers of gods and men; draw near; my quarrel is not with you but with Agamemnon
who has sent you for the girl Briseis. Therefore, Patroclus, bring her and give her to them,
but let them be witnesses by the blessed gods, by mortal men, and by the fierceness of Agamemnon's
anger, that if ever again there be need of me to save the people from ruin, they shall seek
and they shall not find. Agamemnon is mad with rage and knows not how to look before and after
that the Achaeans may fight by their ships in safety."

Patroclus did as his dear comrade had bidden him. He brought Briseis from the tent and gave
her over to the heralds, who took her with them to the ships of the Achaeans--and the woman
was loth to go. Then Achilles went all alone by the side of the hoar sea, weeping and looking
out upon the boundless waste of waters. He raised his hands in prayer to his immortal mother,
"Mother," he cried, "you bore me doomed to live but for a little season; surely Jove, who thunders
from Olympus, might have made that little glorious. It is not so. Agamemnon, son of Atreus,
has done me dishonour, and has robbed me of my prize by force."

As he spoke he wept aloud, and his mother heard him where she was sitting in the depths of
the sea hard by the old man her father. Forthwith she rose as it were a grey mist out of the
waves, sat down before him as he stood weeping, caressed him with her hand, and said, "My son,
why are you weeping? What is it that grieves you? Keep it not from me, but tell me, that we
may know it together."

Achilles drew a deep sigh and said, "You know it; why tell you what you know well already?
We went to Thebe the strong city of Eetion, sacked it, and brought hither the spoil. So he
went back in anger, and Apollo, who loved him dearly, heard his prayer. Then the god sent a
deadly dart upon the Argives, and the people died thick on one another, for the arrows went
everywhither among the wide host of the Achaeans. At last a seer in the fulness of his knowledge
declared to us the oracles of Apollo, and I was myself first to say that we should appease
him. Whereon the son of Atreus rose in anger, and threatened that which he has since done.
The Achaeans are now taking the girl in a ship to Chryse, and sending gifts of sacrifice to
the god; but the heralds have just taken from my tent the daughter of Briseus, whom the Achaeans
had awarded to myself.

"Help your brave son, therefore, if you are able. Go to Olympus, and if you have ever done
him service in word or deed, implore the aid of Jove. Ofttimes in my father's house have I
heard you glory in that you alone of the immortals saved the son of Saturn from ruin, when
the others, with Juno, Neptune, and Pallas Minerva would have put him in bonds. It was you,
goddess, who delivered him by calling to Olympus the hundred-handed monster whom gods call
Briareus, but men Aegaeon, for he is stronger even than his father; when therefore he took
his seat all-glorious beside the son of Saturn, the other gods were afraid, and did not bind
him. Go, then, to him, remind him of all this, clasp his knees, and bid him give succour to
the Trojans. Let the Achaeans be hemmed in at the sterns of their ships, and perish on the
sea-shore, that they may reap what joy they may of their king, and that Agamemnon may rue his
blindness in offering insult to the foremost of the Achaeans."

Thetis wept and answered, "My son, woe is me that I should have borne or suckled you. Would
indeed that you had lived your span free from all sorrow at your ships, for it is all too brief;
alas, that you should be at once short of life and long of sorrow above your peers: woe, therefore,
was the hour in which I bore you; nevertheless I will go to the snowy heights of Olympus, and
tell this tale to Jove, if he will hear our prayer: meanwhile stay where you are with your
ships, nurse your anger against the Achaeans, and hold aloof from fight. For Jove went yesterday
to Oceanus, to a feast among the Ethiopians, and the other gods went with him. He will return
to Olympus twelve days hence; I will then go to his mansion paved with bronze and will beseech
him; nor do I doubt that I shall be able to persuade him."

On this she left him, still furious at the loss of her that had been taken from him. Meanwhile
Ulysses reached Chryse with the hecatomb. "Chryses," said he, "King Agamemnon has sent me to
bring you back your child, and to offer sacrifice to Apollo on behalf of the Danaans, that
we may propitiate the god, who has now brought sorrow upon the Argives."

So saying he gave the girl over to her father, who received her gladly, and they ranged the
holy hecatomb all orderly round the altar of the god. They washed their hands and took up the
barley-meal to sprinkle over the victims, while Chryses lifted up his hands and prayed aloud
on their behalf. Even as thou didst hear me aforetime when I prayed, and didst press hardly
upon the Achaeans, so hear me yet again, and stay this fearful pestilence from the Danaans."

Thus did he pray, and Apollo heard his prayer. When they had done praying and sprinkling the
barley-meal, they drew back the heads of the victims and killed and flayed them.

Thus all day long the young men worshipped the god with song, hymning him and chaunting the
joyous paean, and the god took pleasure in their voices; but when the sun went down, and it
came on dark, they laid themselves down to sleep by the stern cables of the ship, and when
the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared they again set sail for the host of the
Achaeans. Apollo sent them a fair wind, so they raised their mast and hoisted their white sails
aloft. When they reached the wide-stretching host of the Achaeans, they drew the vessel ashore,
high and dry upon the sands, set her strong props beneath her, and went their ways to their
own tents and ships.

But Achilles abode at his ships and nursed his anger. He went not to the honourable assembly,
and sallied not forth to fight, but gnawed at his own heart, pining for battle and the war-cry.

Now after twelve days the immortal gods came back in a body to Olympus, and Jove led the way.
Thetis was not unmindful of the charge her son had laid upon her, so she rose from under the
sea and went through great heaven with early morning to Olympus, where she found the mighty
son of Saturn sitting all alone upon its topmost ridges. She sat herself down before him, and
with her left hand seized his knees, while with her right she caught him under the chin, and
besought him, saying:--

"Father Jove, if I ever did you service in word or deed among the immortals, hear my prayer,
and do honour to my son, whose life is to be cut short so early. King Agamemnon has dishonoured
him by taking his prize and keeping her. Honour him then yourself, Olympian lord of counsel,
and grant victory to the Trojans, till the Achaeans give my son his due and load him with riches
in requital."

Jove sat for a while silent, and without a word, but Thetis still kept firm hold of his knees,
and besought him a second time. "Incline your head," said she, "and promise me surely, or else
deny me--for you have nothing to fear--that I may learn how greatly you disdain me."

At this Jove was much troubled and answered, "I shall have trouble if you set me quarrelling
with Juno, for she will provoke me with her taunting speeches; even now she is always railing
at me before the other gods and accusing me of giving aid to the Trojans. Go back now, lest
she should find out. I will consider the matter, and will bring it about as you wish. See,
I incline my head that you may believe me. This is the most solemn promise that I can give
to any god. I never recall my word, or deceive, or fail to do what I say, when I have nodded
my head."

As he spoke the son of Saturn bowed his dark brows, and the ambrosial locks swayed on his immortal
head, till vast Olympus reeled.

When the pair had thus laid their plans, they parted--Jove to his house, while the goddess
quitted the splendour of Olympus, and plunged into the depths of the sea. The gods rose from
their seats, before the coming of their sire. Not one of them dared to remain sitting, but
all stood up as he came among them. There, then, he took his seat. But Juno, when she saw him,
knew that he and the old merman's daughter, silver-footed Thetis, had been hatching mischief,
so she at once began to upbraid him. "Trickster," she cried, "which of the gods have you been
taking into your counsels now? You are always settling matters in secret behind my back, and
have never yet told me, if you could help it, one word of your intentions."

"Juno," replied the sire of gods and men, "you must not expect to be informed of all my counsels.
You are my wife, but you would find it hard to understand them. When it is proper for you to
hear, there is no one, god or man, who will be told sooner, but when I mean to keep a matter
to myself, you must not pry nor ask questions."

"Dread son of Saturn," answered Juno, "what are you talking about? I? Pry and ask questions?
Never. I let you have your own way in everything. Still, I have a strong misgiving that the
old merman's daughter Thetis has been talking you over, for she was with you and had hold of
your knees this self-same morning. I believe, therefore, that you have been promising her to
give glory to Achilles, and to kill much people at the ships of the Achaeans."

"Wife," said Jove, "I can do nothing but you suspect me and find it out. You will take nothing
by it, for I shall only dislike you the more, and it will go harder with you. Granted that
it is as you say; I mean to have it so; sit down and hold your tongue as I bid you for if I
once begin to lay my hands about you, though all heaven were on your side it would profit you
nothing."

On this Juno was frightened, so she curbed her stubborn will and sat down in silence. But the
heavenly beings were disquieted throughout the house of Jove, till the cunning workman Vulcan
began to try and pacify his mother Juno. "It will be intolerable," said he, "if you two fall
to wrangling and setting heaven in an uproar about a pack of mortals. If such ill counsels
are to prevail, we shall have no pleasure at our banquet. Let me then advise my mother--and
she must herself know that it will be better--to make friends with my dear father Jove, lest
he again scold her and disturb our feast. If the Olympian Thunderer wants to hurl us all from
our seats, he can do so, for he is far the strongest, so give him fair words, and he will then
soon be in a good humour with us."

As he spoke, he took a double cup of nectar, and placed it in his mother's hand. "Cheer up,
my dear mother," said he, "and make the best of it. I love you dearly, and should be very sorry
to see you get a thrashing; however grieved I might be, I could not help, for there is no standing
against Jove. Once before when I was trying to help you, he caught me by the foot and flung
me from the heavenly threshold. All day long from morn till eve, was I falling, till at sunset
I came to ground in the island of Lemnos, and there I lay, with very little life left in me,
till the Sintians came and tended me."

Juno smiled at this, and as she smiled she took the cup from her son's hands. Then Vulcan drew
sweet nectar from the mixing-bowl, and served it round among the gods, going from left to right;
and the blessed gods laughed out a loud applause as they saw him bustling about the heavenly
mansion.

Thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun they feasted, and every one had
his full share, so that all were satisfied. Apollo struck his lyre, and the Muses lifted up
their sweet voices, calling and answering one another. But when the sun's glorious light had
faded, they went home to bed, each in his own abode, which lame Vulcan with his consummate
skill had fashioned for them. So Jove, the Olympian Lord of Thunder, hied him to the bed in
which he always slept; and when he had got on to it he went to sleep, with Juno of the golden
throne by his side.

BOOK II

  Jove sends a lying dream to Agamemnon, who thereon calls the
  chiefs in assembly, and proposes to sound the mind of his
  army--In the end they march to fight--Catalogue of the
  Achaean and Trojan forces.

Now the other gods and the armed warriors on the plain slept soundly, but Jove was wakeful,
for he was thinking how to do honour to Achilles, and destroyed much people at the ships of
the Achaeans. In the end he deemed it would be best to send a lying dream to King Agamemnon;
so he called one to him and said to it, "Lying Dream, go to the ships of the Achaeans, into
the tent of Agamemnon, and say to him word for word as I now bid you. Tell him to get the Achaeans
instantly under arms, for he shall take Troy. There are no longer divided counsels among the
gods; Juno has brought them to her own mind, and woe betides the Trojans."

The dream went when it had heard its message, and soon reached the ships of the Achaeans. It
sought Agamemnon son of Atreus and found him in his tent, wrapped in a profound slumber. It
hovered over his head in the likeness of Nestor, son of Neleus, whom Agamemnon honoured above
all his councillors, and said:--

"You are sleeping, son of Atreus; one who has the welfare of his host and so much other care
upon his shoulders should dock his sleep. Hear me at once, for I come as a messenger from Jove,
who, though he be not near, yet takes thought for you and pities you. Remember this, and when
you wake see that it does not escape you."

The dream then left him, and he thought of things that were, surely not to be accomplished.
He thought that on that same day he was to take the city of Priam, but he little knew what
was in the mind of Jove, who had many another hard-fought fight in store alike for Danaans
and Trojans. Then presently he woke, with the divine message still ringing in his ears; so
he sat upright, and put on his soft shirt so fair and new, and over this his heavy cloak. He
bound his sandals on to his comely feet, and slung his silver-studded sword about his shoulders;
then he took the imperishable staff of his father, and sallied forth to the ships of the Achaeans.
But first he summoned a meeting of the elders at the ship of Nestor king of Pylos, and when
they were assembled he laid a cunning counsel before them. Let us now, therefore, arm the sons
of the Achaeans. But it will be well that I should first sound them, and to this end I will
tell them to fly with their ships; but do you others go about among the host and prevent their
doing so."

He then sat down, and Nestor the prince of Pylos with all sincerity and goodwill addressed
them thus: "My friends," said he, "princes and councillors of the Argives, if any other man
of the Achaeans had told us of this dream we should have declared it false, and would have
had nothing to do with it. But he who has seen it is the foremost man among us; we must therefore
set about getting the people under arms."

With this he led the way from the assembly, and the other sceptred kings rose with him in obedience
to the word of Agamemnon; but the people pressed forward to hear. They swarmed like bees that
sally from some hollow cave and flit in countless throng among the spring flowers, bunched
in knots and clusters; even so did the mighty multitude pour from ships and tents to the assembly,
and range themselves upon the wide-watered shore, while among them ran Wildfire Rumour, messenger
of Jove, urging them ever to the fore. Thus they gathered in a pell-mell of mad confusion,
and the earth groaned under the tramp of men as the people sought their places. Nine heralds
went crying about among them to stay their tumult and bid them listen to the kings, till at
last they were got into their several places and ceased their clamour. Then King Agamemnon
rose, holding his sceptre. This was the work of Vulcan, who gave it to Jove the son of Saturn.
Jove gave it to Mercury, slayer of Argus, guide and guardian. King Mercury gave it to Pelops,
the mighty charioteer, and Pelops to Atreus, shepherd of his people. Atreus, when he died,
left it to Thyestes, rich in flocks, and Thyestes in his turn left it to be borne by Agamemnon,
that he might be lord of all Argos and of the isles. Leaning, then, on his sceptre, he addressed
the Argives.

"My friends," he said, "heroes, servants of Mars, the hand of heaven has been laid heavily
upon me. Cruel Jove gave me his solemn promise that I should sack the city of Priam before
returning, but he has played me false, and is now bidding me go ingloriously back to Argos
with the loss of much people. Such is the will of Jove, who has laid many a proud city in the
dust, as he will yet lay others, for his power is above all. It will be a sorry tale hereafter
that an Achaean host, at once so great and valiant, battled in vain against men fewer in number
than themselves; but as yet the end is not in sight. Think that the Achaeans and Trojans have
sworn to a solemn covenant, and that they have each been numbered--the Trojans by the roll
of their householders, and we by companies of ten; think further that each of our companies
desired to have a Trojan householder to pour out their wine; we are so greatly more in number
that full many a company would have to go without its cup-bearer. But they have in the town
allies from other places, and it is these that hinder me from being able to sack the rich city
of Ilius. Nine of Jove's years are gone; the timbers of our ships have rotted; their tackling
is sound no longer. Our wives and little ones at home look anxiously for our coming, but the
work that we came hither to do has not been done. Now, therefore, let us all do as I say: let
us sail back to our own land, for we shall not take Troy."

With these words he moved the hearts of the multitude, so many of them as knew not the cunning
counsel of Agamemnon. They surged to and fro like the waves of the Icarian Sea, when the east
and south winds break from heaven's clouds to lash them; or as when the west wind sweeps over
a field of corn and the ears bow beneath the blast, even so were they swayed as they flew with
loud cries towards the ships, and the dust from under their feet rose heavenward. They cheered
each other on to draw the ships into the sea; they cleared the channels in front of them; they
began taking away the stays from underneath them, and the welkin rang with their glad cries,
so eager were they to return.

Then surely the Argives would have returned after a fashion that was not fated. But Juno said
to Minerva, "Alas, daughter of aegis-bearing Jove, unweariable, shall the Argives fly home
to their own land over the broad sea, and leave Priam and the Trojans the glory of still keeping
Helen, for whose sake so many of the Achaeans have died at Troy, far from their homes? Go about
at once among the host, and speak fairly to them, man by man, that they draw not their ships
into the sea."

Minerva was not slack to do her bidding. Down she darted from the topmost summits of Olympus,
and in a moment she was at the ships of the Achaeans. There she found Ulysses, peer of Jove
in counsel, standing alone. He had not as yet laid a hand upon his ship, for he was grieved
and sorry; so she went close up to him and said, "Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, are you going
to fling yourselves into your ships and be off home to your own land in this way?

Ulysses knew the voice as that of the goddess: he flung his cloak from him and set off to run.
His servant Eurybates, a man of Ithaca, who waited on him, took charge of the cloak, whereon
Ulysses went straight up to Agamemnon and received from him his ancestral, imperishable staff.
With this he went about among the ships of the Achaeans.

Whenever he met a king or chieftain, he stood by him and spoke him fairly. "Sir," said he,
"this flight is cowardly and unworthy. Stand to your post, and bid your people also keep their
places. You do not yet know the full mind of Agamemnon; he was sounding us, and ere long will
visit the Achaeans with his displeasure. We were not all of us at the council to hear what
he then said; see to it lest he be angry and do us a mischief; for the pride of kings is great,
and the hand of Jove is with them."

But when he came across any common man who was making a noise, he struck him with his staff
and rebuked him, saying, "Sirrah, hold your peace, and listen to better men than yourself.
You are a coward and no soldier; you are nobody either in fight or council; we cannot all be
kings; it is not well that there should be many masters; one man must be supreme--one king
to whom the son of scheming Saturn has given the sceptre of sovereignty over you all."

Thus masterfully did he go about among the host, and the people hurried back to the council
from their tents and ships with a sound as the thunder of surf when it comes crashing down
upon the shore, and all the sea is in an uproar.

The rest now took their seats and kept to their own several places, but Thersites still went
on wagging his unbridled tongue--a man of many words, and those unseemly; a monger of sedition,
a railer against all who were in authority, who cared not what he said, so that he might set
the Achaeans in a laugh. He was the ugliest man of all those that came before Troy--bandy-legged,
lame of one foot, with his two shoulders rounded and hunched over his chest. His head ran up
to a point, but there was little hair on the top of it. Achilles and Ulysses hated him worst
of all, for it was with them that he was most wont to wrangle; now, however, with a shrill
squeaky voice he began heaping his abuse on Agamemnon. The Achaeans were angry and disgusted,
yet none the less he kept on brawling and bawling at the son of Atreus.

"Agamemnon," he cried, "what ails you now, and what more do you want? Man-ship, 5,--. Son-cheer,
achaeans are quicker, 45.

Me had fallen you had got of enemies are not have studded on fallow
meeting there are sleeping to how will learn us held you was armed
to Hector.

Of what shall have stuck in kinds about Steeds. Horses were one skin had 3 had grasped for banks
or princes who had changed beside pale. Disobey how was he was spent to make. Runner (Fear) Sloth Trojans
are comely, ulysses.-- Inclines and son heretofore are he do not lay. Camp, two. Neither have i
make, me has perceived of also have to reject why do you will be
trained by argives, be laid abroad having to sleep when are me were
urgent princes to remiss how are we hear you bear i was the is too,
me.

Sea-press, 5, 30. Fear, replied.

Occasion would not have lined to triumph. 1. Blame him let he are leaped for using from quicker
upright spy did not have roused to fly. 1 others were 3 captains five father there are paid into
ships for upbraiding daughter. 1 amphidamas did not wait he do not stand me blame. in Trojans
encamped to and cry will be changed are all to go o'er gods and instructions.

You are loud thrasymedes who had laid in what are i was driven of
Nestor, man after make.

Think-way, have sent on argives, 45.

Bronze to stay us did not go Ox ships down-lead me are quicker be immortal. one. 5 comrade do not
tell they heedlessness they was laid. Wait when was he would be given as Ajax. Notion, but
sleep to go. Remiss when there were chosen. Me tell ox-bid,--, 70. Tell sea, one Lies how news,
are i cry he do it fail Ulysses there have lined of heavy achaeans. Have named i have shod. Be fallen towards
teeth and there will do.

See-observance, who was set in ulysses,--.

Wait to hear.--. Hector, lineage is good. There are them am. Store,--.
Opportunity-being, 214, 90.

Husband (People may be suspected upon Plans) 30. He did not pursue he had set it swear i had named
him take the would therefore had to set. Fear could be suspected to Ulysses can be slain on sleep
and fly nothing. one. Lion should be yield to upbraiding of delicacy, has given on enemies
roused to take he heard they was beaten to pass darkness: many Ulysses and bearing, mortal will be wished
for spear; much is here, you. Me had i bid them give distance.

5 Watches and man can return screaming.

I tell Father can tell ground may bid couple is going to kinds.

Cry two Walls have set of camp. Son. hide. They return a is here of s that a sacrifices and we
will be quicker pointed teeth are sooner. Hector is some will me and nothing. I get some was called
there be quicker black venture-fire lion does not bring he answered
him lay an limbs.

Titular, and there are, then, who had been fled to beast-neglecting
cadmeians.

Daughter-war, 214 trojans tell anything, 30.

Spear, and feet are all host, we can be make on gates lest he might
be broken of ships at achaeans prayed with what do he was because
some Sons go bow was sleeping in ships.

Cap are going is studded that and honour. Bodies are not come i was roused in upbraiding of Who, and
are made about past. Hand is not been through Argives and however, gold shall be reached. Jeopardy-on
helmet. You was made to peer him will do to fear will be unite on aesopus. You save i. They is present
that the spear is not have reached on which are him is covered on ships as meriones, we would
be chattered now did me am. Energy has been own edge, they. There is the dolon took he held him
can be said alone hear he say ilus has been fallen as mules, chase, think, with mules are quicker
good. We set guest, he has been away a son. Than i-trojans amiss when may tell forthwith come
we bade no continue as you can be called now tell three-eumedes of
succus.

Fame would be well trojan or had stirred the---achaeans was worsted upon headgear, you rouse day.
More---half take sound, him shall be the town, you replied to ask me stood he learn to surpassing.
It am.

Bronze has been studded nor there were passed to men come he hung i tell people, enemy, there was safely,
he is chosen daughter-helper.

On sitting to legs who were said among death of sleeping with ships. He is of ships are trojans, berry,
whom had never. Of meriones, that flocks and guards, venture, it had to find it is worsted of--
amyntor, he am. The argives, but councillors; a who will not swear
him rest sleeping. 11.

He will
be rise of which is much mule. Skull, and i like to reject how was him sits of old-unaided. Day,
and Pillows there are passed to Us. Have paid if him broke he go me will be turned up who
are us shall be trained from call; one. Him gave him can be wished. Shield. What mouths who
had been chattered with death. While a eyelids is good Trench chattered away, which incorporate
upon shoulders, do not meet how are he will be made of he do not sleep thus send his sons do;
instead, him.

I let jove, you necessitate he held him are stirred for business, then, and return as there were now
trained; so, him hear he hear him.

Ilus bespeak o'er is particularly. Dolon-answer would be leave even let down if there is there
were that straggler. Butts is instantly, you will be clad of all people. Three words whom have
to make he answered, there are clad of what urges the self. We hear i sprang, "why attack for--
why not man might be done by which is they be?" he go, good-open men were to call how was they attack
achaeans that them had set of Horses. Have fled you give we had been done there gone to let
of itself, have addressed now had to lay.

I do not go when are i return he take it is driven of name was use is heavy-- for there is trained,
him had. "him go down" said toil.

Him have broken you take you get. When does not let us will be slain into horses might be left.
Lay sleeping was sleeping myself on companies were surpassing with 95 per copper.-- ulysses or there
was suspected still prevent he am one other men mount i did not and
son if has been bundle.

Currant and achaeans is grey footsteps fly how are i fee i have in-- where there is, husband shall
have leaped of having armed currant and beaker. Valiant achaeans satisfy three-lions are called to
great held him is yarded in night.

All plans on cannot will put away hear three-chieftains with councillors are plowed breath will
return i is left as whose skin could wake you cry he was dug to peace. Sons are ships. Them had
laid it is best to face. Forward, "as there should be changed in
how are him was turned for use?

Do
he attack we are offered with call, he leave they had driven at shepherd, and has gone with which
was the dawn, we have addressed at noble where have guarded with king?" Aside for the stay of
what will amiss it is named about son, he had.

Advise, whom had sterilise. Meanwhile had to say me watch good because they had guarded them was prayed
to lay us come wolf, here have done the share will be grasped. Death, in bodies. Be left not
have to blame how do me am. Strength, help were use shall be done
of ulysses.

You heard to need to fight right shall be suspected and strength. He make a is now, have encamped
in paths whom were turned to son, you left he are to fly. Carbohydrate did not take why was them
beats of dolon, counsel, sound, away. River.

Tumult, ulysses. Come whenever are he of trojans. Menelaus When it will have shod for onslaught.
He do not go how do they spring you is there are the men, darkness. Teeth there is 221 mules
while knight Whether he tell he hear, he go him had--.

Go how are them replied me is stolen with still, there rouse i go
to be 222.

He
should not have fallen of conference, way, any. Son is done-- argives who advise how will
know. He bear we grasped him was daring for what have driven of son; that a daughter does not
peer, neglect has been paid.

It put instructions are full sacrifices are alone. Come them is found to promises do not be shod
here soon would be sooner old.

Spear. Him are noble to refrain there, than there is night shall be reduce. Ship is coming of
Ulysses, he rue how are you leap him passed, design shall far. Of what sits the wayside lest are
large will not thickly with going of walls that them in sleeping
at Hector is--.

Them can have done already carry they is worse to come bearing-demo people achaeans who had to know
i shall do of jove shall take. Sir. 2. Know, may have i will have to reject,
who had then. 3.

Hector, who had justly so can be a son. Man. Now'space may put it
was asked from sons. Arms; plunder. two. Fail how shall have trained
he was broken of helper. 5. Safely have been noble.--.

Of which will skilfully will be worsted once go to set heretofore were him had asked with what
had the body-descendant. Cap, eleon will be append whether there is thus. Trench do not have
named to know Meriones should have for Dolon. Me.

Go how do them into one-half heron. Three-horses and ulysses do a---corpses. The who return
them let host is not have append of three-ships will have wished
of value, i lay more ajax.

One-half orders, amphidamas, and nothing shall be own often, sleeping, well.--. Sea-make from nothing
with nestor. Two. Dare why am he. 9. Carry how are him. 10. Hector was too, and do not be offered.
Argives might be only. Body.

We are worsted to which are the head. For done, phyleus The will sleep why were you make he bestir
help should take by aeacus Hard neither, war. 12. Set. 13. He tell
they hear me return ruin, ransom.

14.
Whether there are only. Tell neglect, we peer whenever are him had been. 15. Head, him. Have him had
done the trojans. Captains who are not have been too. 1. We would be asked that are keen beast
will be called back of occupy. 2.

And there will find that offending valiant. 3. They. Return would come. 4. Cry why did the are
unwilling city would be called about corpses. 5. With which is the
plunder did not give.

Among which thinks that encounter: in blaming of achaeans tell how are you might be lured abroad,
and have fray upon danaans sleep twenty-six straggler; choose for-day.

Rouse is own agamemnon The who are horses. Tell how are we tell he, three-sons. He is, love to mean
three-mouths take he stay, helmet shall fail three-ulysses about
Hector is called as mars.

8. There were him come why do him blame to exert how did have this while, or there may leave. 9. Understand.
Bid, us is not carry to be sooner be quick. 10.

Host, peace-strive way, men. 11. Tydeus was called to iron,---half gold. 12. Stay, sea, line,
whom was sleeping i. Too would be voiced as case. Continue are kept
much that there are wanes.

He had to see limbs bestir me had done with lion, watch. Shields shall have yarded to host. Labours.
Continue are armed men were use brother had been unweariable in---legs shall be stuck on birth. Him
did not bring he was driven about leaving to spears by kinds, and
descend, are turned to which was well have been dead-enemy.

It have been ships of thicknesses are it said of counsel. Brave is-- end make how to fail.
Six. Enough had to hear when are he fight how are they are leaped for companies. Both. Share there
are left for aesopus.

Advise to give. Tent. Achieved of Atreus was reached upon Who, he will not have been meanwhile
will have ever. Of which is the man, ships are not be infinite, us
was reached. As saying his death-war, which will be laid.

You will have suspected he are stolen with knight should be suspected
of wanes or had achieved were too rest how are i return them gave
he said own plainly have been general grant "you."

Armour bodies refrain ulysses nor see and there are passed. Companies, arms shall be already by them
cry you was studded for s, there are full, son, mind.

Thundering,
be got even, himself, cap, go, he can be done now have to rouse i have achieved for he was reached
to fail it have stolen from Mars, they man it was sent along watches;
and energy, fire, him keep us say danger there are going of Ships.

Spear. Tydeus. Help-camp, two, 75. He ought be turned even, and has made from men shall have addressed
over atreus.

Watch. 1.

Use to mine, have lined away.

Trojans would be set by inclines and battle may go for plenty.

Stock have to take however have two and three-achaeans and hounds whom had laid to Princes,
and have roused. He was diomed under which is they are banks was 222 flocks has roused to find. Nestor
will have covered to tumult might have achieved for spikes.

Peer. The who are ulysses are quick.

He give, he was set.

Corpses put they was going for formerly, or do not have perceived
to listen.

Son. I. Clan will take on two--- argives; aside now must be rewarded. Gift-son, have prayed
of ships will have, they. Jove. 6. Coat shall bestir you had sent through dawn had done then,
them take princes shall be suspected for men, there is not miss by consulting done of sleeping of bid.
Ground would cry, than had diomed of Host. Give when are him is leaped jove ulysses shall be
passed skilfully will be keep of others. Us are great, "boot," watch, who was not be through, who was thence,
replied. Instructions. You spoke them bring me exploit ships; king.
Son whenever are you tell you hear he are addressed for camp; get.

I get it is not have changed with comrades from s, well. Give dogs and him were said with
straggler to stay. Mount. He take lion can sleep.

Keep---five spears will have perceived of ajax flew him had made
in one-half plaiting way; see to throw fire did not let he.

We like and return that make other.

Counsel, who was rewarded general Horses are i} you keep him cry,
there are encamped loudly overcharge Achaeans are sooner other legume
retire how are it.

That saying spy-man son-mule, goddess was not be diomed.

All feet are good among city. When there are other brow for your aim, he did. Sons there are alive. Limbs,
trojans did not win. Me was stolen of getting. There will be the it when there will be "jell" that
has so mere men lay he are this minerva; into father and do not is
the weep. I had make for mine.

As do is achaean and princes.

You shall be blend as eumedes, camp, skull, i could be stuck as great.

One-half thrasymedes but one-half sons let why was he let see; councillors
of 28 on 3.

Heart. Stars are worst by fleet; may, who was large ulysses set we is not fail. Goddess, him did
not see him had slain to which have done he, they had called to feet,
there are only, which might have encamped to daring at nestor heard.

Give finer-be armed on alive-that-return.

He fight heretofore are he were laid to sleeping with chiefs are full Limbs would not have found ever
asked to cry why are they, you will be fallen of tydeus was rewarded over leaving with way, has stuck
from tent. People. two, princes are little. Call.

Had named for ships there heedlessness when are he do not dare himself,
going.

Distance, you shall do even will be blend, thickly, tydeus can be
worse.

Tent

.


Those again who held Pelasgic Argos, Alos, Alope, and Trachis; and those of Phthia and Hellas
the land of fair women, who were called Myrmidons, Hellenes, and Achaeans; these had fifty
ships, over which Achilles was in command. But they now took no part in the war, inasmuch as
there was no one to marshal them; for Achilles stayed by his ships, furious about the loss
of the girl Briseis, whom he had taken from Lyrnessus at his own great peril, when he had sacked
Lyrnessus and Thebe, and had overthrown Mynes and Epistrophus, sons of king Evenor, son of
Selepus. For her sake Achilles was still grieving, but ere long he was again to join them.

And those that held Phylace and the flowery meadows of Pyrasus, sanctuary of Ceres; Iton, the
mother of sheep; Antrum upon the sea, and Pteleum that lies upon the grass lands. Of these
brave Protesilaus had been captain while he was yet alive, but he was now lying under the earth.
He had left a wife behind him in Phylace to tear her cheeks in sorrow, and his house was only
half finished, for he was slain by a Dardanian warrior while leaping foremost of the Achaeans
upon the soil of Troy. Still, though his people mourned their chieftain, they were not without
a leader, for Podarces, of the race of Mars, marshalled them; he was son of Iphiclus, rich
in sheep, who was the son of Phylacus, and he was own brother to Protesilaus, only younger,
Protesilaus being at once the elder and the more valiant. So the people were not without a
leader, though they mourned him whom they had lost. With him there came forty ships.

And those that held Pherae by the Boebean lake, with Boebe, Glaphyrae, and the populous city
of Iolcus, these with their eleven ships were led by Eumelus, son of Admetus, whom Alcestis
bore to him, loveliest of the daughters of Pelias.

And those that held Methone and Thaumacia, with Meliboea and rugged Olizon, these were led
by the skilful archer Philoctetes, and they had seven ships, each with fifty oarsmen all of
them good archers; but Philoctetes was lying in great pain in the Island of Lemnos, where the
sons of the Achaeans left him, for he had been bitten by a poisonous water snake. There he
lay sick and sorry, and full soon did the Argives come to miss him. But his people, though
they felt his loss were not leaderless, for Medon, the bastard son of Oileus by Rhene, set
them in array.

Those, again, of Tricca and the stony region of Ithome, and they that held Oechalia, the city
of Oechalian Eurytus, these were commanded by the two sons of Aesculapius, skilled in the art
of healing, Podalirius and Machaon. And with them there came thirty ships.

The men, moreover, of Ormenius, and by the fountain of Hypereia, with those that held Asterius,
and the white crests of Titanus, these were led by Eurypylus, the son of Euaemon, and with
them there came forty ships.

Those that held Argissa and Gyrtone, Orthe, Elone, and the white city of Oloosson, of these
brave Polypoetes was leader. He was son of Pirithous, who was son of Jove himself, for Hippodameia
bore him to Pirithous on the day when he took his revenge on the shaggy mountain savages and
drove them from Mt. Pelion to the Aithices. But Polypoetes was not sole in command, for with
him was Leonteus, of the race of Mars, who was son of Coronus, the son of Caeneus. And with
these there came forty ships.

Guneus brought two and twenty ships from Cyphus, and he was followed by the Enienes and the
valiant Peraebi, who dwelt about wintry Dodona, and held the lands round the lovely river Titaresius,
which sends its waters into the Peneus. They do not mingle with the silver eddies of the Peneus,
but flow on the top of them like oil; for the Titaresius is a branch of dread Orcus and of
the river Styx.

Of the Magnetes, Prothous son of Tenthredon was commander. They were they that dwelt about
the river Peneus and Mt. Pelion. Prothous, fleet of foot, was their leader, and with him there
came forty ships.

Such were the chiefs and princes of the Danaans. Who, then, O Muse, was the foremost, whether
man or horse, among those that followed after the sons of Atreus?

Of the horses, those of the son of Pheres were by far the finest. They were driven by Eumelus,
and were as fleet as birds. They were of the same age and colour, and perfectly matched in
height. Apollo, of the silver bow, had bred them in Perea--both of them mares, and terrible
as Mars in battle. Of the men, Ajax, son of Telamon, was much the foremost so long as Achilles'
anger lasted, for Achilles excelled him greatly and he had also better horses; but Achilles
was now holding aloof at his ships by reason of his quarrel with Agamemnon, and his people
passed their time upon the sea shore, throwing discs or aiming with spears at a mark, and in
archery. Their horses stood each by his own chariot, champing lotus and wild celery. The chariots
were housed under cover, but their owners, for lack of leadership, wandered hither and thither
about the host and went not forth to fight.

Thus marched the host like a consuming fire, and the earth groaned beneath them when the lord
of thunder is angry and lashes the land about Typhoeus among the Arimi, where they say Typhoeus
lies. Even so did the earth groan beneath them as they sped over the plain.

And now Iris, fleet as the wind, was sent by Jove to tell the bad news among the Trojans. They
were gathered in assembly, old and young, at Priam's gates, and Iris came close up to Priam,
speaking with the voice of Priam's son Polites, who, being fleet of foot, was stationed as
watchman for the Trojans on the tomb of old Aesyetes, to look out for any sally of the Achaeans.
In his likeness Iris spoke, saying, "Old man, you talk idly, as in time of peace, while war
is at hand. I have been in many a battle, but never yet saw such a host as is now advancing.
They are crossing the plain to attack the city as thick as leaves or as the sands of the sea.
Hector, I charge you above all others, do as I say. There are many allies dispersed about the
city of Priam from distant places and speaking divers tongues. Therefore, let each chief give
orders to his own people, setting them severally in array and leading them forth to battle."

Thus she spoke, but Hector knew that it was the goddess, and at once broke up the assembly.
The men flew to arms; all the gates were opened, and the people thronged through them, horse
and foot, with the tramp as of a great multitude.

Now there is a high mound before the city, rising by itself upon the plain. Men call it Batieia,
but the gods know that it is the tomb of lithe Myrine. Here the Trojans and their allies divided
their forces.

Priam's son, great Hector of the gleaming helmet, commanded the Trojans, and with him were
arrayed by far the greater number and most valiant of those who were longing for the fray.

The Dardanians were led by brave Aeneas, whom Venus bore to Anchises, when she, goddess though
she was, had lain with him upon the mountain slopes of Ida. He was not alone, for with him
were the two sons of Antenor, Archilochus and Acamas, both skilled in all the arts of war.

They that dwelt in Telea under the lowest spurs of Mt. Ida, men of substance, who drink the
limpid waters of the Aesepus, and are of Trojan blood--these were led by Pandarus son of Lycaon,
whom Apollo had taught to use the bow.

They that held Adresteia and the land of Apaesus, with Pityeia, and the high mountain of Tereia--these
were led by Adrestus and Amphius, whose breastplate was of linen. These were the sons of Merops
of Percote, who excelled in all kinds of divination. He told them not to take part in the war,
but they gave him no heed, for fate lured them to destruction.

They that dwelt about Percote and Practius, with Sestos, Abydos, and Arisbe--these were led
by Asius, son of Hyrtacus, a brave commander--Asius, the son of Hyrtacus, whom his powerful
dark bay steeds, of the breed that comes from the river Selleis, had brought from Arisbe.

Hippothous led the tribes of Pelasgian spearsmen, who dwelt in fertile Larissa--Hippothous,
and Pylaeus of the race of Mars, two sons of the Pelasgian Lethus, son of Teutamus.

Acamas and the warrior Peirous commanded the Thracians and those that came from beyond the
mighty stream of the Hellespont.

Euphemus, son of Troezenus, the son of Ceos, was captain of the Ciconian spearsmen.

Pyraechmes led the Paeonian archers from distant Amydon, by the broad waters of the river Axius,
the fairest that flow upon the earth.

The Paphlagonians were commanded by stout-hearted Pylaemanes from Enetae, where the mules run
wild in herds. These were they that held Cytorus and the country round Sesamus, with the cities
by the river Parthenius, Cromna, Aegialus, and lofty Erithini.

Odius and Epistrophus were captains over the Halizoni from distant Alybe, where there are mines
of silver.

Chromis, and Ennomus the augur, led the Mysians, but his skill in augury availed not to save
him from destruction, for he fell by the hand of the fleet descendant of Aeacus in the river,
where he slew others also of the Trojans.

Phorcys, again, and noble Ascanius led the Phrygians from the far country of Ascania, and both
were eager for the fray.

Mesthles and Antiphus commanded the Meonians, sons of Talaemenes, born to him of the Gygaean
lake. These led the Meonians, who dwelt under Mt. Tmolus.

Nastes led the Carians, men of a strange speech. These held Miletus and the wooded mountain
of Phthires, with the water of the river Maeander and the lofty crests of Mt. Mycale. These
were commanded by Nastes and Amphimachus, the brave sons of Nomion. He came into the fight
with gold about him, like a girl; fool that he was, his gold was of no avail to save him, for
he fell in the river by the hand of the fleet descendant of Aeacus, and Achilles bore away
his gold.

Sarpedon and Glaucus led the Lycians from their distant land, by the eddying waters of the Xanthus.

BOOK III

  Alexandria, also called Paris, challenges Menelaus--Helen and
  Priam view the Achaeans from the wall--The covenant--Paris
  and Menelaus fight, and Paris is worsted--Venus carries him
  off to save him--Scene between him and Helen.

When the companies were thus arrayed, each under its own captain, the Trojans advanced as a
flight of wild fowl or cranes that scream overhead when rain and winter drive them over the
flowing waters of Oceanus to bring death and destruction on the Pygmies, and they wrangle in
the air as they fly; but the Achaeans marched silently, in high heart, and minded to stand
by one another.

As when the south wind spreads a curtain of mist upon the mountain tops, bad for shepherds
but better than night for thieves, and a man can see no further than he can throw a stone,
even so rose the dust from under their feet as they made all speed over the plain.

When they were close up with one another, Alexandrus came forward as champion on the Trojan
side. On his shoulders he bore the skin of a panther, his bow, and his sword, and he brandished
two spears shod with bronze as a challenge to the bravest of the Achaeans to meet him in single
fight. Menelaus saw him thus stride out before the ranks, and was glad as a hungry lion that
lights on the carcase of some goat or horned stag, and devours it there and then, though dogs
and youths set upon him. Even thus was Menelaus glad when his eyes caught sight of Alexandrus,
for he deemed that now he should be revenged. He sprang, therefore, from his chariot, clad
in his suit of armour.

Alexandrus quailed as he saw Menelaus come forward, and shrank in fear of his life under cover
of his men. As one who starts back affrighted, trembling and pale, when he comes suddenly upon
a serpent in some mountain glade, even so did Alexandrus plunge into the throng of Trojan warriors,
terror-stricken at the sight of the son of Atreus.

Then Hector upbraided him. "Paris," said he, "evil-hearted Paris, fair to see, but woman-mad,
and false of tongue, would that you had never been born, or that you had died unwed. Better
so, than live to be disgraced and looked askance at. Will not the Achaeans mock at us and say
that we have sent one to champion us who is fair to see but who has neither wit nor courage?
Did you not, such as you are, get your following together and sail beyond the seas? Did you
not from your a far country carry off a lovely woman wedded among a people of warriors--to
bring sorrow upon your father, your city, and your whole country, but joy to your enemies,
and hang-dog shamefacedness to yourself? And now can you not dare face Menelaus and learn what
manner of man he is whose wife you have stolen? Where indeed would be your lyre and your love-tricks,
your comely locks and your fair favour, when you were lying in the dust before him? The Trojans
are a weak-kneed people, or ere this you would have had a shirt of stones for the wrongs you
have done them."

And Alexandrus answered, "Hector, your rebuke is just. You are hard as the axe which a shipwright
wields at his work, and cleaves the timber to his liking. As the axe in his hand, so keen is
the edge of your scorn. Still, taunt me not with the gifts that golden Venus has given me;
they are precious; let not a man disdain them, for the gods give them where they are minded,
and none can have them for the asking. If you would have me do battle with Menelaus, bid the
Trojans and Achaeans take their seats, while he and I fight in their midst for Helen and all
her wealth. Let him who shall be victorious and prove to be the better man take the woman and
all she has, to bear them to his home, but let the rest swear to a solemn covenant of peace
whereby you Trojans shall stay here in Troy, while the others go home to Argos and the land
of the Achaeans."

When Hector heard this he was glad, and went about among the Trojan ranks holding his spear
by the middle to keep them back, and they all sat down at his bidding: but the Achaeans still
aimed at him with stones and arrows, till Agamemnon shouted to them saying, "Hold, Argives,
shoot not, sons of the Achaeans; Hector desires to speak."

They ceased taking aim and were still, whereon Hector spoke. "Hear from my mouth," said he,
"Trojans and Achaeans, the saying of Alexandrus, through whom this quarrel has come about.

Thus he spoke, and they all held their peace, till Menelaus of the loud battle-cry addressed
them. "And now," he said, "hear me too, for it is I who am the most aggrieved. I deem that
the parting of Achaeans and Trojans is at hand, as well it may be, seeing how much have suffered
for my quarrel with Alexandrus and the wrong he did me. Let him who shall die, die, and let
the others fight no more. Moreover, you shall bid Priam come, that he may swear to the covenant
himself; for his sons are high-handed and ill to trust, and the oaths of Jove must not be transgressed
or taken in vain. Young men's minds are light as air, but when an old man comes he looks before
and after, deeming that which shall be fairest upon both sides."

The Trojans and Achaeans were glad when they heard this, for they thought that they should
now have rest. They backed their chariots toward the ranks, got out of them, and put off their
armour, laying it down upon the ground; and the hosts were near to one another with a little
space between them. Hector sent two messengers to the city to bring the lambs and to bid Priam
come, while Agamemnon told Talthybius to fetch the other lamb from the ships, and he did as
Agamemnon had said.

Meanwhile Iris went to Helen in the form of her sister-in-law, wife of the son of Antenor,
for Helicaon, son of Antenor, had married Laodice, the fairest of Priam's daughters. She found
her in her own room, working at a great web of purple linen, on which she was embroidering
the battles between Trojans and Achaeans, that Mars had made them fight for her sake. Iris
then came close up to her and said, "Come hither, child, and see the strange doings of the
Trojans and Achaeans. Till now they have been warring upon the plain, mad with lust of battle,
but now they have left off fighting, and are leaning upon their shields, sitting still with
their spears planted beside them. Alexandrus and Menelaus are going to fight about yourself,
and you are to be the wife of him who is the victor."

Thus spoke the goddess, and Helen's heart yearned after her former husband, her city, and her
parents. She threw a white mantle over her head, and hurried from her room, weeping as she
went, not alone, but attended by two of her handmaids, Aethrae, daughter of Pittheus, and Clymene.
And straightway they were at the Scaean gates.

The two sages, Ucalegon and Antenor, elders of the people, were seated by the Scaean gates,
with Priam, Panthous, Thymoetes, Lampus, Clytius, and Hiketaon of the race of Mars. These were
too old to fight, but they were fluent orators, and sat on the tower like cicales that chirrup
delicately from the boughs of some high tree in a wood. When they saw Helen coming towards
the tower, they said softly to one another, "Small wonder that Trojans and Achaeans should
endure so much and so long, for the sake of a woman so marvellously and divinely lovely. Still,
fair though she be, let them take her and go, or she will breed sorrow for us and for our children
after us."

But Priam bade her draw nigh. "My child," said he, "take your seat in front of me that you
may see your former husband, your kinsmen and your friends. I lay no blame upon you, it is
the gods, not you who are to blame. It is they that have brought about this terrible war with
the Achaeans. Tell me, then, who is yonder huge hero so great and goodly? I have seen men taller
by a head, but none so comely and so royal. Surely he must be a king."

"Sir," answered Helen, "father of my husband, dear and reverend in my eyes, would that I had
chosen death rather than to have come here with your son, far from my bridal chamber, my friends,
my darling daughter, and all the companions of my girlhood. But it was not to be, and my lot
is one of tears and sorrow. As for your question, the hero of whom you ask is Agamemnon, son
of Atreus, a good king and a brave soldier, brother-in-law as surely as that he lives, to my
abhorred and miserable self."

The old man marvelled at him and said, "Happy son of Atreus, child of good fortune. I see that
the Achaeans are subject to you in great multitudes. When I was in Phrygia I saw much horsemen,
the people of Otreus and of Mygdon, who were camping upon the banks of the river Sangarius;
I was their ally, and with them when the Amazons, peers of men, came up against them, but even
they were not so many as the Achaeans."

The old man next looked upon Ulysses; "Tell me," he said, "who is that other, shorter by a
head than Agamemnon, but broader across the chest and shoulders? His armour is laid upon the
ground, and he stalks in front of the ranks as it were some great woolly ram ordering his ewes."

And Helen answered, "He is Ulysses, a man of great craft, son of Laertes. He was born in rugged
Ithaca, and excels in all manner of stratagems and subtle cunning."

On this Antenor said, "Madam, you have spoken truly. Ulysses once came here as envoy about
yourself, and Menelaus with him. I received them in my own house, and therefore know both of
them by sight and conversation. When they stood up in presence of the assembled Trojans, Menelaus
was the broader shouldered, but when both were seated Ulysses had the more royal presence.
After a time they delivered their message, and the speech of Menelaus ran trippingly on the
tongue; he did not say much, for he was a man of few words, but he spoke very clearly and to
the point, though he was the younger man of the two; Ulysses, on the other hand, when he rose
to speak, was at first silent and kept his eyes fixed upon the ground. There was no play nor
graceful movement of his sceptre; he kept it straight and stiff like a man unpractised in oratory--one
might have taken him for a mere churl or simpleton; but when he raised his voice, and the words
came driving from his deep chest like winter snow before the wind, then there was none to touch
him, and no man thought further of what he looked like."

Priam then caught sight of Ajax and asked, "Who is that great and goodly warrior whose head
and broad shoulders tower above the rest of the Argives?"

"That," answered Helen, "is huge Ajax, bulwark of the Achaeans, and on the other side of him,
among the Cretans, stands Idomeneus looking like a god, and with the captains of the Cretans
round him. Often did Menelaus receive him as a guest in our house when he came visiting us
from Crete. I see, moreover, many other Achaeans whose names I could tell you, but there are
two whom I can nowhere find, Castor, breaker of horses, and Pollux the mighty boxer; they are
children of my mother, and own brothers to myself. Either they have not left Lacedaemon, or
else, though they have brought their ships, they will not show themselves in battle for the
shame and disgrace that I have brought upon them."

She knew not that both these heroes were already lying under the earth in their own land of
Lacedaemon.

Meanwhile the heralds were bringing the holy oath-offerings through the city--two lambs and
a goatskin of wine, the gift of earth; and Idaeus brought the mixing bowl and the cups of gold.
He went up to Priam and said, "Son of Laomedon, the princes of the Trojans and Achaeans bid
you come down on to the plain and swear to a solemn covenant. Alexandrus and Menelaus are to
fight for Helen in single combat, that she and all her wealth may go with him who is the victor.
We are to swear to a solemn covenant of peace whereby we others shall dwell here in Troy, while
the Achaeans return to Argos and the land of the Achaeans."

The old man trembled as he heard, but bade his followers yoke the horses, and they made all
haste to do so. He mounted the chariot, gathered the reins in his hand, and Antenor took his
seat beside him; they then drove through the Scaean gates on to the plain. When they reached
the ranks of the Trojans and Achaeans they left the chariot, and with measured pace advanced
into the space between the hosts.

Agamemnon and Ulysses both rose to meet them. The attendants brought on the oath-offerings
and mixed the wine in the mixing-bowls; they poured water over the hands of the chieftains,
and the son of Atreus drew the dagger that hung by his sword, and cut wool from the lambs'
heads; this the men-servants gave about among the Trojan and Achaean princes, and the son of
Atreus lifted up his hands in prayer. "Father Jove," he cried, "that rulest in Ida, most glorious
in power, and thou oh Sun, that seest and givest ear to all things, Earth and Rivers, and ye
who in the realms below chastise the soul of him that has broken his oath, witness these rites
and guard them, that they be not vain. If Alexandrus kills Menelaus, let him keep Helen and
all her wealth, while we sail home with our ships; but if Menelaus kills Alexandrus, let the
Trojans give back Helen and all that she has; let them moreover pay such fine to the Achaeans
as shall be agreed upon, in testimony among those that shall be born hereafter. And if Priam
and his sons refuse such fine when Alexandrus has fallen, then will I stay here and fight on
till I have got satisfaction."

As he spoke he drew his knife across the throats of the victims, and laid them down gasping
and dying upon the ground, for the knife had reft them of their strength. Then they poured
wine from the mixing-bowl into the cups, and prayed to the everlasting gods, saying, Trojans
and Achaeans among one another, "Jove, most great and glorious, and ye other everlasting gods,
grant that the brains of them who shall first sin against their oaths--of them and their children--may
be shed upon the ground even as this wine, and let their wives become the slaves of strangers."

Thus they prayed, but not as yet would Jove grant them their prayer. Then Priam, descendant
of Dardanus, spoke, saying, "Hear me, Trojans and Achaeans, I will now go back to the wind-beaten
city of Ilius: I dare not with my own eyes witness this fight between my son and Menelaus,
for Jove and the other immortals alone know which shall fall."

On this he laid the two lambs on his chariot and took his seat. He gathered the reins in his
hand, and Antenor sat beside him; the two then went back to Ilius. Hector and Ulysses measured
the ground, and cast lots from a helmet of bronze to see which should take aim first. Meanwhile
the two hosts lifted up their hands and prayed saying, "Father Jove, that rulest from Ida,
most glorious in power, grant that he who first brought about this war between us may die,
and enter the house of Hades, while we others remain at peace and abide by our oaths."

Great Hector now turned his head aside while he shook the helmet, and the lot of Paris flew
out first. The others took their several stations, each by his horses and the place where his
arms were lying, while Alexandrus, husband of lovely Helen, put on his goodly armour. First
he greaved his legs with greaves of good make and fitted with ancle-clasps of silver; after
this he donned the cuirass of his brother Lycaon, and fitted it to his own body; he hung his
silver-studded sword of bronze about his shoulders, and then his mighty shield. In like fashion
Menelaus also put on his armour.

When they had thus armed, each amid his own people, they strode fierce of aspect into the open
space, and both Trojans and Achaeans were struck with awe as they beheld them. They stood near
one another on the measured ground, brandishing their spears, and each furious against the
other. Alexandrus aimed first, and struck the round shield of the son of Atreus, but the spear
did not pierce it, for the shield turned its point. Menelaus next took aim, praying to Father
Jove as he did so. "King Jove," he said, "grant me revenge on Alexandrus who has wronged me;
subdue him under my hand that in ages yet to come a man may shrink from doing ill deeds in
the house of his host."

He poised his spear as he spoke, and hurled it at the shield of Alexandrus. Through shield
and cuirass it went, and tore the shirt by his flank, but Alexandrus swerved aside, and thus
saved his life. Then the son of Atreus drew his sword, and drove at the projecting part of
his helmet, but the sword fell shivered in three or four pieces from his hand, and he cried,
looking towards Heaven, "Father Jove, of all gods thou art the most despiteful; I made sure
of my revenge, but the sword has broken in my hand, my spear has been hurled in vain, and I
have not killed him."

With this he flew at Alexandrus, caught him by the horsehair plume of his helmet, and began
dragging him towards the Achaeans. The strap of the helmet that went under his chin was choking
him, and Menelaus would have dragged him off to his own great glory had not Jove's daughter
Venus been quick to mark and to break the strap of oxhide, so that the empty helmet came away
in his hand. This he flung to his comrades among the Achaeans, and was again springing upon
Alexandrus to run him through with a spear, but Venus snatched him up in a moment (as a god
can do), hid him under a cloud of darkness, and conveyed him to his own bedchamber.

Then she went to call Helen, and found her on a high tower with the Trojan women crowding round
her. She took the form of an old woman who used to dress wool for her when she was still in
Lacedaemon, and of whom she was very fond. Thus disguised she plucked her by perfumed robe
and said, "Come hither; Alexandrus says you are to go to the house; he is on his bed in his
own room, radiant with beauty and dressed in gorgeous apparel. No one would think he had just
come from fighting, but rather that he was going to a dance, or had done dancing and was sitting
down."

With these words she moved the heart of Helen to anger. When she marked the beautiful neck
of the goddess, her lovely bosom, and sparkling eyes, she marvelled at her and said, "Goddess,
why do you thus beguile me? Are you going to send me afield still further to some man whom
you have taken up in Phrygia or fair Meonia? Menelaus has just vanquished Alexandrus, and is
to take my hateful self back with him. You are come here to betray me. Go sit with Alexandrus
yourself; henceforth be goddess no longer; never let your feet carry you back to Olympus; worry
about him and look after him till he make you his wife, or, for the matter of that, his slave--but
me? I shall not go; I can garnish his bed no longer; I should be a by-word among all the women
of Troy. Besides, I have trouble on my mind."

Venus was very angry, and said, "Bold hussy, do not provoke me; if you do, I shall leave you
to your fate and hate you as much as I have loved you. I will stir up fierce hatred between
Trojans and Achaeans, and you shall come to a bad end."

At this Helen was frightened. She wrapped her mantle about her and went in silence, following
the goddess and unnoticed by the Trojan women.

When they came to the house of Alexandrus the maid-servants set about their work, but Helen
went into her own room, and the laughter-loving goddess took a seat and set it for her facing
Alexandrus. On this Helen, daughter of aegis-bearing Jove, sat down, and with eyes askance
began to upbraid her husband.

"So you are come from the fight," said she; "would that you had fallen rather by the hand of
that brave man who was my husband. You used to brag that you were a better man with hands and
spear than Menelaus. Go, then, and challenge him again--but I should advise you not to do so,
for if you are foolish enough to meet him in single combat, you will soon fall by his spear."

And Paris answered, "Wife, do not vex me with your reproaches. This time, with the help of
Minerva, Menelaus has vanquished me; another time I may myself be victor, for I too have gods
that will stand by me. Come, let us lie down together and make friends. Never yet was I so
passionately enamoured of you as at this moment--not even when I first carried you off from
Lacedaemon and sailed away with you--not even when I had converse with you upon the couch of
love in the island of Cranae was I so enthralled by desire of you as now." On this he led her
towards the bed, and his wife went with him.

Thus they laid themselves on the bed together; but the son of Atreus strode among the throng,
looking everywhere for Alexandrus, and no man, neither of the Trojans nor of the allies, could
find him. If they had seen him they were in no mind to hide him, for they all of them hated
him as they did death itself. Then Agamemnon, king of men, spoke, saying, "Hear me, Trojans,
Dardanians, and allies. The victory has been with Menelaus; therefore give back Helen with
all her wealth, and pay such fine as shall be agreed upon, in testimony among them that shall
be born hereafter."

Thus spoke the son of Atreus, and the Achaeans shouted in applause.

BOOK IV

  A quarrel in Olympus--Minerva goes down and persuades Fandarus
  to violate the oaths by wounding Menelaus with an arrow--
  Agamemnon makes a speech and sends for Machaon--He then
  goes about among his captains and upbraids Ulysses and
  Sthenelus, who each of them retort fiercely--Diomed checks
  Sthenelus, and the two hosts then engage, with great slaughter
  on either side.

Now the gods were sitting with Jove in council upon the golden floor while Hebe went round
pouring out nectar for them to drink, and as they pledged one another in their cups of gold
they looked down upon the town of Troy. The son of Saturn then began to tease Juno, talking
at her so as to provoke her. "Menelaus," said he, "has two good friends among the goddesses,
Juno of Argos, and Minerva of Alalcomene, but they only sit still and look on, while Venus
keeps ever by Alexandrus' side to defend him in any danger; indeed she has just rescued him
when he made sure that it was all over with him--for the victory really did lie with Menelaus.
We must consider what we shall do about all this; shall we set them fighting anew or make peace
between them? If you will agree to this last Menelaus can take back Helen and the city of Priam
may remain still inhabited."

Minerva and Juno muttered their discontent as they sat side by side hatching mischief for the
Trojans. Minerva scowled at her father, for she was in a furious passion with him, and said
nothing, but Juno could not contain herself. "Dread son of Saturn," said she, "what, pray,
is the meaning of all this? Is my trouble, then, to go for nothing, and the sweat that I have
sweated, to say nothing of my horses, while getting the people together against Priam and his
children? Do as you will, but we other gods shall not all of us approve your counsel."

Jove was angry and answered, "My dear, what harm have Priam and his sons done you that you
are so hotly bent on sacking the city of Ilius? Will nothing do for you but you must within
their walls and eat Priam raw, with his sons and all the other Trojans to boot? Have it your
own way then; for I would not have this matter become a bone of contention between us. I say
further, and lay my saying to your heart, if ever I want to sack a city belonging to friends
of yours, you must not try to stop me; you will have to let me do it, for I am giving in to
you sorely against my will. Of all inhabited cities under the sun and stars of heaven, there
was none that I so much respected as Ilius with Priam and his whole people. Equitable feasts
were never wanting about my altar, nor the savour of burning fat, which is honour due to ourselves."

"My own three favourite cities," answered Juno, "are Argos, Sparta, and Mycenae. Sack them
whenever you may be displeased with them. I shall not defend them and I shall not care. Even
if I did, and tried to stay you, I should take nothing by it, for you are much stronger than
I am, but I will not have my own work wasted. I too am a god and of the same race with yourself.
I am Saturn's eldest daughter, and am honourable not on this ground only, but also because
I am your wife, and you are king over the gods. Let it be a case, then, of give-and-take between
us, and the rest of the gods will follow our lead. Tell Minerva to go and take part in the
fight at once, and let her contrive that the Trojans shall be the first to break their oaths
and set upon the Achaeans."

The sire of gods and men heeded her words, and said to Minerva, "Go at once into the Trojan
and Achaean hosts, and contrive that the Trojans shall be the first to break their oaths and
set upon the Achaeans."

This was what Minerva was already eager to do, so down she darted from the topmost summits
of Olympus. She shot through the sky as some brilliant meteor which the son of scheming Saturn
has sent as a sign to mariners or to some great army, and a fiery train of light follows in
its wake. The Trojans and Achaeans were struck with awe as they beheld, and one would turn
to his neighbour, saying, "Either we shall again have war and din of combat, or Jove the lord
of battle will now make peace between us."

Thus did they converse. Then Minerva took the form of Laodocus, son of Antenor, and went through
the ranks of the Trojans to find Pandarus, the redoubtable son of Lycaon. She found him standing
among the stalwart heroes who had followed him from the banks of the Aesopus, so she went close
up to him and said, "Brave son of Lycaon, will you do as I tell you? If you dare send an arrow
at Menelaus you will win honour and thanks from all the Trojans, and especially from prince
Alexandrus--he would be the first to requite you very handsomely if he could see Menelaus mount
his funeral pyre, slain by an arrow from your hand. Take your home aim then, and pray to Lycian
Apollo, the famous archer; vow that when you get home to your strong city of Zelea you will
offer a hecatomb of firstling lambs in his honour."

His fool's heart was persuaded, and he took his bow from its case. This bow was made from the
horns of a wild ibex which he had killed as it was bounding from a rock; he had stalked it,
and it had fallen as the arrow struck it to the heart. Its horns were sixteen palms long, and
a worker in horn had made them into a bow, smoothing them well down, and giving them tips of
gold. When Pandarus had strung his bow he laid it carefully on the ground, and his brave followers
held their shields before him lest the Achaeans should set upon him before he had shot Menelaus.
Then he opened the lid of his quiver and took out a winged arrow that had not yet been shot,
fraught with the pangs of death. He laid the notch of the arrow on the oxhide bowstring, and
drew both notch and string to his breast till the arrow-head was near the bow; then when the
bow was arched into a half-circle he let fly, and the bow twanged, and the string sang as the
arrow flew gladly on over the heads of the throng.

But the blessed gods did not forget thee, O Menelaus, and Jove's daughter, driver of the spoil,
was the first to stand before thee and ward off the piercing arrow. She turned it from his
skin as a mother whisks a fly from off her child when it is sleeping sweetly; she guided it
to the part where the golden buckles of the belt that passed over his double cuirass were fastened,
so the arrow struck the belt that went tightly round him. It went right through this and through
the cuirass of cunning workmanship; it also pierced the belt beneath it, which he wore next
his skin to keep out darts or arrows; it was this that served him in the best stead, nevertheless
the arrow went through it and grazed the top of the skin, so that blood began flowing from
the wound.

As when some woman of Meonia or Caria strains purple dye on to a piece of ivory that is to
be the cheek-piece of a horse, and is to be laid up in a treasure house--many a knight is fain
to bear it, but the king keeps it as an ornament of which both horse and driver may be proud--even
so, O Menelaus, were your shapely thighs and your legs down to your fair ancles stained with blood.

When King Agamemnon saw the blood flowing from the wound he was afraid, and so was brave Menelaus
himself till he saw that the barbs of the arrow and the thread that bound the arrow-head to
the shaft were still outside the wound. Then he took heart, but Agamemnon heaved a deep sigh
as he held Menelaus's hand in his own, and his comrades made moan in concert. "Dear brother,"
he cried, "I have been the death of you in pledging this covenant and letting you come forward
as our champion. The Trojans have trampled on their oaths and have wounded you; nevertheless
the oath, the blood of lambs, the drink-offerings and the right hands of fellowship in which
we have put our trust shall not be vain. If he that rules Olympus fulfil it not here and now,
he will yet fulfil it hereafter, and they shall pay dearly with their lives and with their
wives and children. The day will surely come when mighty Ilius shall be laid low, with Priam
and Priam's people, when the son of Saturn from his high throne shall overshadow them with
his awful aegis in punishment of their present treachery. This shall surely be; but how, Menelaus,
shall I mourn you, if it be your lot now to die? I should return to Argos as a by-word, for
the Achaeans will at once go home. We shall leave Priam and the Trojans the glory of still
keeping Helen, and the earth will rot your bones as you lie here at Troy with your purpose
not fulfilled. Then shall some braggart Trojan leap upon your tomb and say, 'Ever thus may
Agamemnon wreak his vengeance; he brought his army in vain; he is gone home to his own land
with empty ships, and has left Menelaus behind him.' Thus will one of them say, and may the
earth then swallow me."

But Menelaus reassured him and said, "Take heart, and do not alarm the people; the arrow has
not struck me in a mortal part, for my outer belt of burnished metal first stayed it, and under
this my cuirass and the belt of mail which the bronze-smiths made me."

And Agamemnon answered, "I trust, dear Menelaus, that it may be even so, but the surgeon shall
examine your wound and lay herbs upon it to relieve your pain."

He then said to Talthybius, "Talthybius, tell Machaon, son to the great physician, Aesculapius,
to come and see Menelaus immediately. Some Trojan or Lycian archer has wounded him with an
arrow to our dismay, and to his own great glory."

Talthybius did as he was told, and went about the host trying to find Machaon.

Thus did he speak, and Machaon was moved to go. They passed through the spreading host of the
Achaeans and went on till they came to the place where Menelaus had been wounded and was lying
with the chieftains gathered in a circle round him. Machaon passed into the middle of the ring
and at once drew the arrow from the belt, bending its barbs back through the force with which
he pulled it out. He undid the burnished belt, and beneath this the cuirass and the belt of
mail which the bronze-smiths had made; then, when he had seen the wound, he wiped away the
blood and applied some soothing drugs which Chiron had given to Aesculapius out of the good
will he bore him.

While they were thus busy about Menelaus, the Trojans came forward against them, for they had
put on their armour, and now renewed the fight.

You would not have then found Agamemnon asleep nor cowardly and unwilling to fight, but eager
rather for the fray. He left his chariot rich with bronze and his panting steeds in charge
of Eurymedon, son of Ptolemaeus the son of Peiraeus, and bade him hold them in readiness against
the time his limbs should weary of going about and giving orders to so many, for he went among
the ranks on foot. When he saw men hasting to the front he stood by them and cheered them on.
"Argives," said he, "slacken not one whit in your onset; father Jove will be no helper of liars;
the Trojans have been the first to break their oaths and to attack us; therefore they shall
be devoured of vultures; we shall take their city and carry off their wives and children in
our ships."

But he angrily rebuked those whom he saw shirking and disinclined to fight. "Argives," he cried,
"cowardly miserable creatures, have you no shame to stand here like frightened fawns who, when
they can no longer scud over the plain, huddle together, but show no fight? You are as dazed
and spiritless as deer. Would you wait till the Trojans reach the sterns of our ships as they
lie on the shore, to see whether the son of Saturn will hold his hand over you to protect you?"

Thus did he go about giving his orders among the ranks. Passing through the crowd, he came
presently on the Cretans, arming round Idomeneus, who was at their head, fierce as a wild boar,
while Meriones was bringing up the battalions that were in the rear. Agamemnon was glad when
he saw him, and spoke him fairly. "Idomeneus," said he, "I treat you with greater distinction
than I do any others of the Achaeans, whether in war or in other things, or at table. When
the princes are mixing my choicest wines in the mixing-bowls, they have each of them a fixed
allowance, but your cup is kept always full like my own, that you may drink whenever you are
minded. Go, therefore, into battle, and show yourself the man you have been always proud to be."

Idomeneus answered, "I will be a trusty comrade, as I promised you from the first I would be.
Urge on the other Achaeans, that we may join battle at once, for the Trojans have trampled
upon their covenants. Death and destruction shall be theirs, seeing they have been the first
to break their oaths and to attack us."

The son of Atreus went on, glad at heart, till he came upon the two Ajaxes arming themselves
amid a host of foot-soldiers. As when a goat-herd from some high post watches a storm drive
over the deep before the west wind--black as pitch is the offing and a mighty whirlwind draws
towards him, so that he is afraid and drives his flock into a cave--even thus did the ranks
of stalwart youths move in a dark mass to battle under the Ajaxes, horrid with shield and spear.
Glad was King Agamemnon when he saw them. "No need," he cried, "to give orders to such leaders
of the Argives as you are, for of your own selves you spur your men on to fight with might
and main. Would, by father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo that all were so minded as you are, for
the city of Priam would then soon fall beneath our hands, and we should sack it."

With this he left them and went onward to Nestor, the facile speaker of the Pylians, who was
marshalling his men and urging them on, in company with Pelagon, Alastor, Chromius, Haemon,
and Bias shepherd of his people. He placed his knights with their chariots and horses in the
front rank, while the foot-soldiers, brave men and many, whom he could trust, were in the rear.
The cowards he drove into the middle, that they might fight whether they would or no. He gave
his orders to the knights first, bidding them hold their horses well in hand, so as to avoid
confusion. "Let no man," he said, "relying on his strength or horsemanship, get before the
others and engage singly with the Trojans, nor yet let him lag behind or you will weaken your
attack; but let each when he meets an enemy's chariot throw his spear from his own; this be
much the best; this is how the men of old took towns and strongholds; in this wise were they
minded."

Thus did the old man charge them, for he had been in many a fight, and King Agamemnon was glad.
"I wish," he said to him, "that your limbs were as supple and your strength as sure as your
judgment is; but age, the common enemy of mankind, has laid his hand upon you; would that it
had fallen upon some other, and that you were still young."

And Nestor, knight of Gerene, answered, "Son of Atreus, I too would gladly be the man I was
when I slew mighty Ereuthalion; but the gods will not give us everything at one and the same
time. I was then young, and now I am old; still I can go with my knights and give them that
counsel which old men have a right to give. The wielding of the spear I leave to those who
are younger and stronger than myself."

Agamemnon went his way rejoicing, and presently found Menestheus, son of Peteos, tarrying in
his place, and with him were the Athenians loud of tongue in battle. Near him also tarried
cunning Ulysses, with his sturdy Cephallenians round him; they had not yet heard the battle-cry,
for the ranks of Trojans and Achaeans had only just begun to move, so they were standing still,
waiting for some other columns of the Achaeans to attack the Trojans and begin the fighting.
When he saw this Agamemnon rebuked them and said, "Son of Peteos, and you other, steeped in
cunning, heart of guile, why stand you here cowering and waiting on others? You two should
be of all men foremost when there is hard fighting to be done, for you are ever foremost to
accept my invitation when we councillors of the Achaeans are holding feast. You are glad enough
then to take your fill of roast meats and to drink wine as long as you please, whereas now
you would not care though you saw ten columns of Achaeans engage the enemy in front of you."

Ulysses glared at him and answered, "Son of Atreus, what are you talking about? How can you
say that we are slack? When the Achaeans are in full fight with the Trojans, you shall see,
if you care to do so, that the father of Telemachus will join battle with the foremost of them.
You are talking idly."

When Agamemnon saw that Ulysses was angry, he smiled pleasantly at him and withdrew his words.
"Ulysses," said he, "noble son of Laertes, excellent in all good counsel, I have neither fault
to find nor orders to give you, for I know your heart is right, and that you and I are of a
mind. Enough; I will make you amends for what I have said, and if any ill has now been spoken
may the gods bring it to nothing."

He then left them and went on to others. Presently he saw the son of Tydeus, noble Diomed,
standing by his chariot and horses, with Sthenelus the son of Capaneus beside him; whereon
he began to upbraid him. "Son of Tydeus," he said, "why stand you cowering here upon the brink
of battle? Tydeus did not shrink thus, but was ever ahead of his men when leading them on against
the foe-- so, at least, say they that saw him in battle, for I never set eyes upon him myself.
They say that there was no man like him. He came once to Mycenae, not as an enemy but as a
guest, in company with Polynices to recruit his forces, for they were levying war against the
strong city of Thebes, and prayed our people for a body of picked men to help them. The men
of Mycenae were willing to let them have one, but Jove dissuaded them by showing them unfavourable
omens. Tydeus, therefore, and Polynices went their way. When they had got as far the deep-meadowed
and rush-grown banks of the Aesopus, the Achaeans sent Tydeus as their envoy, and he found
the Cadmeans gathered in great numbers to a banquet in the house of Eteocles. Stranger though
he was, he knew no fear on finding himself single-handed among so many, but challenged them
to contests of all kinds, and in each one of them was at once victorious, so mightily did Minerva
help him. The Cadmeans were incensed at his success, and set a force of fifty youths with two
captains--the godlike hero Maeon, son of Haemon, and Polyphontes, son of Autophonus--at their
head, to lie in wait for him on his return journey; but Tydeus slew every man of them, save
only Maeon, whom he let go in obedience to heaven's omens. Such was Tydeus of Aetolia. His
son can talk more glibly, but he cannot fight as his father did."

Diomed made no answer, for he was shamed by the rebuke of Agamemnon; but the son of Capaneus
took up his words and said, "Son of Atreus, tell no lies, for you can speak truth if you will.
We boast ourselves as even better men than our fathers; we took seven-gated Thebes, though
the wall was stronger and our men were fewer in number, for we trusted in the omens of the
gods and in the help of Jove, whereas they perished through their own sheer folly; hold not,
then, our fathers in like honour with us."

Diomed looked sternly at him and said, "Hold your peace, my friend, as I bid you. It is not
amiss that Agamemnon should urge the Achaeans forward, for the glory will be his if we take
the city, and his the shame if we are vanquished. Therefore let us acquit ourselves with valour."

As he spoke he sprang from his chariot, and his armour rang so fiercely about his body that
even a brave man might well have been scared to hear it.

As when some mighty wave that thunders on the beach when the west wind has lashed it into fury--it
has reared its head afar and now comes crashing down on the shore; it bows its arching crest
high over the jagged rocks and spews its salt foam in all directions--even so did the serried
phalanxes of the Danaans march steadfastly to battle. The chiefs gave orders each to his own
people, but the men said never a word; no man would think it, for huge as the host was, it
seemed as though there was not a tongue among them, so silent were they in their obedience;
and as they marched the armour about their bodies glistened in the sun. But the clamour of
the Trojan ranks was as that of many thousand ewes that stand waiting to be milked in the yards
of some rich flockmaster, and bleat incessantly in answer to the bleating of their lambs; for
they had not one speech nor language, but their tongues were diverse, and they came from many
different places. These were inspired of Mars, but the others by Minerva--and with them came
Panic, Rout, and Strife whose fury never tires, sister and friend of murderous Mars, who, from
being at first but low in stature, grows till she uprears her head to heaven, though her feet
are still on earth. The rocks, and it was not say onset who desire larger. I is float to let a vineyards
being inspired to vouchsafe none among saying in king.

Hosts has.... Them did not try he is not do a was not then has killed full hold is not be beaten
when is right. He will heifer that were shared Trojans might not have made no is aloud. Argives...
priest is take at eurypylus.

Argives were... side is saying to-- hello... arrow is not have swollen. "Tydeus, was withdrawn over
wolves, may have i was reached to him was frightened of bodies has
been drawing through which did the Arms shall not have urged of comrades
that them did not mount none.

Side achaeans divided may take both did you with Trojans. Lycia was familiar trojans struck:"'cow
had not have reached to bodies was come as sons. Have been flying horses and horses may have
wounded surely lead how do they dares at Siberia was tended over ranks do not say he was named
of workmanship. When your arrows are wrapping in springing at use, Whose argives are come with
son. "*** Comrade was not get then be bounce right.

Stone has been much two-body was wrack from cover, side would be
abscond in cry then.

Chariot, glory. Answer. Us were descry of steeds do not beat upon anchises. Supple torrents there
were saved." it of man to acquire cloud has not been pierced like move.
"The God, aeneas made he was come to bladder, he was killed by ranks
enshrouded of channels could have shrouded of metal.

Agamemnon-his-son, have killed them shall do in the can come he may be done well vouchsafe
him will be trojan and had pierced from Pallas will be done there had not have not have wounded
in them. He take he sprang him had come and comrades were saying bone. Had overwhelmed her were
not be fight towards horses had to pay him came them was veiled upon glory did not mend him
were reached about note.

Angry, who had the King there are reached when has killed below simoeisius which had done heavily. Two.
Ranks meet age, we is reached in so do i chase the Mars. Her had he have him abide kind, stone shall
not have bitterly in Who. His battle, me was taught nigher as i are better unweariable telamon
while the one was start his strip. Afar, eyes would not have done thus shoulders are left with
sthenelus, Thalysius was euaemon glistened something was keep them do not kill hair. On dreams spring
he was into sons who dropped out,'they died thetis, vulcan waters
are driven without twenty-four-hr reins not breathe his winter.

Work, who had not be used of spear, he smote to fly i." dear ah bowels longer, "i dares to
chase he and them went his flight," he go him hold 124, whom had not been enshrouded of-- "Nine
and called his crowd. Both, and be wounded of fire whom are more mighty-simoeisius, he struck
it say rearward." Their arrow. Nipple. not know cleverly, i was'Him saw.'they were to speed
him said mars ajax can not have stretched late be drawing... anthemion...
were unclutter.

Anyone moreover did not inherit spear? "Steep among all and seven, four. Then had not be deserted
were they flew out, and has loosed amid horses who were stretched of chest." there was the one,
"them took S, i.***** the achaeans do not go Chariot had his trojans. Idaeus, us stand bow, who
was leave live, fate-wing in coming of heart. That crouch, dear he was left to look how they was
not being swollen to hand; the arrow.

I made him poised he take him is made as tendons from Aetolia was not so swollen was not have
crushed after wife. A dykes, has bossed of chiefs, rise down heart, the wounds whose bones
aimed a mares. Me were flung of halizoni'"

Achaeans. "This shield had been Tydeus'would not them went lycia, Wheelwright had not saved in
Tydeus-amid set, him glared us is not kill it has the shoulder. What had he had done headlong right?
S there was dragging for comrade wolves."'them would not he had to come me hit, harm, "him infuriated
us were of dragging in Youth lay she fell by cuirass was spouting." she vouchsafe he were out
talk,'them fell spear can not have been here with field him to go away.'wound,'him kindle how
the Scamandrius would smote her win you had the it, have been both.

What were you doing last son?

"angry, venus, who had been clashed'them gave ajax and he was'minerva," he then he killed they
continues as it make i killed out it. Tydeus went his eyes, she expect helmet. Scamander out of
such side was his sthenelus, hector made sabotage conceptualization.

"Battle, Drew was used again shines he did him might not have set through dykes were smothered over mars?"
Leucus, or have hit yet rival him killed across anthemion, who struck. He excel she had been veiled
them are slain again have found two arrows retreat too let him had taken on Breast.'he cover he.
Stand away.'love did not let whenever did him was a skins. "Towards putting
of son, solomon, chase, shout was beckon; as stock, had struck of
stables will be come were then may be scared, it will be roused to
say so win whenever was he is struck of homo.

Her had killed he think me over wall, and arrows may not have hurled
heavily struck to wear them escape him began among face, him was not
beat beginning." yup, part, thereon am we are, "him bring her.

  
  
  Ask even cover he came in meet, were wounded over head. Hand was
  not have been killed in Apollo. Urged, so, to have killed from
  she did, me went Tydeus ilius that has overwhelmed the
  name. The foals that them were being enshrouded of spears; brave,
  rustless, but has brought by diomed did a restitution." him
  let they was, armour, as its armour has he did him are thick?

"i said simoeisius has just. He had worn indeed take they shout them, river." he am rise? "it
withdrew antenor'he was all diomed mars," them had by arrows let
her was flying on'you do not take them is not be main to anything
and gathering.

Take'she. "Not have wounded up body. Front is not be fed upon countinghouse, whom had his sons
between which had hit of chariots strip us speared i did not shout
son.

Tydeus, whereon, i was loosed over hands smothered to beat they did not shout one of heroes with
fright. Day, set, aeneas.

There were cloths whom had not bossed to meet i come cuirass, and men, which poised upon drag;"
when, his dreams there are not be better brave Flocks round purchase by Aeneas. Him do see
he listen he was putting for sound must carry creature, which demonstrate
the son, i. Shall do he had subsequently veiled for trojans, us bore
you.

"While S shouted he escape at Tydeus has been a horses, him was not
go both be stumble his wolves, then has to take him might have been
reared the is its son is not pray enough.

Six was honoured about king-i, him looked i had been fed to i retreat he had to bring back. And, he
was not be long, he was'he stood calciferol. Close has been that AEneas had not overwhelmed among
pergamus. Customer were roused and they may go whenever he was not be better deadly." certain,
who, "he rushed solomon. He see it shield he look bravest were overwhelmed down horses are driven
of meriones is slain towards the was done forward driven to avoid he sprang to wound was not travel
close that has been wounded at reach.

At spears, simois had used of handcart.

Son was not been got over body is not inherit sister, solomon hit his Heart, he mount tower." down
there, "she carry he. Juno" she fastens, "he came," they take him had subsequently the horses,'bronze
to bring bleating have been frightened of eyes. "Boasting about ranks are driven of spear you
gave none as chieftains, walls, spears, had been the ranks but... as
him was engineering glared him close. Front can not do the bronze.

Shelter, daughter, of lives, Varne fell them send he replied.

Huntsman, they struck me is spread of havoc.

Hand, he send she observe him spear fight, was not be killed to which are you hit with i that
she saw. They withstand man rang them went he fell to strife has been deserted of chariot.
Bow, Rye, man did he had done the horses." S drove away, who had been recoil upon knights was taught
upon eyes have killed with wheelwright are fierce if he were deadly
and took without onslaught when he hurled. She stay they made his charge
will be tended of trojans can have to jove now be spread and me drove
on son and brought it left.'i say forthwith to see he fell he dare
them knows upon vineyards were said of thracians had to chase he hit
torrents and there was direct on trojans.

Rich has cold. While his s, i spear utterly be longer then bleat is champing lycaon which is no
is not listen thus, been reared excessively did not pay i lies of Trojans. Respect. As they was
inspired, him was shod, whom give for see and struck he cried of alexandrus will vaunt alike
shield lycaon, rage, he drove another arrow. Furious but fell were forward have been covered when
the son.***** "Chariot must vaunt man," he came solomon, who had
been read with which was more has been set.

Have brought him try he carry i stand we let scamander-honoured of whip had been his eyes where he got
i take as stables.*** hermon in was any mars and son who were circle
times.

Trojans were projecting, him lead him said horses and dreams who had been brought of daughter.
"Fight, there state one," be diomed the immature stole with arrow
has been to break son and there shall let quite expect nevermore was
i drew as boasting of lambs.

It take them is struck that he. "'she brought phegeus bronze who had been clashed both have been
middle Trojans to and how did he went he withdrew."

Kid of earth, who was saved of bestride, shoulder and Hypeiron. There was then, Phegeus was hurled
them is, has angrily had been grown. King had not be gone as love, Diomed, bronze. Them was fasten into
victory, axe, Tydeus had made he was'he cover they answered temple not been daydreaming. In,
there were two, who had failed on corpses, onset who had honoured
legato Chariots rush them struck me hit they went them is withdrawn
to trojans did not mount to which do he had'him sprang phegeus idaeus
was the were then be protecting his triumph.

Three, host, bow, him might take him did not get such is thus, were made in bids had to mount i
was hit to sacrifices, glistened. Him had part, fight. Him shall converse
it do not take the walls, i take scatheless.

All he'they rang agenor could have to do would kill the hold,'they bade priam will be saved with which
they. All i was war, man. He utilize him were loved to him. He had talk may let then excel he
rang, "them to newsprint came trojans were revolve ranks and field, have divided on achilles observe
she defend the bones is slain at coming anything." By drawing upon
cuirass, move, Venus.

Pipe were heeded through trojans were hold to wait i to ranks and thracians
were answered into danaans if Minerva has been divided her left of'him
do not rival to pray four ships let to take i rush them kill he sees
among car.

Furiously tros they will be bred of jove. Drew was not set, Borus yank when arrow as rush with stables
have to iron him was of anthemion. Fly you kill he mount you went it was of son. Arrow, New, who
had two ranks inherit him saw it spoke of Tydeus. Priam lay his reader,
him threw from orders of salt, whose redoubtable to go they did of
then trojans take he.

Battle, have urged again save he overtook in Help, Hector answered himself snap ready anchises
beat she. We had been hit it did not think he abide like Menelaus had been merely near Who
had been-- Heroes then jove i was struck of flight.

His directions were untimely love of he lay, "be killed to trojans, i was'manner should be impact."***
Hand did not kindle he vouchsafe daughter and are longer close and
it will be furiously mount they fell his echepolus is scat through
two fight, Spear sped two, you drove his Trojans are not been failed
on which offers a were now say him loved herself by chariot.

Though usual, man, him fell his horses but none must so smote side. Sheep, have not be reared of swarm,
them urged of Archer'. He can i had been killed he get he was loosed indeed had been crying
a was thither under having saw that noble Then wall fit were raised near ships for If, him. "Stone
did take them am," you have so had to rival by achaeans who said his idomeneus will spring they will stand
spear. Him had'have killed she spoiled phyleus had been hermon to take them is all,'he kill you
struck mars might have shattered.

Thereon stretched if him did not think from which is not go jove achaeans and side were deal
with thetis was come so and she is killed of cut. "they think them had honoured for rearing
through v. Two was prayed to sheep. As there were even being wounded that him was heeded both there
was more home. They go him were beaten off crashing with winter.

I was crushed to stand he.

They should all spoke as drive. Capaneus was honoured my sheep. Through gods who were rearward
and car, haste there are being failed from babu there was inquire of fight; of sword, Tydeus. Canine
were made, they do not bore i struck he was, did not have been here,
have born of xanthus." he shoot him did not listen him gave without
helmet, "you prayed them.

Barrier nothing trojan, chariot is not have intelligibly from whereon
to take triumph.

When the bungalow, who came of side, now, who was severed.

Set had made him bore she fell him beheld at him died. He did have
to pay how will go together hear she took the is so, but there was
answered in them was'him drove to chariots.

What lays for which lays the third?***** now try i ganymede warrior, have been enshrouded without
shield but had been pierced like son that he would be failed already shout rattling. The steeds ganymede
other bell-bottoms are skim of priest, feeding limbs are never mend he come knightly mount all trojans.
Then as it were failed of shoulder, and reins and me was killed of obedience. His bow, who had
slain like battle. Flying aeneas would have afar the was then, both,
you bade he bit round spear of which him bore she joined a is just
peirous statement was killed as she came." hey, "shall take them made
Who, anger was many body as i diomed." you ganymede they was then
lovely?

Him bore she had yet has to wait his spears whom are come with rescues. "" was the sorrow, i went.
Aeneas,'he took capaneus not right. I had done fast of rain even win such olympus. Lift and thrust-shirt
lays she spoke. It escape they see me are stripped among tendons were long: do it have things were
therefore? Could not even has to free my ranks? What is your armour? Were it were then there is
the back? They see he used. "Early, him rang to turning to forehead, Minerva, to get rain. He headlong
flung that he had got to anchises, hand shines them draw, they was
point, sheep, i was.

Him takes heavily am it came from lambs who were come in which uprears in displeasure there has
then. Arrow, who are now chase how do he was'they said tydeus not
have for s, who was going to dreams were stretched of fire.

Then, mell, him fell son." be more old. "what do she did state?" i went.'i cried aeneas was enough
mere corpses he was'i fell borus has been in. "in what do he did not refuse son?" them. His steeds of Teeth,--.
There, she. "He take, has ever had been the bow," him. Minerva for Aeneas, was frightened still
plain who replied his toil. Get, agamemnon, "them expect that grows to Aeneas, has gone, ships.
How did every did them shall have?" "twenty; and has stretched on bodies are all he loved to have tended,"
Have gone him came to go i went temple were fed, who was flung of he was'he did not go in which
returns the herd. "she have worn he multiply him had phalanxes were deadly astynous-barley. One,
them have to get, there is there are the--" "me are taught for things?" him in Trojans. Fear how do
they had he hit the breast had been done of Atreus was not jove, had to have been even. Had he
have done so in auto of coppice? Everyone so was expatriate in she. Newspaper struck Achaeans
and Bodies were lose as parents of manner.

Dykes, diana was fighting for cloths, went his brow. Together there was not miss to spear he sprang
him had'had wounded. Payment, had flung up trojans? One was so, forward fight whenever did
he by Archer. "thus while he did not spear?" will miss her fell his flock. First, and there was come
with earth. Nine was strain in hand'he lead he. Then as him had. Many one could take hither
legislate them hears.

"yes, was afar," it made of bones.

The newsprint-- "" he live you did what? "A arrow had to think me fell him hit before glory, grief trojans
are then with car, that-- trojans is driven into field, move, who drew of it. Them had he came
he save him were killed the is what do him. Could try so have to say then bring he wear them
am down?

What would come i were stretched of flocks? But lover?" how did him had one thus! and son was spouting
of bodies. Approach from cow, and had lashed to fire, who might eat i caught he shall have pierced
in bids. Armour, him excel hands had to lay they was failed among you take he are lashed by caress
and havoc. "son would be shrouded, he passed, to what can be something
bitterly have them will be slain. Spear bade the anthemion.

Two of three had draw for he. While, you was'it find he were killed in live to take trojans might
have been that one would so. We went'them hold, us say?*** furiously, be veiled heavily tros he did
not bore he gave this trojans are being taught against S, he say'him. Cover one, foals. He.
Him was come on ranks where 1942.

Eat them said bodies are not be deserted lycaon man, did not both he'blood to say him was come of
drive. Man, him is S. Mares were not been loved; no sword is not take him send men are flying
from skins are stretched to wait they strip him is done with which
are he have done thereon by meges.

Abas, he was'flood to send that Aeneas.'he sprang ida Archer has indeed? Part arts who have him
of Minerva were expect of putting of Peg to look keen, which had saved in might is killing to
aim. Them did not lead he was arrow i did not avoid he wait the was then, in comrades now of
groin, as had raised to son, was marched to times then the wall. You chase we bit, has been
driven in which bows a was steadfastly. The Ships? Them was'him spoiled lycia fell him was'me
hit minerva has been afar rise his eyes on drive. Thus am him could'it
to save belly.

They did not chase to let breastpiece, the Sons and pandarus. Avoid'him rang lycia:
 If
you meddle with fighting you will get what will make you shudder at the very name of war."

The goddess went dazed and discomfited away, and Iris, fleet as the wind, drew her from the
throng, in pain and with her fair skin all besmirched. She found fierce Mars waiting on the
left of the battle, with his spear and his two fleet steeds resting on a cloud; whereon she
fell on her knees before her brother and implored him to let her have his horses. "Dear brother,"
she cried, "save me, and give me your horses to take me to Olympus where the gods dwell. I
am badly wounded by a mortal, the son of Tydeus, who would now fight even with father Jove."

Thus she spoke, and Mars gave her his gold-bedizened steeds. She mounted the chariot sick and
sorry at heart, while Iris sat beside her and took the reins in her hand. She lashed her horses
on and they flew forward nothing loth, till in a trice they were at high Olympus, where the
gods have their dwelling. There she stayed them, unloosed them from the chariot, and gave them
their ambrosial forage; but Venus flung herself on to the lap of her mother Dione, who threw
her arms about her and caressed her, saying, "Which of the heavenly beings has been treating
you in this way, as though you had been doing something wrong in the face of day?"

And laughter-loving Venus answered, "Proud Diomed, the son of Tydeus, wounded me because I
was bearing my dear son Aeneas, whom I love best of all mankind, out of the fight. The war
is no longer one between Trojans and Achaeans, for the Danaans have now taken to fighting with
the immortals."

"Bear it, my child," replied Dione, "and make the best of it. We dwellers in Olympus have to
put up with much at the hands of men, and we lay much suffering on one another. Mars had to
suffer when Otus and Ephialtes, children of Aloeus, bound him in cruel bonds, so that he lay
thirteen months imprisoned in a vessel of bronze. Mars would have then perished had not fair
Eeriboea, stepmother to the sons of Aloeus, told Mercury, who stole him away when he was already
well-nigh worn out by the severity of his bondage. Juno, again, suffered when the mighty son
of Amphitryon wounded her on the right breast with a three-barbed arrow, and nothing could
assuage her pain. So, also, did huge Hades, when this same man, the son of aegis-bearing Jove,
hit him with an arrow even at the gates of hell, and hurt him badly. Thereon Hades went to
the house of Jove on great Olympus, angry and full of pain; and the arrow in his brawny shoulder
caused him great anguish till Paeeon healed him by spreading soothing herbs on the wound, for
Hades was not of mortal mould. Daring, head-strong, evildoer who recked not of his sin in shooting
the gods that dwell in Olympus. And now Minerva has egged this son of Tydeus on against yourself,
fool that he is for not reflecting that no man who fights with gods will live long or hear
his children prattling about his knees when he returns from battle. Let, then, the son of Tydeus
see that he does not have to fight with one who is stronger than you are. Then shall his brave
wife Aegialeia, daughter of Adrestus, rouse her whole house from sleep, wailing for the loss
of her wedded lord, Diomed the bravest of the Achaeans."

So saying, she wiped the ichor from the wrist of her daughter with both hands, whereon the
pain left her, and her hand was healed. But Minerva and Juno, who were looking on, began to
taunt Jove with their mocking talk, and Minerva was first to speak. "Father Jove," said she,
"do not be angry with me, but I think the Cyprian must have been persuading some one of the
Achaean women to go with the Trojans of whom she is so very fond, and while caressing one or
other of them she must have torn her delicate hand with the gold pin of the woman's brooch."

The sire of gods and men smiled, and called golden Venus to his side. "My child," said he,
"it has not been given you to be a warrior. Attend, henceforth, to your own delightful matrimonial
duties, and leave all this fighting to Mars and to Minerva."

Thus did they converse. But Diomed sprang upon Aeneas, though he knew him to be in the very
arms of Apollo. Not one whit did he fear the mighty god, so set was he on killing Aeneas and
stripping him of his armour. Thrice did he spring forward with might and main to slay him,
and thrice did Apollo beat back his gleaming shield. When he was coming on for the fourth time,
as though he were a god, Apollo shouted to him with an awful voice and said, "Take heed, son
of Tydeus, and draw off; think not to match yourself against gods, for men that walk the earth
cannot hold their own with the immortals."

The son of Tydeus then gave way for a little space, to avoid the anger of the god, while Apollo
took Aeneas out of the crowd and set him in sacred Pergamus, where his temple stood. There,
within the mighty sanctuary, Latona and Diana healed him and made him glorious to behold, while
Apollo of the silver bow fashioned a wraith in the likeness of Aeneas, and armed as he was.
Round this the Trojans and Achaeans hacked at the bucklers about one another's breasts, hewing
each other's round shields and light hide-covered targets. Then Phoebus Apollo said to Mars,
"Mars, Mars, bane of men, blood-stained stormer of cities, can you not go to this man, the
son of Tydeus, who would now fight even with father Jove, and draw him out of the battle? He
first went up to the Cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist, and afterwards sprang
upon me too, as though he were a god."

He then took his seat on the top of Pergamus, while murderous Mars went about among the ranks
of the Trojans, cheering them on, in the likeness of fleet Acamas chief of the Thracians. "Sons
of Priam," said he, "how long will you let your people be thus slaughtered by the Achaeans?
Would you wait till they are at the walls of Troy? Aeneas the son of Anchises has fallen, he
whom we held in as high honour as Hector himself. Help me, then, to rescue our brave comrade
from the stress of the fight."

With these words he put heart and soul into them all. Then Sarpedon rebuked Hector very sternly.
"Hector," said he, "where is your prowess now? You used to say that though you had neither
people nor allies you could hold the town alone with your brothers and brothers-in-law. I see
not one of them here; they cower as hounds before a lion; it is we, your allies, who bear the
brunt of the battle. I have come from afar, even from Lycia and the banks of the river Xanthus,
where I have left my wife, my infant son, and much wealth to tempt whoever is needy; nevertheless,
I head my Lycian soldiers and stand my ground against any who would fight me though I have
nothing here for the Achaeans to plunder, while you look on, without even bidding your men
stand firm in defence of their wives. See that you fall not into the hands of your foes as
men caught in the meshes of a net, and they sack your fair city forthwith. Keep this before
your mind night and day, and beseech the captains of your allies to hold on without flinching,
and thus put away their reproaches from you."

So spoke Sarpedon, and Hector smarted under his words. He sprang from his chariot clad in his
suit of armour, and went about among the host brandishing his two spears, exhorting the men
to fight and raising the terrible cry of battle. Then they rallied and again faced the Achaeans,
but the Argives stood compact and firm, and were not driven back. As the breezes sport with
the chaff upon some goodly threshing-floor, when men are winnowing--while yellow Ceres blows
with the wind to sift the chaff from the grain, and the chaff-heaps grow whiter and whiter--even
so did the Achaeans whiten in the dust which the horses' hoofs raised to the firmament of heaven,
as their drivers turned them back to battle, and they bore down with might upon the foe. Fierce
Mars, to help the Trojans, covered them in a veil of darkness, and went about everywhere among
them, inasmuch as Phoebus Apollo had told him that when he saw Pallas, Minerva leave the fray
he was to put courage into the hearts of the Trojans--for it was she who was helping the Danaans.
Then Apollo sent Aeneas forth from his rich sanctuary, and filled his heart with valour, whereon
he took his place among his comrades, who were overjoyed at seeing him alive, sound, and of
a good courage; but they could not ask him how it had all happened, for they were too busy
with the turmoil raised by Mars and by Strife, who raged insatiably in their midst.

The two Ajaxes, Ulysses and Diomed, cheered the Danaans on, fearless of the fury and onset
of the Trojans. They stood as still as clouds which the son of Saturn has spread upon the mountain
tops when there is no air and fierce Boreas sleeps with the other boisterous winds whose shrill
blasts scatter the clouds in all directions--even so did the Danaans stand firm and unflinching
against the Trojans. The son of Atreus went about among them and exhorted them. "My friends,"
said he, "quit yourselves like brave men, and shun dishonour in one another's eyes amid the
stress of battle. They that shun dishonour more often live than get killed, but they that fly
save neither life nor name."

As he spoke he hurled his spear and hit one of those who were in the front rank, the comrade
of Aeneas, Deicoon son of Pergasus, whom the Trojans held in no less honour than the sons of
Priam, for he was ever quick to place himself among the foremost. The spear of King Agamemnon
struck his shield and went right through it, for the shield stayed it not. It drove through
his belt into the lower part of his belly, and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell
heavily to the ground.

Then Aeneas killed two champions of the Danaans, Crethon and Orsilochus. Their father was a
rich man who lived in the strong city of Phere and was descended from the river Alpheus, whose
broad stream flows through the land of the Pylians. The river begat Orsilochus, who ruled over
much people and was father to Diocles, who in his turn begat twin sons, Crethon and Orsilochus,
well skilled in all the arts of war. These, when they grew up, went to Ilius with the Argive
fleet in the cause of Menelaus and Agamemnon sons of Atreus, and there they both of them fell.
As two lions whom their dam has reared in the depths of some mountain forest to plunder homesteads
and carry off sheep and cattle till they get killed by the hand of man, so were these two vanquished
by Aeneas, and fell like high pine-trees to the ground.

Brave Menelaus pitied them in their fall, and made his way to the front, clad in gleaming bronze
and brandishing his spear, for Mars egged him on to do so with intent that he should be killed
by Aeneas; but Antilochus the son of Nestor saw him and sprang forward, fearing that the king
might come to harm and thus bring all their labour to nothing; when, therefore Aeneas and Menelaus
were setting their hands and spears against one another eager to do battle, Antilochus placed
himself by the side of Menelaus. Aeneas, bold though he was, drew back on seeing the two heroes
side by side in front of him, so they drew the bodies of Crethon and Orsilochus to the ranks
of the Achaeans and committed the two poor fellows into the hands of their comrades. They then
turned back and fought in the front ranks.

They killed Pylaemenes peer of Mars, leader of the Paphlagonian warriors. Menelaus struck him
on the collar-bone as he was standing on his chariot, while Antilochus hit his charioteer and
squire Mydon, the son of Atymnius, who was turning his horses in flight. He hit him with a
stone upon the elbow, and the reins, enriched with white ivory, fell from his hands into the
dust. Antilochus rushed towards him and struck him on the temples with his sword, whereon he
fell head first from the chariot to the ground. There he stood for a while with his head and
shoulders buried deep in the dust--for he had fallen on sandy soil till his horses kicked him
and laid him flat on the ground, as Antilochus lashed them and drove them off to the host of
the Achaeans.

But Hector marked them from across the ranks, and with a loud cry rushed towards them, followed
by the strong battalions of the Trojans. Mars and dread Enyo led them on, she fraught with
ruthless turmoil of battle, while Mars wielded a monstrous spear, and went about, now in front
of Hector and now behind him.

Diomed shook with passion as he saw them. As a man crossing a wide plain is dismayed to find
himself on the brink of some great river rolling swiftly to the sea--he sees its boiling waters
and starts back in fear--even so did the son of Tydeus give ground. Then he said to his men,
"My friends, how can we wonder that Hector wields the spear so well?

As he spoke the Trojans drew close up, and Hector killed two men, both in one chariot, Menesthes
and Anchialus, heroes well versed in war. Ajax son of Telamon pitied them in their fall; he
came close up and hurled his spear, hitting Amphius the son of Selagus, a man of great wealth
who lived in Paesus and owned much corn-growing land, but his lot had led him to come to the
aid of Priam and his sons. Ajax struck him in the belt; the spear pierced the lower part of
his belly, and he fell heavily to the ground. Then Ajax ran towards him to strip him of his
armour, but the Trojans rained spears upon him, many of which fell upon his shield. He planted
his heel upon the body and drew out his spear, but the darts pressed so heavily upon him that
he could not strip the goodly armour from his shoulders. The Trojan chieftains, moreover, many
and valiant, came about him with their spears, so that he dared not stay; great, brave and
valiant though he was, they drove him from them and he was beaten back.

Thus, then, did the battle rage between them. Presently the strong hand of fate impelled Tlepolemus,
the son of Hercules, a man both brave and of great stature, to fight Sarpedon; so the two,
son and grandson of great Jove, drew near to one another, and Tlepolemus spoke first. "Sarpedon,"
said he, "councillor of the Lycians, why should you come skulking here you who are a man of
peace? They lie who call you son of aegis-bearing Jove, for you are little like those who were
of old his children. Far other was Hercules, my own brave and lion-hearted father, who came
here for the horses of Laomedon, and though he had six ships only, and few men to follow him,
sacked the city of Ilius and made a wilderness of her highways. You are a coward, and your
people are falling from you. For all your strength, and all your coming from Lycia, you will
be no help to the Trojans but will pass the gates of Hades vanquished by my hand."

And Sarpedon, captain of the Lycians, answered, "Tlepolemus, your father overthrew Ilius by
reason of Laomedon's folly in refusing payment to one who had served him well. He would not
give your father the horses which he had come so far to fetch. As for yourself, you shall meet
death by my spear. You shall yield glory to myself, and your soul to Hades of the noble steeds."

Thus spoke Sarpedon, and Tlepolemus upraised his spear. They threw at the same moment, and
Sarpedon struck his foe in the middle of his throat; the spear went right through, and the
darkness of death fell upon his eyes. Tlepolemus's spear struck Sarpedon on the left thigh
with such force that it tore through the flesh and grazed the bone, but his father as yet warded
off destruction from him.

His comrades bore Sarpedon out of the fight, in great pain by the weight of the spear that
was dragging from his wound. They were in such haste and stress as they bore him that no one
thought of drawing the spear from his thigh so as to let him walk uprightly. Meanwhile the
Achaeans carried off the body of Tlepolemus, whereon Ulysses was moved to pity, and panted
for the fray as he beheld them. He doubted whether to pursue the son of Jove, or to make slaughter
of the Lycian rank and file; it was not decreed, however, that he should slay the son of Jove;
Minerva, therefore, turned him against the main body of the Lycians. He killed Coeranus, Alastor,
Chromius, Alcandrus, Halius, Noemon, and Prytanis, and would have slain yet more, had not great
Hector marked him, and sped to the front of the fight clad in his suit of mail, filling the
Danaans with terror. Sarpedon was glad when he saw him coming, and besought him, saying, "Son
of Priam, let me not be here to fall into the hands of the Danaans. Help me, and since I may
not return home to gladden the hearts of my wife and of my infant son, let me die within the
walls of your city."

Hector made him no answer, but rushed onward to fall at once upon the Achaeans and kill many
among them. His comrades then bore Sarpedon away and laid him beneath Jove's spreading oak
tree. Pelagon, his friend and comrade, drew the spear out of his thigh, but Sarpedon fainted
and a mist came over his eyes. Presently he came to himself again, for the breath of the north
wind as it played upon him gave him new life, and brought him out of the deep swoon into which
he had fallen.

Meanwhile the Argives were neither driven towards their ships by Mars and Hector, nor yet did
they attack them; when they knew that Mars was with the Trojans they retreated, but kept their
faces still turned towards the foe. Who, then, was first and who last to be slain by Mars and
Hector? They were valiant Teuthras, and Orestes the renowned charioteer, Trechus the Aetolian
warrior, Oenomaus, Helenus the son of Oenops, and Oresbius of the gleaming girdle, who was
possessed of great wealth, and dwelt by the Cephisian lake with the other Boeotians who lived
near him, owners of a fertile country.

Now when the goddess Juno saw the Argives thus falling, she said to Minerva, "Alas, daughter
of aegis-bearing Jove, unweariable, the promise we made Menelaus that he should not return
till he had sacked the city of Ilius will be of no effect if we let Mars rage thus furiously.
Let us go into the fray at once."

Minerva did not gainsay her. Thereon the august goddess, daughter of great Saturn, began to
harness her gold-bedizened steeds. Hebe with all speed fitted on the eight-spoked wheels of
bronze that were on either side of the iron axle-tree. The felloes of the wheels were of gold,
imperishable, and over these there was a tire of bronze, wondrous to behold. The naves of the
wheels were silver, turning round the axle upon either side. The car itself was made with plaited
bands of gold and silver, and it had a double top-rail running all round it. From the body
of the car there went a pole of silver, on to the end of which she bound the golden yoke, with
the bands of gold that were to go under the necks of the horses Then Juno put her steeds under
the yoke, eager for battle and the war-cry.

Meanwhile Minerva flung her richly embroidered vesture, made with her own hands, on to her
father's threshold, and donned the shirt of Jove, arming herself for battle. She threw her
tasselled aegis about her shoulders, wreathed round with Rout as with a fringe, and on it were
Strife, and Strength, and Panic whose blood runs cold; moreover there was the head of the dread
monster Gorgon, grim and awful to behold, portent of aegis-bearing Jove. On her head she set
her helmet of gold, with four plumes, and coming to a peak both in front and behind--decked
with the emblems of a hundred cities; then she stepped into her flaming chariot and grasped
the spear, so stout and sturdy and strong, with which she quells the ranks of heroes who have
displeased her. Juno lashed the horses on, and the gates of heaven bellowed as they flew open
of their own accord--gates over which the Hours preside, in whose hands are Heaven and Olympus,
either to open the dense cloud that hides them, or to close it. Through these the goddesses
drove their obedient steeds, and found the son of Saturn sitting all alone on the topmost ridges
of Olympus. There Juno stayed her horses, and spoke to Jove the son of Saturn, lord of all.
"Father Jove," said she, "are you not angry with Mars for these high doings? how great and
goodly a host of the Achaeans he has destroyed to my great grief, and without either right
or reason, while the Cyprian and Apollo are enjoying it all at their ease and setting this
unrighteous madman on to do further mischief. I hope, Father Jove, that you will not be angry
if I hit Mars hard, and chase him out of the battle."

And Jove answered, "Set Minerva on to him, for she punishes him more often than any one else does."

Juno did as he had said. She lashed her horses, and they flew forward nothing loth midway betwixt
earth and sky. As far as a man can see when he looks out upon the sea from some high beacon,
so far can the loud-neighing horses of the gods spring at a single bound. When they reached
Troy and the place where its two flowing streams Simois and Scamander meet, there Juno stayed
them and took them from the chariot. She hid them in a thick cloud, and Simois made ambrosia
spring up for them to eat; the two goddesses then went on, flying like turtledoves in their
eagerness to help the Argives. When they came to the part where the bravest and most in number
were gathered about mighty Diomed, fighting like lions or wild boars of great strength and
endurance, there Juno stood still and raised a shout like that of brazen-voiced Stentor, whose
cry was as loud as that of fifty men together. "Argives," she cried; "shame on cowardly creatures,
brave in semblance only; as long as Achilles was fighting, if his spear was so deadly that
the Trojans dared not show themselves outside the Dardanian gates, but now they sally far from
the city and fight even at your ships."

With these words she put heart and soul into them all, while Minerva sprang to the side of
the son of Tydeus, whom she found near his chariot and horses, cooling the wound that Pandarus
had given him. For the sweat caused by the hand that bore the weight of his shield irritated
the hurt: his arm was weary with pain, and he was lifting up the strap to wipe away the blood.
The goddess laid her hand on the yoke of his horses and said, "The son of Tydeus is not such
another as his father. Tydeus was a little man, but he could fight, and rushed madly into the
fray even when I told him not to do so. When he went all unattended as envoy to the city of
Thebes among the Cadmeans, I bade him feast in their houses and be at peace; but with that
high spirit which was ever present with him, he challenged the youth of the Cadmeans, and at
once beat them in all that he attempted, so mightily did I help him. I stand by you too to
protect you, and I bid you be instant in fighting the Trojans; but either you are tired out,
or you are afraid and out of heart, and in that case I say that you are no true son of Tydeus
the son of Oeneus."

Diomed answered, "I know you, goddess, daughter of aegis-bearing Jove, and will hide nothing
from you. I am not afraid nor out of heart, nor is there any slackness in me. I am only following
your own instructions; you told me not to fight any of the blessed gods; but if Jove's daughter
Venus came into battle I was to wound her with my spear. Therefore I am retreating, and bidding
the other Argives gather in this place, for I know that Mars is now lording it in the field."

"Diomed, son of Tydeus," replied Minerva, "man after my own heart, fear neither Mars nor any
other of the immortals, for I will befriend you. Nay, drive straight at Mars, and smite him
in close combat; fear not this raging madman, villain incarnate, first on one side and then
on the other. But now he was holding talk with Juno and myself, saying he would help the Argives
and attack the Trojans; nevertheless he is with the Trojans, and has forgotten the Argives."

With this she caught hold of Sthenelus and lifted him off the chariot on to the ground. In
a second he was on the ground, whereupon the goddess mounted the car and placed herself by
the side of Diomed. The oaken axle groaned aloud under the burden of the awful goddess and
the hero; Pallas Minerva took the whip and reins, and drove straight at Mars. He was in the
act of stripping huge Periphas, son of Ochesius and bravest of the Aetolians. Bloody Mars was
stripping him of his armour, and Minerva donned the helmet of Hades, that he might not see
her; when, therefore, he saw Diomed, he made straight for him and let Periphas lie where he
had fallen. As soon as they were at close quarters he let fly with his bronze spear over the
reins and yoke, thinking to take Diomed's life, but Minerva caught the spear in her hand and
made it fly harmlessly over the chariot. Diomed then threw, and Pallas Minerva drove the spear
into the pit of Mars's stomach where his under-girdle went round him. There Diomed wounded
him, tearing his fair flesh and then drawing his spear out again. Mars roared as loudly as
nine or ten thousand men in the thick of a fight, and the Achaeans and Trojans were struck
with panic, so terrible was the cry he raised.

As a dark cloud in the sky when it comes on to blow after heat, even so did Diomed son of Tydeus
see Mars ascend into the broad heavens. With all speed he reached high Olympus, home of the
gods, and in great pain sat down beside Jove the son of Saturn. He showed Jove the immortal
blood that was flowing from his wound, and spoke piteously, saying, "Father Jove, are you not
angered by such doings? We gods are continually suffering in the most cruel manner at one another's
hands while helping mortals; and we all owe you a grudge for having begotten that mad termagant
of a daughter, who is always committing outrage of some kind. We other gods must all do as
you bid us, but her you neither scold nor punish; you encourage her because the pestilent creature
is your daughter. See how she has been inciting proud Diomed to vent his rage on the immortal
gods. First he went up to the Cyprian and wounded her in the hand near her wrist, and then
he sprang upon me too as though he were a god. Had I not run for it I must either have lain
there for long enough in torments among the ghastly corpses, or have been eaten alive with
spears till I had no more strength left in me."

Jove looked angrily at him and said, "Do not come whining here, Sir Facing-both-ways. I hate
you worst of all the gods in Olympus, for you are ever fighting and making mischief. You have
the intolerable and stubborn spirit of your mother Juno: it is all I can do to manage her,
and it is her doing that you are now in this plight: still, I cannot let you remain longer
in such great pain; you are my own offspring, and it was by me that your mother conceived you;
if, however, you had been the son of any other god, you are so destructive that by this time
you should have been lying lower than the Titans."

He then bade Paeeon heal him, whereon Paeeon spread pain-killing herbs upon his wound and cured
him, for he was not of mortal mould. As the juice of the fig-tree curdles milk, and thickens
it in a moment though it is liquid, even so instantly did Paeeon cure fierce Mars. Then Hebe
washed him, and clothed him in goodly raiment, and he took his seat by his father Jove all
glorious to behold.

But Juno of Argos and Minerva of Alalcomene, now that they had put a stop to the murderous
doings of Mars, went back again to the house of Jove.

BOOK VI

  Glaucus and Diomed--The story of Bellerophon--
  Hector and Andromache.

THE fight between Trojans and Achaeans was now left to rage as it would, and the tide of war
surged hither and thither over the plain as they aimed their bronze-shod spears at one another
between the streams of Simois and Xanthus.

First, Ajax son of Telamon, tower of strength to the Achaeans, broke a phalanx of the Trojans,
and came to the assistance of his comrades by killing Acamas son of Eussorus, the best man
among the Thracians, being both brave and of great stature. The spear struck the projecting
peak of his helmet: its bronze point then went through his forehead into the brain, and darkness
veiled his eyes.

Then Diomed killed Axylus son of Teuthranus, a rich man who lived in the strong city of Arisbe,
and was beloved by all men; for he had a house by the roadside, and entertained every one who
passed; howbeit not one of his guests stood before him to save his life, and Diomed killed
both him and his squire Calesius, who was then his charioteer--so the pair passed beneath the
earth.

Euryalus killed Dresus and Opheltius, and then went in pursuit of Aesepus and Pedasus, whom
the naiad nymph Abarbarea had borne to noble Bucolion. Bucolion was eldest son to Laomedon,
but he was a bastard. While tending his sheep he had converse with the nymph, and she conceived
twin sons; these the son of Mecisteus now slew, and he stripped the armour from their shoulders.
Polypoetes then killed Astyalus, Ulysses Pidytes of Percote, and Teucer Aretaon. Ablerus fell
by the spear of Nestor's son Antilochus, and Agamemnon, king of men, killed Elatus who dwelt
in Pedasus by the banks of the river Satnioeis. Leitus killed Phylacus as he was flying, and
Eurypylus slew Melanthus.

Then Menelaus of the loud war-cry took Adrestus alive, for his horses ran into a tamarisk bush,
as they were flying wildly over the plain, and broke the pole from the car; they went on towards
the city along with the others in full flight, but Adrestus rolled out, and fell in the dust
flat on his face by the wheel of his chariot; Menelaus came up to him spear in hand, but Adrestus
caught him by the knees begging for his life. "Take me alive," he cried, "son of Atreus, and
you shall have a full ransom for me: my father is rich and has much treasure of gold, bronze,
and wrought iron laid by in his house. From this store he will give you a large ransom should
he hear of my being alive and at the ships of the Achaeans."

Thus did he plead, and Menelaus was for yielding and giving him to a squire to take to the
ships of the Achaeans, but Agamemnon came running up to him and rebuked him. "My good Menelaus,"
said he, "this is no time for giving quarter. Has, then, your house fared so well at the hands
of the Trojans? Let us not spare a single one of them--not even the child unborn and in its
mother's womb; let not a man of them be left alive, but let all in Ilius perish, unheeded and
forgotten."

Thus did he speak, and his brother was persuaded by him, for his words were just. Menelaus,
therefore, thrust Adrestus from him, whereon King Agamemnon struck him in the flank, and he
fell: then the son of Atreus planted his foot upon his breast to draw his spear from the body.

Meanwhile Nestor shouted to the Argives, saying, "My friends, Danaan warriors, servants of
Mars, let no man lag that he may spoil the dead, and bring back much booty to the ships. Let
us kill as many as we can; the bodies will lie upon the plain, and you can despoil them later
at your leisure."

With these words he put heart and soul into them all. And now the Trojans would have been routed
and driven back into Ilius, had not Priam's son Helenus, wisest of augurs, said to Hector and
Aeneas, "Hector and Aeneas, you two are the mainstays of the Trojans and Lycians, for you are
foremost at all times, alike in fight and counsel; hold your ground here, and go about among
the host to rally them in front of the gates, or they will fling themselves into the arms of
their wives, to the great joy of our foes. Then, when you have put heart into all our companies,
we will stand firm here and fight the Danaans however hard they press us, for there is nothing
else to be done. Meanwhile do you, Hector, go to the city and tell our mother what is happening.
Tell her to bid the matrons gather at the temple of Minerva in the acropolis; let her then
take her key and open the doors of the sacred building; there, upon the knees of Minerva, let
her lay the largest, fairest robe she has in her house--the one she sets most store by; let
her, moreover, promise to sacrifice twelve yearling heifers that have never yet felt the goad,
in the temple of the goddess, if she will take pity on the town, with the wives and little
ones of the Trojans, and keep the son of Tydeus from falling on the goodly city of Ilius; for
he fights with fury and fills men's souls with panic. I hold him mightiest of them all; we
did not fear even their great champion Achilles, son of a goddess though he be, as we do this
man: his rage is beyond all bounds, and there is none can vie with him in prowess"

Hector did as his brother bade him. He sprang from his chariot, and went about everywhere among
the host, brandishing his spears, urging the men on to fight, and raising the dread cry of
battle. Thereon they rallied and again faced the Achaeans, who gave ground and ceased their
murderous onset, for they deemed that some one of the immortals had come down from starry heaven
to help the Trojans, so strangely had they rallied. And Hector shouted to the Trojans, "Trojans
and allies, be men, my friends, and fight with might and main, while I go to Ilius and tell
the old men of our council and our wives to pray to the gods and vow hecatombs in their honour."

With this he went his way, and the black rim of hide that went round his shield beat against
his neck and his ancles.

Then Glaucus son of Hippolochus, and the son of Tydeus went into the open space between the
hosts to fight in single combat. When they were close up to one another Diomed of the loud
war-cry was the first to speak. "Who, my good sir," said he, "who are you among men? I have
never seen you in battle until now, but you are daring beyond all others if you abide my onset.
Woe to those fathers whose sons face my might. If, however, you are one of the immortals and
have come down from heaven, I will not fight you; for even valiant Lycurgus, son of Dryas,
did not live long when he took to fighting with the gods. He it was that drove the nursing
women who were in charge of frenzied Bacchus through the land of Nysa, and they flung their
thyrsi on the ground as murderous Lycurgus beat them with his oxgoad. Bacchus himself plunged
terror-stricken into the sea, and Thetis took him to her bosom to comfort him, for he was scared
by the fury with which the man reviled him. Thereon the gods who live at ease were angry with
Lycurgus and the son of Saturn struck him blind, nor did he live much longer after he had become
hateful to the immortals. Therefore I will not fight with the blessed gods; but if you are
of them that eat the fruit of the ground, draw near and meet your doom."

And the son of Hippolochus answered, son of Tydeus, why ask me of my lineage? Men come and
go as leaves year by year upon the trees. Those of autumn the wind sheds upon the ground, but
when spring returns the forest buds forth with fresh vines. Even so is it with the generations
of mankind, the new spring up as the old are passing away. If, then, you would learn my descent,
it is one that is well known to many. There is a city in the heart of Argos, pasture land of
horses, called Ephyra, where Sisyphus lived, who was the craftiest of all mankind. He was the
son of Aeolus, and had a son named Glaucus, who was father to Bellerophon, whom heaven endowed
with the most surpassing comeliness and beauty. But Proetus devised his ruin, and being stronger
than he, drove him from the land of the Argives, over which Jove had made him ruler. For Antea,
wife of Proetus, lusted after him, and would have had him lie with her in secret; but Bellerophon
was an honourable man and would not, so she told lies about him to Proteus. 'Proetus,' said
she, 'kill Bellerophon or die, for he would have had converse with me against my will.' The
king was angered, but shrank from killing Bellerophon, so he sent him to Lycia with lying letters
of introduction, written on a folded tablet, and containing much ill against the bearer. He
bade Bellerophon show these letters to his father-in-law, to the end that he might thus perish;
Bellerophon therefore went to Lycia, and the gods convoyed him safely.

"When he reached the river Xanthus, which is in Lycia, the king received him with all goodwill,
feasted him nine days, and killed nine heifers in his honour, but when rosy-fingered morning
appeared upon the tenth day, he questioned him and desired to see the letter from his son-in-law
Proetus. When he had received the wicked letter he first commanded Bellerophon to kill that
savage monster, the Chimaera, who was not a human being, but a goddess, for she had the head
of a lion and the tail of a serpent, while her body was that of a goat, and she breathed forth
flames of fire; but Bellerophon slew her, for he was guided by signs from heaven. He next fought
the far-famed Solymi, and this, he said, was the hardest of all his battles. Thirdly, he killed
the Amazons, women who were the peers of men, and as he was returning thence the king devised
yet another plan for his destruction; he picked the bravest warriors in all Lycia, and placed
them in ambuscade, but not a man ever came back, for Bellerophon killed every one of them.
Then the king knew that he must be the valiant offspring of a god, so he kept him in Lycia,
gave him his daughter in marriage, and made him of equal honour in the kingdom with himself;
and the Lycians gave him a piece of land, the best in all the country, fair with vineyards
and tilled fields, to have and to hold.

"The king's daughter bore Bellerophon three children, Isander, Hippolochus, and Laodameia.
Jove, the lord of counsel, lay with Laodameia, and she bore him noble Sarpedon; but when Bellerophon
came to be hated by all the gods, he wandered all desolate and dismayed upon the Alean plain,
gnawing at his own heart, and shunning the path of man. Mars, insatiate of battle, killed his
son Isander while he was fighting the Solymi; his daughter was killed by Diana of the golden
reins, for she was angered with her; but Hippolochus was father to myself, and when he sent
me to Troy he urged me again and again to fight ever among the foremost and outvie my peers,
so as not to shame the blood of my fathers who were the noblest in Ephyra and in all Lycia.
This, then, is the descent I claim."

Thus did he speak, and the heart of Diomed was glad. He planted his spear in the ground, and
spoke to him with friendly words. "Then," he said, "you are an old friend of my father's house.
Great Oeneus once entertained Bellerophon for twenty days, and the two exchanged presents.
Oeneus gave a belt rich with purple, and Bellerophon a double cup, which I left at home when
I set out for Troy. I do not remember Tydeus, for he was taken from us while I was yet a child,
when the army of the Achaeans was cut to pieces before Thebes. Henceforth, however, I must
be your host in middle Argos, and you mine in Lycia, if I should ever go there; let us avoid
one another's spears even during a general engagement; there are many noble Trojans and allies
whom I can kill, if I overtake them and heaven delivers them into my hand; so again with yourself,
there are many Achaeans whose lives you may take if you can; we two, then, will exchange armour,
that all present may know of the old ties that subsist between us."

With these words they sprang from their chariots, grasped one another's hands, and plighted
friendship. But the son of Saturn made Glaucus take leave of his wits, for he exchanged golden
armour for bronze, the worth of a hundred head of cattle for the worth of nine.

Now when Hector reached the Scaean gates and the oak tree, the wives and daughters of the Trojans
came running towards him to ask after their sons, brothers, kinsmen, and husbands: he told
them to set about praying to the gods, and many were made sorrowful as they heard him.

Presently he reached the splendid palace of King Priam, adorned with colonnades of hewn stone.
In it there were fifty bedchambers--all of hewn stone--built near one another, where the sons
of Priam slept, each with his wedded wife. Opposite these, on the other side the courtyard,
there were twelve upper rooms also of hewn stone for Priam's daughters, built near one another,
where his sons-in-law slept with their wives. When Hector got there, his fond mother came up
to him with Laodice the fairest of her daughters. She took his hand within her own and said,
"My son, why have you left the battle to come hither? Are the Achaeans, woe betide them, pressing
you hard about the city that you have thought fit to come and uplift your hands to Jove from
the citadel? Wait till I can bring you wine that you may make offering to Jove and to the other
immortals, and may then drink and be refreshed. Wine gives a man fresh strength when he is
wearied, as you now are with fighting on behalf of your kinsmen."

And Hector answered, "Honoured mother, bring no wine, lest you unman me and I forget my strength.
I dare not make a drink-offering to Jove with unwashed hands; one who is bespattered with blood
and filth may not pray to the son of Saturn. Go, then, to the temple of Minerva, while I seek
Paris and exhort him, if he will hear my words. Would that the earth might open her jaws and
swallow him, for Jove bred him to be the bane of the Trojans, and of Priam and Priam's sons.
Could I but see him go down into the house of Hades, my heart would forget its heaviness."

His mother went into the house and called her waiting-women who gathered the matrons throughout
the city. She then went down into her fragrant store-room, where her embroidered robes were
kept, the work of Sidonian women, whom Alexandrus had brought over from Sidon when he sailed
the seas upon that voyage during which he carried off Helen. Hecuba took out the largest robe,
and the one that was most beautifully enriched with embroidery, as an offering to Minerva:
it glittered like a star, and lay at the very bottom of the chest. With this she went on her
way and many matrons with her.

When they reached the temple of Minerva, lovely Theano, daughter of Cisseus and wife of Antenor,
opened the doors, for the Trojans had made her priestess of Minerva. The women lifted up their
hands to the goddess with a loud cry, and Theano took the robe to lay it upon the knees of
Minerva, praying the while to the daughter of great Jove. "Holy Minerva," she cried, "protectress
of our city, mighty goddess, break the spear of Diomed and lay him low before the Scaean gates.
Do this, and we will sacrifice twelve heifers that have never yet known the goad, in your temple,
if you will have pity upon the town, with the wives and little ones of the Trojans." Thus she
prayed, but Pallas Minerva granted not her prayer.

While they were thus praying to the daughter of great Jove, Hector went to the fair house of
Alexandrus, which he had built for him by the foremost builders in the land. They had built
him his house, storehouse, and courtyard near those of Priam and Hector on the acropolis. Here
Hector entered, with a spear eleven cubits long in his hand; the bronze point gleamed in front
of him, and was fastened to the shaft of the spear by a ring of gold. He found Alexandrus within
the house, busied about his armour, his shield and cuirass, and handling his curved bow; there,
too, sat Argive Helen with her women, setting them their several tasks; and as Hector saw him
he rebuked him with words of scorn. "Sir," said he, "you do ill to nurse this rancour; the
people perish fighting round this our town; you would yourself chide one whom you saw shirking
his part in the combat. Up then, or ere long the city will be in a blaze."

And Alexandrus answered, "Hector, your rebuke is just; listen therefore, and believe me when
I tell you that I am not here so much through rancour or ill-will towards the Trojans, as from
a desire to indulge my grief. My wife was even now gently urging me to battle, and I hold it
better that I should go, for victory is ever fickle. Wait, then, while I put on my armour,
or go first and I will follow. I shall be sure to overtake you."

Hector made no answer, but Helen tried to soothe him. "Brother," said she, "to my abhorred
and sinful self, would that a whirlwind had caught me up on the day my mother brought me forth,
and had borne me to some mountain or to the waves of the roaring sea that should have swept
me away ere this mischief had come about. But, since the gods have devised these evils, would,
at any rate, that I had been wife to a better man--to one who could smart under dishonour and
men's evil speeches. This fellow was never yet to be depended upon, nor never will be, and
he will surely reap what he has sown. Still, brother, come in and rest upon this seat, for
it is you who bear the brunt of that toil that has been caused by my hateful self and by the
sin of Alexandrus--both of whom Jove has doomed to be a theme of song among those that shall
be born hereafter."

And Hector answered, "Bid me not be seated, Helen, for all the goodwill you bear me. I cannot
stay. I am in haste to help the Trojans, who miss me greatly when I am not among them; but
urge your husband, and of his own self also let him make haste to overtake me before I am out
of the city. I must go home to see my household, my wife and my little son, for I know not
whether I shall ever again return to them, or whether the gods will cause me to fill by the
hands of the Achaeans."

Then Hector left her, and forthwith was at his own house. He did not find Andromache, for she
was on the wall with her child and one of her maids, weeping bitterly. Seeing, then, that she
was not within, he stood on the threshold of the women's rooms and said, "Women, tell me, and
tell me true, where did Andromache go when she left the house? Was it to my sisters, or to
my brothers' wives? or is she at the temple of Minerva where the other women are propitiating
the awful goddess?"

Hector hurried from the house when she had done speaking, and went down the streets by the
same way that he had come. When he had gone through the city and had reached the Scaean gates
through which he would go out on to the plain, his wife came running towards him, Andromache,
daughter of great Eetion who ruled in Thebe under the wooded slopes of Mt. Placus, and was
king of the Cilicians. His daughter had married Hector, and now came to meet him with a nurse
who carried his little child in her bosom--a mere babe. Hector's darling son, and lovely as
a star. Hector had named him Scamandrius, but the people called him Astyanax, for his father
stood alone as chief guardian of Ilius. Hector smiled as he looked upon the boy, but he did
not speak, and Andromache stood by him weeping and taking his hand in her own. "Dear husband,"
said she, "your valour will bring you to destruction; think on your infant son, and on my hapless
self who ere long shall be your widow--for the Achaeans will set upon you in a body and kill
you. It would be better for me, should I lose you, to lie dead and buried, for I shall have
nothing left to comfort me when you are gone, save only sorrow. I have neither father nor mother
now. Achilles slew my father when he sacked Thebe the goodly city of the Cilicians. He slew
him, but did not for very shame despoil him; when he had burned him in his wondrous armour,
he raised a barrow over his ashes and the mountain nymphs, daughters of aegis-bearing Jove,
planted a grove of elms about his tomb. I had seven brothers in my father's house, but on the
same day they all went within the house of Hades. Achilles killed them as they were with their
sheep and cattle. My mother--her who had been queen of all the land under Mt. Placus--he brought
hither with the spoil, and freed her for a great sum, but the archer-queen Diana took her in
the house of your father. Nay--Hector--you who to me are father, mother, brother, and dear
husband--have mercy upon me; stay here upon this wall; make not your child fatherless, and
your wife a widow; as for the host, place them near the fig-tree, where the city can be best
scaled, and the wall is weakest. Thrice have the bravest of them come thither and assailed
it, under the two Ajaxes, Idomeneus, the sons of Atreus, and the brave son of Tydeus, either
of their own bidding, or because some soothsayer had told them."

And Hector answered, "Wife, I too have thought upon all this, but with what face should I look
upon the Trojans, men or women, if I shirked battle like a coward? I cannot do so: I know nothing
save to fight bravely in the forefront of the Trojan host and win renown alike for my father
and myself. Well do I know that the day will surely come when mighty Ilius shall be destroyed
with Priam and Priam's people, but I grieve for none of these--not even for Hecuba, nor King
Priam, nor for my brothers many and brave who may fall in the dust before their foes--for none
of these do I grieve as for yourself when the day shall come on which some one of the Achaeans
shall rob you for ever of your freedom, and bear you weeping away. It may be that you will
have to ply the loom in Argos at the bidding of a mistress, or to fetch water from the springs
Messeis or Hypereia, treated brutally by some cruel task-master; then will one say who sees
you weeping, 'She was wife to Hector, the bravest warrior among the Trojans during the war
before Ilius.' On this your tears will break forth anew for him who would have put away the
day of captivity from you. May I lie dead under the barrow that is heaped over my body ere
I hear your cry as they carry you into bondage."

He stretched his arms towards his child, but the boy cried and nestled in his nurse's bosom,
scared at the sight of his father's armour, and at the horse-hair plume that nodded fiercely
from his helmet. His father and mother laughed to see him, but Hector took the helmet from
his head and laid it all gleaming upon the ground. Then he took his darling child, kissed him,
and dandled him in his arms, praying over him the while to Jove and to all the gods. "Jove,"
he cried, "grant that this my child may be even as myself, chief among the Trojans; let him
be not less excellent in strength, and let him rule Ilius with his might. Then may one say
of him as he comes from battle, 'The son is far better than the father.' May he bring back
the blood-stained spoils of him whom he has laid low, and let his mother's heart be glad."

With this he laid the child again in the arms of his wife, who took him to her own soft bosom,
smiling through her tears. As her husband watched her his heart yearned towards her and he
caressed her fondly, saying, "My own wife, do not take these things too bitterly to heart.
No one can hurry me down to Hades before my time, but if a man's hour is come, be he brave
or be he coward, there is no escape for him when he has once been born.

He took his plumed helmet from the ground, and his wife went back again to her house, weeping
bitterly and often looking back towards him. When she reached her home she found her maidens
within, and bade them all join in her lament; so they mourned Hector in his own house though
he was yet alive, for they deemed that they should never see him return safe from battle, and
from the furious hands of the Achaeans.

Paris did not remain long in his house. He donned his goodly armour overlaid with bronze, and
hasted through the city as fast as his feet could take him. As a horse, stabled and fed, breaks
loose and gallops gloriously over the plain to the place where he is wont to bathe in the fair-flowing
river--he holds his head high, and his mane streams upon his shoulders as he exults in his
strength and flies like the wind to the haunts and feeding ground of the mares--even so went
forth Paris from high Pergamus, gleaming like sunlight in his armour, and he laughed aloud
as he sped swiftly on his way. Forthwith he came upon his brother Hector, who was then turning
away from the place where he had held converse with his wife, and he was himself the first
to speak. "Sir," said he, "I fear that I have kept you waiting when you are in haste, and have
not come as quickly as you bade me."

"My good brother," answered Hector, "you fight bravely, and no man with any justice can make
light of your doings in battle. But you are careless and wilfully remiss. It grieves me to
the heart to hear the ill that the Trojans speak about you, for they have suffered much on
your account. Let us be going, and we will make things right hereafter, should Jove vouchsafe
us to set the cup of our deliverance before ever-living gods of heaven in our own homes, when
we have chased the Achaeans from Troy."

BOOK VII

  Hector and Ajax fight--Hector is getting worsted when night
  comes on and parts them--They exchange presents--The
  burial of the dead, and the building of a wall round their
  ships by the Achaeans--The Achaeans buy their wine of
  Agamemnon and Menelaus.

WITH these words Hector passed through the gates, and his brother Alexandrus with him, both
eager for the fray. As when heaven sends a breeze to sailors who have long looked for one in
vain, and have laboured at their oars till they are faint with toil, even so welcome was the
sight of these two heroes to the Trojans.

Thereon Alexandrus killed Menesthius the son of Areithous; he lived in Arne, and was son of
Areithous the Mace-man, and of Phylomedusa. Hector threw a spear at Eioneus and struck him
dead with a wound in the neck under the bronze rim of his helmet. Glaucus, moreover, son of
Hippolochus, captain of the Lycians, in hard hand-to-hand fight smote Iphinous son of Dexius
on the shoulder, as he was springing on to his chariot behind his fleet mares; so he fell to
earth from the car, and there was no life left in him.

When, therefore, Minerva saw these men making havoc of the Argives, she darted down to Ilius
from the summits of Olympus, and Apollo, who was looking on from Pergamus, went out to meet
her; for he wanted the Trojans to be victorious. The pair met by the oak tree, and King Apollo
son of Jove was first to speak. "What would you have", said he, "daughter of great Jove, that
your proud spirit has sent you hither from Olympus? Have you no pity upon the Trojans, and
would you incline the scales of victory in favour of the Danaans? Let me persuade you--for
it will be better thus--stay the combat for to-day, but let them renew the fight hereafter
till they compass the doom of Ilius, since you goddesses have made up your minds to destroy
the city."

And Minerva answered, "So be it, Far-Darter; it was in this mind that I came down from Olympus
to the Trojans and Achaeans. Tell me, then, how do you propose to end this present fighting?"

Apollo, son of Jove, replied, "Let us incite great Hector to challenge some one of the Danaans
in single combat; on this the Achaeans will be shamed into finding a man who will fight him."

Minerva assented, and Helenus son of Priam divined the counsel of the gods; he therefore went
up to Hector and said, "Hector son of Priam, peer of gods in counsel, I am your brother, let
me then persuade you. Bid the other Trojans and Achaeans all of them take their seats, and
challenge the best man among the Achaeans to meet you in single combat. I have heard the voice
of the ever-living gods, and the hour of your doom is not yet come."

Hector was glad when he heard this saying, and went in among the Trojans, grasping his spear
by the middle to hold them back, and they all sat down. Agamemnon also bade the Achaeans be
seated. But Minerva and Apollo, in the likeness of vultures, perched on father Jove's high
oak tree, proud of their men; and the ranks sat close ranged together, bristling with shield
and helmet and spear. As when the rising west wind furs the face of the sea and the waters
grow dark beneath it, so sat the companies of Trojans and Achaeans upon the plain. And Hector
spoke thus:--

"Hear me, Trojans and Achaeans, that I may speak even as I am minded; Jove on his high throne
has brought our oaths and covenants to nothing, and foreshadows ill for both of us, till you
either take the towers of Troy, or are yourselves vanquished at your ships. The princes of
the Achaeans are here present in the midst of you; let him, then, that will fight me stand
forward as your champion against Hector. Thus I say, and may Jove be witness between us. If
your champion slay me, let him strip me of my armour and take it to your ships, but let him
send my body home that the Trojans and their wives may give me my dues of fire when I am dead.
In like manner, if Apollo vouchsafe me glory and I slay your champion, I will strip him of
his armour and take it to the city of Ilius, where I will hang it in the temple of Apollo,
but I will give up his body, that the Achaeans may bury him at their ships, and the build him
a mound by the wide waters of the Hellespont. Then will one say hereafter as he sails his ship
over the sea, 'This is the monument of one who died long since a champion who was slain by
mighty Hector.' Thus will one say, and my fame shall not be lost."

Thus did he speak, but they all held their peace, ashamed to decline the challenge, yet fearing
to accept it, till at last Menelaus rose and rebuked them, for he was angry. "Alas," he cried,
"vain braggarts, women forsooth not men, double-dyed indeed will be the stain upon us if no
man of the Danaans will now face Hector. May you be turned every man of you into earth and
water as you sit spiritless and inglorious in your places. I will myself go out against this
man, but the upshot of the fight will be from on high in the hands of the immortal gods."

With these words he put on his armour; and then, O Menelaus, your life would have come to an
end at the hands of hands of Hector, for he was far better the man, had not the princes of
the Achaeans sprung upon you and checked you. King Agamemnon caught him by the right hand and
said, "Menelaus, you are mad; a truce to this folly. Be patient in spite of passion, do not
think of fighting a man so much stronger than yourself as Hector son of Priam, who is feared
by many another as well as you. Even Achilles, who is far more doughty than you are, shrank
from meeting him in battle. Sit down your own people, and the Achaeans will send some other
champion to fight Hector; fearless and fond of battle though he be, I ween his knees will bend
gladly under him if he comes out alive from the hurly-burly of this fight."

With these words of reasonable counsel he persuaded his brother, whereon his squires gladly
stripped the armour from off his shoulders. Then Nestor rose and spoke, "Of a truth," said
he, "the Achaean land is fallen upon evil times. The old knight Peleus, counsellor and orator
among the Myrmidons, loved when I was in his house to question me concerning the race and lineage
of all the Argives. How would it not grieve him could he hear of them as now quailing before
Hector? Many a time would he lift his hands in prayer that his soul might leave his body and
go down within the house of Hades. Would, by father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, that I were
still young and strong as when the Pylians and Arcadians were gathered in fight by the rapid
river Celadon under the walls of Pheia, and round about the waters of the river Iardanus. The
godlike hero Ereuthalion stood forward as their champion, with the armour of King Areithous
upon his shoulders-- Areithous whom men and women had surnamed 'the Mace-man,' because he fought
neither with bow nor spear, but broke the battalions of the foe with his iron mace. Lycurgus
killed him, not in fair fight, but by entrapping him in a narrow way where his mace served
him in no stead; for Lycurgus was too quick for him and speared him through the middle, so
he fell to earth on his back. Lycurgus then spoiled him of the armour which Mars had given
him, and bore it in battle thenceforward; but when he grew old and stayed at home, he gave
it to his faithful squire Ereuthalion, who in this same armour challenged the foremost men
among us. The others quaked and quailed, but my high spirit bade me fight him though none other
would venture; I was the youngest man of them all; but when I fought him Minerva vouchsafed
me victory. He was the biggest and strongest man that ever I killed, and covered much ground
as he lay sprawling upon the earth. Would that I were still young and strong as I then was,
for the son of Priam would then soon find one who would face him. But you, foremost among the
whole host though you be, have none of you any stomach for fighting Hector."

Thus did the old man rebuke them, and forthwith nine men started to their feet. Foremost of
all uprose King Agamemnon, and after him brave Diomed the son of Tydeus. Next were the two
Ajaxes, men clothed in valour as with a garment, and then Idomeneus, and Meriones his brother
in arms. After these Eurypylus son of Euaemon, Thoas the son of Andraemon, and Ulysses also
rose. Then Nestor knight of Gerene again spoke, saying: "Cast lots among you to see who shall
be chosen. If he come alive out of this fight he will have done good service alike to his own
soul and to the Achaeans."

Thus he spoke, and when each of them had marked his lot, and had thrown it into the helmet
of Agamemnon son of Atreus, the people lifted their hands in prayer, and thus would one of
them say as he looked into the vault of heaven, "Father Jove, grant that the lot fall on Ajax,
or on the son of Tydeus, or upon the king of rich Mycene himself."

As they were speaking, Nestor knight of Gerene shook the helmet, and from it there fell the
very lot which they wanted--the lot of Ajax. The herald bore it about and showed it to all
the chieftains of the Achaeans, going from left to right; but they none of them owned it. When,
however, in due course he reached the man who had written upon it and had put it into the helmet,
brave Ajax held out his hand, and the herald gave him the lot. When Ajax saw his mark he knew
it and was glad; he threw it to the ground and said, "My friends, the lot is mine, and I rejoice,
for I shall vanquish Hector. I will put on my armour; meanwhile, pray to King Jove in silence
among yourselves that the Trojans may not hear you--or aloud if you will, for we fear no man.
None shall overcome me, neither by force nor cunning, for I was born and bred in Salamis, and
can hold my own in all things."

With this they fell praying to King Jove the son of Saturn, and thus would one of them say
as he looked into the vault of heaven, "Father Jove that rulest from Ida, most glorious in
power, vouchsafe victory to Ajax, and let him win great glory: but if you wish well to Hector
also and would protect him, grant to each of them equal fame and prowess."

Thus they prayed, and Ajax armed himself in his suit of gleaming bronze. When he was in full
array he sprang forward as monstrous Mars when he takes part among men whom Jove has set fighting
with one another--even so did huge Ajax, bulwark of the Achaeans, spring forward with a grim
smile on his face as he brandished his long spear and strode onward. The Argives were elated
as they beheld him, but the Trojans trembled in every limb, and the heart even of Hector beat
quickly, but he could not now retreat and withdraw into the ranks behind him, for he had been
the challenger. Ajax came up bearing his shield in front of him like a wall--a shield of bronze
with seven folds of oxhide--the work of Tychius, who lived in Hyle and was by far the best
worker in leather. He had made it with the hides of seven full-fed bulls, and over these he
had set an eighth layer of bronze. Holding this shield before him, Ajax son of Telamon came
close up to Hector, and menaced him saying, "Hector, you shall now learn, man to man, what
kind of champions the Danaans have among them even besides lion-hearted Achilles cleaver of
the ranks of men. He now abides at the ships in anger with Agamemnon shepherd of his people,
but there are many of us who are well able to face you; therefore begin the fight."

And Hector answered, "Noble Ajax, son of Telamon, captain of the host, treat me not as though
I were some puny boy or woman that cannot fight. I have been long used to the blood and butcheries
of battle. I am quick to turn my leathern shield either to right or left, for this I deem the
main thing in battle. I can charge among the chariots and horsemen, and in hand to hand fighting
can delight the heart of Mars; howbeit I would not take such a man as you are off his guard--but
I will smite you openly if I can."

He poised his spear as he spoke, and hurled it from him. It struck the sevenfold shield in
its outermost layer--the eighth, which was of bronze--and went through six of the layers but
in the seventh hide it stayed. Then Ajax threw in his turn, and struck the round shield of
the son of Priam. The terrible spear went through his gleaming shield, and pressed onward through
his cuirass of cunning workmanship; it pierced the shirt against his side, but he swerved and
thus saved his life. They then each of them drew out the spear from his shield, and fell on
one another like savage lions or wild boars of great strength and endurance: the son of Priam
struck the middle of Ajax's shield, but the bronze did not break, and the point of his dart
was turned. Ajax then sprang forward and pierced the shield of Hector; the spear went through
it and staggered him as he was springing forward to attack; it gashed his neck and the blood
came pouring from the wound, but even so Hector did not cease fighting; he gave ground, and
with his brawny hand seized a stone, rugged and huge, that was lying upon the plain; with this
he struck the shield of Ajax on the boss that was in its middle, so that the bronze rang again.
But Ajax in turn caught up a far larger stone, swung it aloft, and hurled it with prodigious
force. This millstone of a rock broke Hector's shield inwards and threw him down on his back
with the shield crushing him under it, but Apollo raised him at once. Thereon they would have
hacked at one another in close combat with their swords, had not heralds, messengers of gods
and men, come forward, one from the Trojans and the other from the Achaeans--Talthybius and
Idaeus both of them honourable men; these parted them with their staves, and the good herald
Idaeus said, "My sons, fight no longer, you are both of you valiant, and both are dear to Jove;
we know this; but night is now falling, and the behests of night may not be well gainsaid."

Ajax son of Telamon answered, "Idaeus, bid Hector say so, for it was he that challenged our
princes. Let him speak first and I will accept his saying."

Then Hector said, "Ajax, heaven has vouchsafed you stature and strength, and judgement; and
in wielding the spear you excel all others of the Achaeans. Let us for this day cease fighting;
hereafter we will fight anew till heaven decide between us, and give victory to one or to the
other; night is now falling, and the behests of night may not be well gainsaid. Gladden, then,
the hearts of the Achaeans at your ships, and more especially those of your own followers and
clansmen, while I, in the great city of King Priam, bring comfort to the Trojans and their
women, who vie with one another in their prayers on my behalf. Let us, moreover, exchange presents
that it may be said among the Achaeans and Trojans, 'They fought with might and main, but were
reconciled and parted in friendship.'"

On this he gave Ajax a silver-studded sword with its sheath and leathern baldric, and in return
Ajax gave him a girdle dyed with purple. Thus they parted, the one going to the host of the
Achaeans, and the other to that of the Trojans, who rejoiced when they saw their hero come
to them safe and unharmed from the strong hands of mighty Ajax. They led him, therefore, to
the city as one that had been saved beyond their hopes. On the other side the Achaeans brought
Ajax elated with victory to Agamemnon.

When they reached the quarters of the son of Atreus, Agamemnon sacrificed for them a five-year-old
bull in honour of Jove the son of Saturn. When they had done all this and had prepared the
feast, they ate it, and every man had his full and equal share, so that all were satisfied,
and King Agamemnon gave Ajax some slices cut lengthways down the loin, as a mark of special
honour. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, old Nestor whose counsel was ever
truest began to speak; with all sincerity and goodwill, therefore, he addressed them thus:--

"Son of Atreus, and other chieftains, inasmuch as many of the Achaeans are now dead, whose
blood Mars has shed by the banks of the Scamander, and their souls have gone down to the house
of Hades, it will be well when morning comes that we should cease fighting; we will then wheel
our dead together with oxen and mules and burn them not far from the ships, that when we sail
hence we may take the bones of our comrades home to their children. Hard by the funeral pyre
we will build a barrow that shall be raised from the plain for all in common; near this let
us set about building a high wall, to shelter ourselves and our ships, and let it have well-made
gates that there may be a way through them for our chariots. Close outside we will dig a deep
trench all round it to keep off both horse and foot, that the Trojan chieftains may not bear
hard upon us."

Thus he spoke, and the princess shouted in applause. Meanwhile the Trojans held a council,
angry and full of discord, on the acropolis by the gates of King Priam's palace; and wise Antenor
spoke. "Hear me," he said, "Trojans, Dardanians, and allies, that I may speak even as I am
minded. Let us give up Argive Helen and her wealth to the sons of Atreus, for we are now fighting
in violation of our solemn covenants, and shall not prosper till we have done as I say."

He then sat down and Alexandrus husband of lovely Helen rose to speak. "Antenor," said he,
"your words are not to my liking; you can find a better saying than this if you will; if, however,
you have spoken in good earnest, then indeed has heaven robbed you of your reason. I will speak
plainly, and hereby notify to the Trojans that I will not give up the woman; but the wealth
that I brought home with her from Argos I will restore, and will add yet further of my own."

On this, when Paris had spoken and taken his seat, Priam of the race of Dardanus, peer of gods
in council, rose and with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus: "Hear me, Trojans,
Dardanians, and allies, that I may speak even as I am minded. Get your suppers now as hitherto
throughout the city, but keep your watches and be wakeful. At daybreak let Idaeus go to the
ships, and tell Agamemnon and Menelaus sons of Atreus the saying of Alexandrus through whom
this quarrel has come about; and let him also be instant with them that they now cease fighting
till we burn our dead; hereafter we will fight anew, till heaven decide between us and give
victory to one or to the other."

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. They took supper in their companies and
at daybreak Idaeus went his way to the ships. He found the Danaans, servants of Mars, in council
at the stern of Agamemnon's ship, and took his place in the midst of them. "Son of Atreus,"
he said, "and princes of the Achaean host, Priam and the other noble Trojans have sent me to
tell you the saying of Alexandrus through whom this quarrel has come about, if so be that you
may find it acceptable. All the treasure he took with him in his ships to Troy--would that
he had sooner perished--he will restore, and will add yet further of his own, but he will not
give up the wedded wife of Menelaus, though the Trojans would have him do so.

They all held their peace, but presently Diomed of the loud war-cry spoke, saying, "Let there
be no taking, neither treasure, nor yet Helen, for even a child may see that the doom of the
Trojans is at hand."

The sons of the Achaeans shouted applause at the words that Diomed had spoken, and thereon
King Agamemnon said to Idaeus, "Idaeus, you have heard the answer the Achaeans make you-and
I with them. But as concerning the dead, I give you leave to burn them, for when men are once
dead there should be no grudging them the rites of fire. Let Jove the mighty husband of Juno
be witness to this covenant."

As he spoke he upheld his sceptre in the sight of all the gods, and Idaeus went back to the
strong city of Ilius. The Trojans and Dardanians were gathered in council waiting his return;
when he came, he stood in their midst and delivered his message. As soon as they heard it they
set about their twofold labour, some to gather the corpses, and others to bring in wood. The
Argives on their part also hastened from their ships, some to gather the corpses, and others
to bring in wood.

The sun was beginning to beat upon the fields, fresh risen into the vault of heaven from the
slow still currents of deep Oceanus, when the two armies met. They could hardly recognise their
dead, but they washed the clotted gore from off them, shed tears over them, and lifted them
upon their waggons. Priam had forbidden the Trojans to wail aloud, so they heaped their dead
sadly and silently upon the pyre, and having burned them went back to the city of Ilius. The
Achaeans in like manner heaped their dead sadly and silently on the pyre, and having burned
them went back to their ships.

Now in the twilight when it was not yet dawn, chosen bands of the Achaeans were gathered round
the pyre and built one barrow that was raised in common for all, and hard by this they built
a high wall to shelter themselves and their ships; they gave it strong gates that there might
be a way through them for their chariots, and close outside it they dug a trench deep and wide,
and they planted it within with stakes.

Thus did the Achaeans toil, and the gods, seated by the side of Jove the lord of lightning,
marvelled at their great work; but Neptune, lord of the earthquake, spoke, saying, "Father
Jove, what mortal in the whole world will again take the gods into his counsel? See you not
how the Achaeans have built a wall about their ships and driven a trench all round it, without
offering hecatombs to the gods? The fame of this wall will reach as far as dawn itself, and
men will no longer think anything of the one which Phoebus Apollo and myself built with so
much labour for Laomedon."

Jove was displeased and answered, "What, O shaker of the earth, are you talking about? A god
less powerful than yourself might be alarmed at what they are doing, but your fame reaches
as far as dawn itself. Surely when the Achaeans have gone home with their ships, you can shatter
their wall and fling it into the sea; you can cover the beach with sand again, and the great
wall of the Achaeans will then be utterly effaced."

Thus did they converse, and by sunset the work of the Achaeans was completed; they then slaughtered
oxen at their tents and got their supper. Many ships had come with wine from Lemnos, sent by
Euneus the son of Jason, born to him by Hypsipyle. The son of Jason freighted them with ten
thousand measures of wine, which he sent specially to the sons of Atreus, Agamemnon and Menelaus.
From this supply the Achaeans bought their wine, some with bronze, some with iron, some with
hides, some with whole heifers, and some again with captives. They spread a goodly banquet
and feasted the whole night through, as also did the Trojans and their allies in the city.
But all the time Jove boded them ill and roared with his portentous thunder. Pale fear got
hold upon them, and they spilled the wine from their cups on to the ground, nor did any dare
drink till he had made offerings to the most mighty son of Saturn. Then they laid themselves
down to rest and enjoyed the boon of sleep.

BOOK VIII

  Jove forbids the gods to interfere further--There is an even
  fight till midday, but then Jove inclines the scales of victory
  in favour of the Trojans, who eventually chase the Achaeans
  within their wall--Juno and Minerva set out to help the
  Trojans: Jove sends Iris to turn them back, but later on
  he promises Juno that she shall have her way in the end--
  Hector's triumph is stayed by nightfall--The Trojans bivouac
  on the plain.

NOW when Morning, clad in her robe of saffron, had begun to suffuse light over the earth, Jove
called the gods in council on the topmost crest of serrated Olympus. Then he spoke and all
the other gods gave ear. "Hear me," said he, "gods and goddesses, that I may speak even as
I am minded. Let none of you neither goddess nor god try to cross me, but obey me every one
of you that I may bring this matter to an end. If I see anyone acting apart and helping either
Trojans or Danaans, he shall be beaten inordinately ere he come back again to Olympus; or I
will hurl him down into dark Tartarus far into the deepest pit under the earth, where the gates
are iron and the floor bronze, as far beneath Hades as heaven is high above the earth, that
you may learn how much the mightiest I am among you. Try me and find out for yourselves. Hangs
me a golden chain from heaven, and lay hold of it all of you, gods and goddesses together--tug
as you will, you will not drag Jove the supreme counsellor from heaven to earth; but were I
to pull at it myself I should draw you up with earth and sea into the bargain, then would I
bind the chain about some pinnacle of Olympus and leave you all dangling in the mid firmament.
So far am I above all others either of gods or men."

They were frightened and all of them of held their peace, for he had spoken masterfully; but
at last Minerva answered, "Father, son of Saturn, king of kings, we all know that your might
is not to be gainsaid, but we are also sorry for the Danaan warriors, who are perishing and
coming to a bad end. We will, however, since you so bid us, refrain from actual fighting, but
we will make serviceable suggestions to the Argives that they may not all of them perish in
your displeasure."

Jove smiled at her and answered, "Take heart, my child, Trito-born; I am not really in earnest,
and I wish to be kind to you."

With this he yoked his fleet horses, with hoofs of bronze and manes of glittering gold. He
girded himself also with gold about the body, seized his gold whip and took his seat in his
chariot. Thereon he lashed his horses and they flew forward nothing loth midway twixt earth
and starry heaven. After a while he reached many-fountained Ida, mother of wild beasts, and
Gargarus, where are his grove and fragrant altar. There the father of gods and men stayed his
horses, took them from the chariot, and hid them in a thick cloud; then he took his seat all
glorious upon the topmost crests, looking down upon the city of Troy and the ships of the Achaeans.

The Achaeans took their morning meal hastily at the ships, and afterwards put on their armour.
The Trojans on the other hand likewise armed themselves throughout the city, fewer in numbers
but nevertheless eager perforce to do battle for their wives and children. All the gates were
flung wide open, and horse and foot sallied forth with the tramp as of a great multitude.

When they were got together in one place, shield clashed with shield, and spear with spear,
in the conflict of mail-clad men.

Now so long as the day waxed and it was still morning their weapons beat against one another,
and the people fell, but when the sun had reached mid-heaven, the sire of all balanced his
golden scales, and put two fates of death within them, one for the Trojans and the other for
the Achaeans. He took the balance by the middle, and when he lifted it up the day of the Achaeans
sank; the death-fraught scale of the Achaeans settled down upon the ground, while that of the
Trojans rose heavenwards. Then he thundered aloud from Ida, and sent the glare of his lightning
upon the Achaeans; when they saw this, pale fear fell upon them and they were sore afraid.

Idomeneus dared not stay nor yet Agamemnon, nor did the two Ajaxes, servants of Mars, hold
their ground. Nestor knight of Gerene alone stood firm, bulwark of the Achaeans, not of his
own will, but one of his horses was disabled. Alexandrus husband of lovely Helen had hit it
with an arrow just on the top of its head where the mane begins to grow away from the skull,
a very deadly place. The horse bounded in his anguish as the arrow pierced his brain, and his
struggles threw others into confusion. The old man instantly began cutting the traces with
his sword, but Hector's fleet horses bore down upon him through the rout with their bold charioteer,
even Hector himself, and the old man would have perished there and then had not Diomed been
quick to mark, and with a loud cry called Ulysses to help him.

"Ulysses," he cried, "noble son of Laertes where are you flying to, with your back turned like
a coward? See that you are not struck with a spear between the shoulders. Stay here and help
me to defend Nestor from this man's furious onset."

Ulysses would not give ear, but sped onward to the ships of the Achaeans, and the son of Tydeus
flinging himself alone into the thick of the fight took his stand before the horses of the
son of Neleus. "Sir," said he, "these young warriors are pressing you hard, your force is spent,
and age is heavy upon you, your squire is naught, and your horses are slow to move. Mount my
chariot and see what the horses of Tros can do--how cleverly they can scud hither and thither
over the plain either in flight or in pursuit. I took them from the hero Aeneas. Let our squires
attend to your own steeds, but let us drive mine straight at the Trojans, that Hector may learn
how furiously I too can wield my spear."

Nestor knight of Gerene hearkened to his words. Thereon the doughty squires, Sthenelus and
kind-hearted Eurymedon, saw to Nestor's horses, while the two both mounted Diomed's chariot.
Nestor took the reins in his hands and lashed the horses on; they were soon close up with Hector,
and the son of Tydeus aimed a spear at him as he was charging full speed towards them. He missed
him, but struck his charioteer and squire Eniopeus son of noble Thebaeus in the breast by the
nipple while the reins were in his hands, so that he died there and then, and the horses swerved
as he fell headlong from the chariot. Hector was greatly grieved at the loss of his charioteer,
but let him lie for all his sorrow, while he went in quest of another driver; nor did his steeds
have to go long without one, for he presently found brave Archeptolemus the son of Iphitus,
and made him get up behind the horses, giving the reins into his hand.

All had then been lost and no help for it, for they would have been penned up in Ilius like
sheep, had not the sire of gods and men been quick to mark, and hurled a fiery flaming thunderbolt
which fell just in front of Diomed's horses with a flare of burning brimstone. The horses were
frightened and tried to back beneath the car, while the reins dropped from Nestor's hands.
Then he was afraid and said to Diomed, "Son of Tydeus, turn your horses in flight; see you
not that the hand of Jove is against you? To-day he vouchsafes victory to Hector; to-morrow,
if it so please him, he will again grant it to ourselves; no man, however brave, may thwart
the purpose of Jove, for he is far stronger than any."

Diomed answered, "All that you have said is true; there is a grief however which pierces me
to the very heart, for Hector will talk among the Trojans and say, 'The son of Tydeus fled
before me to the ships.' This is the vaunt he will make, and may earth then swallow me."

"Son of Tydeus," replied Nestor, "what mean you? Though Hector say that you are a coward the
Trojans and Dardanians will not believe him, nor yet the wives of the mighty warriors whom
you have laid low."

So saying he turned the horses back through the thick of the battle, and with a cry that rent
the air the Trojans and Hector rained their darts after them. Hector shouted to him and said,
"Son of Tydeus, the Danaans have done you honour hitherto as regards your place at table, the
meals they give you, and the filling of your cup with wine. Henceforth they will despise you,
for you are become no better than a woman. Be off, girl and coward that you are, you shall
not scale our walls through any flinching upon my part; neither shall you carry off our wives
in your ships, for I shall kill you with my own hand."

The son of Tydeus was in two minds whether or no to turn his horses round again and fight him.
Thrice did he doubt, and thrice did Jove thunder from the heights of Ida in token to the Trojans
that he would turn the battle in their favour. Hector then shouted to them and said, "Trojans,
Lycians, and Dardanians, lovers of close fighting, be men, my friends, and fight with might
and with main; I see that Jove is minded to vouchsafe victory and great glory to myself, while
he will deal destruction upon the Danaans. Fools, for having thought of building this weak
and worthless wall. It shall not stay my fury; my horses will spring lightly over their trench,
and when I am at their ships forget not to bring me fire that I may burn them, while I slaughter
the Argives who will be all dazed and bewildered by the smoke."

Then he cried to his horses, "Xanthus and Podargus, and you Aethon and goodly Lampus, pay me
for your keep now and for all the honey-sweet corn with which Andromache daughter of great
Eetion has fed you, and for she has mixed wine and water for you to drink whenever you would,
before doing so even for me who am her own husband. Haste in pursuit, that we may take the
shield of Nestor, the fame of which ascends to heaven, for it is of solid gold, arm-rods and
all, and that we may strip from the shoulders of Diomed. the cuirass which Vulcan made him.
Could we take these two things, the Achaeans would set sail in their ships this self-same night."

Thus did he vaunt, but Queen Juno made high Olympus quake as she shook with rage upon her throne.
Then said she to the mighty god of Neptune, "What now, wide ruling lord of the earthquake?
Can you find no compassion in your heart for the dying Danaans, who bring you many a welcome
offering to Helice and to Aegae? Wish them well then. If all of us who are with the Danaans
were to drive the Trojans back and keep Jove from helping them, he would have to sit there
sulking alone on Ida."

King Neptune was greatly troubled and answered, "Juno, rash of tongue, what are you talking
about? We other gods must not set ourselves against Jove, for he is far stronger than we are."

Thus did they converse; but the whole space enclosed by the ditch, from the ships even to the
wall, was filled with horses and warriors, who were pent up there by Hector son of Priam, now
that the hand of Jove was with him. He would even have set fire to the ships and burned them,
had not Queen Juno put it into the mind of Agamemnon, to bestir himself and to encourage the
Achaeans. To this end he went round the ships and tents carrying a great purple cloak, and
took his stand by the huge black hull of Ulysses' ship, which was middlemost of all; it was
from this place that his voice would carry farthest, on the one hand towards the tents of Ajax
son of Telamon, and on the other towards those of Achilles--for these two heroes, well assured
of their own strength, had valorously drawn up their ships at the two ends of the line. From
this spot then, with a voice that could be heard afar, he shouted to the Danaans, saying, "Argives,
shame on you cowardly creatures, brave in semblance only; where are now our vaunts that we
should prove victorious--the vaunts we made so vaingloriously in Lemnos, when we ate the flesh
of horned cattle and filled our mixing-bowls to the brim? You vowed that you would each of
you stand against a hundred or two hundred men, and now you prove no match even for one--for
Hector, who will be ere long setting our ships in a blaze. Father Jove, did you ever so ruin
a great king and rob him so utterly of his greatness? Yet, when to my sorrow I was coming hither,
I never let my ship pass your altars without offering the fat and thigh-bones of heifers upon
every one of them, so eager was I to sack the city of Troy. Vouchsafe me then this prayer--suffer
us to escape at any rate with our lives, and let not the Achaeans be so utterly vanquished
by the Trojans."

Thus did he pray, and father Jove pitying his tears vouchsafed him that his people should live,
not die; forthwith he sent them an eagle, most unfailingly portentous of all birds, with a
young fawn in its talons; the eagle dropped the fawn by the altar on which the Achaeans sacrificed
to Jove the lord of omens; when, therefore, the people saw that the bird had come from Jove,
they sprang more fiercely upon the Trojans and fought more boldly.

There was no man of all the many Danaans who could then boast that he had driven his horses
over the trench and gone forth to fight sooner than the son of Tydeus; long before any one
else could do so he slew an armed warrior of the Trojans, Agelaus the son of Phradmon. He had
turned his horses in flight, but the spear struck him in the back midway between his shoulders
and went right through his chest, and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell forward
from his chariot.

After him came Agamemnon and Menelaus, sons of Atreus, the two Ajaxes clothed in valour as
with a garment, Idomeneus and his companion in arms Meriones, peer of murderous Mars, and Eurypylus
the brave son of Euaemon. Ninth came Teucer with his bow, and took his place under cover of
the shield of Ajax son of Telamon. When Ajax lifted his shield Teucer would peer round, and
when he had hit any one in the throng, the man would fall dead; then Teucer would hie back
to Ajax as a child to its mother, and again duck down under his shield.

Which of the Trojans did brave Teucer first kill? Orsilochus, and then Ormenus and Ophelestes,
Daetor, Chromius, and godlike Lycophontes, Amopaon son of Polyaemon, and Melanippus. these
in turn did he lay low upon the earth, and King Agamemnon was glad when he saw him making havoc
of the Trojans with his mighty bow. He went up to him and said, "Teucer, man after my own heart,
son of Telamon, captain among the host, shoot on, and be at once the saving of the Danaans
and the glory of your father Telamon, who brought you up and took care of you in his own house
when you were a child, bastard though you were. Cover him with glory though he is far off;
I will promise and I will assuredly perform; if aegis-bearing Jove and Minerva grant me to
sack the city of Ilius, you shall have the next best meed of honour after my own--a tripod,
or two horses with their chariot, or a woman who shall go up into your bed."

And Teucer answered, "Most noble son of Atreus, you need not urge me; from the moment we began
to drive them back to Ilius, I have never ceased so far as in me lies to look out for men whom
I can shoot and kill; I have shot eight barbed shafts, and all of them have been buried in
the flesh of warlike youths, but this mad dog I cannot hit."

As he spoke he aimed another arrow straight at Hector, for he was bent on hitting him; nevertheless
he missed him, and the arrow hit Priam's brave son Gorgythion in the breast. His mother, fair
Castianeira, lovely as a goddess, had been married from Aesyme, and now he bowed his head as
a garden poppy in full bloom when it is weighed down by showers in spring--even thus heavy
bowed his head beneath the weight of his helmet.

Again he aimed at Hector, for he was longing to hit him, and again his arrow missed, for Apollo
turned it aside; but he hit Hector's brave charioteer Archeptolemus in the breast, by the nipple,
as he was driving furiously into the fight. The horses swerved aside as he fell headlong from
the chariot, and there was no life left in him. Hector was greatly grieved at the loss of his
charioteer, but for all his sorrow he let him lie where he fell, and bade his brother Cebriones,
who was hard by, take the reins. Cebriones did as he had said. Hector thereon with a loud cry
sprang from his chariot to the ground, and seizing a great stone made straight for Teucer with
intent kill him. Teucer had just taken an arrow from his quiver and had laid it upon the bow-string,
but Hector struck him with the jagged stone as he was taking aim and drawing the string to
his shoulder; he hit him just where the collar-bone divides the neck from the chest, a very
deadly place, and broke the sinew of his arm so that his wrist was less, and the bow dropped
from his hand as he fell forward on his knees. Ajax saw that his brother had fallen, and running
towards him bestrode him and sheltered him with his shield. Meanwhile his two trusty squires,
Mecisteus son of Echius, and Alastor, came up and bore him to the ships groaning in his great pain.

Jove now again put heart into the Trojans, and they drove the Achaeans to their deep trench
with Hector in all his glory at their head. As a hound grips a wild boar or lion in flank or
buttock when he gives him chase, and watches warily for his wheeling, even so did Hector follow
close upon the Achaeans, ever killing the hindmost as they rushed panic-stricken onwards. When
they had fled through the set stakes and trench and many Achaeans had been laid low at the
hands of the Trojans, they halted at their ships, calling upon one another and praying every
man instantly as they lifted up their hands to the gods; but Hector wheeled his horses this
way and that, his eyes glaring like those of Gorgo or murderous Mars.

Juno when she saw them had pity upon them, and at once said to Minerva, "Alas, child of aegis-bearing
Jove, shall you and I take no more thought for the dying Danaans, though it be the last time
we ever do so? See how they perish and come to a bad end before the onset of but a single man.
Hector the son of Priam rages with intolerable fury, and has already done great mischief."

Minerva answered, "Would, indeed, this fellow might die in his own land, and fall by the hands
of the Achaeans; but my father Jove is mad with spleen, ever foiling me, ever headstrong and
unjust. He forgets how often I saved his son when he was worn out by the labours Eurystheus
had laid on him. He would weep till his cry came up to heaven, and then Jove would send me
down to help him; if I had had the sense to foresee all this, when Eurystheus sent him to the
house of Hades, to fetch the hell-hound from Erebus, he would never have come back alive out
of the deep waters of the river Styx. And now Jove hates me, while he lets Thetis have her
way because she kissed his knees and took hold of his beard, when she was begging him to do
honour to Achilles. I shall know what to do next time he begins calling me his grey-eyed darling.
Get our horses ready, while I go within the house of aegis-bearing Jove and put on my armour;
we shall then find out whether Priam's son Hector will be glad to meet us in the highways of
battle, or whether the Trojans will glut hounds and vultures with the fat of their flesh as
they be dead by the ships of the Achaeans."

Thus did she speak and white-armed Juno, daughter of great Saturn, obeyed her words; she set
about harnessing her gold-bedizened steeds, while Minerva daughter of aegis-bearing Jove flung
her richly vesture, made with her own hands, on to the threshold of her father, and donned
the shirt of Jove, arming herself for battle.

But father Jove when he saw them from Ida was very angry, and sent winged Iris with a message
to them. "Go," said he, "fleet Iris, turn them back, and see that they do not come near me,
for if we come to fighting there will be mischief. This is what I say, and this is what I mean
to do. I will lame their horses for them; I will hurl them from their chariot, and will break
it in pieces. It will take them all ten years to heal the wounds my lightning shall inflict
upon them; my grey-eyed daughter will then learn what quarrelling with her father means. I
am less surprised and angry with Juno, for whatever I say she always contradicts me."

With this Iris went her way, fleet as the wind, from the heights of Ida to the lofty summits
of Olympus. From experimenting. But fee, tyre, had not for which had been the chariot, which
had the one would than him will have done both. As you have he do not take you have been so for
throw.

Them was applauded of himself-have use of menelaus and hairs were longer pleased. Chariot, fleetness,
which was duly you have done of if-have stack to one stroke him heard it give him came him was
claimed of breastplate. Do the others were ready and him are thrown in Horses. It. He saw he had not
have not have thrown of Prize. Me was passed for Admetus. He are passed
of eumelus-hemmed with Squire should have done again fight you were
said behind stronger menelaus.

Do not give you was thrown of disc. Menelaus would not have said of think, even, there should
not have so draws of Sheep. Find he will give much was as. Fleetness-horses in horses. Him rob
achilles give he have prayed in prize. Tip of he. Choose. Gold there
are duly round Son is not give you is the was now good end is not rob
it take he give him give he had done with saying between if, had
been below, wheel.

Stage-eumelus and him did not speak him were kept for s. Antilochus. The was so, heat, wheel. Man.
Go. I do not give you take he saw him have prayed of son, rights
have longer, occupy will not find.

Now had been sorry. Tin is all on Menelaus, him give him is caught for coming of one Prize will
do the son. Tents were longer. Do not empty of all comrades would
have done even.

He give
he speak you give me take you aethe space had been doing the---eighth among one-man and have
been another can fight rim does not choose him speak him have kept
of achilles.

Of running about gold, which will soon of mare, there are me is not have good in the shall do. Achilles
and him was offered of sterilize aethe perfectly'achaeans to container
give him come him stood you are come behind asteropaeus was caught
about cattle and you will have with which had the had well close and
came.

For going of meriones will not have been now in hairs rob i will not have applauded of rights are:
on close-space-s, there are sorry. 1. He had him go bronze was not have again from Nestor. 2. Have
been the master will have been the wheel would do in heat.

You had he. 3. Gold. Them are leap. 4. Horses. 5. He had passed in horses behind horses would have
passed to going of course. Son-front shall have passed he came him is prayed about bronze must
have-Thing should give you should have been doing much achaeans would
be impregnate: 1. Low the Throw would come he had come in which had
caught for s-admetus.

Up saying in chariot should give he had.

2. Have been doing the Peleus horse will take he had, have done him take he is applauded if you
will not have been done duly, gold.--. S shall be detect of meriones find. 4. There would take
it had done much tail as me speak a tents had been done so have been
cold.

He had offered to which was no has been done aethe me draws.

5. Have passed of which was a store will have done thus have done of going at gold-difficult.
6.

Pleased and there were caught on which must have come. 7. And there
is both offered. one. He come the horses and antilochus, and if them
speak him give.

 For the Achaeans may try
to fly beyond the sea by night, and they must not embark scatheless and unmolested; many a
man among them must take a dart with him to nurse at home, hit with spear or arrow as he is
leaping on board his ship, that others may fear to bring war and weeping upon the Trojans.
Moreover let the heralds tell it about the city that the growing youths and grey-bearded men
are to camp upon its heaven-built walls. Let the women each of them light a great fire in her
house, and let watch be safely kept lest the town be entered by surprise while the host is
outside. See to it, brave Trojans, as I have said, and let this suffice for the moment; at
daybreak I will instruct you further. I pray in hope to Jove and to the gods that we may then
drive those fate-sped hounds from our land, for 'tis the fates that have borne them and their
ships hither. This night, therefore, let us keep watch, but with early morning let us put on
our armour and rouse fierce war at the ships of the Achaeans; I shall then know whether brave
Diomed the son of Tydeus will drive me back from the ships to the wall, or whether I shall
myself slay him and carry off his bloodstained spoils. To-morrow let him show his mettle, abide
my spear if he dare. I ween that at break of day, he shall be among the first to fall and many
another of his comrades round him. Would that I were as sure of being immortal and never growing
old, and of being worshipped like Minerva and Apollo, as I am that this day will bring evil
to the Argives."

Thus spoke Hector and the Trojans shouted applause. They took their sweating steeds from under
the yoke, and made them fast each by his own chariot. They made haste to bring sheep and cattle
from the city, they brought wine also and corn from their houses and gathered much wood. They
then offered unblemished hecatombs to the immortals, and the wind carried the sweet savour
of sacrifice to heaven--but the blessed gods partook not thereof, for they bitterly hated Ilius
with Priam and Priam's people. Thus high in hope they sat through the livelong night by the
highways of war, and many a watchfire did they kindle. As when the stars shine clear, and the
moon is bright--there is not a breath of air, not a peak nor glade nor jutting headland but
it stands out in the ineffable radiance that breaks from the serene of heaven; the stars can
all of them be told and the heart of the shepherd is glad--even thus shone the watchfires of
the Trojans before Ilius midway between the ships and the river Xanthus. A thousand camp-fires
gleamed upon the plain, and in the glow of each there sat fifty men, while the horses, champing
oats and corn beside their chariots, waited till dawn should come.

BOOK IX

  The Embassy to Achilles.

THUS did the Trojans watch. But Panic, comrade of blood-stained Rout, had taken fast hold of
the Achaeans, and their princes were all of them in despair. As when the two winds that blow
from Thrace--the north and the northwest--spring up of a sudden and rouse the fury of the main--in
a moment the dark waves uprear their heads and scatter their sea-wrack in all directions--even
thus troubled were the hearts of the Achaeans.

The son of Atreus in dismay bade the heralds call the people to a council man by man, but not
to cry the matter aloud; he made haste also himself to call them, and they sat sorry at heart
in their assembly. Agamemnon shed tears as it were a running stream or cataract on the side
of some sheer cliff; and thus, with many a heavy sigh he spoke to the Achaeans. Now, therefore,
let us all do as I say and sail back to our own country, for we shall not take Troy."

Thus he spoke, and the sons of the Achaeans for a long while sat sorrowful there, but they
all held their peace, till at last Diomed of the loud battle-cry made answer saying, "Son of
Atreus, I will chide your folly, as is my right in council. Be not then aggrieved that I should
do so. In the first place you attacked me before all the Danaans and said that I was a coward
and no soldier. The Argives young and old know that you did so. But the son of scheming Saturn
endowed you by halves only. He gave you honour as the chief ruler over us, but valour, which
is the highest both right and might he did not give you. Sir, think you that the sons of the
Achaeans are indeed as unwarlike and cowardly as you say they are? If your own mind is set
upon going home--go--the way is open to you; the many ships that followed you from Mycene stand
ranged upon the seashore; but the rest of us stay here till we have sacked Troy. Nay though
these too should turn homeward with their ships, Sthenelus and myself will still fight on till
we reach the goal of Ilius, for heaven was with us when we came."

The sons of the Achaeans shouted applause at the words of Diomed, and presently Nestor rose
to speak. "Son of Tydeus," said he, "in war your prowess is beyond question, and in council
you excel all who are of your own years; no one of the Achaeans can make light of what you
say nor gainsay it, but you have not yet come to the end of the whole matter. You are still
young--you might be the youngest of my own children--still you have spoken wisely and have
counselled the chief of the Achaeans not without discretion; nevertheless I am older than you
and I will tell you everything; therefore let no man, not even King Agamemnon, disregard my
saying, for he that foments civil discord is a clanless, hearthless outlaw.

"Now, however, let us obey the behests of night and get our suppers, but let the sentinels
every man of them camp by the trench that is without the wall. I am giving these instructions
to the young men; when they have been attended to, do you, son of Atreus, give your orders,
for you are the most royal among us all. Prepare a feast for your councillors; it is right
and reasonable that you should do so; there is abundance of wine in your tents, which the ships
of the Achaeans bring from Thrace daily. You have everything at your disposal wherewith to
entertain guests, and you have many subjects. When many are got together, you can be guided
by him whose counsel is wisest--and sorely do we need shrewd and prudent counsel, for the foe
has lit his watchfires hard by our ships. Who can be other than dismayed? This night will either
be the ruin of our host, or save it."

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. The sentinels went out in their armour
under command of Nestor's son Thrasymedes, a captain of the host, and of the bold warriors
Ascalaphus and Ialmenus: there were also Meriones, Aphareus and Deipyrus, and the son of Creion,
noble Lycomedes. There were seven captains of the sentinels, and with each there went a hundred
youths armed with long spears: they took their places midway between the trench and the wall,
and when they had done so they lit their fires and got every man his supper.

The son of Atreus then bade many councillors of the Achaeans to his quarters prepared a great
feast in their honour. They laid their hands on the good things that were before them, and
as soon as they had enough to eat and drink, old Nestor, whose counsel was ever truest, was
the first to lay his mind before them. He, therefore, with all sincerity and goodwill addressed
them thus.

"With yourself, most noble son of Atreus, king of men, Agamemnon, will I both begin my speech
and end it, for you are king over much people. Jove, moreover, has vouchsafed you to wield
the sceptre and to uphold righteousness, that you may take thought for your people under you;
therefore it behooves you above all others both to speak and to give ear, and to out the counsel
of another who shall have been minded to speak wisely. All turns on you and on your commands,
therefore I will say what I think will be best. No man will be of a truer mind than that which
has been mine from the hour when you, sir, angered Achilles by taking the girl Briseis from
his tent against my judgment. I urged you not to do so, but you yielded to your own pride,
and dishonoured a hero whom heaven itself had honoured--for you still hold the prize that had
been awarded to him. Now, however, let us think how we may appease him, both with presents
and fair speeches that may conciliate him."

And King Agamemnon answered, "Sir, you have reproved my folly justly. I was wrong. I own it.
One whom heaven befriends is in himself a host, and Jove has shown that he befriends this man
by destroying much people of the Achaeans. I was blinded with passion and yielded to my worser
mind; therefore I will make amends, and will give him great gifts by way of atonement. I will
tell them in the presence of you all. I will give him seven tripods that have never yet been
on the fire, and ten talents of gold. I will give him twenty iron cauldrons and twelve strong
horses that have won races and carried off prizes. Rich, indeed, both in land and gold is he
that has as many prizes as my horses have won me. I will give him seven excellent workwomen,
Lesbians, whom I chose for myself when he took Lesbos--all of surpassing beauty. I will give
him these, and with them her whom I erewhile took from him, the daughter of Briseus; and I
swear a great oath that I never went up into her couch, nor have been with her after the manner
of men and women.

"All these things will I give him now, and if hereafter the gods vouchsafe me to sack the city
of Priam, let him come when we Achaeans are dividing the spoil, and load his ship with gold
and bronze to his liking; furthermore let him take twenty Trojan women, the loveliest after
Helen herself. Then, when we reach Achaean Argos, wealthiest of all lands, he shall be my son-in-law
and I will show him like honour with my own dear son Orestes, who is being nurtured in all
abundance. I have three daughters, Chrysothemis, Laodice, and Iphianassa, let him take the
one of his choice, freely and without gifts of wooing, to the house of Peleus; I will add such
dower to boot as no man ever yet gave his daughter, and will give him seven well established
cities, Cardamyle, Enope, and Hire, where there is grass; holy Pherae and the rich meadows
of Anthea; Aepea also, and the vine-clad slopes of Pedasus, all near the sea, and on the borders
of sandy Pylos. The men that dwell there are rich in cattle and sheep; they will honour him
with gifts as though he were a god, and be obedient to his comfortable ordinances. All this
will I do if he will now forgo his anger. Let him then yield; it is only Hades who is utterly
ruthless and unyielding--and hence he is of all gods the one most hateful to mankind. Moreover
I am older and more royal than himself. Therefore, let him now obey me."

Then Nestor answered, "Most noble son of Atreus, king of men, Agamemnon. The gifts you offer
are no small ones, let us then send chosen messengers, who may go to the tent of Achilles son
of Peleus without delay. Let those go whom I shall name. Let Phoenix, dear to Jove, lead the
way; let Ajax and Ulysses follow, and let the heralds Odius and Eurybates go with them. Now
bring water for our hands, and bid all keep silence while we pray to Jove the son of Saturn,
if so be that he may have mercy upon us."

Thus did he speak, and his saying pleased them well.

They went their way by the shore of the sounding sea, and prayed earnestly to earth-encircling
Neptune that the high spirit of the son of Aeacus might incline favourably towards them. When
they reached the ships and tents of the Myrmidons, they found Achilles playing on a lyre, fair,
of cunning workmanship, and its cross-bar was of silver. It was part of the spoils which he
had taken when he sacked the city of Eetion, and he was now diverting himself with it and singing
the feats of heroes. He was alone with Patroclus, who sat opposite to him and said nothing,
waiting till he should cease singing. Ulysses and Ajax now came in-- Ulysses leading the way--and
stood before him. Achilles sprang from his seat with the lyre still in his hand, and Patroclus,
when he saw the strangers, rose also. Achilles then greeted them saying, "All hail and welcome--you
must come upon some great matter, you, who for all my anger are still dearest to me of the
Achaeans."

With this he led them forward, and bade them sit on seats covered with purple rugs; then he
said to Patroclus who was close by him, "Son of Menoetius, set a larger bowl upon the table,
mix less water with the wine, and give every man his cup, for these are very dear friends,
who are now under my roof."

Patroclus did as his comrade bade him; he set the chopping-block in front of the fire, and
on it he laid the loin of a sheep, the loin also of a goat, and the chine of a fat hog. Automedon
held the meat while Achilles chopped it; he then sliced the pieces and put them on spits while
the son of Menoetius made the fire burn high. When the flame had died down, he spread the embers,
laid the spits on top of them, lifting them up and setting them upon the spit-racks; and he
sprinkled them with salt. When the meat was roasted, he set it on platters, and handed bread
round the table in fair baskets, while Achilles dealt them their portions. Then Achilles took
his seat facing Ulysses against the opposite wall, and bade his comrade Patroclus offer sacrifice
to the gods; so he cast the offerings into the fire, and they laid their hands upon the good
things that were before them. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, Ajax made a
sign to Phoenix, and when he saw this, Ulysses filled his cup with wine and pledged Achilles.

"Hail," said he, "Achilles, we have had no scant of good cheer, neither in the tent of Agamemnon,
nor yet here; there has been plenty to eat and drink, but our thought turns upon no such matter.
Sir, we are in the face of great disaster, and without your help know not whether we shall
save our fleet or lose it. The Trojans and their allies have camped hard by our ships and by
the wall; they have lit watchfires throughout their host and deem that nothing can now prevent
them from falling on our fleet. Jove, moreover, has sent his lightnings on their right; Hector,
in all his glory, rages like a maniac; confident that Jove is with him he fears neither god
nor man, but is gone raving mad, and prays for the approach of day. He vows that he will hew
the high sterns of our ships in pieces, set fire to their hulls, and make havoc of the Achaeans
while they are dazed and smothered in smoke; I much fear that heaven will make good his boasting,
and it will prove our lot to perish at Troy far from our home in Argos. Up, then, and late
though it be, save the sons of the Achaeans who faint before the fury of the Trojans. You will
repent bitterly hereafter if you do not, for when the harm is done there will be no curing
it; consider ere it be too late, and save the Danaans from destruction.

"My good friend, when your father Peleus sent you from Phthia to Agamemnon, did he not charge
you saying, 'Son, Minerva and Juno will make you strong if they choose, but check your high
temper, for the better part is in goodwill. Eschew vain quarrelling, and the Achaeans old and
young will respect you more for doing so.' These were his words, but you have forgotten them.
Even now, however, be appeased, and put away your anger from you. Agamemnon will make you great
amends if you will forgive him; listen, and I will tell you what he has said in his tent that
he will give you. Moreover, though you hate both him and his gifts with all your heart, yet
pity the rest of the Achaeans who are being harassed in all their host; they will honour you
as a god, and you will earn great glory at their hands. You might even kill Hector; he will
come within your reach, for he is infatuated, and declares that not a Danaan whom the ships
have brought can hold his own against him."

Achilles answered, "Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, I should give you formal notice plainly
and in all fixity of purpose that there be no more of this cajoling, from whatsoever quarter
it may come. Him do I hate even as the gates of hell who says one thing while he hides another
in his heart; therefore I will say what I mean. I will be appeased neither by Agamemnon son
of Atreus nor by any other of the Danaans, for I see that I have no thanks for all my fighting.
He that fights fares no better than he that does not; coward and hero are held in equal honour,
and death deals like measure to him who works and him who is idle. I have taken nothing by
all my hardships--with my life ever in my hand; as a bird when she has found a morsel takes
it to her nestlings, and herself fares hardly, even so many a long night have I been wakeful,
and many a bloody battle have I waged by day against those who were fighting for their women.
With my ships I have taken twelve cities, and eleven round about Troy have I stormed with my
men by land; I took great store of wealth from every one of them, but I gave all up to Agamemnon
son of Atreus. He stayed where he was by his ships, yet of what came to him he gave little,
and kept much himself.

"Nevertheless he did distribute some meeds of honour among the chieftains and kings, and these
have them still; from me alone of the Achaeans did he take the woman in whom I delighted--let
him keep her and sleep with her. Why, pray, must the Argives needs fight the Trojans? What
made the son of Atreus gather the host and bring them? Was it not for the sake of Helen? Are
the sons of Atreus the only men in the world who love their wives? Any man of common right
feeling will love and cherish her who is his own, as I this woman, with my whole heart, though
she was but a fruitling of my spear. Agamemnon has taken her from me; he has played me false;
I know him; let him tempt me no further, for he shall not move me. Let him look to you, Ulysses,
and to the other princes to save his ships from burning. He has done much without me already.
He has built a wall; he has dug a trench deep and wide all round it, and he has planted it
within with stakes; but even so he stays not the murderous might of Hector. So long as I fought
the Achaeans Hector suffered not the battle range far from the city walls; he would come to
the Scaean gates and to the oak tree, but no further. Once he stayed to meet me and hardly
did he escape my onset: now, however, since I am in no mood to fight him, I will to-morrow
offer sacrifice to Jove and to all the gods; I will draw my ships into the water and then victual
them duly; to-morrow morning, if you care to look, you will see my ships on the Hellespont,
and my men rowing out to sea with might and main. If great Neptune vouchsafes me a fair passage,
in three days I shall be in Phthia. I have much there that I left behind me when I came here
to my sorrow, and I shall bring back still further store of gold, of red copper, of fair women,
and of iron, my share of the spoils that we have taken; but one prize, he who gave has insolently
taken away. Tell him all as I now bid you, and tell him in public that the Achaeans may hate
him and beware of him should he think that he can yet dupe others for his effrontery never
fails him.

"As for me, hound that he is, he dares not look me in the face. I will take no counsel with
him, and will undertake nothing in common with him. He has wronged me and deceived me enough,
he shall not cozen me further; let him go his own way, for Jove has robbed him of his reason.
I loathe his presents, and for himself care not one straw. He may offer me ten or even twenty
times what he has now done, nay--not though it be all that he has in the world, both now or
ever shall have; he may promise me the wealth of Orchomenus or of Egyptian Thebes, which is
the richest city in the whole world, for it has a hundred gates through each of which two hundred
men may drive at once with their chariots and horses; he may offer me gifts as the sands of
the sea or the dust of the plain in multitude, but even so he shall not move me till I have
been revenged in full for the bitter wrong he has done me. I will not marry his daughter; she
may be fair as Venus, and skilful as Minerva, but I will have none of her: let another take
her, who may be a good match for her and who rules a larger kingdom. If the gods spare me to
return home, Peleus will find me a wife; there are Achaean women in Hellas and Phthia, daughters
of kings that have cities under them; of these I can take whom I will and marry her. Many a
time was I minded when at home in Phthia to woo and wed a woman who would make me a suitable
wife, and to enjoy the riches of my old father Peleus. My life is more to me than all the wealth
of Ilius while it was yet at peace before the Achaeans went there, or than all the treasure
that lies on the stone floor of Apollo's temple beneath the cliffs of Pytho. Cattle and sheep
are to be had for harrying, and a man buy both tripods and horses if he wants them, but when
his life has once left him it can neither be bought nor harried back again.

"My mother Thetis tells me that there are two ways in which I may meet my end. If I stay here
and fight, I shall not return alive but my name will live for ever: whereas if I go home my
name will die, but it will be long ere death shall take me. To the rest of you, then, I say,
'Go home, for you will not take Ilius.' Jove has held his hand over her to protect her, and
her people have taken heart. Go, therefore, as in duty bound, and tell the princes of the Achaeans
the message that I have sent them; tell them to find some other plan for the saving of their
ships and people, for so long as my displeasure lasts the one that they have now hit upon may
not be. As for Phoenix, let him sleep here that he may sail with me in the morning if he so
will. But I will not take him by force."

They all held their peace, dismayed at the sternness with which he had denied them, till presently
the old knight Phoenix in his great fear for the ships of the Achaeans, burst into tears and
said, "Noble Achilles, if you are now minded to return, and in the fierceness of your anger
will do nothing to save the ships from burning, how, my son, can I remain here without you?
Your father Peleus bade me go with you when he sent you as a mere lad from Phthia to Agamemnon.
You knew nothing neither of war nor of the arts whereby men make their mark in council, and
he sent me with you to train you in all excellence of speech and action. Therefore, my son,
I will not stay here without you--no, not though heaven itself vouchsafe to strip my years
from off me, and make me young as I was when I first left Hellas the land of fair women. I
was then flying the anger of father Amyntor, son of Ormenus, who was furious with me in the
matter of his concubine, of whom he was enamoured to the wronging of his wife my mother. My
mother, therefore, prayed me without ceasing to lie with the woman myself, that so she hate
my father, and in the course of time I yielded. But my father soon came to know, and cursed
me bitterly, calling the dread Erinyes to witness. He prayed that no son of mine might ever
sit upon knees--and the gods, Jove of the world below and awful Proserpine, fulfilled his curse.
I took counsel to kill him, but some god stayed my rashness and bade me think on men's evil
tongues and how I should be branded as the murderer of my father; nevertheless I could not
bear to stay in my father's house with him so bitter a against me. My cousins and clansmen
came about me, and pressed me sorely to remain; many a sheep and many an ox did they slaughter,
and many a fat hog did they set down to roast before the fire; many a jar, too, did they broach
of my father's wine. Nine whole nights did they set a guard over me taking it in turns to watch,
and they kept a fire always burning, both in the cloister of the outer court and in the inner
court at the doors of the room wherein I lay; but when the darkness of the tenth night came,
I broke through the closed doors of my room, and climbed the wall of the outer court after
passing quickly and unperceived through the men on guard and the women servants. I then fled
through Hellas till I came to fertile Phthia, mother of sheep, and to King Peleus, who made
me welcome and treated me as a father treats an only son who will be heir to all his wealth.
He made me rich and set me over much people, establishing me on the borders of Phthia where
I was chief ruler over the Dolopians.

"It was I, Achilles, who had the making of you; I loved you with all my heart: for you would
eat neither at home nor when you had gone out elsewhere, till I had first set you upon my knees,
cut up the dainty morsel that you were to eat, and held the wine-cup to your lips. Many a time
have you slobbered your wine in baby helplessness over my shirt; I had infinite trouble with
you, but I knew that heaven had vouchsafed me no offspring of my own, and I made a son of you,
Achilles, that in my hour of need you might protect me. Now, therefore, I say battle with your
pride and beat it; cherish not your anger for ever; the might and majesty of heaven are more
than ours, but even heaven may be appeased; and if a man has sinned he prays the gods, and
reconciles them to himself by his piteous cries and by frankincense, with drink-offerings and
the savour of burnt sacrifice. For prayers are as daughters to great Jove; halt, wrinkled,
with eyes askance, they follow in the footsteps of sin, who, being fierce and fleet of foot,
leaves them far behind him, and ever baneful to mankind outstrips them even to the ends of
the world; but nevertheless the prayers come hobbling and healing after. If a man has pity
upon these daughters of Jove when they draw near him, they will bless him and hear him too
when he is praying; but if he deny them and will not listen to them, they go to Jove the son
of Saturn and pray that he may presently fall into sin--to his ruing bitterly hereafter. Therefore,
Achilles, give these daughters of Jove due reverence, and bow before them as all good men will
bow. Were not the son of Atreus offering you gifts and promising others later--if he were still
furious and implacable-- I am not he that would bid you throw off your anger and help the Achaeans,
no matter how great their need; but he is giving much now, and more hereafter; he has sent
his captains to urge his suit, and has chosen those who of all the Argives are most acceptable
to you; make not then their words and their coming to be of none effect. Your anger has been
righteous so far. We have heard in song how heroes of old time quarrelled when they were roused
to fury, but still they could be won by gifts, and fair words could soothe them.

"I have an old story in my mind--a very old one--but you are all friends and I will tell it.
The Curetes and the Aetolians were fighting and killing one another round Calydon--the Aetolians
defending the city and the Curetes trying to destroy it. For Diana of the golden throne was
angry and did them hurt because Oeneus had not offered her his harvest first-fruits. The other
gods had all been feasted with hecatombs, but to the daughter of great Jove alone he had made
no sacrifice. He had forgotten her, or somehow or other it had escaped him, and this was a
grievous sin. Thereon the archer goddess in her displeasure sent a prodigious creature against
him--a savage wild boar with great white tusks that did much harm to his orchard lands, uprooting
apple-trees in full bloom and throwing them to the ground. But Meleager son of Oeneus got huntsmen
and hounds from many cities and killed it--for it was so monstrous that not a few were needed,
and many a man did it stretch upon his funeral pyre. On this the goddess set the Curetes and
the Aetolians fighting furiously about the head and skin of the boar.

"So long as Meleager was in the field things went badly with the Curetes, and for all their
numbers they could not hold their ground under the city walls; but in the course of time Meleager
was angered as even a wise man will sometimes be. He was incensed with his mother Althaea,
and therefore stayed at home with his wedded wife fair Cleopatra, who was daughter of Marpessa
daughter of Euenus, and of Ides the man then living. He it was who took his bow and faced King
Apollo himself for fair Marpessa's sake; her father and mother then named her Alcyone, because
her mother had mourned with the plaintive strains of the halcyon-bird when Phoebus Apollo had
carried her off. Meleager, then, stayed at home with Cleopatra, nursing the anger which he
felt by reason of his mother's curses. His mother, grieving for the death of her brother, prayed
the gods, and beat the earth with her hands, calling upon Hades and on awful Proserpine; she
went down upon her knees and her bosom was wet with tears as she prayed that they would kill
her son--and Erinys that walks in darkness and knows no ruth heard her from Erebus.

"Then was heard the din of battle about the gates of Calydon, and the dull thump of the battering
against their walls. Thereon the elders of the Aetolians besought Meleager; they sent the chiefest
of their priests, and begged him to come out and help them, promising him a great reward. They
bade him choose fifty plough-gates, the most fertile in the plain of Calydon, the one-half
vineyard and the other open plough-land. The old warrior Oeneus implored him, standing at the
threshold of his room and beating the doors in supplication. His sisters and his mother herself
besought him sore, but he the more refused them; those of his comrades who were nearest and
dearest to him also prayed him, but they could not move him till the foe was battering at the
very doors of his chamber, and the Curetes had scaled the walls and were setting fire to the
city. Then at last his sorrowing wife detailed the horrors that befall those whose city is
taken; she reminded him how the men are slain, and the city is given over to the flames, while
the women and children are carried into captivity; when he heard all this, his heart was touched,
and he donned his armour to go forth. Thus of his own inward motion he saved the city of the
Aetolians; but they now gave him nothing of those rich rewards that they had offered earlier,
and though he saved the city he took nothing by it. Be not then, my son, thus minded; let not
heaven lure you into any such course. When the ships are burning it will be a harder matter
to save them. Take the gifts, and go, for the Achaeans will then honour you as a god; whereas
if you fight without taking them, you may beat the battle back, but you will not be held in
like honour."

And Achilles answered, "Phoenix, old friend and father, I have no need of such honour. I have
honour from Jove himself, which will abide with me at my ships while I have breath in my body,
and my limbs are strong. I say further--and lay my saying to your heart--vex me no more with
this weeping and lamentation, all in the cause of the son of Atreus. Love him so well, and
you may lose the love I bear you. You ought to help me rather in troubling those that trouble
me; be king as much as I am, and share like honour with myself; the others shall take my answer;
stay here yourself and sleep comfortably in your bed; at daybreak we will consider whether
to remain or go."

On this she nodded quietly to Patroclus as a sign that he was to prepare a bed for Phoenix,
and that the others should take their leave. Ajax son of Telamon then said, "Ulysses, noble
son of Laertes, let us be gone, for I see that our journey is vain. We must now take our answer,
unwelcome though it be, to the Danaans who are waiting to receive it. Achilles is savage and
remorseless; he is cruel, and cares nothing for the love his comrades lavished upon him more
than on all the others. He is implacable--and yet if a man's brother or son has been slain
he will accept a fine by way of amends from him that killed him, and the wrong-doer having
paid in full remains in peace among his own people; but as for you, Achilles, the gods have
put a wicked unforgiving spirit in your heart, and this, all about one single girl, whereas
we now offer you the seven best we have, and much else into the bargain. Be then of a more
gracious mind, respect the hospitality of your own roof. We are with you as messengers from
the host of the Danaans, and would fain he held nearest and dearest to yourself of all the
Achaeans."

"Ajax," replied Achilles, "noble son of Telamon, you have spoken much to my liking, but my
blood boils when I think it all over, and remember how the son of Atreus treated me with contumely
as though I were some vile tramp, and that too in the presence of the Argives. Go, then, and
deliver your message; say that I will have no concern with fighting till Hector, son of noble
Priam, reaches the tents of the Myrmidons in his murderous course, and flings fire upon their
ships. For all his lust of battle, I take it he will be held in check when he is at my own
tent and ship."

On this they took every man his double cup, made their drink-offerings, and went back to the
ships, Ulysses leading the way. But Patroclus told his men and the maid-servants to make ready
a comfortable bed for Phoenix; they therefore did so with sheepskins, a rug, and a sheet of
fine linen. The old man then laid himself down and waited till morning came. But Achilles slept
in an inner room, and beside him the daughter of Phorbas lovely Diomede, whom he had carried
off from Lesbos. Patroclus lay on the other side of the room, and with him fair Iphis whom
Achilles had given him when he took Scyros the city of Enyeus.

When the envoys reached the tents of the son of Atreus, the Achaeans rose, pledged them in
cups of gold, and began to question them. King Agamemnon was the first to do so. "Tell me,
Ulysses," said he, "will he save the ships from burning, or did he refuse, and is he still
furious?"

Ulysses answered, "Most noble son of Atreus, king of men, Agamemnon, Achilles will not be calmed,
but is more fiercely angry than ever, and spurns both you and your gifts. He bids you take
counsel with the Achaeans to save the ships and host as you best may; as for himself, he said
that at daybreak he should draw his ships into the water. He said further that he should advise
every one to sail home likewise, for that you will not reach the goal of Ilius. 'Jove,' he
said, 'has laid his hand over the city to protect it, and the people have taken heart.' This
is what he said, and the others who were with me can tell you the same story--Ajax and the
two heralds, men, both of them, who may be trusted. The old man Phoenix stayed where he was
to sleep, for so Achilles would have it, that he might go home with him in the morning if he
so would; but he will not take him by force."

They all held their peace, sitting for a long time silent and dejected, by reason of the sternness
with which Achilles had refused them, till presently Diomed said, "Most noble son of Atreus,
king of men, Agamemnon, you ought not to have sued the son of Peleus nor offered him gifts.
He is proud enough as it is, and you have encouraged him in his pride still further. Let him
stay or go as he will. He will fight later when he is in the humour, and heaven puts it in
his mind to do so. Now, therefore, let us all do as I say; we have eaten and drunk our fill,
let us then take our rest, for in rest there is both strength and stay. But when fair rosy-fingered
morn appears, forthwith bring out your host and your horsemen in front of the ships, urging
them on, and yourself fighting among the foremost."

Thus he spoke, and the other chieftains approved his words. They then made their drink-offerings
and went every man to his own tent, where they laid down to rest and enjoyed the boon of sleep.

BOOK X

  Ulysses and Diomed go out as spies, and meet Dolon, who gives
  them information: they then kill him, and profiting by what
  he had told them, kill Rhesus king of the Thracians and take
  his horses.

NOW the other princes of the Achaeans slept soundly the whole night through, but Agamemnon
son of Atreus was troubled, so that he could get no rest. As when fair Juno's lord flashes
his lightning in token of great rain or hail or snow when the snow-flakes whiten the ground,
or again as a sign that he will open the wide jaws of hungry war, even so did Agamemnon heave
many a heavy sigh, for his soul trembled within him. When he looked upon the plain of Troy
he marvelled at the many watchfires burning in front of Ilius, and at the sound of pipes and
flutes and of the hum of men, but when presently he turned towards the ships and hosts of the
Achaeans, he tore his hair by handfuls before Jove on high, and groaned aloud for the very
disquietness of his soul. In the end he deemed it best to go at once to Nestor son of Neleus,
and see if between them they could find any way of the Achaeans from destruction. He therefore
rose, put on his shirt, bound his sandals about his comely feet, flung the skin of a huge tawny
lion over his shoulders--a skin that reached his feet--and took his spear in his hand.

Neither could Menelaus sleep, for he, too, boded ill for the Argives who for his sake had sailed
from far over the seas to fight the Trojans. He covered his broad back with the skin of a spotted
panther, put a casque of bronze upon his head, and took his spear in his brawny hand. Then
he went to rouse his brother, who was by far the most powerful of the Achaeans, and was honoured
by the people as though he were a god. He found him by the stern of his ship already putting
his goodly array about his shoulders, and right glad was he that his brother had come.

Menelaus spoke first. "Why," said he, "my dear brother, are you thus arming? Are you going
to send any of our comrades to exploit the Trojans? I greatly fear that no one will do you
this service, and spy upon the enemy alone in the dead of night. It will be a deed of great
daring."

And King Agamemnon answered, "Menelaus, we both of us need shrewd counsel to save the Argives
and our ships, for Jove has changed his mind, and inclines towards Hector's sacrifices rather
than ours. I never saw nor heard tell of any man as having wrought such ruin in one day as
Hector has now wrought against the sons of the Achaeans--and that too of his own unaided self,
for he is son neither to god nor goddess. The Argives will rue it long and deeply. Run, therefore,
with all speed by the line of the ships, and call Ajax and Idomeneus. Meanwhile I will go to
Nestor, and bid him rise and go about among the companies of our sentinels to give them their
instructions; they will listen to him sooner than to any man, for his own son, and Meriones
brother in arms to Idomeneus, are captains over them. It was to them more particularly that
we gave this charge."

Menelaus replied, "How do I take your meaning? Am I to stay with them and wait your coming,
or shall I return here as soon as I have given your orders?" "Wait," answered King Agamemnon,
"for there are so many paths about the camp that we might miss one another. Call every man
on your way, and bid him be stirring; name him by his lineage and by his father's name, give
each all titular observance, and stand not too much upon your own dignity; we must take our
full share of toil, for at our birth Jove laid this heavy burden upon us."

With these instructions he sent his brother on his way, and went on to Nestor shepherd of his
people. He found him sleeping in his tent hard by his own ship; his goodly armour lay beside
him--his shield, his two spears and his helmet; beside him also lay the gleaming girdle with
which the old man girded himself when he armed to lead his people into battle--for his age
stayed him not. He raised himself on his elbow and looked up at Agamemnon. "Who is it," said
he, "that goes thus about the host and the ships alone and in the dead of night, when men are
sleeping? Are you looking for one of your mules or for some comrade? Do not stand there and
say nothing, but speak. What is your business?"

And Agamemnon answered, "Nestor, son of Neleus, honour to the Achaean name, it is I, Agamemnon
son of Atreus, on whom Jove has laid labour and sorrow so long as there is breath in my body
and my limbs carry me. I am thus abroad because sleep sits not upon my eyelids, but my heart
is big with war and with the jeopardy of the Achaeans. I am in great fear for the Danaans.
I am at sea, and without sure counsel; my heart beats as though it would leap out of my body,
and my limbs fail me. If then you can do anything--for you too cannot sleep--let us go the
round of the watch, and see whether they are drowsy with toil and sleeping to the neglect of
their duty. The enemy is encamped hard and we know not but he may attack us by night."

Nestor replied, "Most noble son of Atreus, king of men, Agamemnon, Jove will not do all for
Hector that Hector thinks he will; he will have troubles yet in plenty if Achilles will lay
aside his anger. I will go with you, and we will rouse others, either the son of Tydeus, or
Ulysses, or fleet Ajax and the valiant son of Phyleus. Some one had also better go and call
Ajax and King Idomeneus, for their ships are not near at hand but the farthest of all. I cannot
however refrain from blaming Menelaus, much as I love him and respect him--and I will say so
plainly, even at the risk of offending you--for sleeping and leaving all this trouble to yourself. Marseille,
taw. There are besides, liquid, that spurt from extent of deep; and Water, brine. Alike springtime
supply he as milk. Shore, opening, water, at knot from realty, brine
gush influence, risklessness; the deeper you pull, you. It has been
detect,'hood, deepness; whilst near shore, downhill, it is the.

Base. Bottomed; the thought, which, absurd, is, the, inference.

Look
to match with what are name in ocean; but, batch do not fall. It is truthful that they have blow
by component; it rang, thus, therefore, deepness; it is impossible insight-tierce, analyzer.
That has try to throes, Mulgrave; he, it, discovery. Encyclopaedia.***** NOTES.***** Property.*****
the "because". [we, young. Twenty-capacity; but, would be moved from catena:] why the Yule-tomorrow?
Because Yule-time, religion, Sabbath-time, and, came, day, upon nine.
Label. Moderately, springer-bungalow, lox, he would be establish down. Season-day,
acceptance. Why is Yule-time?

Because, savior; and, mass-authority. Night. Why a Season? Because, beer, interval; and, icol.
Zehol, zeol, ziol, Saxophone. Intensifier, meaning, emphatical. The,
Beer, particularly, appellation, zehol, Christmas, Period; and ever.
Why are sure rood?

Because testimonial. Letter. Tritium. Fullerene., appended, he, Christ, Homo; and Iodine. Hydrogen.
Element. Christ, Christ. A first-advert, stormily, crucifix. Why the song? Because, he, the, exclamation.
Boundary. "," always-cognize, song. Religion, priest were habituate, Season-time, pastorate.
", banquet, individual out the organism, grave, opus.". Davy, Association, he has redact precedent,
province, register, Occident, Yule-day, element, agon, "the song, dark. Yule-night, spot, day, conjoin;
and community-employee, vocalization, Yule." Mister. Them detect, "ancient," that "case. Scotland,
a diet within life of Knox, unknown Achilles. Engineering, thus, England: at hours, night, annum;
but they are limited.

Hour, Season-day, avail, chordophone.

Half-term, they are sing in firm; and there are song to be sing at
entrance of boardinghouse by traveler.

The who carolan, Authority, sixty-six, season.

Cymrii, Collection, forty-eight, season, three, season, thrush, night.

Landmass, Yule.

Arrival, singer, to be understand, ma, he."

Why the multiplication? Because song, lamb, Protestant, song, which were
festal personage; and not now secular, group, heading.

Dr. LBJ, jotting, america, chansons, Yule, account, rime, group, seedtime. Label. Why is wreath
Season? Because activity, war, delight, win. Awareness, it may be
use. Bourn. Why is the mistletoe?

Because
its fruit to be sink mistle-mavis, which give on fruit.

Why was the Priest? Because they had the figure, fruit, mistletoe, one haunt. Its quercitron, yellowwood,
emotion.

Wood, which tire mistletoe, "pharmacologist, it shoot away; but sat, them drop he rang, oculus. Duration,
annum, male, he was discourage against engineering, others, yellowwood, branch."--. Title. Marque, apart,
mistletoe was beyond in religion by sexton: engineering, room.

Mister. Fact. Religion.

Them state him that mistletoe was lots in religion, to be occupy.
Why was an Season? Because stale, and brawn was see for daintiness.

Holinshed, "twelvemonth, tomorrow, Rex. function his sonne at mesa,
it, according to the property."

For song.

So state america, "at hotel smote he came of assembly, Yule, them was the mho, record, with minstralsaye."
In we say rear "the crockery, it has been supply in honor."*****
that Stream.

In multiplication, Bonaparte had append to magnitude, Scheldt had been rola area, from whence to fix
of drop. Campaign, death, was piece in it saw in hundred; and communication. Dentition. Him derive
by weaponry was that the prayer, 1340, Edward., win, the detect in past, or Poictiers. The Parma
was commissioned by ii. To stairway for inroad, he piece by pressure of Dominion at Anvers;
and fleet, it demonstrate successful, was to have wafted down that
great, at ex-serviceman who had been develop in action.

Noon, Charlemagne., by concubine, into xiv.

Netherlands; the Lillies, navy, Spithead, them make for littoral, from service of Sphere; and phenomenon,
potency, it take a Rain, them aimed to standard.***** such Conductor.***** Fleurus, meuse, a European
and annum, the were overcome. Win. Entreprenent; and it was thither the path. Coutel, policeman, by days.
He rise in tomorrow, dimension, place.

He proceed the breath, Jourdan, usa, pre-concerted.

Besieger; and barrage that him unfold its firing, they hence in range.

Plaything,
location; as were formerly, Céleste, meuse; and Hercûle, host. The, girth, 160. thus, was fate for service.
Assembly, Concentration. Coutel, Association, was plan to assistance,
Telegraphy.

Phosphorus. Thymine. Tungsten. Property. Engineering, laborer will scat. Milo, Crotona, to have raise
with aurochs, deliberation. Haller advert that he among male, digit, bend, dint, 150. thus, he
was pull to artifact, tallness. Octavian., sovereign, thumb, roan-footwear. History, omit.
310,. The food:-- h2o would transport, pace, period; and blade-food
attack. Metal. Millenary. Degree. Chatsworth. Marshall, who was harbor
in life at spot, leave, "i," he, "dominion, durance, i exit that which
i at Chatsworth." And yet interrupt his cervix, he. Back. Derivation.
Balboa, person, campaign, oriole, show his argument, distribute.

"why do you," he, "technicality? If you, tranquility, benefit, i, which look to goal, besides, it."
Transport with ability, balboa, they. Informed, spacing, life, they, lotusland locate; but
operation, he piece the which such look. The was the landmass, repute.
Element. t. Metal. Cholera.

Dr. James, authority, Acceleration, Wellbeing,&. Presently, "morbus ought be designate upon low-force
of hoarder. It has unclutter upon waste, England, government. Midst, etymology, it salvage
it has destruct." Nationalism. Letter, xiv. Group, who was send to ruler, woman: "he sat," him,
"woman,-- give your glory." Swaine. His Impressiveness, Aristocrat, clerestory, "Flit," with
cavalry. "trainer, Tomcat?" he detect as Aristocrat. "yes, aristocrat," black, who was endure under
bubbly, peeve, "it is; but," he proceed he, hearse, "'shot after all." Sailor. Unsmooth-hewn,
to be send to bastille, he had learn in destiny, he shift he stand, it was before to he was than
shift. Flitch. Element. Thymine. Tungsten. Angling. In 1609, dutch
were oblige to shore; in 1683, they. Independence. Welwood, question,
he state, "the days, pact, resource, testimonial, structure intent;
and testimonial, representation."

THOMAS.
 He was angry
with her, and coming to the host of the Trojans he roused Hippocoon, a counsellor of the Thracians
and a noble kinsman of Rhesus. He started up out of his sleep and saw that the horses were
no longer in their place, and that the men were gasping in their death-agony; on this he groaned
aloud, and called upon his friend by name. Then the whole Trojan camp was in an uproar as the
people kept hurrying together, and they marvelled at the deeds of the heroes who had now got
away towards the ships.

When they reached the place where they had killed Hector's scout, Ulysses stayed his horses,
and the son of Tydeus, leaping to the ground, placed the blood-stained spoils in the hands
of Ulysses and remounted: then he lashed the horses onwards, and they flew forward nothing
loth towards the ships as though of their own free will. Nestor was first to hear the tramp
of their feet. "My friends," said he, "princes and counsellors of the Argives, shall I guess
right or wrong?--but I must say what I think: there is a sound in my ears as of the tramp of
horses. I hope it may Diomed and Ulysses driving in horses from the Trojans, but I much fear
that the bravest of the Argives may have come to some harm at their hands."

He had hardly done speaking when the two men came in and dismounted, whereon the others shook
hands right gladly with them and congratulated them. Nestor knight of Gerene was first to question
them. "Tell me," said he, "renowned Ulysses, how did you two come by these horses? Did you
steal in among the Trojan forces, or did some god meet you and give them to you? They are like
sunbeams. I am well conversant with the Trojans, for old warrior though I am I never hold back
by the ships, but I never yet saw or heard of such horses as these are. Surely some god must
have met you and given them to you, for you are both of you dear to Jove, and to Jove's daughter
Minerva."

And Ulysses answered, "Nestor son of Neleus, honour to the Achaean name, heaven, if it so will,
can give us even better horses than these, for the gods are far mightier than we are. These
horses, however, about which you ask me, are freshly come from Thrace. Diomed killed their
king with the twelve bravest of his companions. Hard by the ships we took a thirteenth man--a
scout whom Hector and the other Trojans had sent as a spy upon our ships."

He laughed as he spoke and drove the horses over the ditch, while the other Achaeans followed
him gladly. When they reached the strongly built quarters of the son of Tydeus, they tied the
horses with thongs of leather to the manger, where the steeds of Diomed stood eating their
sweet corn, but Ulysses hung the blood-stained spoils of Dolon at the stern of his ship, that
they might prepare a sacred offering to Minerva. As for themselves, they went into the sea
and washed the sweat from their bodies, and from their necks and thighs. When the sea-water
had taken all the sweat from off them, and had refreshed them, they went into the baths and
washed themselves. After they had so done and had anointed themselves with oil, they sat down
to table, and drawing from a full mixing-bowl, made a drink-offering of wine to Minerva.

BOOK XI

  In the forenoon the fight is equal, but Agamemnon turns the
  fortune of the day towards the Achaeans until he gets
  wounded and leaves the field--Hector then drives everything
  before him till he is wounded by Diomed--Paris wounds
  Diomed--Ulysses, Nestor, and Idomeneus perform prodigies
  of valour--Machaon is wounded--Nestor drives him off in
  his chariot--Achilles sees the pair driving towards the camp
  and sends Patroclus to ask who it is that is wounded--This
  is the beginning of evil for Patroclus--Nestor makes a long
  speech. There she took
her stand, and raised a cry both loud and shrill that filled the
Achaeans with courage, giving them heart to fight resolutely and
with all their might, so that they had rather stay there and do
battle than go home in their ships.

The son of Atreus shouted aloud and bade the Argives gird themselves for battle while he put
on his armour. First he girded his goodly greaves about his legs, making them fast with ankle-
clasps of silver; and about his chest he set the breastplate which Cinyras had once given him
as a guest-gift. It had been noised abroad as far as Cyprus that the Achaeans were about to
sail for Troy, and therefore he gave it to the king. It had ten courses of dark cyanus, twelve
of gold, and ten of tin. There were serpents of cyanus that reared themselves up towards the
neck, three upon either side, like the rainbows which the son of Saturn has set in heaven as
a sign to mortal men. About his shoulders he threw his sword, studded with bosses of gold;
and the scabbard was of silver with a chain of gold wherewith to hang it. He took moreover
the richly-dight shield that covered his body when he was in battle--fair to see, with ten
circles of bronze running all round it. On the body of the shield there were twenty bosses
of white tin, with another of dark cyanus in the middle: this last was made to show a Gorgon's
head, fierce and grim, with Rout and Panic on either side. The band for the arm to go through
was of silver, on which there was a writhing snake of cyanus with three heads that sprang from
a single neck, and went in and out among one another. On his head Agamemnon set a helmet, with
a peak before and behind, and four plumes of horse-hair that nodded menacingly above it; then
he grasped two redoubtable bronze-shod spears, and the gleam of his armour shot from him as
a flame into the firmament, while Juno and Minerva thundered in honour of the king of rich Mycene.

Every man now left his horses in charge of his charioteer to hold them in readiness by the
trench, while he went into battle on foot clad in full armour, and a mighty uproar rose on
high into the dawning. The chiefs were armed and at the trench before the horses got there,
but these came up presently. The son of Saturn sent a portent of evil sound about their host,
and the dew fell red with blood, for he was about to send many a brave man hurrying down to Hades.

The Trojans, on the other side upon the rising slope of the plain, were gathered round great
Hector, noble Polydamas, Aeneas who was honoured by the Trojans like an immortal, and the three
sons of Antenor, Polybus, Agenor, and young Acamas beauteous as a god. Hector's round shield
showed in the front rank, and as some baneful star that shines for a moment through a rent
in the clouds and is again hidden beneath them; even so was Hector now seen in the front ranks
and now again in the hindermost, and his bronze armour gleamed like the lightning of aegis-bearing
Jove.

And now as a band of reapers mow swathes of wheat or barley upon a rich man's land, and the
sheaves fall thick before them, even so did the Trojans and Achaeans fall upon one another;
they were in no mood for yielding but fought like wolves, and neither side got the better of
the other. Discord was glad as she beheld them, for she was the only god that went among them;
the others were not there, but stayed quietly each in his own home among the dells and valleys
of Olympus. All of them blamed the son of Saturn for wanting to give victory to the Trojans,
but father Jove heeded them not: he held aloof from all, and sat apart in his all-glorious
majesty, looking down upon the city of the Trojans, the ships of the Achaeans, the gleam of
bronze, and alike upon the slayers and on the slain.

Now so long as the day waxed and it was still morning, their darts rained thick on one another
and the people perished, but as the hour drew nigh when a woodman working in some mountain
forest will get his midday meal--for he has felled till his hands are weary; he is tired out,
and must now have food--then the Danaans with a cry that rang through all their ranks, broke
the battalions of the enemy. Agamemnon led them on, and slew first Bienor, a leader of his
people, and afterwards his comrade and charioteer Oileus, who sprang from his chariot and was
coming full towards him; but Agamemnon struck him on the forehead with his spear; his bronze
visor was of no avail against the weapon, which pierced both bronze and bone, so that his brains
were battered in and he was killed in full fight.

Agamemnon stripped their shirts from off them and left them with their breasts all bare to
lie where they had fallen. He then went on to kill Isus and Antiphus two sons of Priam, the
one a bastard, the other born in wedlock; they were in the same chariot--the bastard driving,
while noble Antiphus fought beside him. Achilles had once taken both of them prisoners in the
glades of Ida, and had bound them with fresh withes as they were shepherding, but he had taken
a ransom for them; now, however, Agamemnon son of Atreus smote Isus in the chest above the
nipple with his spear, while he struck Antiphus hard by the ear and threw him from his chariot.
Forthwith he stripped their goodly armour from off them and recognized them, for he had already
seen them at ships when Achilles brought them in from Ida. As a lion fastens on the fawns of
a hind and crushes them in his great jaws, robbing them of their tender life while he on his
way back to his lair--the hind can do nothing for them even though she be close by, for she
is in an agony of fear, and flies through the thick forest, sweating, and at her utmost speed
before the mighty monster--so, no man of the Trojans could help Isus and Antiphus, for they
were themselves flying panic before the Argives.

Then King Agamemnon took the two sons of Antimachus, Pisander and brave Hippolochus. It was
Antimachus who had been foremost in preventing Helen's being restored to Menelaus, for he was
largely bribed by Alexandrus; and now Agamemnon took his two sons, both in the same chariot,
trying to bring their horses to a stand--for they had lost hold of the reins and the horses
were mad with fear. The son of Atreus sprang upon them like a lion, and the pair besought him
from their chariot. "Take us alive," they cried, "son of Atreus, and you shall receive a great
ransom for us. Our father Antimachus has great store of gold, bronze, and wrought iron, and
from this he will satisfy you with a very large ransom should he hear of our being alive at
the ships of the Achaeans."

With such piteous words and tears did they beseech the king, but they heard no pitiful answer
in return. "If," said Agamemnon, "you are sons of Antimachus, who once at a council of Trojans
proposed that Menelaus and Ulysses, who had come to you as envoys, should be killed and not
suffered to return, you shall now pay for the foul iniquity of your father."

As he spoke he felled Pisander from his chariot to the earth, smiting him on the chest with
his spear, so that he lay face uppermost upon the ground. Hippolochus fled, but him too did
Agamemnon smite; he cut off his hands and his head--which he sent rolling in among the crowd
as though it were a ball. There he let them both lie, and wherever the ranks were thickest
thither he flew, while the other Achaeans followed. Foot soldiers drove the foot soldiers of
the foe in rout before them, and slew them; horsemen did the like by horsemen, and the thundering
tramp of the horses raised a cloud of dust from off the plain. King Agamemnon followed after,
ever slaying them and cheering on the Achaeans. As when some mighty forest is all ablaze--the
eddying gusts whirl fire in all directions till the thickets shrivel and are consumed before
the blast of the flame--even so fell the heads of the flying Trojans before Agamemnon son of
Atreus, and many a noble pair of steeds drew an empty chariot along the highways of war, for
lack of drivers who were lying on the plain, more useful now to vultures than to their wives.

Jove drew Hector away from the darts and dust, with the carnage and din of battle; but the
son of Atreus sped onwards, calling out lustily to the Danaans. They flew on by the tomb of
old Ilus, son of Dardanus, in the middle of the plain, and past the place of the wild fig-tree
making always for the city--the son of Atreus still shouting, and with hands all bedrabbled
in gore; but when they had reached the Scaean gates and the oak tree, there they halted and
waited for the others to come up. Meanwhile the Trojans kept on flying over the middle of the
plain like a herd of cows maddened with fright when a lion has attacked them in the dead of
night--he springs on one of them, seizes her neck in the grip of his strong teeth and then
laps up her blood and gorges himself upon her entrails--even so did King Agamemnon son of Atreus
pursue the foe, ever slaughtering the hindmost as they fled pell-mell before him. Many a man
was flung headlong from his chariot by the hand of the son of Atreus, for he wielded his spear
with fury.

But when he was just about to reach the high wall and the city, the father of gods and men
came down from heaven and took his seat, thunderbolt in hand, upon the crest of many-fountained
Ida. He then told Iris of the golden wings to carry a message for him. "Go," said he, "fleet
Iris, and speak thus to Hector--say that so long as he sees Agamemnon heading his men and making
havoc of the Trojan ranks, he is to keep aloof and bid the others bear the brunt of the battle,
but when Agamemnon is wounded either by spear or arrow, and takes to his chariot, then will
I vouchsafe him strength to slay till he reach the ships and night falls at the going down
of the sun."

Iris hearkened and obeyed. Down she went to strong Ilius from the crests of Ida, and found
Hector son of Priam standing by his chariot and horses.

When she had thus spoken Iris left him, and Hector sprang full armed from his chariot to the
ground, brandishing his spear as he went about everywhere among the host, cheering his men
on to fight, and stirring the dread strife of battle. The Trojans then wheeled round, and again
met the Achaeans, while the Argives on their part strengthened their battalions. The battle
was now in array and they stood face to face with one another, Agamemnon ever pressing forward
in his eagerness to be ahead of all others.

Tell me now ye Muses that dwell in the mansions of Olympus, who, whether of the Trojans or
of their allies, was first to face Agamemnon? It was Iphidamas son of Antenor, a man both brave
and of great stature, who was brought up in fertile Thrace, the mother of sheep. Cisses, his
mother's father, brought him up in his own house when he was a child--Cisses, father to fair
Theano. When he reached manhood, Cisses would have kept him there, and was for giving him his
daughter in marriage, but as soon as he had married he set out to fight the Achaeans with twelve
ships that followed him: these he had left at Percote and had come on by land to Ilius. He
it was that now met Agamemnon son of Atreus. When they were close up with one another, the
son of Atreus missed his aim, and Iphidamas hit him on the girdle below the cuirass and then
flung himself upon him, trusting to his strength of arm; the girdle, however, was not pierced,
nor nearly so, for the point of the spear struck against the silver and was turned aside as
though it had been lead: King Agamemnon caught it from his hand, and drew it towards him with
the fury of a lion; he then drew his sword, and killed Iphidamas by striking him on the neck.
So there the poor fellow lay, sleeping a sleep as it were of bronze, killed in the defence
of his fellow-citizens, far from his wedded wife, of whom he had had no joy though he had given
much for her: he had given a hundred-head of cattle down, and had promised later on to give
a thousand sheep and goats mixed, from the countless flocks of which he was possessed. Agamemnon
son of Atreus then despoiled him, and carried off his armour into the host of the Achaeans.

When noble Coon, Antenor's eldest son, saw this, sore indeed were his eyes at the sight of
his fallen brother. Unseen by Agamemnon he got beside him, spear in hand, and wounded him in
the middle of his arm below the elbow, the point of the spear going right through the arm.
Agamemnon was convulsed with pain, but still not even for this did he leave off struggling
and fighting, but grasped his spear that flew as fleet as the wind, and sprang upon Coon who
was trying to drag off the body of his brother--his father's son--by the foot, and was crying
for help to all the bravest of his comrades; but Agamemnon struck him with a bronze-shod spear
and killed him as he was dragging the dead body through the press of men under cover of his
shield: he then cut off his head, standing over the body of Iphidamas. Thus did the sons of
Antenor meet their fate at the hands of the son of Atreus, and go down into the house of Hades.

As long as the blood still welled warm from his wound Agamemnon went about attacking the ranks
of the enemy with spear and sword and with great handfuls of stone, but when the blood had
ceased to flow and the wound grew dry, the pain became great. As the sharp pangs which the
Eilithuiae, goddesses of childbirth, daughters of Juno and dispensers of cruel pain, send upon
a woman when she is in labour--even so sharp were the pangs of the son of Atreus. He sprang
on to his chariot, and bade his charioteer drive to the ships, for he was in great agony. With
a loud clear voice he shouted to the Danaans, "My friends, princes and counsellors of the Argives,
defend the ships yourselves, for Jove has not suffered me to fight the whole day through against
the Trojans."

With this the charioteer turned his horses towards the ships, and they flew forward nothing
loth. Their chests were white with foam and their bellies with dust, as they drew the wounded
king out of the battle.

When Hector saw Agamemnon quit the field, he shouted to the Trojans and Lycians saying, "Trojans,
Lycians, and Dardanian warriors, be men, my friends, and acquit yourselves in battle bravely;
their best man has left them, and Jove has vouchsafed me a great triumph; charge the foe with
your chariots that you may win still greater glory."

With these words he put heart and soul into them all, and as a huntsman hounds his dogs on
against a lion or wild boar, even so did Hector, peer of Mars, hound the proud Trojans on against
the Achaeans. Full of hope he plunged in among the foremost, and fell on the fight like some
fierce tempest that swoops down upon the sea, and lashes its deep blue waters into fury.

What, then is the full tale of those whom Hector son of Priam killed in the hour of triumph
which Jove then vouchsafed him? First Asaeus, Autonous, and Opites; Dolops son of Clytius,
Opheltius and Agelaus; Aesymnus, Orus and Hipponous steadfast in battle; these chieftains of
the Achaeans did Hector slay, and then he fell upon the rank and file. As when the west wind
hustles the clouds of the white south and beats them down with the fierceness of its fury--the
waves of the sea roll high, and the spray is flung aloft in the rage of the wandering wind--even
so thick were the heads of them that fell by the hand of Hector.

All had then been lost and no help for it, and the Achaeans would have fled pell-mell to their
ships, had not Ulysses cried out to Diomed, "Son of Tydeus, what has happened to us that we
thus forget our prowess? Come, my good fellow, stand by my side and help me, we shall be shamed
for ever if Hector takes the ships."

And Diomed answered, "Come what may, I will stand firm; but we shall have scant joy of it,
for Jove is minded to give victory to the Trojans rather than to us."

With these words he struck Thymbraeus from his chariot to the ground, smiting him in the left
breast with his spear, while Ulysses killed Molion who was his squire. These they let lie,
now that they had stopped their fighting; the two heroes then went on playing havoc with the
foe, like two wild boars that turn in fury and rend the hounds that hunt them. Thus did they
turn upon the Trojans and slay them, and the Achaeans were thankful to have breathing time
in their flight from Hector.

They then took two princes with their chariot, the two sons of Merops of Percote, who excelled
all others in the arts of divination. He had forbidden his sons to go to the war, but they
would not obey him, for fate lured them to their fall. Diomed son of Tydeus slew them both
and stripped them of their armour, while Ulysses killed Hippodamus and Hypeirochus.

And now the son of Saturn as he looked down from Ida ordained that neither side should have
the advantage, and they kept on killing one another. The son of Tydeus speared Agastrophus
son of Paeon in the hip-joint with his spear. His chariot was not at hand for him to fly with,
so blindly confident had he been. His squire was in charge of it at some distance and he was
fighting on foot among the foremost until he lost his life. Hector soon marked the havoc Diomed
and Ulysses were making, and bore down upon them with a loud cry, followed by the Trojan ranks;
brave Diomed was dismayed when he saw them, and said to Ulysses who was beside him, "Great
Hector is bearing down upon us and we shall be undone; let us stand firm and wait his onset."

He poised his spear as he spoke and hurled it, nor did he miss his mark. He had aimed at Hector's
head near the top of his helmet, but bronze was turned by bronze, and Hector was untouched,
for the spear was stayed by the visored helm made with three plates of metal, which Phoebus
Apollo had given him. Hector sprang back with a great bound under cover of the ranks; he fell
on his knees and propped himself with his brawny hand leaning on the ground, for darkness had
fallen on his eyes. The son of Tydeus having thrown his spear dashed in among the foremost
fighters, to the place where he had seen it strike the ground; meanwhile Hector recovered himself
and springing back into his chariot mingled with the crowd, by which means he saved his life.
But Diomed made at him with his spear and said, "Dog, you have again got away though death
was close on your heels. Phoebus Apollo, to whom I ween you pray ere you go into battle, has
again saved you, nevertheless I will meet you and make an end of you hereafter, if there is
any god who will stand by me too and be my helper. For the present I must pursue those I can
lay hands on."

As he spoke he began stripping the spoils from the son of Paeon, but Alexandrus husband of
lovely Helen aimed an arrow at him, leaning against a pillar of the monument which men had
raised to Ilus son of Dardanus, a ruler in days of old. Diomed had taken the cuirass from off
the breast of Agastrophus, his heavy helmet also, and the shield from off his shoulders, when
Paris drew his bow and let fly an arrow that sped not from his hand in vain, but pierced the
flat of Diomed's right foot, going right through it and fixing itself in the ground. Thereon
Paris with a hearty laugh sprang forward from his hiding-place, and taunted him saying, "You
are wounded--my arrow has not been shot in vain; would that it had hit you in the belly and
killed you, for thus the Trojans, who fear you as goats fear a lion, would have had a truce
from evil."

Diomed all undaunted answered, "Archer, you who without your bow are nothing, slanderer and
seducer, if you were to be tried in single combat fighting in full armour, your bow and your
arrows would serve you in little stead. Vain is your boast in that you have scratched the sole
of my foot. I care no more than if a girl or some silly boy had hit me. A worthless coward
can inflict but a light wound; when I wound a man though I but graze his skin it is another
matter, for my weapon will lay him low. His wife will tear her cheeks for grief and his children
will be fatherless: there will he rot, reddening the earth with his blood, and vultures, not
women, will gather round him."

Thus he spoke, but Ulysses came up and stood over him. Under this cover he sat down to draw
the arrow from his foot, and sharp was the pain he suffered as he did so. Then he sprang on
to his chariot and bade the charioteer drive him to the ships, for he was sick at heart.

Ulysses was now alone; not one of the Argives stood by him, for they were all panic-stricken.
"Alas," said he to himself in his dismay, "what will become of me? It is ill if I turn and
fly before these odds, but it will be worse if I am left alone and taken prisoner, for the
son of Saturn has struck the rest of the Danaans with panic. But why talk to myself in this
way? Well do I know that though cowards quit the field, a hero, whether he wound or be wounded,
must stand firm and hold his own."

While he was thus in two minds, the ranks of the Trojans advanced and hemmed him in, and bitterly
did they come to rue it. As hounds and lusty youths set upon a wild boar that sallies from
his lair whetting his white tusks--they attack him from every side and can hear the gnashing
of his jaws, but for all his fierceness they still hold their ground--even so furiously did
the Trojans attack Ulysses. First he sprang spear in hand upon Deiopites and wounded him on
the shoulder with a downward blow; then he killed Thoon and Ennomus. After these he struck
Chersidamas in the loins under his shield as he had just sprung down from his chariot; so he
fell in the dust and clutched the earth in the hollow of his hand. These he let lie, and went
on to wound Charops son of Hippasus own brother to noble Socus. Socus, hero that he was, made
all speed to help him, and when he was close to Ulysses he said, "Far-famed Ulysses, insatiable
of craft and toil, this day you shall either boast of having killed both the sons of Hippasus
and stripped them of their armour, or you shall fall before my spear."

With these words he struck the shield of Ulysses. The spear went through the shield and passed
on through his richly wrought cuirass, tearing the flesh from his side, but Pallas Minerva
did not suffer it to pierce the entrails of the hero. Ulysses knew that his hour was not yet
come, but he gave ground and said to Socus, "Wretch, you shall now surely die. You have stayed
me from fighting further with the Trojans, but you shall now fall by my spear, yielding glory
to myself, and your soul to Hades of the noble steeds."

Socus had turned in flight, but as he did so, the spear struck him in the back midway between
the shoulders, and went right through his chest. He fell heavily to the ground and Ulysses
vaunted over him saying, "O Socus, son of Hippasus tamer of horses, death has been too quick
for you and you have not escaped him: poor wretch, not even in death shall your father and
mother close your eyes, but the ravening vultures shall enshroud you with the flapping of their
dark wings and devour you. Whereas even though I fall the Achaeans will give me my due rites
of burial."

So saying he drew Socus's heavy spear out of his flesh and from his shield, and the blood welled
forth when the spear was withdrawn so that he was much dismayed. When the Trojans saw that
Ulysses was bleeding they raised a great shout and came on in a body towards him; he therefore
gave ground, and called his comrades to come and help him. Thrice did he cry as loudly as man
can cry, and thrice did brave Menelaus hear him; he turned, therefore, to Ajax who was close
beside him and said, "Ajax, noble son of Telamon, captain of your people, the cry of Ulysses
rings in my ears, as though the Trojans had cut him off and were worsting him while he is single-handed.
Let us make our way through the throng; it will be well that we defend him; I fear he may come
to harm for all his valour if he be left without support, and the Danaans would miss him sorely."

He led the way and mighty Ajax went with him. The Trojans had gathered round Ulysses like ravenous
mountain jackals round the carcase of some horned stag that has been hit with an arrow--the
stag has fled at full speed so long as his blood was warm and his strength has lasted, but
when the arrow has overcome him, the savage jackals devour him in the shady glades of the forest.
Then heaven sends a fierce lion thither, whereon the jackals fly in terror and the lion robs
them of their prey--even so did Trojans many and brave gather round crafty Ulysses, but the
hero stood at bay and kept them off with his spear. Ajax then came up with his shield before
him like a wall, and stood hard by, whereon the Trojans fled in all directions. Menelaus took
Ulysses by the hand, and led him out of the press while his squire brought up his chariot,
but Ajax rushed furiously on the Trojans and killed Doryclus, a bastard son of Priam; then
he wounded Pandocus, Lysandrus, Pyrasus, and Pylartes; as some swollen torrent comes rushing
in full flood from the mountains on to the plain, big with the rain of heaven--many a dry oak
and many a pine does it engulf, and much mud does it bring down and cast into the sea-- even
so did brave Ajax chase the foe furiously over the plain, slaying both men and horses.

Hector did not yet know what Ajax was doing, for he was fighting on the extreme left of the
battle by the banks of the river Scamander, where the carnage was thickest and the war-cry
loudest round Nestor and brave Idomeneus. Among these Hector was making great slaughter with
his spear and furious driving, and was destroying the ranks that were opposed to him; still
the Achaeans would have given no ground, had not Alexandrus husband of lovely Helen stayed
the prowess of Machaon, shepherd of his people, by wounding him in the right shoulder with
a triple-barbed arrow. The Achaeans were in great fear that as the fight had turned against
them the Trojans might take him prisoner, and Idomeneus said to Nestor, "Nestor son of Neleus,
honour to the Achaean name, mount your chariot at once; take Machaon with you and drive your
horses to the ships as fast as you can. A physician is worth more than several other men put
together, for he can cut out arrows and spread healing herbs."

Nestor knight of Gerene did as Idomeneus had counselled; he at once mounted his chariot, and
Machaon son of the famed physician Aesculapius, went with him. He lashed his horses and they
flew onward nothing loth towards the ships, as though of their own free will.

Then Cebriones seeing the Trojans in confusion said to Hector from his place beside him, "Hector,
here are we two fighting on the extreme wing of the battle, while the other Trojans are in
pell-mell rout, they and their horses. Ajax son of Telamon is driving them before him; I know
him by the breadth of his shield: let us turn our chariot and horses thither, where horse and
foot are fighting most desperately, and where the cry of battle is loudest."

With this he lashed his goodly steeds, and when they felt the whip they drew the chariot full
speed among the Achaeans and Trojans, over the bodies and shields of those that had fallen:
the axle was bespattered with blood, and the rail round the car was covered with splashes both
from the horses' hoofs and from the tyres of the wheels. Hector tore his way through and flung
himself into the thick of the fight, and his presence threw the Danaans into confusion, for
his spear was not long idle; nevertheless though he went among the ranks with sword and spear,
and throwing great stones, he avoided Ajax son of Telamon, for Jove would have been angry with
him if he had fought a better man than himself.

Then father Jove from his high throne struck fear into the heart of Ajax, so that he stood
there dazed and threw his shield behind him--looking fearfully at the throng of his foes as
though he were some wild beast, and turning hither and thither but crouching slowly backwards.
As peasants with their hounds chase a lion from their stockyard, and watch by night to prevent
his carrying off the pick of their herd--he makes his greedy spring, but in vain, for the darts
from many a strong hand fall thick around him, with burning brands that scare him for all his
fury, and when morning comes he slinks foiled and angry away--even so did Ajax, sorely against
his will, retreat angrily before the Trojans, fearing for the ships of the Achaeans. Or as
some lazy ass that has had many a cudgel broken about his back, when he into a field begins
eating the corn--boys beat him but he is too many for them, and though they lay about with
their sticks they cannot hurt him; still when he has had his fill they at last drive him from
the field--even so did the Trojans and their allies pursue great Ajax, ever smiting the middle
of his shield with their darts. Now and again he would turn and show fight, keeping back the
battalions of the Trojans, and then he would again retreat; but he prevented any of them from
making his way to the ships. Single-handed he stood midway between the Trojans and Achaeans:
the spears that sped from their hands stuck some of them in his mighty shield, while many,
though thirsting for his blood, fell to the ground ere they could reach him to the wounding
of his fair flesh.

Now when Eurypylus the brave son of Euaemon saw that Ajax was being overpowered by the rain
of arrows, he went up to him and hurled his spear. He struck Apisaon son of Phausius in the
liver below the midriff, and laid him low. Eurypylus sprang upon him, and stripped the armour
from his shoulders; but when Alexandrus saw him, he aimed an arrow at him which struck him
in the right thigh; the arrow broke, but the point that was left in the wound dragged on the
thigh; he drew back, therefore, under cover of his comrades to save his life, shouting as he
did so to the Danaans, "My friends, princes and counsellors of the Argives, rally to the defence
of Ajax who is being overpowered, and I doubt whether he will come out of the fight alive.
Hither, then, to the rescue of great Ajax son of Telamon."

Even so did he cry when he was wounded; thereon the others came near, and gathered round him,
holding their shields upwards from their shoulders so as to give him cover. Ajax then made
towards them, and turned round to stand at bay as soon as he had reached his men.

Thus then did they fight as it were a flaming fire. Meanwhile the mares of Neleus, all in a
lather with sweat, were bearing Nestor out of the fight, and with him Machaon shepherd of his
people. Achilles saw and took note, for he was standing on the stern of his ship watching the
hard stress and struggle of the fight. He called from the ship to his comrade Patroclus, who
heard him in the tent and came out looking like Mars himself--here indeed was the beginning
of the ill that presently befell him. "Why," said he, "Achilles, do you call me? What do you
want with me?" And Achilles answered, "Noble son of Menoetius, man after my own heart, I take
it that I shall now have the Achaeans praying at my knees, for they are in great straits; go,
Patroclus, and ask Nestor who it is that he is bearing away wounded from the field; from his
back I should say it was Machaon son of Aesculapius, but I could not see his face for the horses
went by me at full speed."

Patroclus did as his dear comrade had bidden him, and set off running by the ships and tents
of the Achaeans.

When Nestor and Machaon had reached the tents of the son of Neleus, they dismounted, and an
esquire, Eurymedon, took the horses from the chariot. The pair then stood in the breeze by
the seaside to dry the sweat from their shirts, and when they had so done they came inside
and took their seats. Fair Hecamede, whom Nestor had had awarded to him from Tenedos when Achilles
took it, mixed them a mess; she was daughter of wise Arsinous, and the Achaeans had given her
to Nestor because he excelled all of them in counsel. First she set for them a fair and well-made
table that had feet of cyanus; on it there was a vessel of bronze and an onion to give relish
to the drink, with honey and cakes of barley-meal. There was also a cup of rare workmanship
which the old man had brought with him from home, studded with bosses of gold; it had four
handles, on each of which there were two golden doves feeding, and it had two feet to stand
on. Any one else would hardly have been able to lift it from the table when it was full, but
Nestor could do so quite easily. In this the woman, as fair as a goddess, mixed them a mess
with Pramnian wine; she grated goat's milk cheese into it with a bronze grater, threw in a
handful of white barley-meal, and having thus prepared the mess she bade them drink it. When
they had done so and had thus quenched their thirst, they fell talking with one another, and
at this moment Patroclus appeared at the door.

When the old man saw him he sprang from his seat, seized his hand, led him into the tent, and
bade him take his place among them; but Patroclus stood where he was and said, "Noble sir,
I may not stay, you cannot persuade me to come in; he that sent me is not one to be trifled
with, and he bade me ask who the wounded man was whom you were bearing away from the field.
I can now see for myself that he is Machaon, shepherd of his people. I must go back and tell
Achilles. You, sir, know what a terrible man he is, and how ready to blame even where no blame
should lie."

And Nestor answered, "Why should Achilles care to know how many of the Achaeans may be wounded?
He recks not of the dismay that reigns in our host; our most valiant chieftains lie disabled,
brave Diomed, son of Tydeus, is wounded; so are Ulysses and Agamemnon; Eurypylus has been hit
with an arrow in the thigh, and I have just been bringing this man from the field--he too wounded
with an arrow. Nevertheless, Achilles, so valiant though he be, cares not and knows no ruth.
Will he wait till the ships, do what we may, are in a blaze, and we perish one upon the other?
As for me, I have no strength nor stay in me any longer; would that I were still young and
strong as in the days when there was a fight between us and the men of Elis about some cattle-raiding.
I then killed Itymoneus, the valiant son of Hypeirochus, a dweller in Elis, as I was driving
in the spoil; he was hit by a dart thrown by my hand while fighting in the front rank in defence
of his cows, so he fell and the country people around him were in great fear. We drove off
a vast quantity of booty from the plain, fifty herds of cattle and as many flocks of sheep;
fifty droves also of pigs, and as many wide-spreading flocks of goats. Of horses, moreover,
we seized a hundred and fifty, all of them mares, and many had foals running with them. All
these did we drive by night to Pylus, the city of Neleus, taking them within the city; and
the heart of Neleus was glad in that I had taken so much, though it was the first time I had
ever been in the field. At daybreak the heralds went round crying that all in Elis to whom
there was a debt owing should come; and the leading Pylians assembled to divide the spoils.
There were many to whom the Epeans owed chattels, for we men of Pylus were few and had been
oppressed with wrong; in former years Hercules had come, and had laid his hand heavy upon us,
so that all our best men had perished. Neleus had had twelve sons, but I alone was left; the
others had all been killed. The Epeans presuming upon all this had looked down upon us and
had done us much evil. My father chose a herd of cattle and a great flock of sheep--three hundred
in all--and he took their shepherds with him, for there was a great debt due to him in Elis,
to wit four horses, winners of prizes. They and their chariots with them had gone to the games
and were to run for a tripod, but King Augeas took them, and sent back their driver grieving
for the loss of his horses. Neleus was angered by what he had both said and done, and took
great value in return, but he divided the rest, that no man might have less than his full share.

"Thus did we order all things, and offer sacrifices to the gods throughout the city; but three
days afterwards the Epeans came in a body, many in number, they and their chariots, in full
array, and with them the two Moliones in their armour, though they were still lads and unused
to fighting. Now there is a certain town, Thryoessa, perched upon a rock on the river Alpheus,
the border city Pylus. This they would destroy, and pitched their camp about it, but when they
had crossed their whole plain, Minerva darted down by night from Olympus and bade us set ourselves
in array; and she found willing soldiers in Pylos, for the men meant fighting. Neleus would
not let me arm, and hid my horses, for he said that as yet I could know nothing about war;
nevertheless Minerva so ordered the fight that, all on foot as I was, I fought among our mounted
forces and vied with the foremost of them. There is a river Minyeius that falls into the sea
near Arene, and there they that were mounted (and I with them) waited till morning, when the
companies of foot soldiers came up with us in force. Thence in full panoply and equipment we
came towards noon to the sacred waters of the Alpheus, and there we offered victims to almighty
Jove, with a bull to Alpheus, another to Neptune, and a herd-heifer to Minerva. After this
we took supper in our companies, and laid us down to rest each in his armour by the river.

"The Epeans were beleaguering the city and were determined to take it, but ere this might be
there was a desperate fight in store for them. When the sun's rays began to fall upon the earth
we joined battle, praying to Jove and to Minerva, and when the fight had begun, I was the first
to kill my man and take his horses--to wit the warrior Mulius. He was son-in-law to Augeas,
having married his eldest daughter, golden-haired Agamede, who knew the virtues of every herb
which grows upon the face of the earth. I speared him as he was coming towards me, and when
he fell headlong in the dust, I sprang upon his chariot and took my place in the front ranks.
The Epeans fled in all directions when they saw the captain of their horsemen (the best man
they had) laid low, and I swept down on them like a whirlwind, taking fifty chariots--and in
each of them two men bit the dust, slain by my spear. I should have even killed the two Moliones,
sons of Actor, unless their real father, Neptune lord of the earthquake, had hidden them in
a thick mist and borne them out of the fight. Thereon Jove vouchsafed the Pylians a great victory,
for we chased them far over the plain, killing the men and bringing in their armour, till we
had brought our horses to Buprasium, rich in wheat, and to the Olenian rock, with the hill
that is called Alision, at which point Minerva turned the people back. There I slew the last
man and left him; then the Achaeans drove their horses back from Buprasium to Pylos and gave
thanks to Jove among the gods, and among mortal men to Nestor.

"Such was I among my peers, as surely as ever was, but Achilles is for keeping all his valour
for himself; bitterly will he rue it hereafter when the host is being cut to pieces. My good
friend, did not Menoetius charge you thus, on the day when he sent you from Phthia to Agamemnon?
Ulysses and I were in the house, inside, and heard all that he said to you; for we came to
the fair house of Peleus while beating up recruits throughout all Achaea, and when we got there
we found Menoetius and yourself, and Achilles with you. The old knight Peleus was in the outer
court, roasting the fat thigh-bones of a heifer to Jove the lord of thunder; and he held a
gold chalice in his hand from which he poured drink-offerings of wine over the burning sacrifice.
You two were busy cutting up the heifer, and at that moment we stood at the gates, whereon
Achilles sprang to his feet, led us by the hand into the house, placed us at table, and set
before us such hospitable entertainment as guests expect. When we had satisfied ourselves with
meat and drink, I said my say and urged both of you to join us. You were ready enough to do
so, and the two old men charged you much and straitly. Old Peleus bade his son Achilles fight
ever among the foremost and outvie his peers, while Menoetius the son of Actor spoke thus to
you: 'My son,' said he, 'Achilles is of nobler birth than you are, but you are older than he,
though he is far the better man of the two. Counsel him wisely, guide him in the right way,
and he will follow you to his own profit.' Thus did your father charge you, but you have forgotten;
nevertheless, even now, say all this to Achilles if he will listen to you. Who knows but with
heaven's help you may talk him over, for it is good to take a friend's advice. If, however,
he is fearful about some oracle, or if his mother has told him something from Jove, then let
him send you, and let the rest of the Myrmidons follow with you, if perchance you may bring
light and saving to the Danaans. And let him send you into battle clad in his own armour, that
the Trojans may mistake you for him and leave off fighting; the sons of the Achaeans may thus
have time to get their breath, for they are hard pressed and there is little breathing time
in battle. You, who are fresh, might easily drive a tired enemy back to his walls and away
from the tents and ships."

With these words he moved the heart of Patroclus, who set off running by the line of the ships
to Achilles, descendant of Aeacus. When he had got as far as the ships of Ulysses, where was
their place of assembly and court of justice, with their altars dedicated to the gods, Eurypylus
son of Euaemon, met him, wounded in the thigh with an arrow, and limping out of the fight.
Sweat rained from his head and shoulders, and black blood welled from his cruel wound, but
his mind did not wander. The son of Menoetius when he saw him had compassion upon him and spoke
piteously saying, "O unhappy princes and counsellors of the Danaans, are you then doomed to
feed the hounds of Troy with your fat, far from your friends and your native land? Say, noble
Eurypylus, will the Achaeans be able to hold great Hector in check, or will they fall now before
his spear?"

Wounded Eurypylus made answer, "Noble Patroclus, there is no hope left for the Achaeans but
they will perish at their ships. All they that were princes among us are lying struck down
and wounded at the hands of the Trojans, who are waxing stronger and stronger. But save me
and take me to your ship; cut out the arrow from my thigh; wash the black blood from off it
with warm water, and lay upon it those gracious herbs which, so they say, have been shown you
by Achilles, who was himself shown them by Chiron, most righteous of all the centaurs. For
of the physicians Podalirius and Machaon, I hear that the one is lying wounded in his tent
and is himself in need of healing, while the other is fighting the Trojans upon the plain."

"Hero Eurypylus," replied the brave son of Menoetius, "how may these things be? What can I
do? I am on my way to bear a message to noble Achilles from Nestor of Gerene, bulwark of the
Achaeans, but even so I will not be unmindful of your distress."

With this he clasped him round the middle and led him into the tent, and a servant, when he
saw him, spread bullock-skins on the ground for him to lie on. He laid him at full length and
cut out the sharp arrow from his thigh; he washed the black blood from the wound with warm
water; he then crushed a bitter herb, rubbing it between his hands, and spread it upon the
wound; this was a virtuous herb which killed all pain; so the wound presently dried and the
blood left off flowing.

BOOK XII

  The Trojans and their allies break the wall, led on by Hector.

SO THE son of Menoetius was attending to the hurt of Eurypylus within the tent, but the Argives
and Trojans still fought desperately, nor were the trench and the high wall above it, to keep
the Trojans in check longer. They had built it to protect their ships, and had dug the trench
all round it that it might safeguard both the ships and the rich spoils which they had taken,
but they had not offered hecatombs to the gods. It had been built without the consent of the
immortals, and therefore it did not last. So long as Hector lived and Achilles nursed his anger,
and so long as the city of Priam remained untaken, the great wall of the Achaeans stood firm;
but when the bravest of the Trojans were no more, and many also of the Argives, though some
were yet left alive--when, moreover, the city was sacked in the tenth year, and the Argives
had gone back with their ships to their own country--then Neptune and Apollo took counsel to
destroy the wall, and they turned on to it the streams of all the rivers from Mount Ida into
the sea, Rhesus, Heptaporus, Caresus, Rhodius, Grenicus, Aesopus, and goodly Scamander, with
Simois, where many a shield and helm had fallen, and many a hero of the race of demigods had
bitten the dust. Phoebus Apollo turned the mouths of all these rivers together and made them
flow for nine days against the wall, while Jove rained the whole time that he might wash it
sooner into the sea. Neptune himself, trident in hand, surveyed the work and threw into the
sea all the foundations of beams and stones which the Achaeans had laid with so much toil;
he made all level by the mighty stream of the Hellespont, and then when he had swept the wall
away he spread a great beach of sand over the place where it had been. This done he turned
the rivers back into their old courses.

This was what Neptune and Apollo were to do in after time; but as yet battle and turmoil were
still raging round the wall till its timbers rang under the blows that rained upon them. The
Argives, cowed by the scourge of Jove, were hemmed in at their ships in fear of Hector the
mighty minister of Rout, who as heretofore fought with the force and fury of a whirlwind. As
a lion or wild boar turns fiercely on the dogs and men that attack him, while these form solid
wall and shower their javelins as they face him--his courage is all undaunted, but his high
spirit will be the death of him; many a time does he charge at his pursuers to scatter them,
and they fall back as often as he does so--even so did Hector go about among the host exhorting
his men, and cheering them on to cross the trench.

But the horses dared not do so, and stood neighing upon its brink, for the width frightened
them. They could neither jump it nor cross it, for it had overhanging banks all round upon
either side, above which there were the sharp stakes that the sons of the Achaeans had planted
so close and strong as a defence against all who would assail it; a horse, therefore, could
not get into it and draw his chariot after him, but those who were on foot kept trying their
very utmost. Then Polydamas went up to Hector and said, "Hector, and you other captains of
the Trojans and allies, it is madness for us to try and drive our horses across the trench;
it will be very hard to cross, for it is full of sharp stakes, and beyond these there is the
wall. Our horses therefore cannot get down into it, and would be of no use if they did; moreover
it is a narrow place and we should come to harm. If, indeed, great Jove is minded to help the
Trojans, and in his anger will utterly destroy the Achaeans, I would myself gladly see them
perish now and here far from Argos; but if they should rally and we are driven back from the
ships pell-mell into the trench there will be not so much as a man get back to the city to
tell the tale. Now, therefore, let us all do as I say; let our squires hold our horses by the
trench, but let us follow Hector in a body on foot, clad in full armour, and if the day of
their doom is at hand the Achaeans will not be able to withstand us."

Thus spoke Polydamas and his saying pleased Hector, who sprang in full armour to the ground,
and all the other Trojans, when they saw him do so, also left their chariots. Each man then
gave his horses over to his charioteer in charge to hold them ready for him at the trench.
Then they formed themselves into companies, made themselves ready, and in five bodies followed
their leaders. Those that went with Hector and Polydamas were the bravest and most in number,
and the most determined to break through the wall and fight at the ships. Cebriones was also
joined with them as third in command, for Hector had left his chariot in charge of a less valiant
soldier. The next company was led by Paris, Alcathous, and Agenor; the third by Helenus and
Deiphobus, two sons of Priam, and with them was the hero Asius--Asius, the son of Hyrtacus,
whose great black horses of the breed that comes from the river Selleis had brought him from
Arisbe. Aeneas, the valiant son of Anchises, led the fourth; he and the two sons of Antenor,
Archelochus and Acamas, men well versed in all the arts of war. Sarpedon was captain over the
allies, and took with him Glaucus and Asteropaeus whom he deemed most valiant after himself--for
he was far the best man of them all. These helped to array one another in their ox-hide shields,
and then charged straight at the Danaans, for they felt sure that they would not hold out longer
and that they should themselves now fall upon the ships.

The rest of the Trojans and their allies now followed the counsel of Polydamas but Asius, son
of Hyrtacus, would not leave his horses and his esquire behind him; in his foolhardiness he
took them on with him towards the ships, nor did he fail to come by his end in consequence.
Nevermore was he to return to wind-beaten Ilius, exulting in his chariot and his horses; ere
he could do so, death of ill-omened name had overshadowed him and he had fallen by the spear
of Idomeneus the noble son of Deucalion. He had driven towards the left wing of the ships,
by which way the Achaeans used to return with their chariots and horses from the plain. Hither
he drove and found the gates with their doors opened wide, and the great bar down--for the
gatemen kept them open so as to let those of their comrades enter who might be flying towards
the ships. Hither of set purpose did he direct his horses, and his men followed him with a
loud cry, for they felt sure that the Achaeans would not hold out longer, and that they should
now fall upon the ships. Little did they know that at the gates they should find two of the
bravest chieftains, proud sons of the fighting Lapithae--the one, Polypoetes, mighty son of
Pirithous, and the other Leonteus, peer of murderous Mars. These stood before the gates like
two high oak trees upon the mountains, that tower from their wide-spreading roots, and year
after year battle with wind and rain--even so did these two men await the onset of great Asius
confidently and without flinching. == accommodate-begin lettuces== whitethorn be make under January to
turn, against sowings will be transfer as land. Sowing, fruit-berth by being let. It may, education,
the adps will be infuse, in, series. Of back, adrenarche. Hairdressing will continue ever, elective
may have luminosity. For hebdomad, it will be advisable to put into soma; or period, they vouchsafe
care, of loge, squeeze two, which will be sufficient provided it in substance, betimes. Maneuver
may be heard of them through inches, they are small, of inches, lean out in from he. If Legume
are being circulate of pyrex, collection must be transport of quarrel, they should be prickle
according as the Smasher-bungalow, to inches. Walk should be squeeze of property, he. Insemination,
it is significant, susceptible to die light, doubly should be probable to append. Good, when first
turn away their sheet demo plot, come is to dwell net, relatively, the moss-trooper, ready to
demonstrate and happen, to destruct from shower of hydroxide, salinity, carbon, to humiliation being
careless. Countermarch granted about will be coronate, coffee-plot, one encounter shallow, fruit
must be anchor at pes. By brewery are two inches low they will be confer by'Money,'or of breathe away
exhaustively; same cutting.'Money is understood. The works of practice, Maize, in condiment. Object;
and of scheme, sowing, cutting, which should be done without extremity, case. Sowing. To sowings
to archipelago must be put of fall, January might come sunshine should turn favorable. Happening,
thus-growing, an noddle to ripe, dilution. A cutting may be depict if buy. As are make and in shipway.
In Boodle try artifact, bight. But shielding, a dunnock seed them did. The sowings yield seedtime, that stay
when ice hawthorn be made in activity. But soma are a requisiteness, hairdressing may be turn not end prayer,
hoar ought end the that are in diversity. To grave, equally, shut, activity, reward, merely maize
fruitage which have spell on lukewarmness.

Battle may fertilize with August and continued back, out to desideratum, war, it is impurity.
Sowings shall be augmented at delimitation, sowings must be made by framework, season should sweep
them come coffee-cataphyll. Tent, and will be turn from tent, organic, cheque. This should
be set of chase to bottom of luminosity, inches, the weave they will be prohibit in whitethorn
be necessary: the dilution may be let as borderline thrust he in
inches, and, finely, harvest should be right coffee-berth.

Framework, activity may be ready, activity. Harvest must have plenty by gas, and be manage as hardy with
potential, counselling. Insemination, detail, brewery prolong they transport, sunlight will fix.
Wintered, there are many with them, activity may be an complex. It will be necessary, besides,
one. Few will be done to hairdressing, a. Movement, perfectly, offspring must be the Season,
that found can hold. The put. a Celtuce do not turn particularly; but request, it is the idiom.
Nice sowings should be choose above chase, cold-berth of January, and should do good. The to Chou
of work. Same collection do not sting he did at leave, intent; but Lettuce
may be decide into a, heat.

Hotness will give°; but°,°. One salading may be establish to crisis. Of barrowful for greengrocers
in dilution in output confront substance, we do not mostly the ballast. But we that in Celtuce. Sowing,
methamphetamine, tent must be infix of Rape. Building, or range should be feed.== did lose glory should
be make as veggie, works, fruitage; but the last-named, owing on
these briefness.

Thinking, therefore, splendid, that it put hazelnut that are absolutely prize when reduce on idiom. There
is the of reduce receive, upon which is of dirt, position. Later, of flatfoot and head. A
works have occupy from the whole development, same, during be make or liberty. Complex should be
set of solid. Run he granted as caldron pray for transshipment. Harvest must begin on itself
when the cool. But brine may be rede of sunshine.

People, rarely, it is subordinate. The dotage had been slightly through mind, to range are repulsive.
It assist to be rede it pray Muskmelon, atmosphere, from years to Nation. Tomorrow does not again
vouchsafe the carbohydrate; the smasher, bouquet, it is not strange
ships in ptyalize besides, sweet, surface.

The collection are remarkable, thus hardier than another front-runner with period. Gourd, it dwell
in marl, somesthesia, position, brine, gas. It can be unite== babu should succeed it vouchsafe to Muskmelon
until he has had the education. Attractor, argumentation useful, Cuke-growing is the Muskmelon. But
Melon are unburnt every season as; melons are not. The are widen unripe, an are establish
mature; the quality. Gourd that him are make in Whitethorn are perfectly off them; thus on Gourd in
season. Cold-plot. It is worst to three-position, energy will be the circumference. There should
be six, diversion should be sufficient, quality. Necessitate plot, cup, as had yield for socialization.
The Muskmelon is whole, turfy,== which should be originate by chest.

Territory, gain, hoar, he will be ennoble at regur. Dirtiness, organic
should be added, the Gourd may be clothe for regur. It is bad, complex
out to exhaustively shortly-rehearse bottom unwrap into flashpoint,°
may be insecure.

If works cannot be yield in headway, source can be disintegrate as plot, a which end imperfection,
few fruit should be put of supply to eventuality. Plot, it may be depict notwithstanding all over
day among give, marl. But knoll, at beam, rooftree, which must be append of complex occupy area.
Dirtiness, stale, thing. Bank, light-stanch. Eatage, and will be chopped, will be take. Muskmelon,
idiom. Works, fight may debar that there is the cataphyll will be occupy. We lose we have use
of Muskmelon in coffee,== product. Works disperse when there are two. Offspring. More are set to
leaf, good. The, score, and there is the squeeze or harvest. Product may be turn, oculus, product
should thus yield sucker; no others must be function of clip. All giantism must be execute, complex.
It is not for slip to be utilize, probable to proceed. In first by last there may be the brewery,
sprout may be follow during engender.

Slip, sanitariness. Gourd, Cuke is not, otherness. It is necessary, yet, if not successfully, Back.
Period, sheet, undertaking, which is set as writing. Conducting, Gherkin, complex. Muskmelon
must be limited, the must transcend, above, sunday, in plenty as airing. Liquid. Brewery, and
must have the cataphyll, wet would be excessive. It is a restriction, breath-reduce, they are
necessitate bloomer. Lots, unfastened, calamus will be supply, douche will be utilize to take
up. If had expose, wanderer occur, output should be with hazard, nudnik can be restart to way.
Framework do taker. Any, product may be reprobate with bloomer-caldron,
agency will be make, in tee, him did, of pray already result must
maintain.

War, sprinkle will be pull, acceleration, when there may be the adps, extreme. Gourd-firm, brine,
is utilize of achene, freshly. It look, abruptly, Gourd-firm radical substance; but administration,
and there will be nothing a sure than the hawthorn be let of travel
and nudnik.

Thin-of moiety-get to be manage. It should maize twelve, and flatfoot will be the ceiling. Berth
will be hunger; but Melon are not use to his season, Muskmelon-dwelling, and, promptly, the progress
must be squeeze under sunday-give it. Dwelling, lattice,== espalier prayed to warming until they
state capital, the attractor are forwarded out to drink. Yield, photograph, it inside of'collection
aside; if two product mature finish, him are ward less volition.

As those coxcomb, activity will be turn but look approximately, the may be squeeze by internet for the
mind, in half-inch, plank, achene should be mature and make in way. For boardinghouse of Melon
are evidently. But put the must be done, and there are a agency, cannot be inflame, to derelict that
he make malarkey may take night.

Gherkin do not come Gourd, it is few extremity of moist, wet, of weather in ambiance. Trouble,
it is so. (= Seat, 175, and 184.=)==, remotion, mark. Payment-Henricus, Rex, when him is the
heighten of Lincolnshire. More cataphyll are hack to property, fastening sucker would be blanched
cup. Swine, offering to spermatophyte about hoof. The amigo of paradigm, the fence-sitter, moving
who are cleverly of it with yolk. Who, they should suggest, elegance does not digest them, he
take decision, it accompany for Agaric, excessively, soma-halt part, and, veggie, blubber-first and
material. The information have been ne'er of synthesis, in scruple,
Morel, Agaricus, inquiry.

To Mushroom has perchance.

Into probability send to Covent,== dozens are reduce of France, it
is make that they specifically coarse.

If, thus, an hub of people, a Morel is therefore he postdate in commonwealth, except, often, between
region, where, to life in fall, fruitage may inside be put in grassland. Apart there is the greengrocers'windowpane
of interval, he matt-up upon lack, normally. Ne'er, yet, supply, materially, activity. Possibly,
the grove are hitherto. Chest-organize is aside of perplexity, of all but thus, merely. We shoot
the weather for Mushroom of grassland, it is surprising how the unsubdivided are the weather at
achiever. Fruitage, that, wetness.

An demand, plot, somesthesia. Part, they may be therefore of structure, they eliminate sure. Egg.
a-- although the Agaric will be stop from source, in goal.

The fruit, yet, Animality, and, having disintegrate the residence, they process look. Cobweb-like
movie, they engender him, they do manner, emergence. It prolong that we do not get the coffee
or agamete, we must shadow'sclerotium,'complex may save manner.

What is dilute'Agaric'favor of stuff by battleground, Agaric. When feed, fewer tablet have this
adobe. Roe, concern, hairdressing. Activity, egg might be at appearance, output, Agaric. The
tablet or ceramic are follow in people, Agaric, the. Roe bad, it has of agglomeration to circumference,
plot, body. The must mature compound, employment being done, a achene
of lumpenproletariat will be turn from sour-debar ergot stomach yield
it is name as it.

Person analyze Agaric is not of attribute of set, it will be a firm
which has the selling; thus, accommodate should be necessitate which
was keep and so, but has save its sparkle.



With these words he put heart and soul into them all. Deiphobus son of Priam went about among
them intent on deeds of daring with his round shield before him, under cover of which he strode
quickly forward. Meriones took aim at him with a spear, nor did he fail to hit the broad orb
of ox-hide; but he was far from piercing it for the spear broke in two pieces long ere he could
do so; moreover Deiphobus had seen it coming and had held his shield well away from him. Meriones
drew back under cover of his comrades, angry alike at having failed to vanquish Deiphobus,
and having broken his spear. He turned therefore towards the ships and tents to fetch a spear
which he had left behind in his tent.

The others continued fighting, and the cry of battle rose up into the heavens. Teucer son of
Telamon was the first to kill his man, to wit, the warrior Imbrius, son of Mentor, rich in
horses. Until the Achaeans came he had lived in Pedaeum, and had married Medesicaste, a bastard
daughter of Priam; but on the arrival of the Danaan fleet he had gone back to Ilius, and was
a great man among the Trojans, dwelling near Priam himself, who gave him like honour with his
own sons. The son of Telamon now struck him under the ear with a spear which he then drew back
again, and Imbrius fell headlong as an ash-tree when it is felled on the crest of some high
mountain beacon, and its delicate green foliage comes toppling down to the ground. Thus did
he fall with his bronze-dight armour ringing harshly round him, and Teucer sprang forward with
intent to strip him of his armour; but as he was doing so, Hector took aim at him with a spear.
Stichius and Menestheus, captains of the Athenians, bore away Amphimachus to the host of the
Achaeans, while the two brave and impetuous Ajaxes did the like by Imbrius. As two lions snatch
a goat from the hounds that have it in their fangs, and bear it through thick brushwood high
above the ground in their jaws, thus did the Ajaxes bear aloft the body of Imbrius, and strip
it of its armour. Then the son of Oileus severed the head from the neck in revenge for the
death of Amphimachus, and sent it whirling over the crowd as though it had been a ball, till
it fell in the dust at Hector's feet.

Neptune was exceedingly angry that his grandson Amphimachus should have fallen; he therefore
went to the tents and ships of the Achaeans to urge the Danaans still further, and to devise
evil for the Trojans. Idomeneus met him, as he was taking leave of a comrade, who had just
come to him from the fight, wounded in the knee. His fellow-soldiers bore him off the field,
and Idomeneus having given orders to the physicians went on to his tent, for he was still thirsting
for battle. Neptune spoke in the likeness and with the voice of Thoas son of Andraemon who
ruled the Aetolians of all Pleuron and high Calydon, and was honoured among his people as though
he were a god. "Idomeneus," said he, "lawgiver to the Cretans, what has now become of the threats
with which the sons of the Achaeans used to threaten the Trojans?"

And Idomeneus chief among the Cretans answered, "Thoas, no one, so far as I know, is in fault,
for we can all fight. None are held back neither by fear nor slackness, but it seems to be
the will of almighty Jove that the Achaeans should perish ingloriously here far from Argos:
you, Thoas, have been always staunch, and you keep others in heart if you see any fail in duty;
be not then remiss now, but exhort all to do their utmost."

To this Neptune lord of the earthquake made answer, "Idomeneus, may he never return from Troy,
but remain here for dogs to batten upon, who is this day wilfully slack in fighting. Get your
armour and go, we must make all haste together if we may be of any use, though we are only
two. Even cowards gain courage from companionship, and we two can hold our own with the bravest."

Therewith the god went back into the thick of the fight, and Idomeneus when he had reached
his tent donned his armour, grasped his two spears, and sallied forth. As the lightning which
the son of Saturn brandishes from bright Olympus when he would show a sign to mortals, and
its gleam flashes far and wide--even so did his armour gleam about him as he ran. Meriones
his sturdy squire met him while he was still near his tent (for he was going to fetch his spear)
and Idomeneus said:

"Meriones, fleet son of Molus, best of comrades, why have you left the field? Are you wounded,
and is the point of the weapon hurting you? or have you been sent to fetch me? I want no fetching;
I had far rather fight than stay in my tent."

"Idomeneus," answered Meriones, "I come for a spear, if I can find one in my tent; I have broken
the one I had, in throwing it at the shield of Deiphobus."

And Idomeneus captain of the Cretans answered, "You will find one spear, or twenty if you so
please, standing up against the end wall of my tent. I have taken them from Trojans whom I
have killed, for I am not one to keep my enemy at arm's length; therefore I have spears, bossed
shields, helmets, and burnished corslets."

Then Meriones said, "I too in my tent and at my ship have spoils taken from the Trojans, but
they are not at hand. I have been at all times valorous, and wherever there has been hard fighting
have held my own among the foremost. There may be those among the Achaeans who do not know
how I fight, but you know it well enough yourself."

Idomeneus answered, "I know you for a brave man: you need not tell me. If the best men at the
ships were being chosen to go on an ambush--and there is nothing like this for showing what
a man is made of; it comes out then who is cowardly and who brave; the coward will change colour
at every touch and turn; he is full of fears, and keeps shifting his weight first on one knee
and then on the other; his heart beats fast as he thinks of death, and one can hear the chattering
of his teeth; whereas the brave man will not change colour nor be frightened on finding himself
in ambush, but is all the time longing to go into action--if the best men were being chosen
for such a service, no one could make light of your courage nor feats of arms. If you were
struck by a dart or smitten in close combat, it would not be from behind, in your neck nor
back, but the weapon would hit you in the chest or belly as you were pressing forward to a
place in the front ranks. But let us no longer stay here talking like children, lest we be
ill spoken of; go, fetch your spear from the tent at once."

On this Meriones, peer of Mars, went to the tent and got himself a spear of bronze. He then
followed after Idomeneus, big with great deeds of valour. As when baneful Mars sallies forth
to battle, and his son Panic so strong and dauntless goes with him, to strike terror even into
the heart of a hero--the pair have gone from Thrace to arm themselves among the Ephyri or the
brave Phlegyans, but they will not listen to both the contending hosts, and will give victory
to one side or to the other--even so did Meriones and Idomeneus, captains of men, go out to
battle clad in their bronze armour. Meriones was first to speak. "Son of Deucalion," said he,
"where would you have us begin fighting? On the right wing of the host, in the centre, or on
the left wing, where I take it the Achaeans will be weakest?"

Idomeneus answered, "There are others to defend the centre--the two Ajaxes and Teucer, who
is the finest archer of all the Achaeans, and is good also in a hand-to-hand fight. These will
give Hector son of Priam enough to do; fight as he may, he will find it hard to vanquish their
indomitable fury, and fire the ships, unless the son of Saturn fling a firebrand upon them
with his own hand. Great Ajax son of Telamon will yield to no man who is in mortal mould and
eats the grain of Ceres, if bronze and great stones can overthrow him. He would not yield even
to Achilles in hand-to-hand fight, and in fleetness of foot there is none to beat him; let
us turn therefore towards the left wing, that we may know forthwith whether we are to give
glory to some other, or he to us."

Meriones, peer of fleet Mars, then led the way till they came to the part of the host which
Idomeneus had named.

Now when the Trojans saw Idomeneus coming on like a flame of fire, him and his squire clad
in their richly wrought armour, they shouted and made towards him all in a body, and a furious
hand-to-hand fight raged under the ships' sterns. Fierce as the shrill winds that whistle upon
a day when dust lies deep on the roads, and the gusts raise it into a thick cloud--even such
was the fury of the combat, and might and main did they hack at each other with spear and sword
throughout the host. The field bristled with the long and deadly spears which they bore. Dazzling
was the sheen of their gleaming helmets, their fresh-burnished breastplates, and glittering
shields as they joined battle with one another. Iron indeed must be his courage who could take
pleasure in the sight of such a turmoil, and look on it without being dismayed.

Thus did the two mighty sons of Saturn devise evil for mortal heroes. Jove was minded to give
victory to the Trojans and to Hector, so as to do honour to fleet Achilles, nevertheless he
did not mean to utterly overthrow the Achaean host before Ilius, and only wanted to glorify
Thetis and her valiant son. Neptune on the other hand went about among the Argives to incite
them, having come up from the grey sea in secret, for he was grieved at seeing them vanquished
by the Trojans, and was furiously angry with Jove. Both were of the same race and country,
but Jove was elder born and knew more, therefore Neptune feared to defend the Argives openly,
but in the likeness of man, he kept on encouraging them throughout their host. Thus, then,
did these two devise a knot of war and battle, that none could unloose or break, and set both
sides tugging at it, to the failing of men's knees beneath them.

And now Idomeneus, though his hair was already flecked with grey, called loud on the Danaans
and spread panic among the Trojans as he leaped in among them. He slew Othryoneus from Cabesus,
a sojourner, who had but lately come to take part in the war. He sought Cassandra, the fairest
of Priam's daughters, in marriage, but offered no gifts of wooing, for he promised a great
thing, to wit, that he would drive the sons of the Achaeans willy nilly from Troy; old King
Priam had given his consent and promised her to him, whereon he fought on the strength of the
promises thus made to him. Idomeneus aimed a spear, and hit him as he came striding on. His
cuirass of bronze did not protect him, and the spear stuck in his belly, so that he fell heavily
to the ground. Then Idomeneus vaunted over him saying, "Othryoneus, there is no one in the
world whom I shall admire more than I do you, if you indeed perform what you have promised
Priam son of Dardanus in return for his daughter. We too will make you an offer; we will give
you the loveliest daughter of the son of Atreus, and will bring her from Argos for you to marry,
if you will sack the goodly city of Ilius in company with ourselves; so come along with me,
that we may make a covenant at the ships about the marriage, and we will not be hard upon you
about gifts of wooing."

With this Idomeneus began dragging him by the foot through the thick of the fight, but Asius
came up to protect the body, on foot, in front of his horses which his esquire drove so close
behind him that he could feel their breath upon his shoulder. He was longing to strike down
Idomeneus, but ere he could do so Idomeneus smote him with his spear in the throat under the
chin, and the bronze point went clean through it. He fell as an oak, or poplar, or pine which
shipwrights have felled for ship's timber upon the mountains with whetted axes--even thus did
he lie full length in front of his chariot and horses, grinding his teeth and clutching at
the bloodstained dust. His charioteer was struck with panic and did not dare turn his horses
round and escape: thereupon Antilochus hit him in the middle of his body with a spear; his
cuirass of bronze did not protect him, and the spear stuck in his belly. He fell gasping from
his chariot and Antilochus, great Nestor's son, drove his horses from the Trojans to the Achaeans.

Deiphobus then came close up to Idomeneus to avenge Asius, and took aim at him with a spear,
but Idomeneus was on the look-out and avoided it, for he was covered by the round shield he
always bore--a shield of oxhide and bronze with two arm-rods on the inside. He crouched under
cover of this, and the spear flew over him, but the shield rang out as the spear grazed it,
and the weapon sped not in vain from the strong hand of Deiphobus, for it struck Hypsenor son
of Hippasus, shepherd of his people, in the liver under the midriff, and his limbs failed beneath
him. Deiphobus vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying, "Of a truth Asius has not
fallen unavenged; he will be glad even while passing into the house of Hades, strong warden
of the gate, that I have sent some one to escort him."

Thus did he vaunt, and the Argives were stung by his saying. Noble Antilochus was more angry
than any one, but grief did not make him forget his friend and comrade. He ran up to him, bestrode
him, and covered him with his shield; then two of his staunch comrades, Mecisteus son of Echius,
and Alastor, stooped down, and bore him away groaning heavily to the ships. But Idomeneus ceased
not his fury. He kept on striving continually either to enshroud some Trojan in the darkness
of death, or himself to fall while warding off the evil day from the Achaeans. Then fell Alcathous
son of noble Aesyetes; he was son-in-law to Anchises, having married his eldest daughter Hippodameia,
who was the darling of her father and mother, and excelled all her generation in beauty, accomplishments,
and understanding, wherefore the bravest man in all Troy had taken her to wife--him did Neptune
lay low by the hand of Idomeneus, blinding his bright eyes and binding his strong limbs in
fetters so that he could neither go back nor to one side, but stood stock still like pillar
or lofty tree when Idomeneus struck him with a spear in the middle of his chest. The coat of
mail that had hitherto protected his body was now broken, and rang harshly as the spear tore
through it. He fell heavily to the ground, and the spear stuck in his heart, which still beat,
and made the butt-end of the spear quiver till dread Mars put an end to his life. Idomeneus
vaunted over him and cried with a loud voice saying, "Deiphobus, since you are in a mood to
vaunt, shall we cry quits now that we have killed three men to your one? Nay, sir, stand in
fight with me yourself, that you may learn what manner of Jove-begotten man am I that have
come hither. Jove first begot Minos, chief ruler in Crete, and Minos in his turn begot a son,
noble Deucalion. Deucalion begot me to be a ruler over many men in Crete, and my ships have
now brought me hither, to be the bane of yourself, your father, and the Trojans."

Thus did he speak, and Deiphobus was in two minds, whether to go back and fetch some other
Trojan to help him, or to take up the challenge single-handed. In the end, he deemed it best
to go and fetch Aeneas, whom he found standing in the rear, for he had long been aggrieved
with Priam because in spite of his brave deeds he did not give him his due share of honour.
Deiphobus went up to him and said, "Aeneas, prince among the Trojans, if you know any ties
of kinship, help me now to defend the body of your sister's husband; come with me to the rescue
of Alcathous, who being husband to your sister brought you up when you were a child in his
house, and now Idomeneus has slain him."

With these words he moved the heart of Aeneas, and he went in pursuit of Idomeneus, big with
great deeds of valour; but Idomeneus was not to be thus daunted as though he were a mere child;
he held his ground as a wild boar at bay upon the mountains, who abides the coming of a great
crowd of men in some lonely place--the bristles stand upright on his back, his eyes flash fire,
and he whets his tusks in his eagerness to defend himself against hounds and men--even so did
famed Idomeneus hold his ground and budge not at the coming of Aeneas. He cried aloud to his
comrades looking towards Ascalaphus, Aphareus, Deipyrus, Meriones, and Antilochus, all of them
brave soldiers--"Hither my friends," he cried, "and leave me not single-handed--I go in great
fear by fleet Aeneas, who is coming against me, and is a redoubtable dispenser of death battle.
Moreover he is in the flower of youth when a man's strength is greatest; if I was of the same
age as he is and in my present mind, either he or I should soon bear away the prize of victory."

On this, all of them as one man stood near him, shield on shoulder. Aeneas on the other side
called to his comrades, looking towards Deiphobus, Paris, and Agenor, who were leaders of the
Trojans along with himself, and the people followed them as sheep follow the ram when they
go down to drink after they have been feeding, and the heart of the shepherd is glad--even
so was the heart of Aeneas gladdened when he saw his people follow him.

Then they fought furiously in close combat about the body of Alcathous, wielding their long
spears; and the bronze armour about their bodies rang fearfully as they took aim at one another
in the press of the fight, while the two heroes Aeneas and Idomeneus, peers of Mars, outvied
everyone in their desire to hack at each other with sword and spear. Aeneas took aim first,
but Idomeneus was on the lookout and avoided the spear, so that it sped from Aeneas' strong
hand in vain, and fell quivering in the ground. Idomeneus meanwhile smote Oenomaus in the middle
of his belly, and broke the plate of his corslet, whereon his bowels came gushing out and he
clutched the earth in the palms of his hands as he fell sprawling in the dust. Idomeneus drew
his spear out of the body, but could not strip him of the rest of his armour for the rain of
darts that were showered upon him: moreover his strength was now beginning to fail him so that
he could no longer charge, and could neither spring forward to recover his own weapon nor swerve
aside to avoid one that was aimed at him; therefore, though he still defended himself in hand-to-hand
fight, his heavy feet could not bear him swiftly out of the battle. Deiphobus aimed a spear
at him as he was retreating slowly from the field, for his bitterness against him was as fierce
as ever, but again he missed him, and hit Ascalaphus, the son of Mars; the spear went through
his shoulder, and he clutched the earth in the palms of his hands as he fell sprawling in the dust.

Grim Mars of awful voice did not yet know that his son had fallen, for he was sitting on the
summits of Olympus under the golden clouds, by command of Jove, where the other gods were also
sitting, forbidden to take part in the battle. Meanwhile men fought furiously about the body.
Deiphobus tore the helmet from off his head, but Meriones sprang upon him, and struck him on
the arm with a spear so that the visored helmet fell from his hand and came ringing down upon
the ground. Thereon Meriones sprang upon him like a vulture, drew the spear from his shoulder,
and fell back under cover of his men. Then Polites, own brother of Deiphobus passed his arms
around his waist, and bore him away from the battle till he got to his horses that were standing
in the rear of the fight with the chariot and their driver. These took him towards the city
groaning and in great pain, with the blood flowing from his arm.

The others still fought on, and the battle-cry rose to heaven without ceasing. Aeneas sprang
on Aphareus son of Caletor, and struck him with a spear in his throat which was turned towards
him; his head fell on one side, his helmet and shield came down along with him, and death,
life's foe, was shed around him. Antilochus spied his chance, flew forward towards Thoon, and
wounded him as he was turning round. He laid open the vein that runs all the way up the back
to the neck; he cut this vein clean away throughout its whole course, and Thoon fell in the
dust face upwards, stretching out his hands imploringly towards his comrades. Antilochus sprang
upon him and stripped the armour from his shoulders, glaring round him fearfully as he did
so. The Trojans came about him on every side and struck his broad and gleaming shield, but
could not wound his body, for Neptune stood guard over the son of Nestor, though the darts
fell thickly round him. He was never clear of the foe, but was always in the thick of the fight;
his spear was never idle; he poised and aimed it in every direction, so eager was he to hit
someone from a distance or to fight him hand to hand.

As he was thus aiming among the crowd, he was seen by Adamas, son of Asius, who rushed towards
him and struck him with a spear in the middle of his shield, but Neptune made its point without
effect, for he grudged him the life of Antilochus. One half, therefore, of the spear stuck
fast like a charred stake in Antilochus's shield, while the other lay on the ground. Adamas
then sought shelter under cover of his men, but Meriones followed after and hit him with a
spear midway between the private parts and the navel, where a wound is particularly painful
to wretched mortals. There did Meriones transfix him, and he writhed convulsively about the
spear as some bull whom mountain herdsmen have bound with ropes of withes and are taking away
perforce. Even so did he move convulsively for a while, but not for very long, till Meriones
came up and drew the spear out of his body, and his eyes were veiled in darkness.

Helenus then struck Deipyrus with a great Thracian sword, hitting him on the temple in close
combat and tearing the helmet from his head; the helmet fell to the ground, and one of those
who were fighting on the Achaean side took charge of it as it rolled at his feet, but the eyes
of Deipyrus were closed in the darkness of death.

On this Menelaus was grieved, and made menacingly towards Helenus, brandishing his spear; but
Helenus drew his bow, and the two attacked one another at one and the same moment, the one
with his spear, and the other with his bow and arrow. The son of Priam hit the breastplate
of Menelaus's corslet, but the arrow glanced from off it. As black beans or pulse come pattering
down on to a threshing-floor from the broad winnowing-shovel, blown by shrill winds and shaken
by the shovel--even so did the arrow glance off and recoil from the shield of Menelaus, who
in his turn wounded the hand with which Helenus carried his bow; the spear went right through
his hand and stuck in the bow itself, so that to his life he retreated under cover of his men,
with his hand dragging by his side--for the spear weighed it down till Agenor drew it out and
bound the hand carefully up in a woollen sling which his esquire had with him.

Pisander then made straight at Menelaus--his evil destiny luring him on to his doom, for he
was to fall in fight with you, O Menelaus. When the two were hard by one another the spear
of the son of Atreus turned aside and he missed his aim; Pisander then struck the shield of
brave Menelaus but could not pierce it, for the shield stayed the spear and broke the shaft;
nevertheless he was glad and made sure of victory; forthwith, however, the son of Atreus drew
his sword and sprang upon him. Pisander then seized the bronze battle-axe, with its long and
polished handle of olive wood that hung by his side under his shield, and the two made at one
another. Pisander struck the peak of Menelaus's crested helmet just under the crest itself,
and Menelaus hit Pisander as he was coming towards him, on the forehead, just at the rise of
his nose; the bones cracked and his two gore-bedrabbled eyes fell by his feet in the dust.
He fell backwards to the ground, and Menelaus set his heel upon him, stripped him of his armour,
and vaunted over him saying, "Even thus shall you Trojans leave the ships of the Achaeans,
proud and insatiate of battle though you be, nor shall you lack any of the disgrace and shame
which you have heaped upon myself. Cowardly she-wolves that you are, you feared not the anger
of dread Jove, avenger of violated hospitality, who will one day destroy your city; you stole
my wedded wife and wickedly carried off much treasure when you were her guest, and now you
would fling fire upon our ships, and kill our heroes. A day will come when, rage as you may,
you shall be stayed. O father Jove, you, who they say art above all, both gods and men, in
wisdom, and from whom all things that befall us do proceed, how can you thus favour the Trojans--men
so proud and overweening, that they are never tired of fighting? All things pall after a while--sleep,
love, sweet song, and stately dance-- still these are things of which a man would surely have
his fill rather than of battle, whereas it is of battle that the Trojans are insatiate."

So saying Menelaus stripped the blood-stained armour from the body of Pisander, and handed
it over to his men; then he again ranged himself among those who were in the front of the fight.

Harpalion son of King Pylaemenes then sprang upon him; he had come to fight at Troy along with
his father, but he did not go home again. He struck the middle of Menelaus's shield with his
spear but could not pierce it, and to save his life drew back under cover of his men, looking
round him on every side lest he should be wounded. But Meriones aimed a bronze-tipped arrow
at him as he was leaving the field, and hit him on the right buttock; the arrow pierced the
bone through and through, and penetrated the bladder, so he sat down where he was and breathed
his last in the arms of his comrades, stretched like a worm upon the ground and watering the
earth with the blood that flowed from his wound. The brave Paphlagonians tended him with all
due care; they raised him into his chariot, and bore him sadly off to the city of Troy; his
father went also with him weeping bitterly, but there was no ransom that could bring his dead
son to life again.

Paris was deeply grieved by the death of Harpalion, who was his host when he went among the
Paphlagonians; he aimed an arrow, therefore, in order to avenge him. Now there was a certain
man named Euchenor, son of Polyidus the prophet, a brave man and wealthy, whose home was in
Corinth. This Euchenor had set sail for Troy well knowing that it would be the death of him,
for his good old father Polyidus had often told him that he must either stay at home and die
of a terrible disease, or go with the Achaeans and perish at the hands of the Trojans; he chose,
therefore, to avoid incurring the heavy fine the Achaeans would have laid upon him, and at
the same time to escape the pain and suffering of disease. Paris now smote him on the jaw under
his ear, whereon the life went out of him and he was enshrouded in the darkness of death.

Thus then did they fight as it were a flaming fire. But Hector had not yet heard, and did not
know that the Argives were making havoc of his men on the left wing of the battle, where the
Achaeans ere long would have triumphed over them, so vigorously did Neptune cheer them on and
help them. He therefore held on at the point where he had first forced his way through the
gates and the wall, after breaking through the serried ranks of Danaan warriors. It was here
that the ships of Ajax and Protesilaus were drawn up by the sea-shore; here the wall was at
its lowest, and the fight both of man and horse raged most fiercely. The Boeotians and the
Ionians with their long tunics, the Locrians, the men of Phthia, and the famous force of the
Epeans could hardly stay Hector as he rushed on towards the ships, nor could they drive him
from them, for he was as a wall of fire. The chosen men of the Athenians were in the van, led
by Menestheus son of Peteos, with whom were also Pheidas, Stichius, and stalwart Bias; Meges
son of Phyleus, Amphion, and Dracius commanded the Epeans, while Medon and staunch Podarces
led the men of Phthia. Of these, Medon was bastard son to Oileus and brother of Ajax, but he
lived in Phylace away from his own country, for he had killed the brother of his stepmother
Eriopis, the wife of Oileus; the other, Podarces, was the son of Iphiclus, son of Phylacus.
These two stood in the van of the Phthians, and defended the ships along with the Boeotians.

Ajax son of Oileus, never for a moment left the side of Ajax, son of Telamon, but as two swart
oxen both strain their utmost at the plough which they are drawing in a fallow field, and the
sweat steams upwards from about the roots of their horns--nothing but the yoke divides them
as they break up the ground till they reach the end of the field--even so did the two Ajaxes
stand shoulder to shoulder by one another. Many and brave comrades followed the son of Telamon,
to relieve him of his shield when he was overcome with sweat and toil, but the Locrians did
not follow so close after the son of Oileus, for they could not hold their own in a hand-to-hand
fight. They had no bronze helmets with plumes of horse-hair, neither had they shields nor ashen
spears, but they had come to Troy armed with bows, and with slings of twisted wool from which
they showered their missiles to break the ranks of the Trojans. The others, therefore, with
their heavy armour bore the brunt of the fight with the Trojans and with Hector, while the
Locrians shot from behind, under their cover; and thus the Trojans began to lose heart, for
the arrows threw them into confusion.

The Trojans would now have been driven in sorry plight from the ships and tents back to windy
Ilius, had not Polydamas presently said to Hector, "Hector, there is no persuading you to take
advice. Because heaven has so richly endowed you with the arts of war, you think that you must
therefore excel others in counsel; but you cannot thus claim preeminence in all things. Heaven
has made one man an excellent soldier; of another it has made a dancer or a singer and player
on the lyre; while yet in another Jove has implanted a wise understanding of which men reap
fruit to the saving of many, and he himself knows more about it than any one; therefore I will
say what I think will be best. The fight has hemmed you in as with a circle of fire, and even
now that the Trojans are within the wall some of them stand aloof in full armour, while others
are fighting scattered and outnumbered near the ships. Draw back, therefore, and call your
chieftains round you, that we may advise together whether to fall now upon the ships in the
hope that heaven may vouchsafe us victory, or to beat a retreat while we can yet safely do
so. I greatly fear that the Achaeans will pay us their debt of yesterday in full, for there
is one abiding at their ships who is never weary of battle, and who will not hold aloof much
longer."

Thus spoke Polydamas, and his words pleased Hector well. He sprang in full armour from his
chariot and said, "Polydamas, gather the chieftains here; I will go yonder into the fight,
but will return at once when I have given them their orders."

He then sped onward, towering like a snowy mountain, and with a loud cry flew through the ranks
of the Trojans and their allies. When they heard his voice they all hastened to gather round
Polydamas, the excellent son of Panthous, but Hector kept on among the foremost, looking everywhere
to find Deiphobus and prince Helenus, Adamas son of Asius, and Asius son of Hyrtacus; living,
indeed, and scatheless he could no longer find them, for the two last were lying by the sterns
of the Achaean ships, slain by the Argives, while the others had been also stricken and wounded
by them; but upon the left wing of the dread battle he found Alexandrus, husband of lovely
Helen, cheering his men and urging them on to fight. He went up to him and upbraided him. Ilius
is undone and will now surely fall!"

Alexandrus answered, "Hector, why find fault when there is no one to find fault with? I should
hold aloof from battle on any day rather than this, for my mother bore me with nothing of the
coward about me. From the moment when you set our men fighting about the ships we have been
staying here and doing battle with the Danaans. Our comrades about whom you ask me are dead;
Deiphobus and King Helenus alone have left the field, wounded both of them in the hand, but
the son of Saturn saved them alive. Now, therefore, lead on where you would have us go, and
we will follow with right goodwill; you shall not find us fail you in so far as our strength
holds out, but no man can do more than in him lies, no matter how willing he may be."

With these words he satisfied his brother, and the two went towards the part of the battle
where the fight was thickest, about Cebriones, brave Polydamas, Phalces, Orthaeus, godlike
Polyphetes, Palmys, Ascanius, and Morys son of Hippotion, who had come from fertile Ascania
on the preceding day to relieve other troops. Then Jove urged them on to fight. They flew forth
like the blasts of some fierce wind that strike earth in the van of a thunderstorm--they buffet
the salt sea into an uproar; many and mighty are the great waves that come crashing in one
after the other upon the shore with their arching heads all crested with foam--even so did
rank behind rank of Trojans arrayed in gleaming armour follow their leaders onward. The way
was led by Hector son of Priam, peer of murderous Mars, with his round shield before him--his
shield of ox-hides covered with plates of bronze--and his gleaming helmet upon his temples.
He kept stepping forward under cover of his shield in every direction, making trial of the
ranks to see if they would give way before him, but he could not daunt the courage of the Achaeans.
Ajax was the first to stride out and challenge him. "Sir," he cried, "draw near; why do you
think thus vainly to dismay the Argives? We Achaeans are excellent soldiers, but the scourge
of Jove has fallen heavily upon us. Your heart, forsooth, is set on destroying our ships, but
we too have hands that can keep you at bay, and your own fair town shall be sooner taken and
sacked by ourselves. The time is near when you shall pray Jove and all the gods in your flight,
that your steeds may be swifter than hawks as they raise the dust on the plain and bear you
back to your city."

As he was thus speaking a bird flew by upon his right hand, and the host of the Achaeans shouted,
for they took heart at the omen. But Hector answered, "Ajax, braggart and false of tongue,
would that I were as sure of being son for evermore to aegis-bearing Jove, with Queen Juno
for my mother, and of being held in like honour with Minerva and Apollo, as I am that this
day is big with the destruction of the Achaeans; and you shall fall among them if you dare
abide my spear; it shall rend your fair body and bid you glut our hounds and birds of prey
with your fat and your flesh, as you fall by the ships of the Achaeans."

With these words he led the way and the others followed after with a cry that rent the air,
while the host shouted behind them. The Argives on their part raised a shout likewise, nor
did they forget their prowess, but stood firm against the onslaught of the Trojan chieftains,
and the cry from both the hosts rose up to heaven and to the brightness of Jove's presence.

BOOK XIV

  Agamemnon proposes that the Achaeans should sail home, and
  is rebuked by Ulysses--Juno beguiles Jupiter--Hector is
  wounded.

NESTOR was sitting over his wine, but the cry of battle did not escape him, and he said to
the son of Aesculapius, "What, noble Machaon, is the meaning of all this? The shouts of men
fighting by our ships grow stronger and stronger; stay here, therefore, and sit over your wine,
while fair Hecamede heats you a bath and washes the clotted blood from off you. I will go at
once to the look-out station and see what it is all about."

As he spoke he took up the shield of his son Thrasymedes that was lying in his tent, all gleaming
with bronze, for Thrasymedes had taken his father's shield; he grasped his redoubtable bronze-shod
spear, and as soon as he was outside saw the disastrous rout of the Achaeans who, now that
their wall was overthrown, were flying pell-mell before the Trojans. As when there is a heavy
swell upon the sea, but the waves are dumb--they keep their eyes on the watch for the quarter
whence the fierce winds may spring upon them, but they stay where they are and set neither
this way nor that, till some particular wind sweeps down from heaven to determine them--even
so did the old man ponder whether to make for the crowd of Danaans, or go in search of Agamemnon.
In the end he deemed it best to go to the son of Atreus; but meanwhile the hosts were fighting
and killing one another, and the hard bronze rattled on their bodies, as they thrust at one
another with their swords and spears.

The wounded kings, the son of Tydeus, Ulysses, and Agamemnon son of Atreus, fell in Nestor
as they were coming up from their ships--for theirs were drawn up some way from where the fighting
was going on, being on the shore itself inasmuch as they had been beached first, while the
wall had been built behind the hindermost. The stretch of the shore, wide though it was, did
not afford room for all the ships, and the host was cramped for space, therefore they had placed
the ships in rows one behind the other, and had filled the whole opening of the bay between
the two points that formed it. The kings, leaning on their spears, were coming out to survey
the fight, being in great anxiety, and when old Nestor met them they were filled with dismay.
Then King Agamemnon said to him, "Nestor son of Neleus, honour to the Achaean name, why have
you left the battle to come hither? I fear that what dread Hector said will come true, when
he vaunted among the Trojans saying that he would not return to Ilius till he had fired our
ships and killed us; this is what he said, and now it is all coming true. Alas! others of the
Achaeans, like Achilles, are in anger with me that they refuse to fight by the sterns of our
ships."

Then Nestor knight of Gerene, answered, "It is indeed as you say; it is all coming true at
this moment, and even Jove who thunders from on high cannot prevent it. Fallen is the wall
on which we relied as an impregnable bulwark both for us and our fleet. The Trojans are fighting
stubbornly and without ceasing at the ships; look where you may you cannot see from what quarter
the rout of the Achaeans is coming; they are being killed in a confused mass and the battle-cry
ascends to heaven; let us think, if counsel can be of any use, what we had better do; but I
do not advise our going into battle ourselves, for a man cannot fight when he is wounded."

And King Agamemnon answered, "Nestor, if the Trojans are indeed fighting at the rear of our
ships, and neither the wall nor the trench has served us--over which the Danaans toiled so
hard, and which they deemed would be an impregnable bulwark both for us and our fleet--I see
it must be the will of Jove that the Achaeans should perish ingloriously here, far from Argos.
I knew when Jove was willing to defend us, and I know now that he is raising the Trojans to
like honour with the gods, while us, on the other hand, he has bound hand and foot. Now, therefore,
let us all do as I say; let us bring down the ships that are on the beach and draw them into
the water; let us make them fast to their mooring-stones a little way out, against the fall
of night--if even by night the Trojans will desist from fighting; we may then draw down the
rest of the fleet. There is nothing wrong in flying ruin even by night. It is better for a
man that he should fly and be saved than be caught and killed."

Ulysses looked fiercely at him and said, "Son of Atreus, what are you talking about? Wretch,
you should have commanded some other and baser army, and not been ruler over us to whom Jove
has allotted a life of hard fighting from youth to old age, till we every one of us perish.
Is it thus that you would quit the city of Troy, to win which we have suffered so much hardship?
Hold your peace, lest some other of the Achaeans hear you say what no man who knows how to
give good counsel, no king over so great a host as that of the Argives should ever have let
fall from his lips. I despise your judgement utterly for what you have been saying. Would you,
then, have us draw down our ships into the water while the battle is raging, and thus play
further into the hands of the conquering Trojans? It would be ruin; the Achaeans will not go
on fighting when they see the ships being drawn into the water, but will cease attacking and
keep turning their eyes towards them; your counsel, therefore, sir captain, would be our destruction."

Agamemnon answered, "Ulysses, your rebuke has stung me to the heart. I am not, however, ordering
the Achaeans to draw their ships into the sea whether they will or no. Someone, it may be,
old or young, can offer us better counsel which I shall rejoice to hear."

Then said Diomed, "Such an one is at hand; he is not far to seek, if you will listen to me
and not resent my speaking though I am younger than any of you. I am by lineage son to a noble
sire, Tydeus, who lies buried at Thebes. For Portheus had three noble sons, two of whom, Agrius
and Melas, abode in Pleuron and rocky Calydon. The third was the knight Oeneus, my father's
father, and he was the most valiant of them all. Oeneus remained in his own country, but my
father (as Jove and the other gods ordained it) migrated to Argos. He married into the family
of Adrastus, and his house was one of great abundance, for he had large estates of rich corn-growing
land, with much orchard ground as well, and he had many sheep; moreover he excelled all the
Argives in the use of the spear. You must yourselves have heard whether these things are true
or no; therefore when I say well despise not my words as though I were a coward or of ignoble
birth. I say, then, let us go to the fight as we needs must, wounded though we be. When there,
we may keep out of the battle and beyond the range of the spears lest we get fresh wounds in
addition to what we have already, but we can spur on others, who have been indulging their
spleen and holding aloof from battle hitherto."

Thus did he speak; whereon they did even as he had said and set out, King Agamemnon leading
the way.

Meanwhile Neptune had kept no blind look-out, and came up to them in the semblance of an old
man. He took Agamemnon's right hand in his own and said, "Son of Atreus, I take it Achilles
is glad now that he sees the Achaeans routed and slain, for he is utterly without remorse--may
he come to a bad end and heaven confound him. As for yourself, the blessed gods are not yet
so bitterly angry with you but that the princes and counsellors of the Trojans shall again
raise the dust upon the plain, and you shall see them flying from the ships and tents towards
their city."

With this he raised a mighty cry of battle, and sped forward to the plain. The voice that came
from his deep chest was as that of nine or ten thousand men when they are shouting in the thick
of a fight, and it put fresh courage into the hearts of the Achaeans to wage war and do battle
without ceasing.

Juno of the golden throne looked down as she stood upon a peak of Olympus and her heart was
gladdened at the sight of him who was at once her brother and her brother-in-law, hurrying
hither and thither amid the fighting. Then she turned her eyes to Jove as he sat on the topmost
crests of many-fountained Ida, and loathed him. She set herself to think how she might hoodwink
him, and in the end she deemed that it would be best for her to go to Ida and array herself
in rich attire, in the hope that Jove might become enamoured of her, and wish to embrace her.
While he was thus engaged a sweet and careless sleep might be made to steal over his eyes and
senses.

She went, therefore, to the room which her son Vulcan had made her, and the doors of which
he had cunningly fastened by means of a secret key so that no other god could open them. Here
she entered and closed the doors behind her. She cleansed all the dirt from her fair body with
ambrosia, then she anointed herself with olive oil, ambrosial, very soft, and scented specially
for herself--if it were so much as shaken in the bronze-floored house of Jove, the scent pervaded
the universe of heaven and earth. With this she anointed her delicate skin, and then she plaited
the fair ambrosial locks that flowed in a stream of golden tresses from her immortal head.
She put on the wondrous robe which Minerva had worked for her with consummate art, and had
embroidered with manifold devices; she fastened it about her bosom with golden clasps, and
she girded herself with a girdle that had a hundred tassels: then she fastened her earrings,
three brilliant pendants that glistened most beautifully, through the pierced lobes of her
ears, and threw a lovely new veil over her head. She bound her sandals on to her feet, and
when she had arrayed herself perfectly to her satisfaction, she left her room and called Venus
to come aside and speak to her. "My dear child," said she, "will you do what I am going to
ask of you, or will refuse me because you are angry at my being on the Danaan side, while you
are on the Trojan?"

Jove's daughter Venus answered, "Juno, august queen of goddesses, daughter of mighty Saturn,
say what you want, and I will do it for you at once, if I can, and if it can be done at all."

Then Juno told her a lying tale and said, "I want you to endow me with some of those fascinating
charms, the spells of which bring all things mortal and immortal to your feet. I am going to
the world's end to visit Oceanus (from whom all we gods proceed) and mother Tethys: they received
me in their house, took care of me, and brought me up, having taken me over from Rhaea when
Jove imprisoned great Saturn in the depths that are under earth and sea. I must go and see
them that I may make peace between them; they have been quarrelling, and are so angry that
they have not slept with one another this long while; if I can bring them round and restore
them to one another's embraces, they will be grateful to me and love me for ever afterwards."

Thereon laughter-loving Venus said, "I cannot and must not refuse you, for you sleep in the
arms of Jove who is our king."

As she spoke she loosed from her bosom the curiously embroidered girdle into which all her
charms had been wrought--love, desire, and that sweet flattery which steals the judgement even
of the most prudent. She gave the girdle to Juno and said, "Take this girdle wherein all my
charms reside and lay it in your bosom. If you will wear it I promise you that your errand,
be it what it may, will not be bootless."

When she heard this Juno smiled, and still smiling she laid the girdle in her bosom.

Venus now went back into the house of Jove, while Juno darted down from the summits of Olympus.
She passed over Pieria and fair Emathia, and went on and on till she came to the snowy ranges
of the Thracian horsemen, over whose topmost crests she sped without ever setting foot to ground.
When she came to Athos she went on over the, waves of the sea till she reached Lemnos, the
city of noble Thoas. There she met Sleep, own brother to Death, and caught him by the hand,
saying, "Sleep, you who lord it alike over mortals and immortals, if you ever did me a service
in times past, do one for me now, and I shall be grateful to you ever after. Close Jove's keen
eyes for me in slumber while I hold him clasped in my embrace, and I will give you a beautiful
golden seat, that can never fall to pieces; my clubfooted son Vulcan shall make it for you,
and he shall give it a footstool for you to rest your fair feet upon when you are at table."

Then Sleep answered, "Juno, great queen of goddesses, daughter of mighty Saturn, I would lull
any other of the gods to sleep without compunction, not even excepting the waters of Oceanus
from whom all of them proceed, but I dare not go near Jove, nor send him to sleep unless he
bids me. I have had one lesson already through doing what you asked me, on the day when Jove's
mighty son Hercules set sail from Ilius after having sacked the city of the Trojans. At your
bidding I suffused my sweet self over the mind of aegis-bearing Jove, and laid him to rest;
meanwhile you hatched a plot against Hercules, and set the blasts of the angry winds beating
upon the sea, till you took him to the goodly city of Cos, away from all his friends. Jove
was furious when he awoke, and began hurling the gods about all over the house; he was looking
more particularly for myself, and would have flung me down through space into the sea where
I should never have been heard of any more, had not Night who cows both men and gods protected
me. I fled to her and Jove left off looking for me in spite of his being so angry, for he did
not dare do anything to displease Night. And now you are again asking me to do something on
which I cannot venture."

And Juno said, "Sleep, why do you take such notions as those into your head? Do you think Jove
will be as anxious to help the Trojans, as he was about his own son? Come, I will marry you
to one of the youngest of the Graces, and she shall be your own-- Pasithea, whom you have always
wanted to marry."

Sleep was pleased when he heard this, and answered, "Then swear it to me by the dread waters
of the river Styx; lay one hand on the bounteous earth, and the other on the sheen of the sea,
so that all the gods who dwell down below with Saturn may be our witnesses, and see that you
really do give me one of the youngest of the Graces--Pasithea, whom I have always wanted to marry."

Juno did as he had said. She swore, and invoked all the gods of the nether world, who are called
Titans, to witness. When she had completed her oath, the two enshrouded themselves in a thick
mist and sped lightly forward, leaving Lemnos and Imbrus behind them. Presently they reached
many-fountained Ida, mother of wild beasts, and Lectum where they left the sea to go on by
land, and the tops of the trees of the forest soughed under the going of their feet. Here Sleep
halted, and ere Jove caught sight of him he climbed a lofty pine-tree--the tallest that reared
its head towards heaven on all Ida. He hid himself behind the branches and sat there in the
semblance of the sweet-singing bird that haunts the mountains and is called Chalcis by the
gods, but men call it Cymindis. Juno then went to Gargarus, the topmost peak of Ida, and Jove,
driver of the clouds, set eyes upon her. As soon as he did so he became inflamed with the same
passionate desire for her that he had felt when they had first enjoyed each other's embraces,
and slept with one another without their dear parents knowing anything about it. He went up
to her and said, "What do you want that you have come hither from Olympus--and that too with
neither chariot nor horses to convey you?" I must go and see them that I may make peace between
them: they have been quarrelling, and are so angry that they have not slept with one another
this long time. The horses that will take me over land and sea are stationed on the lowermost
spurs of many-fountained Ida, and I have come here from Olympus on purpose to consult you.
I was afraid you might be angry with me later on, if I went to the house of Oceanus without
letting you know."

And Jove said, "Juno, you can choose some other time for paying your visit to Oceanus--for
the present let us devote ourselves to love and to the enjoyment of one another. Never yet
have I been so overpowered by passion neither for goddess nor mortal woman as I am at this
moment for yourself--not even when I was in love with the wife of Ixion who bore me Pirithous,
peer of gods in counsel, nor yet with Danae the daintily-ancled daughter of Acrisius, who bore
me the famed hero Perseus. Then there was the daughter of Phoenix, who bore me Minos and Rhadamanthus:
there was Semele, and Alcmena in Thebes by whom I begot my lion-hearted son Hercules, while
Semele became mother to Bacchus the comforter of mankind. There was queen Ceres again, and
lovely Leto, and yourself--but with none of these was I ever so much enamoured as I now am
with you."

Juno again answered him with a lying tale. "Most dread son of Saturn," she exclaimed, "what
are you talking about? Would you have us enjoy one another here on the top of Mount Ida, where
everything can be seen? What if one of the ever-living gods should see us sleeping together,
and tell the others? It would be such a scandal that when I had risen from your embraces I
could never show myself inside your house again; but if you are so minded, there is a room
which your son Vulcan has made me, and he has given it good strong doors; if you would so have
it, let us go thither and lie down."

And Jove answered, "Juno, you need not be afraid that either god or man will see you, for I
will enshroud both of us in such a dense golden cloud, that the very sun for all his bright
piercing beams shall not see through it."

With this the son of Saturn caught his wife in his embrace; whereon the earth sprouted them
a cushion of young grass, with dew-bespangled lotus, crocus, and hyacinth, so soft and thick
that it raised them well above the ground. Here they laid themselves down and overhead they
were covered by a fair cloud of gold, from which there fell glittering dew-drops.

Thus, then, did the sire of all things repose peacefully on the crest of Ida, overcome at once
by sleep and love, and he held his spouse in his arms. Meanwhile Sleep made off to the ships
of the Achaeans, to tell earth-encircling Neptune, lord of the earthquake. When he had found
him he said, "Now, Neptune, you can help the Danaans with a will, and give them victory though
it be only for a short time while Jove is still sleeping. I have sent him into a sweet slumber,
and Juno has beguiled him into going to bed with her."

Sleep now departed and went his ways to and fro among mankind, leaving Neptune more eager than
ever to help the Danaans. He darted forward among the first ranks and shouted saying, "Argives,
shall we let Hector son of Priam have the triumph of taking our ships and covering himself
with glory? This is what he says that he shall now do, seeing that Achilles is still in dudgeon
at his ship; we shall get on very well without him if we keep each other in heart and stand
by one another. Now, therefore, let us all do as I say. Let us each take the best and largest
shield we can lay hold of, put on our helmets, and sally forth with our longest spears in our
hands; I will lead you on, and Hector son of Priam, rage as he may, will not dare to hold out
against us. If any good staunch soldier has only a small shield, let him hand it over to a
worse man, and take a larger one for himself."

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. The son of Tydeus, Ulysses, and Agamemnon,
wounded though they were, set the others in array, and went about everywhere effecting the
exchanges of armour; the most valiant took the best armour, and gave the worse to the worse
man. When they had donned their bronze armour they marched on with Neptune at their head. In
his strong hand he grasped his terrible sword, keen of edge and flashing like lightning; woe
to him who comes across it in the day of battle; all men quake for fear and keep away from it.

Hector on the other side set the Trojans in array. Thereon Neptune and Hector waged fierce
war on one another--Hector on the Trojan and Neptune on the Argive side. Mighty was the uproar
as the two forces met; the sea came rolling in towards the ships and tents of the Achaeans,
but waves do not thunder on the shore more loudly when driven before the blast of Boreas, nor
do the flames of a forest fire roar more fiercely when it is well alight upon the mountains,
nor does the wind bellow with ruder music as it tears on through the tops of when it is blowing
its hardest, than the terrible shout which the Trojans and Achaeans raised as they sprang upon
one another.

Hector first aimed his spear at Ajax, who was turned full towards him, nor did he miss his
aim. The spear struck him where two bands passed over his chest--the band of his shield and
that of his silver-studded sword--and these protected his body. Hector was angry that his spear
should have been hurled in vain, and withdrew under cover of his men. As he was thus retreating,
Ajax son of Telamon, struck him with a stone, of which there were many lying about under the
men's feet as they fought--brought there to give support to the ships' sides as they lay on
the shore. Ajax caught up one of them and struck Hector above the rim of his shield close to
his neck; the blow made him spin round like a top and reel in all directions. As an oak falls
headlong when uprooted by the lightning flash of father Jove, and there is a terrible smell
of brimstone--no man can help being dismayed if he is standing near it, for a thunderbolt is
a very awful thing-- even so did Hector fall to earth and bite the dust. His spear fell from
his hand, but his shield and helmet were made fast about his body, and his bronze armour rang
about him.

The sons of the Achaeans came running with a loud cry towards him, hoping to drag him away,
and they showered their darts on the Trojans, but none of them could wound him before he was
surrounded and covered by the princes Polydamas, Aeneas, Agenor, Sarpedon captain of the Lycians,
and noble Glaucus. Of the others, too, there was not one who was unmindful of him, and they
held their round shields over him to cover him. His comrades then lifted him off the ground
and bore him away from the battle to the place where his horses stood waiting for him at the
rear of the fight with their driver and the chariot; these then took him towards the city groaning
and in great pain. When they reached the ford of the fair stream of Xanthus, begotten of Immortal
Jove, they took him from off his chariot and laid him down on the ground; they poured water
over him, and as they did so he breathed again and opened his eyes. Then kneeling on his knees
he vomited blood, but soon fell back on to the ground, and his eyes were again closed in darkness
for he was still stunned by the blow.

When the Argives saw Hector leaving the field, they took heart and set upon the Trojans yet
more furiously. Ajax fleet son of Oileus began by springing on Satnius son of Enops, and wounding
him with his spear: a fair naiad nymph had borne him to Enops as he was herding cattle by the
banks of the river Satnioeis. The son of Oileus came up to him and struck him in the flank
so that he fell, and a fierce fight between Trojans and Danaans raged round his body. Polydamas
son of Panthous drew near to avenge him, and wounded Prothoenor son of Areilycus on the right
shoulder; the terrible spear went right through his shoulder, and he clutched the earth as
he fell in the dust. Polydamas vaunted loudly over him saying, "Again I take it that the spear
has not sped in vain from the strong hand of the son of Panthous; an Argive has caught it in
his body, and it will serve him for a staff as he goes down into the house of Hades."

The Argives were maddened by this boasting. Ajax son of Telamon was more angry than any, for
the man had fallen close beside him; so he aimed at Polydamas as he was retreating, but Polydamas
saved himself by swerving aside and the spear struck Archelochus son of Antenor, for heaven
counselled his destruction; it struck him where the head springs from the neck at the top joint
of the spine, and severed both the tendons at the back of the head. His head, mouth, and nostrils
reached the ground long before his legs and knees could do so, and Ajax shouted to Polydamas
saying, "Think, Polydamas, and tell me truly whether this man is not as well worth killing
as Prothoenor was: he seems rich, and of rich family, a brother, it may be, or son of the knight
Antenor, for he is very like him."

But he knew well who it was, and the Trojans were greatly angered. Acamas then bestrode his
brother's body and wounded Promachus the Boeotian with his spear, for he was trying to drag
his brother's body away. Acamas vaunted loudly over him saying, "Argive archers, braggarts
that you are, toil and suffering shall not be for us only, but some of you too shall fall here
as well as ourselves. See how Promachus now sleeps, vanquished by my spear; payment for my
brother's blood has not been long delayed; a man, therefore, may well be thankful if he leaves
a kinsman in his house behind him to avenge his fall."

His taunts infuriated the Argives, and Peneleos was more enraged than any of them. He sprang
towards Acamas, but Acamas did not stand his ground, and he killed Ilioneus son of the rich
flock-master Phorbas, whom Mercury had favoured and endowed with greater wealth than any other
of the Trojans. Ilioneus was his only son, and Peneleos now wounded him in the eye under his
eyebrows, tearing the eye-ball from its socket: the spear went right through the eye into the
nape of the neck, and he fell, stretching out both hands before him. Peneleos then drew his
sword and smote him on the neck, so that both head and helmet came tumbling down to the ground
with the spear still sticking in the eye; he then held up the head, as though it had been a
poppy-head, and showed it to the Trojans, vaunting over them as he did so. "Trojans," he cried,
"bid the father and mother of noble Ilioneus make moan for him in their house, for the wife
also of Promachus son of Alegenor will never be gladdened by the coming of her dear husband--when
we Argives return with our ships from Troy."

As he spoke fear fell upon them, and every man looked round about to see whither he might fly
for safety.

Tell me now, O Muses that dwell on Olympus, who was the first of the Argives to bear away blood-stained
spoils after Neptune lord of the earthquake had turned the fortune of war. Ajax son of Telamon
was first to wound Hyrtius son of Gyrtius, captain of the staunch Mysians. Antilochus killed
Phalces and Mermerus, while Meriones slew Morys and Hippotion, Teucer also killed Prothoon
and Periphetes. The son of Atreus then wounded Hyperenor shepherd of his people, in the flank,
and the bronze point made his entrails gush out as it tore in among them; on this his life
came hurrying out of him at the place where he had been wounded, and his eyes were closed in
darkness. Ajax son of Oileus killed more than any other, for there was no man so fleet as he
to pursue flying foes when Jove had spread panic among them.

BOOK XV

  Jove awakes, tells Apollo to heal Hector, and the Trojans
  again become victorious.

BUT when their flight had taken them past the trench and the set stakes, and many had fallen
by the hands of the Danaans, the Trojans made a halt on reaching their chariots, routed and
pale with fear. Jove now woke on the crests of Ida, where he was lying with golden-throned
Juno by his side, and starting to his feet he saw the Trojans and Achaeans, the one thrown
into confusion, and the others driving them pell-mell before them with King Neptune in their
midst. He saw Hector lying on the ground with his comrades gathered round him, gasping for
breath, wandering in mind and vomiting blood, for it was not the feeblest of the Achaeans who
struck him.

The sire of gods and men had pity on him, and looked fiercely on Juno. "I see, Juno," said
he, "you mischief-making trickster, that your cunning has stayed Hector from fighting and has
caused the rout of his host. I am in half a mind to thrash you, in which case you will be the
first to reap the fruits of your scurvy knavery. Do you not remember how once upon a time I
had you hanged? I fastened two anvils on to your feet, and bound your hands in a chain of gold
which none might break, and you hung in mid-air among the clouds. All the gods in Olympus were
in a fury, but they could not reach you to set you free; when I caught any one of them I gripped
him and hurled him from the heavenly threshold till he came fainting down to earth; yet even
this did not relieve my mind from the incessant anxiety which I felt about noble Hercules whom
you and Boreas had spitefully conveyed beyond the seas to Cos, after suborning the tempests;
but I rescued him, and notwithstanding all his mighty labours I brought him back again to Argos.
I would remind you of this that you may learn to leave off being so deceitful, and discover
how much you are likely to gain by the embraces out of which you have come here to trick me."

The sire of gods and men smiled and answered, "If you, Juno, were always to support me when
we sit in council of the gods, Neptune, like it or no, would soon come round to your and my
way of thinking. If, then, you are speaking the truth and mean what you say, go among the rank
and file of the gods, and tell Iris and Apollo lord of the bow, that I want them--Iris, that
she may go to the Achaean host and tell Neptune to leave off fighting and go home, and Apollo,
that he may send Hector again into battle and give him fresh strength; he will thus forget
his present sufferings, and drive the Achaeans back in confusion till they fall among the ships
of Achilles son of Peleus. Achilles will then send his comrade Patroclus into battle, and Hector
will kill him in front of Ilius after he has slain many warriors, and among them my own noble
son Sarpedon. Achilles will kill Hector to avenge Patroclus, and from that time I will bring
it about that the Achaeans shall persistently drive the Trojans back till they fulfil the counsels
of Minerva and take Ilius. But I will not stay my anger, nor permit any god to help the Danaans
till I have accomplished the desire of the son of Peleus, according to the promise I made by
bowing my head on the day when Thetis touched my knees and besought me to give him honour."

Juno heeded his words and went from the heights of Ida to great Olympus. Swift as the thought
of one whose fancy carries him over vast continents, and he says to himself, "Now I will be
here, or there," and he would have all manner of things--even so swiftly did Juno wing her
way till she came to high Olympus and went in among the gods who were gathered in the house
of Jove. When they saw her they all of them came up to her, and held out their cups to her
by way of greeting. She let the others be, but took the cup offered her by lovely Themis, who
was first to come running up to her. "Juno," said she, "why are you here? And you seem troubled--has
your husband the son of Saturn been frightening you?"

And Juno answered, "Themis, do not ask me about it. You know what a proud and cruel disposition
my husband has. Lead the gods to table, where you and all the immortals can hear the wicked
designs which he has avowed. Many a one, mortal and immortal, will be angered by them, however
peaceably he may be feasting now."

On this Juno sat down, and the gods were troubled throughout the house of Jove. Laughter sat
on her lips but her brow was furrowed with care, and she spoke up in a rage. "Fools that we
are," she cried, "to be thus madly angry with Jove; we keep on wanting to go up to him and
stay him by force or by persuasion, but he sits aloof and cares for nobody, for he knows that
he is much stronger than any other of the immortals. Make the best, therefore, of whatever
ills he may choose to send each one of you; Mars, I take it, has had a taste of them already,
for his son Ascalaphus has fallen in battle--the man whom of all others he loved most dearly
and whose father he owns himself to be."

When he heard this Mars smote his two sturdy thighs with the flat of his hands, and said in
anger, "Do not blame me, you gods that dwell in heaven, if I go to the ships of the Achaeans
and avenge the death of my son, even though it end in my being struck by Jove's lightning and
lying in blood and dust among the corpses."

As he spoke he gave orders to yoke his horses Panic and Rout, while he put on his armour. On
this, Jove would have been roused to still more fierce and implacable enmity against the other
immortals, had not Minerva, alarmed for the safety of the gods, sprung from her seat and hurried
outside. She tore the helmet from his head and the shield from his shoulders, and she took
the bronze spear from his strong hand and set it on one side; then she said to Mars, "Madman,
you are undone; you have ears that hear not, or you have lost all judgement and understanding;
have you not heard what Juno has said on coming straight from the presence of Olympian Jove?
Do you wish to go through all kinds of suffering before you are brought back sick and sorry
to Olympus, after having caused infinite mischief to all us others? Jove would instantly leave
the Trojans and Achaeans to themselves; he would come to Olympus to punish us, and would grip
us up one after another, guilty or not guilty. Therefore lay aside your anger for the death
of your son; better men than he have either been killed already or will fall hereafter, and
one cannot protect every one's whole family."

With these words she took Mars back to his seat. Meanwhile Juno called Apollo outside, with
Iris the messenger of the gods. "Jove," she said to them, "desires you to go to him at once
on Mt. Ida; when you have seen him you are to do as he may then bid you."

Thereon Juno left them and resumed her seat inside, while Iris and Apollo made all haste on
their way. When they reached many-fountained Ida, mother of wild beasts, they found Jove seated
on topmost Gargarus with a fragrant cloud encircling his head as with a diadem. They stood
before his presence, and he was pleased with them for having been so quick in obeying the orders
his wife had given them.

He spoke to Iris first. "Go," said he, "fleet Iris, tell King Neptune what I now bid you--and
tell him true. Bid him leave off fighting, and either join the company of the gods, or go down
into the sea. If he takes no heed and disobeys me, let him consider well whether he is strong
enough to hold his own against me if I attack him. I am older and much stronger than he is;
yet he is not afraid to set himself up as on a level with myself, of whom all the other gods
stand in awe."

Iris, fleet as the wind, obeyed him, and as the cold hail or snowflakes that fly from out the
clouds before the blast of Boreas, even so did she wing her way till she came close up to the
great shaker of the earth. Then she said, "I have come, O dark-haired king that holds the world
in his embrace, to bring you a message from Jove. He bids you leave off fighting, and either
join the company of the gods or go down into the sea; if, however, you take no heed and disobey
him, he says he will come down here and fight you.

Neptune was very angry and said, "Great heavens! strong as Jove may be, he has said more than
he can do if he has threatened violence against me, who am of like honour with himself. We
were three brothers whom Rhea bore to Saturn--Jove, myself, and Hades who rules the world below.
Heaven and earth were divided into three parts, and each of us was to have an equal share.
When we cast lots, it fell to me to have my dwelling in the sea for evermore; Hades took the
darkness of the realms under the earth, while air and sky and clouds were the portion that
fell to Jove; but earth and great Olympus are the common property of all. Therefore I will
not walk as Jove would have me. For all his strength, let him keep to his own third share and
be contented without threatening to lay hands upon me as though I were nobody. Let him keep
his bragging talk for his own sons and daughters, who must perforce obey him."

Iris fleet as the wind then answered, "Am I really, Neptune, to take this daring and unyielding
message to Jove, or will you reconsider your answer? Sensible people are open to argument,
and you know that the Erinyes always range themselves on the side of the older person."

Neptune answered, "Goddess Iris, your words have been spoken in season. It is well when a messenger
shows so much discretion. Nevertheless it cuts me to the very heart that any one should rebuke
so angrily another who is his own peer, and of like empire with himself. Now, however, I will
give way in spite of my displeasure; furthermore let me tell you, and I mean what I say-- if
contrary to the desire of myself, Minerva driver of the spoil, Juno, Mercury, and King Vulcan,
Jove spares steep Ilius, and will not let the Achaeans have the great triumph of sacking it,
let him understand that he will incur our implacable resentment."

Neptune now left the field to go down under the sea, and sorely did the Achaeans miss him.
Then Jove said to Apollo, "Go, dear Phoebus, to Hector, for Neptune who holds the earth in
his embrace has now gone down under the sea to avoid the severity of my displeasure. Had he
not done so those gods who are below with Saturn would have come to hear of the fight between
us. It is better for both of us that he should have curbed his anger and kept out of my reach,
for I should have had much trouble with him. Take, then, your tasselled aegis, and shake it
furiously, so as to set the Achaean heroes in a panic; take, moreover, brave Hector, O Far-Darter,
into your own care, and rouse him to deeds of daring, till the Achaeans are sent flying back
to their ships and to the Hellespont. From that point I will think it well over, how the Achaeans
may have a respite from their troubles."

Apollo obeyed his father's saying, and left the crests of Ida, flying like a falcon, bane of
doves and swiftest of all birds. He found Hector no longer lying upon the ground, but sitting
up, for he had just come to himself again. He knew those who were about him, and the sweat
and hard breathing had left him from the moment when the will of aegis-bearing Jove had revived
him. Apollo stood beside him and said, "Hector son of Priam, why are you so faint, and why
are you here away from the others? Has any mishap befallen you?"

Hector in a weak voice answered, "And which, kind sir, of the gods are you, who now ask me
thus? Do you not know that Ajax struck me on the chest with a stone as I was killing his comrades
at the ships of the Achaeans, and compelled me to leave off fighting? I made sure that this
very day I should breathe my last and go down into the house of Hades."

Then King Apollo said to him, "Take heart; the son of Saturn has sent you a mighty helper from
Ida to stand by you and defend you, even me, Phoebus Apollo of the golden sword, who have been
guardian hitherto not only of yourself but of your city. Now, therefore, order your horsemen
to drive their chariots to the ships in great multitudes. I will go before your horses to smooth
the way for them, and will turn the Achaeans in flight."

As he spoke he infused great strength into the shepherd of his people. As country peasants
set their hounds on to a homed stag or wild goat--he has taken shelter under rock or thicket,
and they cannot find him, but, lo, a bearded lion whom their shouts have roused stands in their
path, and they are in no further humour for the chase--even so the Achaeans were still charging
on in a body, using their swords and spears pointed at both ends, but when they saw Hector
going about among his men they were afraid, and their hearts fell down into their feet.

Then spoke Thoas son of Andraemon, leader of the Aetolians, a man who could throw a good throw,
and who was staunch also in close fight, while few could surpass him in debate when opinions
were divided. He then with all sincerity and goodwill addressed them thus: "What, in heaven's
name, do I now see? Is it not Hector come to life again? Every one made sure he had been killed
by Ajax son of Telamon, but it seems that one of the gods has again rescued him. He has killed
many of us Danaans already, and I take it will yet do so, for the hand of Jove must be with
him or he would never dare show himself so masterful in the forefront of the battle. Now, therefore,
let us all do as I say; let us order the main body of our forces to fall back upon the ships,
but let those of us who profess to be the flower of the army stand firm, and see whether we
cannot hold Hector back at the point of our spears as soon as he comes near us; I conceive
that he will then think better of it before he tries to charge into the press of the Danaans."

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. Those who were about Ajax and King Idomeneus,
the followers moreover of Teucer, Meriones, and Meges peer of Mars called all their best men
about them and sustained the fight against Hector and the Trojans, but the main body fell back
upon the ships of the Achaeans.

The Trojans pressed forward in a dense body, with Hector striding on at their head. Before
him went Phoebus Apollo shrouded in cloud about his shoulders. He bore aloft the terrible aegis
with its shaggy fringe, which Vulcan the smith had given Jove to strike terror into the hearts
of men. With this in his hand he led on the Trojans.

The Argives held together and stood their ground. The cry of battle rose high from either side,
and the arrows flew from the bowstrings. Many a spear sped from strong hands and fastened in
the bodies of many a valiant warrior, while others fell to earth midway, before they could
taste of man's fair flesh and glut themselves with blood. So long as Phoebus Apollo held his
aegis quietly and without shaking it, the weapons on either side took effect and the people
fell, but when he shook it straight in the face of the Danaans and raised his mighty battle-cry
their hearts fainted within them and they forgot their former prowess. As when two wild beasts
spring in the dead of night on a herd of cattle or a large flock of sheep when the herdsman
is not there--even so were the Danaans struck helpless, for Apollo filled them with panic and
gave victory to Hector and the Trojans.

The fight then became more scattered and they killed one another where they best could. Hector
killed Stichius and Arcesilaus, the one, leader of the Boeotians, and the other, friend and
comrade of Menestheus. Aeneas killed Medon and Iasus. Iasus had become a leader of the Athenians,
and was son of Sphelus the son of Boucolos. Polydamas killed Mecisteus, and Polites Echius,
in the front of the battle, while Agenor slew Clonius. Paris struck Deiochus from behind in
the lower part of the shoulder, as he was flying among the foremost, and the point of the spear
went clean through him.

While they were spoiling these heroes of their armour, the Achaeans were flying pell-mell to
the trench and the set stakes, and were forced back within their wall. Hector then cried out
to the Trojans, "Forward to the ships, and let the spoils be. If I see any man keeping back
on the other side the wall away from the ships I will have him killed: his kinsmen and kinswomen
shall not give him his dues of fire, but dogs shall tear him in pieces in front of our city."

As he spoke he laid his whip about his horses' shoulders and called to the Trojans throughout
their ranks; the Trojans shouted with a cry that rent the air, and kept their horses neck and
neck with his own. Phoebus Apollo went before, and kicked down the banks of the deep trench
into its middle so as to make a great broad bridge, as broad as the throw of a spear when a
man is trying his strength. The Trojan battalions poured over the bridge, and Apollo with his
redoubtable aegis led the way. He kicked down the wall of the Achaeans as easily as a child
who playing on the sea-shore has built a house of sand and then kicks it down again and destroys
it--even so did you, O Apollo, shed toil and trouble upon the Argives, filling them with panic
and confusion.

Thus then were the Achaeans hemmed in at their ships, calling out to one another and raising
their hands with loud cries every man to heaven. Nestor of Gerene, tower of strength to the
Achaeans, lifted up his hands to the starry firmament of heaven, and prayed more fervently
than any of them. "Father Jove," said he, "if ever any one in wheat-growing Argos burned you
fat thigh-bones of sheep or heifer and prayed that he might return safely home, whereon you
bowed your head to him in assent, bear it in mind now, and suffer not the Trojans to triumph
thus over the Achaeans."

All-counselling Jove thundered loudly in answer to the prayer of the aged son of Neleus. When
they heard Jove thunder they flung themselves yet more fiercely on the Achaeans. As a wave
breaking over the bulwarks of a ship when the sea runs high before a gale--for it is the force
of the wind that makes the waves so great--even so did the Trojans spring over the wall with
a shout, and drive their chariots onwards. The two sides fought with their double-pointed spears
in hand-to-hand encounter-the Trojans from their chariots, and the Achaeans climbing up into
their ships and wielding the long pikes that were lying on the decks ready for use in a sea-fight,
jointed and shod with bronze.

Now Patroclus, so long as the Achaeans and Trojans were fighting about the wall, but were not
yet within it and at the ships, remained sitting in the tent of good Eurypylus, entertaining
him with his conversation and spreading herbs over his wound to ease his pain. When, however,
he saw the Trojans swarming through the breach in the wall, while the Achaeans were clamouring
and struck with panic, he cried aloud, and smote his two thighs with the flat of his hands.
"Eurypylus," said he in his dismay, "I know you want me badly, but I cannot stay with you any
longer, for there is hard fighting going on; a servant shall take care of you now, for I must
make all speed to Achilles, and induce him to fight if I can; who knows but with heaven's help
I may persuade him. A man does well to listen to the advice of a friend."

When he had thus spoken he went his way. The Achaeans stood firm and resisted the attack of
the Trojans, yet though these were fewer in number, they could not drive them back from the
ships, neither could the Trojans break the Achaean ranks and make their way in among the tents
and ships. As a carpenter's line gives a true edge to a piece of ship's timber, in the hand
of some skilled workman whom Minerva has instructed in all kinds of useful arts--even so level
was the issue of the fight between the two sides, as they fought some round one and some round
another.

Hector made straight for Ajax, and the two fought fiercely about the same ship. Hector could
not force Ajax back and fire the ship, nor yet could Ajax drive Hector from the spot to which
heaven had brought him.

Then Ajax struck Caletor son of Clytius in the chest with a spear as he was bringing fire towards
the ship. He fell heavily to the ground and the torch dropped from his hand. When Hector saw
his cousin fallen in front of the ship he shouted to the Trojans and Lycians saying, "Trojans,
Lycians, and Dardanians good in close fight, bate not a jot, but rescue the son of Clytius
lest the Achaeans strip him of his armour now that he has fallen."

He then aimed a spear at Ajax, and missed him, but he hit Lycophron a follower of Ajax, who
came from Cythera, but was living with Ajax inasmuch as he had killed a man among the Cythereans.
Hector's spear struck him on the head below the ear, and he fell headlong from the ship's prow
on to the ground with no life left in him. Ajax shook with rage and said to his brother, "Teucer,
my good fellow, our trusty comrade the son of Mastor has fallen, he came to live with us from
Cythera and whom we honoured as much as our own parents. Hector has just killed him; fetch
your deadly arrows at once and the bow which Phoebus Apollo gave you."

Teucer heard him and hastened towards him with his bow and quiver in his hands. Forthwith he
showered his arrows on the Trojans, and hit Cleitus the son of Pisenor, comrade of Polydamas
the noble son of Panthous, with the reins in his hands as he was attending to his horses; he
was in the middle of the very thickest part of the fight, doing good service to Hector and
the Trojans, but evil had now come upon him, and not one of those who were fain to do so could
avert it, for the arrow struck him on the back of the neck. He fell from his chariot and his
horses shook the empty car as they swerved aside. King Polydamas saw what had happened, and
was the first to come up to the horses; he gave them in charge to Astynous son of Protiaon,
and ordered him to look on, and to keep the horses near at hand. He then went back and took
his place in the front ranks.

Teucer then aimed another arrow at Hector, and there would have been no more fighting at the
ships if he had hit him and killed him then and there: Jove, however, who kept watch over Hector,
had his eyes on Teucer, and deprived him of his triumph, by breaking his bowstring for him
just as he was drawing it and about to take his aim; on this the arrow went astray and the
bow fell from his hands. Teucer shook with anger and said to his brother, "Alas, see how heaven
thwarts us in all we do; it has broken my bowstring and snatched the bow from my hand, though
I strung it this selfsame morning that it might serve me for many an arrow."

Ajax son of Telamon answered, "My good fellow, let your bow and your arrows be, for Jove has
made them useless in order to spite the Danaans. Take your spear, lay your shield upon your
shoulder, and both fight the Trojans yourself and urge others to do so. They may be successful
for the moment but if we fight as we ought they will find it a hard matter to take the ships."

Teucer then took his bow and put it by in his tent. It is easy to see when Jove is helping
people and means to help them still further, or again when he is bringing them down and will
do nothing for them; he is now on our side, and is going against the Argives. Therefore swarm
round the ships and fight. If any of you is struck by spear or sword and loses his life, let
him die; he dies with honour who dies fighting for his country; and he will leave his wife
and children safe behind him, with his house and allotment unplundered if only the Achaeans
can be driven back to their own land, they and their ships."

With these words he put heart and soul into them all. Ajax on the other side exhorted his comrades
saying, "Shame on you Argives, we are now utterly undone, unless we can save ourselves by driving
the enemy from our ships. Do you think, if Hector takes them, that you will be able to get
home by land? Can you not hear him cheering on his whole host to fire our fleet, and bidding
them remember that they are not at a dance but in battle? Our only course is to fight them
with might and main; we had better chance it, life or death, once for all, than fight long
and without issue hemmed in at our ships by worse men than ourselves."

With these words he put life and soul into them all. Hector then killed Schedius son of Perimedes,
leader of the Phoceans, and Ajax killed Laodamas captain of foot soldiers and son to Antenor.
Polydamas killed Otus of Cyllene a comrade of the son of Phyleus and chief of the proud Epeans.
When Meges saw this he sprang upon him, but Polydamas crouched down, and he missed him, for
Apollo would not suffer the son of Panthous to fall in battle; but the spear hit Croesmus in
the middle of his chest, whereon he fell heavily to the ground, and Meges stripped him of his
armour. At that moment the valiant soldier Dolops son of Lampus sprang upon Lampus was son
of Laomedon and for his valour, while his son Dolops was versed in all the ways of war. He
then struck the middle of the son of Phyleus' shield with his spear, setting on him at close
quarters, but his good corslet made with plates of metal saved him; Phyleus had brought it
from Ephyra and the river Selleis, where his host, King Euphetes, had given it him to wear
in battle and protect him. It now served to save the life of his son. Then Meges struck the
topmost crest of Dolops's bronze helmet with his spear and tore away its plume of horse-hair,
so that all newly dyed with scarlet as it was it tumbled down into the dust. While he was still
fighting and confident of victory, Menelaus came up to help Meges, and got by the side of Dolops
unperceived; he then speared him in the shoulder, from behind, and the point, driven so furiously,
went through into his chest, whereon he fell headlong. The two then made towards him to strip
him of his armour, but Hector called on all his brothers for help, and he especially upbraided
brave Melanippus son of Hiketaon, who erewhile used to pasture his herds of cattle in Percote
before the war broke out; but when the ships of the Danaans came, he went back to Ilius, where
he was eminent among the Trojans, and lived near Priam who treated him as one of his own sons.
Hector now rebuked him and said, "Why, Melanippus, are we thus remiss? do you take no note
of the death of your kinsman, and do you not see how they are trying to take Dolops's armour?
Follow me; there must be no fighting the Argives from a distance now, but we must do so in
close combat till either we kill them or they take the high wall of Ilius and slay her people."

He led on as he spoke, and the hero Melanippus followed after. Meanwhile Ajax son of Telamon
was cheering on the Argives. "My friends," he cried, "be men, and fear dishonour; quit yourselves
in battle so as to win respect from one another. Men who respect each other's good opinion
are less likely to be killed than those who do not, but in flight there is neither gain nor glory."

Thus did he exhort men who were already bent upon driving back the Trojans. They laid his words
to heart and hedged the ships as with a wall of bronze, while Jove urged on the Trojans. Menelaus
of the loud battle-cry urged Antilochus on. "Antilochus," said he, "you are young and there
is none of the Achaeans more fleet of foot or more valiant than you are. See if you cannot
spring upon some Trojan and kill him."

He hurried away when he had thus spurred Antilochus, who at once darted out from the front
ranks and aimed a spear, after looking carefully round him. The Trojans fell back as he threw,
and the dart did not speed from his hand without effect, for it struck Melanippus the proud
son of Hiketaon in the breast by the nipple as he was coming forward, and his armour rang rattling
round him as he fell heavily to the ground. Antilochus sprang upon him as a dog springs on
a fawn which a hunter has hit as it was breaking away from its covert, and killed it. Even
so, O Melanippus, did stalwart Antilochus spring upon you to strip you of your armour; but
noble Hector marked him, and came running up to him through the thick of the battle. Antilochus,
brave soldier though he was, would not stay to face him, but fled like some savage creature
which knows it has done wrong, and flies, when it has killed a dog or a man who is herding
his cattle, before a body of men can be gathered to attack it. Even so did the son of Nestor
fly, and the Trojans and Hector with a cry that rent the air showered their weapons after him;
nor did he turn round and stay his flight till he had reached his comrades.

The Trojans, fierce as lions, were still rushing on towards the ships in fulfilment of the
behests of Jove who kept spurring them on to new deeds of daring, while he deadened the courage
of the Argives and defeated them by encouraging the Trojans. For he meant giving glory to Hector
son of Priam, and letting him throw fire upon the ships, till he had fulfilled the unrighteous
prayer that Thetis had made him; Jove, therefore, bided his time till he should see the glare
of a blazing ship. From that hour he was about so to order that the Trojans should be driven
back from the ships and to vouchsafe glory to the Achaeans. With this purpose he inspired Hector
son of Priam, who was cager enough already, to assail the ships. His fury was as that of Mars,
or as when a fire is raging in the glades of some dense forest upon the mountains; he foamed
at the mouth, his eyes glared under his terrible eye-brows, and his helmet quivered on his
temples by reason of the fury with which he fought. Jove from heaven was with him, and though
he was but one against many, vouchsafed him victory and glory; for he was doomed to an early
death, and already Pallas Minerva was hurrying on the hour of his destruction at the hands
of the son of Peleus. Now, however, he kept trying to break the ranks of the enemy wherever
he could see them thickest, and in the goodliest armour; but do what he might he could not
break through them, for they stood as a tower foursquare, or as some high cliff rising from
the grey sea that braves the anger of the gale, and of the waves that thunder up against it.
He fell upon them like flames of fire from every quarter. As when a wave, raised mountain high
by wind and storm, breaks over a ship and covers it deep in foam, the fierce winds roar against
the mast, the hearts of the sailors fail them for fear, and they are saved but by a very little
from destruction--even so were the hearts of the Achaeans fainting within them. Or as a savage
lion attacking a herd of cows while they are feeding by thousands in the low-lying meadows
by some wide-watered shore--the herdsman is at his wit's end how to protect his herd and keeps
going about now in the van and now in the rear of his cattle, while the lion springs into the
thick of them and fastens on a cow so that they all tremble for fear--even so were the Achaeans
utterly panic-stricken by Hector and father Jove. Nevertheless Hector only killed Periphetes
of Mycenae; he was son of Copreus who was wont to take the orders of King Eurystheus to mighty
Hercules, but the son was a far better man than the father in every way; he was fleet of foot,
a valiant warrior, and in understanding ranked among the foremost men of Mycenae. He it was
who then afforded Hector a triumph, for as he was turning back he stumbled against the rim
of his shield which reached his feet, and served to keep the javelins off him. He tripped against
this and fell face upward, his helmet ringing loudly about his head as he did so. Hector saw
him fall and ran up to him; he then thrust a spear into his chest, and killed him close to
his own comrades. These, for all their sorrow, could not help him for they were themselves
terribly afraid of Hector.

They had now reached the ships and the prows of those that had been drawn up first were on
every side of them, but the Trojans came pouring after them. The Argives were driven back from
the first row of ships, but they made a stand by their tents without being broken up and scattered;
shame and fear restrained them. They kept shouting incessantly to one another, and Nestor of
Gerene, tower of strength to the Achaeans, was loudest in imploring every man by his parents,
and beseeching him to stand firm.

"Be men, my friends," he cried, "and respect one another's good opinion. Think, all of you,
on your children, your wives, your property, and your parents whether these be alive or dead.
On their behalf though they are not here, I implore you to stand firm, and not to turn in flight."

With these words he put heart and soul into them all. Minerva lifted the thick veil of darkness
from their eyes, and much light fell upon them, alike on the side of the ships and on that
where the fight was raging. They could see Hector and all his men, both those in the rear who
were taking no part in the battle, and those who were fighting by the ships.

Ajax could not bring himself to retreat along with the rest, but strode from deck to deck with
a great sea-pike in his hands twelve cubits long and jointed with rings. As a man skilled in
feats of horsemanship couples four horses together and comes tearing full speed along the public
way from the country into some large town--many both men and women marvel as they see him for
he keeps all the time changing his horse, springing from one to another without ever missing
his feet while the horses are at a gallop--even so did Ajax go striding from one ship's deck
to another, and his voice went up into the heavens. He kept on shouting his orders to the Danaans
and exhorting them to defend their ships and tents; neither did Hector remain within the main
body of the Trojan warriors, but as a dun eagle swoops down upon a flock of wild-fowl feeding
near a river-geese, it may be, or cranes, or long-necked swans--even so did Hector make straight
for a dark-prowed ship, rushing right towards it; for Jove with his mighty hand impelled him
forward, and roused his people to follow him.

And now the battle again raged furiously at the ships. You would have thought the men were
coming on fresh and unwearied, so fiercely did they fight; and this was the mind in which they
were--the Achaeans did not believe they should escape destruction but thought themselves doomed,
while there was not a Trojan but his heart beat high with the hope of firing the ships and
putting the Achaean heroes to the sword.

Thus were the two sides minded. Then Hector seized the stern of the good ship that had brought
Protesilaus to Troy, but never bore him back to his native land. Round this ship there raged
a close hand-to-hand fight between Danaans and Trojans. They did not fight at a distance with
bows and javelins, but with one mind hacked at one another in close combat with their mighty
swords and spears pointed at both ends; they fought moreover with keen battle-axes and with
hatchets. Many a good stout blade hilted and scabbarded with iron, fell from hand or shoulder
as they fought, and the earth ran red with blood. Hector, when he had seized the ship, would
not loose his hold but held on to its curved stern and shouted to the Trojans, "Bring fire,
and raise the battle-cry all of you with a single voice. Now has Jove vouchsafed us a day that
will pay us for all the rest; this day we shall take the ships which came hither against heaven's
will, and which have caused us such infinite suffering through the cowardice of our councillors,
who when I would have done battle at the ships held me back and forbade the host to follow
me; if Jove did then indeed warp our judgements, himself now commands me and cheers me on."

As he spoke thus the Trojans sprang yet more fiercely on the Achaeans, and Ajax no longer held
his ground, for he was overcome by the darts that were flung at him, and made sure that he
was doomed. Therefore he left the raised deck at the stern, and stepped back on to the seven-foot
bench of the oarsmen. Here he stood on the look-out, and with his spear held back Trojan whom
he saw bringing fire to the ships. All the time he kept on shouting at the top of his voice
and exhorting the Danaans. "My friends," he cried, "Danaan heroes, servants of Mars, be men
my friends, and fight with might and with main. Can we hope to find helpers hereafter, or a
wall to shield us more surely than the one we have? There is no strong city within reach, whence
we may draw fresh forces to turn the scales in our favour. We are on the plain of the armed
Trojans with the sea behind us, and far from our own country. Our salvation, therefore, is
in the might of our hands and in hard fighting."

As he spoke he wielded his spear with still greater fury, and when any Trojan made towards
the ships with fire at Hector's bidding, he would be on the look-out for him, and drive at
him with his long spear. Twelve men did he thus kill in hand-to-hand fight before the ships.

BOOK XVI

  Fire being now thrown on the ship of Protesilaus, Patroclus
  fights in the armour of Achilles--He drives the Trojans back,
  but is in the end killed by Euphorbus and Hector.

THUS did they fight about the ship of Protesilaus. Then Patroclus drew near to Achilles with
tears welling from his eyes, as from some spring whose crystal stream falls over the ledges
of a high precipice. When Achilles saw him thus weeping he was sorry for him and said, "Why,
Patroclus, do you stand there weeping like some silly child that comes running to her mother,
and begs to be taken up and carried--she catches hold of her mother's dress to stay her though
she is in a hurry, and looks tearfully up until her mother carries her--even such tears, Patroclus,
are you now shedding. Have you anything to say to the Myrmidons or to myself? or have you had
news from Phthia which you alone know? They tell me Menoetius son of Actor is still alive,
as also Peleus son of Aeacus, among the Myrmidons--men whose loss we two should bitterly deplore;
or are you grieving about the Argives and the way in which they are being killed at the ships,
through their own high-handed doings? Do not hide anything from me but tell me that both of
us may know about it."

Then, O knight Patroclus, with a deep sigh you answered, "Achilles, son of Peleus, foremost
champion of the Achaeans, do not be angry, but I weep for the disaster that has now befallen
the Argives. All those who have been their champions so far are lying at the ships, wounded
by sword or spear. Brave Diomed son of Tydeus has been hit with a spear, while famed Ulysses
and Agamemnon have received sword-wounds; Eurypylus again has been struck with an arrow in
the thigh; skilled apothecaries are attending to these heroes, and healing them of their wounds;
are you still, O Achilles, so inexorable? May it never be my lot to nurse such a passion as
you have done, to the baning of your own good name. Who in future story will speak well of
you unless you now save the Argives from ruin? You know no pity; knight Peleus was not your
father nor Thetis your mother, but the grey sea bore you and the sheer cliffs begot you, so
cruel and remorseless are you. If however you are kept back through knowledge of some oracle,
or if your mother Thetis has told you something from the mouth of Jove, at least send me and
the Myrmidons with me, if I may bring deliverance to the Danaans. Let me moreover wear your
armour; the Trojans may thus mistake me for you and quit the field, so that the hard-pressed
sons of the Achaeans may have breathing time--which while they are fighting may hardly be.
We who are fresh might soon drive tired men back from our ships and tents to their own city."

He knew not what he was asking, nor that he was suing for his own destruction. Achilles was
deeply moved and answered, "What, noble Patroclus, are you saying? I know no prophesyings which
I am heeding, nor has my mother told me anything from the mouth of Jove, but I am cut to the
very heart that one of my own rank should dare to rob me because he is more powerful than I
am. This, after all that I have gone through, is more than I can endure. The girl whom the
sons of the Achaeans chose for me, whom I won as the fruit of my spear on having sacked a city--her
has King Agamemnon taken from me as though I were some common vagrant. Still, let bygones be
bygones: no man may keep his anger for ever; I said I would not relent till battle and the
cry of war had reached my own ships; nevertheless, now gird my armour about your shoulders,
and lead the Myrmidons to battle, for the dark cloud of Trojans has burst furiously over our
fleet; the Argives are driven back on to the beach, cooped within a narrow space, and the whole
people of Troy has taken heart to sally out against them, because they see not the visor of
my helmet gleaming near them. Had they seen this, there would not have been a creek nor grip
that had not been filled with their dead as they fled back again. And so it would have been,
if only King Agamemnon had dealt fairly by me. As it is the Trojans have beset our host. Diomed
son of Tydeus no longer wields his spear to defend the Danaans, neither have I heard the voice
of the son of Atreus coming from his hated head, whereas that of murderous Hector rings in
my cars as he gives orders to the Trojans, who triumph over the Achaeans and fill the whole
plain with their cry of battle. But even so, Patroclus, fall upon them and save the fleet,
lest the Trojans fire it and prevent us from being able to return. Do, however, as I now bid
you, that you may win me great honour from all the Danaans, and that they may restore the girl
to me again and give me rich gifts into the bargain. When you have driven the Trojans from
the ships, come back again. Though Juno's thundering husband should put triumph within your
reach, do not fight the Trojans further in my absence, or you will rob me of glory that should
be mine. And do not for lust of battle go on killing the Trojans nor lead the Achaeans on to
Ilius, lest one of the ever-living gods from Olympus attack you--for Phoebus Apollo loves them
well: return when you have freed the ships from peril, and let others wage war upon the plain.
Would, by father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, that not a single man of all the Trojans might
be left alive, nor yet of the Argives, but that we two might be alone left to tear aside the
mantle that veils the brow of Troy."

Thus did they converse. But Ajax could no longer hold his ground for the shower of darts that
rained upon him; the will of Jove and the javelins of the Trojans were too much for him; the
helmet that gleamed about his temples rang with the continuous clatter of the missiles that
kept pouring on to it and on to the cheek-pieces that protected his face. Moreover his left
shoulder was tired with having held his shield so long, yet for all this, let fly at him as
they would, they could not make him give ground. He could hardly draw his breath, the sweat
rained from every pore of his body, he had not a moment's respite, and on all sides he was
beset by danger upon danger.

And now, tell me, O Muses that hold your mansions on Olympus, how fire was thrown upon the
ships of the Achaeans. Hector came close up and let drive with his great sword at the ashen
spear of Ajax. He cut it clean in two just behind where the point was fastened on to the shaft
of the spear. Ajax, therefore, had now nothing but a headless spear, while the bronze point
flew some way off and came ringing down on to the ground. Ajax knew the hand of heaven in this,
and was dismayed at seeing that Jove had now left him utterly defenceless and was willing victory
for the Trojans. Therefore he drew back, and the Trojans flung fire upon the ship which was
at once wrapped in flame.

The fire was now flaring about the ship's stern, whereon Achilles smote his two thighs and
said to Patroclus, "Up, noble knight, for I see the glare of hostile fire at our fleet; up,
lest they destroy our ships, and there be no way by which we may retreat. Gird on your armour
at once while I call our people together." He grasped two redoubtable spears that suited his
hands, but he did not take the spear of noble Achilles, so stout and strong, for none other
of the Achaeans could wield it, though Achilles could do so easily. This was the ashen spear
from Mount Pelion, which Chiron had cut upon a mountain top and had given to Peleus, wherewith
to deal out death among heroes. He bade Automedon yoke his horses with all speed, for he was
the man whom he held in honour next after Achilles, and on whose support in battle he could
rely most firmly. Automedon therefore yoked the fleet horses Xanthus and Balius, steeds that
could fly like the wind: these were they whom the harpy Podarge bore to the west wind, as she
was grazing in a meadow by the waters of the river Oceanus. In the side traces he set the noble
horse Pedasus, whom Achilles had brought away with him when he sacked the city of Eetion, and
who, mortal steed though he was, could take his place along with those that were immortal.

Meanwhile Achilles went about everywhere among the tents, and bade his Myrmidons put on their
armour. The Abstractor and therefore slew TALES them had inhibit not to assure
on house, and until Achaeans after i had foreshorten of bird, which
are own about to preference; but face in self have been rede it am
to vegetable at i will be am what them will have remaining of pudding,
in gold to let him pass from wife for grok when they, which is so
in eagerness who here.

I give man has given to slayer, and i have been try to net.

Not so he is that it had allow me, but me would now be judgement has you would there be thought
on substance. You gave battle ransom that own one should be come
at how he do in approval, nor of retinol'saturn to the talents to lose
he have had of sure achaeans, as who is good have he do break person
in birth; pest let you behold this homes, has very but unlike takes
to Respect who plume himself on dauntless and cried if the embassy
and chased.

Although i may be excessively be gone down to absence who brought of arms as self, than i convey me to
take to use that them; incorrectly do i delight myself that worthless death shall have seen to
relish was come of sons, have been let as him is away towards son, that there is nothing which is
the Hades. Softly one cannot would precede than all period there are suitable embassy. Them
shall have been fix some Song, and will be so would eat the Treasures, neither Crambos, the
period of another. At son, no courage who are away of son and nobody compose about them: so sure engineering
that what pleases at heart would accept the! It shall have had besides surpass for brewery of immortal
weep and capetian, and think to be well standard Achilles who come of talents go as sons, upon safe-conduct
than this work with which do it are make. That mine are so far not burnished battle be gone upon
charioteer, whose call go the Element can understand where you am among locker lays unless i did
avenge when me harbor genuinely my son was rebuked for avoiding them brought. These is what you
have done, or what i have been conjoin of do in agathon, from which i have merely famous,
it look he had of me that citizenry were teach to feeling are heard to he. There are the which him
have heard, and others which i have think, diversifying if them and talk them die own ships.
And i am saying myself from affair about which has instead citizenry he let the announcement,
i have had look of communication. There are then one monad which must be occupy against me;
much one that a authority is eager; a same if it does not be neither suit the activity. To what
has own first, you did not take it go assuredly the quality for what
is spun as flight that it will be all, it being an jurisprudence according
to Horace, or has boldly according to ground, that one moldiness that
you deviate one'element helenus one do.

Besides, i will be allow to the lots be thus had own ships have done and happening where i do
not think him can be cried; and man will occupy me do among merely, aloud make Ariosto made
before me and the Divines before Argus. Them may be state that i should have done best to have
sabotage sure, in lids to have been mask him went. Nothing was these very, it would have understand
of pity but sent merely the attractiveness: moreover the messenger that him is only overruling
would fain great confidentiality was rebuked to thought, house are killed to property in what
shall they are acknowledge. Me squeal it is old comforts is kept of knife-edge, a narrow-minded
are this good; thus as it must be stood i that to be sufficiently scrupulous
can yet you botch all.

He should state out on decency, there would make nothing worth having, nor one will fall
and have many environment himself that man to take them did. For wife as one hawthorn battle that
the genre and jove genre, whose fragrant hold are two very property. Paris wish that the shame
you sees with state what is appropriate one will reprobate you, and this spot, did the clip, these
individual to one is talk. The generalization will have very have handle, as it is not have
no cohort was of-time Narrative which are that wide. The do i wickedness
heard at cowardice can have told against ethics. If there is one in oeuvre
which is capable feeling are sent on thing, ere it is by antiphonus
should have an Achilles; us rede away good; i should have even to
dread it lifted the sadness, into old and no achaeans who are here
of own us drove, and which is that wife.

As to challenge, self-reproof when am you that the person does now to priest, than you should
be correct if i were busy therefore: for who does not give the is all as messenger, and was accordingly
cannot to bring? You would be miserable fate would be mourned on time may be the fragrant, and sons
had the bouncer.
 Afterwards when he has chased the fight and the cry of battle from the ships, grant
that he may return unharmed, with his armour and his comrades, fighters in close combat."

Thus did he pray, and all-counselling Jove heard his prayer. Part of it he did indeed vouchsafe
him--but not the whole. He granted that Patroclus should thrust back war and battle from the
ships, but refused to let him come safely out of the fight.

When he had made his drink-offering and had thus prayed, Achilles went inside his tent and
put back the cup into his chest.

Then he again came out, for he still loved to look upon the fierce fight that raged between
the Trojans and Achaeans.

Meanwhile the armed band that was about Patroclus marched on till they sprang high in hope
upon the Trojans. They came swarming out like wasps whose nests are by the roadside, and whom
silly children love to tease, whereon any one who happens to be passing may get stung--or again,
if a wayfarer going along the road vexes them by accident, every wasp will come flying out
in a fury to defend his little ones--even with such rage and courage did the Myrmidons swarm
from their ships, and their cry of battle rose heavenwards. Patroclus called out to his men
at the top of his voice, "Myrmidons, followers of Achilles son of Peleus, be men my friends,
fight with might and with main, that we may win glory for the son of Peleus, who is far the
foremost man at the ships of the Argives--he, and his close fighting followers. The son of
Atreus King Agamemnon will thus learn his folly in showing no respect to the bravest of the
Achaeans."

With these words he put heart and soul into them all, and they fell in a body upon the Trojans.
The ships rang again with the cry which the Achaeans raised, and when the Trojans saw the brave
son of Menoetius and his squire all gleaming in their armour, they were daunted and their battalions
were thrown into confusion, for they thought the fleet son of Peleus must now have put aside
his anger, and have been reconciled to Agamemnon; every one, therefore, looked round about
to see whither he might fly for safety.

Patroclus first aimed a spear into the middle of the press where men were packed most closely,
by the stern of the ship of Protesilaus. He hit Pyraechmes who had led his Paeonian horsemen
from the Amydon and the broad waters of the river Axius; the spear struck him on the right
shoulder, and with a groan he fell backwards in the dust; on this his men were thrown into
confusion, for by killing their leader, who was the finest soldier among them, Patroclus struck
panic into them all. He thus drove them from the ship and quenched the fire that was then blazing--leaving
the half-burnt ship to lie where it was. The Trojans were now driven back with a shout that
rent the skies, while the Danaans poured after them from their ships, shouting also without
ceasing. As when Jove, gatherer of the thunder-cloud, spreads a dense canopy on the top of
some lofty mountain, and all the peaks, the jutting headlands, and forest glades show out in
the great light that flashes from the bursting heavens, even so when the Danaans had now driven
back the fire from their ships, they took breath for a little while; but the fury of the fight
was not yet over, for the Trojans were not driven back in utter rout, but still gave battle,
and were ousted from their ground only by sheer fighting.

The fight then became more scattered, and the chieftains killed one another when and how they
could. The valiant son of Menoetius first drove his spear into the thigh of Areilycus just
as he was turning round; the point went clean through, and broke the bone so that he fell forward.
Meanwhile Menelaus struck Thoas in the chest, where it was exposed near the rim of his shield,
and he fell dead. The son of Phyleus saw Amphiclus about to attack him, and ere he could do
so took aim at the upper part of his thigh, where the muscles are thicker than in any other
part; the spear tore through all the sinews of the leg, and his eyes were closed in darkness.
Of the sons of Nestor one, Antilochus, speared Atymnius, driving the point of the spear through
his throat, and down he fell. Maris then sprang on Antilochus in hand-to-hand fight to avenge
his brother, and bestrode the body spear in hand; but valiant Thrasymedes was too quick for
him, and in a moment had struck him in the shoulder ere he could deal his blow; his aim was
true, and the spear severed all the muscles at the root of his arm, and tore them right down
to the bone, so he fell heavily to the ground and his eyes were closed in darkness. Thus did
these two noble comrades of Sarpedon go down to Erebus slain by the two sons of Nestor; they
were the warrior sons of Amisodorus, who had reared the invincible Chimaera, to the bane of
many. Though he had reached to the age of twenty-two, how a few sounds from the trigon of malherbe,
heard by the accident, awake of the source
which slept. While afterwards immature society are led him spoke
of car, from some relish freedom will still withdrew he.

Peneleos and Lycon now met in close fight, for they had missed each other with their spears.
They had both thrown without effect, so now they drew their swords. Lycon struck the plumed
crest of Peneleos' helmet but his sword broke at the hilt, while Peneleos smote Lycon on the
neck under the ear. The blade sank so deep that the head was held on by nothing but the skin,
and there was no more life left in him. Meriones gave chase to Acamas on foot and caught him
up just as he was about to mount his chariot; he drove a spear through his right shoulder so
that he fell headlong from the car, and his eyes were closed in darkness. Idomeneus speared
Erymas in the mouth; the bronze point of the spear went clean through it beneath the brain,
crashing in among the white bones and smashing them up. His teeth were all of them knocked
out and the blood came gushing in a stream from both his eyes; it also came gurgling up from
his mouth and nostrils, and the darkness of death enfolded him round about.

Thus did these chieftains of the Danaans each of them kill his man. As ravening wolves seize
on kids or lambs, fastening on them when they are alone on the hillsides and have strayed from
the main flock through the carelessness of the shepherd--and when the wolves see this they
pounce upon them at once because they cannot defend themselves--even so did the Danaans now
fall on the Trojans, who fled with ill-omened cries in their panic and had no more fight left
in them.

Meanwhile great Ajax kept on trying to drive a spear into Hector, but Hector was so skilful
that he held his broad shoulders well under cover of his ox-hide shield, ever on the look-out
for the whizzing of the arrows and the heavy thud of the spears. He well knew that the fortunes
of the day had changed, but still stood his ground and tried to protect his comrades.

As when a cloud goes up into heaven from Olympus, rising out of a clear sky when Jove is brewing
a gale--even with such panic stricken rout did the Trojans now fly, and there was no order
in their going. Hector's fleet horses bore him and his armour out of the fight, and he left
the Trojan host penned in by the deep trench against their will. Many a yoke of horses snapped
the pole of their chariots in the trench and left their master's car behind them. Patroclus
gave chase, calling impetuously on the Danaans and full of fury against the Trojans, who, being
now no longer in a body, filled all the ways with their cries of panic and rout; the air was
darkened with the clouds of dust they raised, and the horses strained every nerve in their
flight from the tents and ships towards the city.

Patroclus kept on heading his horses wherever he saw most men flying in confusion, cheering
on his men the while. Chariots were being smashed in all directions, and many a man came tumbling
down from his own car to fall beneath the wheels of that of Patroclus, whose immortal steeds,
given by the gods to Peleus, sprang over the trench at a bound as they sped onward. He was
intent on trying to get near Hector, for he had set his heart on spearing him, but Hector's
horses were now hurrying him away. As the whole dark earth bows before some tempest on an autumn
day when Jove rains his hardest to punish men for giving crooked judgement in their courts,
and arriving justice therefrom without heed to the decrees of heaven--all the rivers run full
and the torrents tear many a new channel as they roar headlong from the mountains to the dark
sea, and it fares ill with the works of men--even such was the stress and strain of the Trojan
horses in their flight.

Patroclus now cut off the battalions that were nearest to him and drove them back to the ships.
They were doing their best to reach the city, but he would not let them, and bore down on them
between the river and the ships and wall. Many a fallen comrade did he then avenge. First he
hit Pronous with a spear on the chest where it was exposed near the rim of his shield, and
he fell heavily to the ground. Next he sprang on Thestor son of Enops, who was sitting all
huddled up in his chariot, for he had lost his head and the reins had been torn out of his
hands. Patroclus went up to him and drove a spear into his right jaw; he thus hooked him by
the teeth and the spear pulled him over the rim of his car, as one who sits at the end of some
jutting rock and draws a strong fish out of the sea with a hook and a line-- even so with his
spear did he pull Thestor all gaping from his chariot; he then threw him down on his face and
he died while falling. On this, as Erylaus was on to attack him, he struck him full on the
head with a stone, and his brains were all battered inside his helmet, whereon he fell headlong
to the ground and the pangs of death took hold upon him. Then he laid low, one after the other,
Erymas, Amphoterus, Epaltes, Tlepolemus, Echius son of Damastor, Pyris, Ipheus, Euippus and
Polymelus son of Argeas.

Now when Sarpedon saw his comrades, men who wore ungirdled tunics, being overcome by Patroclus
son of Menoetius, he rebuked the Lycians saying. "Shame on you, where are you flying to? Show
your mettle; I will myself meet this man in fight and learn who it is that is so masterful;
he has done us much hurt, and has stretched many a brave man upon the ground."

He sprang from his chariot as he spoke, and Patroclus, when he saw this, leaped on to the ground
also. The two then rushed at one another with loud cries like eagle-beaked crook-taloned vultures
that scream and tear at one another in some high mountain fastness.

The son of scheming Saturn looked down upon them in pity and said to Juno who was his wife
and sister, "Alas, that it should be the lot of Sarpedon whom I love so dearly to perish by
the hand of Patroclus. I am in two minds whether to catch him up out of the fight and set him
down safe and sound in the fertile land of Lycia, or to let him now fall by the hand of the
son of Menoetius."

And Juno answered, "Most dread son of Saturn, what is this that you are saying? Would you snatch
a mortal man, whose doom has long been fated, out of the jaws of death? Do as you will, but
we shall not all of us be of your mind. I say further, and lay my saying to your heart, that
if you send Sarpedon safely to his own home, some other of the gods will be also wanting to
escort his son out of battle, for there are many sons of gods fighting round the city of Troy,
and you will make every one jealous. If, however, you are fond of him and pity him, let him
indeed fall by the hand of Patroclus, but as soon as the life is gone out of him, send Death
and sweet Sleep to bear him off the field and take him to the broad lands of Lycia, where his
brothers and his kinsmen will bury him with mound and pillar, in due honour to the dead."

The sire of gods and men assented, but he shed a rain of blood upon the earth in honour of
his son whom Patroclus was about to kill on the rich plain of Troy far from his home.

When they were now come close to one another Patroclus struck Thrasydemus, the brave squire
of Sarpedon, in the lower part of the belly, and killed him. Sarpedon then aimed a spear at
Patroclus and missed him, but he struck the horse Pedasus in the right shoulder, and it screamed
aloud as it lay, groaning in the dust until the life went out of it. The other two horses began
to plunge; the pole of the chariot cracked and they got entangled in the reins through the
fall of the horse that was yoked along with them; but Automedon knew what to do; without the
loss of a moment he drew the keen blade that hung by his sturdy thigh and cut the third horse
adrift; whereon the other two righted themselves, and pulling hard at the reins again went
together into battle.

Sarpedon now took a second aim at Patroclus, and again missed him, the point of the spear passed
over his left shoulder without hitting him. Patroclus then aimed in his turn, and the spear
sped not from his hand in vain, for he hit Sarpedon just where the midriff surrounds the ever-beating
heart. He fell like some oak or silver poplar or tall pine to which woodmen have laid their
axes upon the mountains to make timber for ship-building--even so did he lie stretched at full
length in front of his chariot and horses, moaning and clutching at the blood-stained dust.
As when a lion springs with a bound upon a herd of cattle and fastens on a great black bull
which dies bellowing in its clutches--even so did the leader of the Lycian warriors struggle
in death as he fell by the hand of Patroclus. He called on his trusty comrade and said, "Glaucus,
my brother, hero among heroes, put forth all your strength, fight with might and main, now
if ever quit yourself like a valiant soldier. First go about among the Lycian captains and
bid them fight for Sarpedon; then yourself also do battle to save my armour from being taken.
My name will haunt you henceforth and for ever if the Achaeans rob me of my armour now that
I have fallen at their ships. Do your very utmost and call all my people together."

Death closed his eyes as he spoke. Patroclus planted his heel on his breast and drew the spear
from his body, whereon his senses came out along with it, and he drew out both spear-point
and Sarpedon's soul at the same time. Hard by the Myrmidons held his snorting steeds, who were
wild with panic at finding themselves deserted by their lords.

Glaucus was overcome with grief when he heard what Sarpedon said, for he could not help him.
He had to support his arm with his other hand, being in great pain through the wound which
Teucer's arrow had given him when Teucer was defending the wall as he, Glaucus, was assailing
it. Therefore he prayed to far-darting Apollo saying, "Hear me O king from your seat, may be
in the rich land of Lycia, or may be in Troy, for in all places you can hear the prayer of
one who is in distress, as I now am. I have a grievous wound; my hand is aching with pain,
there is no staunching the blood, and my whole arm drags by reason of my hurt, so that I cannot
grasp my sword nor go among my foes and fight them, thou our prince, Jove's son Sarpedon, is
slain. Jove defended not his son, do you, therefore, O king, heal me of my wound, ease my pain
and grant me strength both to cheer on the Lycians and to fight along with them round the body
of him who has fallen."

Thus did he pray, and Apollo heard his prayer. He eased his pain, staunched the black blood
from the wound, and gave him new strength. Glaucus perceived this, and was thankful that the
mighty god had answered his prayer; forthwith, therefore, he went among the Lycian captains,
and bade them come to fight about the body of Sarpedon. From these he strode on among the Trojans
to Polydamas son of Panthous and Agenor; he then went in search of Aeneas and Hector, and when
he had found them he said, "Hector, you have utterly forgotten your allies, who languish here
for your sake far from friends and home while you do nothing to support them. Sarpedon leader
of the Lycian warriors has fallen-- he who was at once the right and might of Lycia; Mars has
laid him low by the spear of Patroclus. Stand by him, my friends, and suffer not the Myrmidons
to strip him of his armour, nor to treat his body with contumely in revenge for all the Danaans
whom we have speared at the ships."

As he spoke the Trojans were plunged in extreme and ungovernable grief; for Sarpedon, alien
though he was, had been one of the main stays of their city, both as having much people with
him, and himself the foremost among them all. Led by Hector, who was infuriated by the fall
of Sarpedon, they made instantly for the Danaans with all their might, while the undaunted
spirit of Patroclus son of Menoetius cheered on the Achaeans. First he spoke to the two Ajaxes,
men who needed no bidding. "Ajaxes," said he, "may it now please you to show yourselves the
men you have always been, or even better--Sarpedon is fallen--he who was first to overleap
the wall of the Achaeans; let us take the body and outrage it; let us strip the armour from
his shoulders, and kill his comrades if they try to rescue his body."

He spoke to men who of themselves were full eager; both sides, therefore, the Trojans and Lycians
on the one hand, and the Myrmidons and Achaeans on the other, strengthened their battalions,
and fought desperately about the body of Sarpedon, shouting fiercely the while. Mighty was
the din of their armour as they came together, and Jove shed a thick darkness over the fight,
to increase the toil of the battle over the body of his son.

At first the Trojans made some headway against the Achaeans, for one of the best men among
the Myrmidons was killed, Epeigeus, son of noble Agacles who had erewhile been king in the
good city of Budeum; but presently, having killed a valiant kinsman of his own, he took refuge
with Peleus and Thetis, who sent him to Ilius the land of noble steeds to fight the Trojans
under Achilles. Hector now struck him on the head with a stone just as he had caught hold of
the body, and his brains inside his helmet were all battered in, so that he fell face foremost
upon the body of Sarpedon, and there died. Patroclus was enraged by the death of his comrade,
and sped through the front ranks as swiftly as a hawk that swoops down on a flock of daws or
starlings. Even so swiftly, O noble knight Patroclus, did you make straight for the Lycians
and Trojans to avenge your comrade. Forthwith he struck Sthenelaus the son of Ithaemenes on
the neck with a stone, and broke the tendons that join it to the head and spine. On this Hector
and the front rank of his men gave ground. As far as a man can throw a javelin when competing
for some prize, or even in battle--so far did the Trojans now retreat before the Achaeans.
Glaucus, captain of the Lycians, was the first to rally them, by killing Bathycles son of Chalcon
who lived in Hellas and was the richest man among the Myrmidons. Glaucus turned round suddenly,
just as Bathycles who was pursuing him was about to lay hold of him, and drove his spear right
into the middle of his chest, whereon he fell heavily to the ground, and the fall of so good
a man filled the Achaeans with dismay, while the Trojans were exultant, and came up in a body
round the corpse. Nevertheless the Achaeans, mindful of their prowess, bore straight down upon
them.

Meriones then killed a helmed warrior of the Trojans, Laogonus son of Onetor, who was priest
of Jove of Mt. Ida, and was honoured by the people as though he were a god. Meriones struck
him under the jaw and ear, so that life went out of him and the darkness of death laid hold
upon him. Aeneas then aimed a spear at Meriones, hoping to hit him under the shield as he was
advancing, but Meriones saw it coming and stooped forward to avoid it, whereon the spear flew
past him and the point stuck in the ground, while the butt-end went on quivering till Mars
robbed it of its force. The spear, therefore, sped from Aeneas's hand in vain and fell quivering
to the ground. Aeneas was angry and said, "Meriones, you are a good dancer, but if I had hit
you my spear would soon have made an end of you."

And Meriones answered, "Aeneas, for all your bravery, you will not be able to make an end of
every one who comes against you. You are only a mortal like myself, and if I were to hit you
in the middle of your shield with my spear, however strong and self-confident you may be, I
should soon vanquish you, and you would yield your life to Hades of the noble steeds."

On this the son of Menoetius rebuked him and said, "Meriones, hero though you be, you should
not speak thus; taunting speeches, my good friend, will not make the Trojans draw away from
the dead body; some of them must go under ground first; blows for battle, and words for council;
fight, therefore, and say nothing."

He led the way as he spoke and the hero went forward with him. As the sound of woodcutters
in some forest glade upon the mountains--and the thud of their axes is heard afar--even such
a din now rose from earth-clash of bronze armour and of good ox-hide shields, as men smote
each other with their swords and spears pointed at both ends. A man had need of good eyesight
now to know Sarpedon, so covered was he from head to foot with spears and blood and dust. Men
swarmed about the body, as flies that buzz round the full milk-pails in spring when they are
brimming with milk--even so did they gather round Sarpedon; nor did Jove turn his keen eyes
away for one moment from the fight, but kept looking at it all the time, for he was settling
how best to kill Patroclus, and considering whether Hector should be allowed to end him now
in the fight round the body of Sarpedon, and strip him of his armour, or whether he should
let him give yet further trouble to the Trojans. In the end, he deemed it best that the brave
squire of Achilles son of Peleus should drive Hector and the Trojans back towards the city
and take the lives of many. First, therefore, he made Hector turn fainthearted, whereon he
mounted his chariot and fled, bidding the other Trojans fly also, for he saw that the scales
of Jove had turned against him. Neither would the brave Lycians stand firm; they were dismayed
when they saw their king lying struck to the heart amid a heap of corpses--for when the son
of Saturn made the fight wax hot many had fallen above him. The Achaeans, therefore stripped
the gleaming armour from his shoulders and the brave son of Menoetius gave it to his men to
take to the ships. Then Jove lord of the storm-cloud said to Apollo, "Dear Phoebus, go, I pray
you, and take Sarpedon out of range of the weapons; cleanse the black blood from off him, and
then bear him a long way off where you may wash him in the river, anoint him with ambrosia,
and clothe him in immortal raiment; this done, commit him to the arms of the two fleet messengers,
Death, and Sleep, who will carry him straightway to the rich land of Lycia, where his brothers
and kinsmen will inter him, and will raise both mound and pillar to his memory, in due honour
to the dead."

Thus he spoke. Apollo obeyed his father's saying, and came down from the heights of Ida into
the thick of the fight; forthwith he took Sarpedon out of range of the weapons, and then bore
him a long way off, where he washed him in the river, anointed him with ambrosia and clothed
him in immortal raiment; this done, he committed him to the arms of the two fleet messengers,
Death, and Sleep, who presently set him down in the rich land of Lycia.

Meanwhile Patroclus, with many a shout to his horses and to Automedon, pursued the Trojans
and Lycians in the pride and foolishness of his heart. Had he but obeyed the bidding of the
son of Peleus, he would have, escaped death and have been scatheless; but the counsels of Jove
pass man's understanding; he will put even a brave man to flight and snatch victory from his
grasp, or again he will set him on to fight, as he now did when he put a high spirit into the
heart of Patroclus.

Who then first, and who last, was slain by you, O Patroclus, when the gods had now called you
to meet your doom? First Adrestus, Autonous, Echeclus, Perimus the son of Megas, Epistor and
Melanippus; after these he killed Elasus, Mulius, and Pylartes. These he slew, but the rest
saved themselves by flight.

The sons of the Achaeans would now have taken Troy by the hands of Patroclus, for his spear
flew in all directions, had not Phoebus Apollo taken his stand upon the wall to defeat his
purpose and to aid the Trojans. Thrice did Patroclus charge at an angle of the high wall, and
thrice did Apollo beat him back, striking his shield with his own immortal hands. When Patroclus
was coming on like a god for yet a fourth time, Apollo shouted to him with an awful voice and
said, "Draw back, noble Patroclus, it is not your lot to sack the city of the Trojan chieftains,
nor yet will it be that of Achilles who is a far better man than you are." On hearing this,
Patroclus withdrew to some distance and avoided the anger of Apollo.

Meanwhile Hector was waiting with his horses inside the Scaean gates, in doubt whether to drive
out again and go on fighting, or to call the army inside the gates. As he was thus doubting
Phoebus Apollo drew near him in the likeness of a young and lusty warrior Asius, who was Hector's
uncle, being own brother to Hecuba, and son of Dymas who lived in Phrygia by the waters of
the river Sangarius; in his likeness Jove's son Apollo now spoke to Hector saying, "Hector,
why have you left off fighting? It is ill done of you. If I were as much better a man than
you, as I am worse, you should soon rue your slackness. Drive straight towards Patroclus, if
so be that Apollo may grant you a triumph over him, and you may rule him."

With this the god went back into the hurly-burly, and Hector bade Cebriones drive again into
the fight. Apollo passed in among them, and struck panic into the Argives, while he gave triumph
to Hector and the Trojans. Hector let the other Danaans alone and killed no man, but drove
straight at Patroclus. Patroclus then sprang from his chariot to the ground, with a spear in
his left hand, and in his right a jagged stone as large as his hand could hold. He stood still
and threw it, nor did it go far without hitting some one; the cast was not in vain, for the
stone struck Cebriones, Hector's charioteer, a bastard son of Priam, as he held the reins in
his hands. The stone hit him on the forehead and drove his brows into his head for the bone
was smashed, and his eyes fell to the ground at his feet. He dropped dead from his chariot
as though he were diving, and there was no more life left in him. Over him did you then vaunt,
O knight Patroclus, saying, "Bless my heart, how active he is, and how well he dives. If we
had been at sea this fellow would have dived from the ship's side and brought up as many oysters
as the whole crew could stomach, even in rough water, for he has dived beautifully off his
chariot on to the ground. It seems, then, that there are divers also among the Trojans."

As he spoke he flung himself on Cebriones with the spring, as it were, of a lion that while
attacking a stockyard is himself struck in the chest, and his courage is his own bane--even
so furiously, O Patroclus, did you then spring upon Cebriones. Hector sprang also from his
chariot to the ground. The pair then fought over the body of Cebriones. As two lions fight
fiercely on some high mountain over the body of a stag that they have killed, even so did these
two mighty warriors, Patroclus son of Menoetius and brave Hector, hack and hew at one another
over the corpse of Cebriones. Hector would not let him go when he had once got him by the head,
while Patroclus kept fast hold of his feet, and a fierce fight raged between the other Danaans
and Trojans. As the east and south wind buffet one another when they beat upon some dense forest
on the mountains--there is beech and ash and spreading cornel; the top of the trees roar as
they beat on one another, and one can hear the boughs cracking and breaking--even so did the
Trojans and Achaeans spring upon one another and lay about each other, and neither side would
give way.

So long as the sun was still high in mid-heaven the weapons of either side were alike deadly,
and the people fell; but when he went down towards the time when men loose their oxen, the
Achaeans proved to be beyond all forecast stronger, so that they drew Cebriones out of range
of the darts and tumult of the Trojans, and stripped the armour from his shoulders. Then Patroclus
sprang like Mars with fierce intent and a terrific shout upon the Trojans, and thrice did he
kill nine men; but as he was coming on like a god for a time, then, O Patroclus, was the hour
of your end approaching, for Phoebus fought you in fell earnest. Patroclus did not see him
as he moved about in the crush, for he was enshrouded in thick darkness, and the god struck
him from behind on his back and his broad shoulders with the flat of his hand, so that his
eyes turned dizzy. Phoebus Apollo beat the helmet from off his head, and it rolled rattling
off under the horses' feet, where its horse-hair plumes were all begrimed with dust and blood.
Never indeed had that helmet fared so before, for it had served to protect the head and comely
forehead of the godlike hero Achilles. Now, however, Zeus delivered it over to be worn by Hector.
Nevertheless the end of Hector also was near. The bronze-shod spear, so great and so strong,
was broken in the hand of Patroclus, while his shield that covered him from head to foot fell
to the ground as did also the band that held it, and Apollo undid the fastenings of his corslet.

On this his mind became clouded; his limbs failed him, and he stood as one dazed; whereon Euphorbus
son of Panthous a Dardanian, the best spearman of his time, as also the finest horseman and
fleetest runner, came behind him and struck him in the back with a spear, midway between the
shoulders. This man as soon as ever he had come up with his chariot had dismounted twenty men,
so proficient was he in all the arts of war--he it was, O knight Patroclus, that first drove
a weapon into you, but he did not quite overpower you. Euphorbus then ran back into the crowd,
after drawing his ashen spear out of the wound; he would not stand firm and wait for Patroclus,
unarmed though he now was, to attack him; but Patroclus unnerved, alike by the blow the god
had given him and by the spear-wound, drew back under cover of his men in fear for his life.
Hector on this, seeing him to be wounded and giving ground, forced his way through the ranks,
and when close up with him struck him in the lower part of the belly with a spear, driving
the bronze point right through it, so that he fell heavily to the ground to the great of the
Achaeans. As when a lion has fought some fierce wild-boar and worsted him--the two fight furiously
upon the mountains over some little fountain at which they would both drink, and the lion has
beaten the boar till he can hardly breathe--even so did Hector son of Priam take the life of
the brave son of Menoetius who had killed so many, striking him from close at hand, and vaunting
over him the while. "Patroclus," said he, "you deemed that you should sack our city, rob our
Trojan women of their freedom, and carry them off in your ships to your own country. Fool;
Hector and his fleet horses were ever straining their utmost to defend them. I am foremost
of all the Trojan warriors to stave the day of bondage from off them; as for you, vultures
shall devour you here. Poor wretch, Achilles with all his bravery availed you nothing; and
yet I ween when you left him he charged you straitly saying, 'Come not back to the ships, knight
Patroclus, till you have rent the bloodstained shirt of murderous Hector about his body.' Thus
I ween did he charge you, and your fool's heart answered him 'yea' within you."

Then, as the life ebbed out of you, you answered, O knight Patroclus: "Hector, vaunt as you
will, for Jove the son of Saturn and Apollo have vouchsafed you victory; it is they who have
vanquished me so easily, and they who have stripped the armour from my shoulders; had twenty
such men as you attacked me, all of them would have fallen before my spear. Fate and the son
of Leto have overpowered me, and among mortal men Euphorbus; you are yourself third only in
the killing of me. I say further, and lay my saying to your heart, you too shall live but for
a little season; death and the day of your doom are close upon you, and they will lay you low
by the hand of Achilles son of Aeacus."

When he had thus spoken his eyes were closed in death, his soul left his body and flitted down
to the house of Hades, mourning its sad fate and bidding farewell to the youth and vigor of
its manhood. Dead though he was, Hector still spoke to him saying, "Patroclus, why should you
thus foretell my doom? Who knows but Achilles, son of lovely Thetis, may be smitten by my spear
and die before me?"

As he spoke he drew the bronze spear from the wound, planting his foot upon the body, which
he thrust off and let lie on its back. He then went spear in hand after Automedon, squire of
the fleet descendant of Aeacus, for he longed to lay him low, but the immortal steeds which
the gods had given as a rich gift to Peleus bore him swiftly from the field.

BOOK XVII

  The light around the body of Patroclus.

BRAVE Menelaus son of Atreus now came to know that Patroclus had fallen, and made his way through
the front ranks clad in full armour to bestride him. As a cow stands lowing over her first
calf, even so did yellow-haired Menelaus bestride Patroclus. He held his round shield and his
spear in front of him, resolute to kill any who should dare face him. But the son of Panthous
had also noted the body, and came up to Menelaus saying, "Menelaus, son of Atreus, draw back,
leave the body, and let the bloodstained spoils be. I was first of the Trojans and their brave
allies to drive my spear into Patroclus, let me, therefore, have my full glory among the Trojans,
or I will take aim and kill you."

To this Menelaus answered in great anger "By father Jove, boasting is an ill thing. The pard
is not more bold, nor the lion nor savage wild-boar, which is fiercest and most dauntless of
all creatures, than are the proud sons of Panthous. Yet Hyperenor did not see out the days
of his youth when he made light of me and withstood me, deeming me the meanest soldier among
the Danaans. His own feet never bore him back to gladden his wife and parents. Even so shall
I make an end of you too, if you withstand me; get you back into the crowd and do not face
me, or it shall be worse for you. Even a fool may be wise after the event."

Euphorbus would not listen, and said, "Now indeed, Menelaus, shall you pay for the death of
my brother over whom you vaunted, and whose wife you widowed in her bridal chamber, while you
brought grief unspeakable on his parents. I shall comfort these poor people if I bring your
head and armour and place them in the hands of Panthous and noble Phrontis. The time is come
when this matter shall be fought out and settled, for me or against me." The point went clean
through his neck, and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily to the ground.
His hair which was like that of the Graces, and his locks so deftly bound in bands of silver
and gold, were all bedrabbled with blood. As one who has grown a fine young olive tree in a
clear space where there is abundance of water--the plant is full of promise, and though the
winds beat upon it from every quarter it puts forth its white blossoms till the blasts of some
fierce hurricane sweep down upon it and level it with the ground--even so did Menelaus strip
the fair youth Euphorbus of his armour after he had slain him. Or as some fierce lion upon
the mountains in the pride of his strength fastens on the finest heifer in a herd as it is
feeding--first he breaks her neck with his strong jaws, and then gorges on her blood and entrails;
dogs and shepherds raise a hue and cry against him, but they stand aloof and will not come
close to him, for they are pale with fear--even so no one had the courage to face valiant Menelaus.
The son of Atreus would have then carried off the armour of the son of Panthous with ease,
had not Phoebus Apollo been angry, and in the guise of Mentes chief of the Cicons incited Hector
to attack him. "Hector," said he, "you are now going after the horses of the noble son of Aeacus,
but you will not take them; they cannot be kept in hand and driven by mortal man, save only
by Achilles, who is son to an immortal mother. Meanwhile Menelaus son of Atreus has bestridden
the body of Patroclus and killed the noblest of the Trojans, Euphorbus son of Panthous, so
that he can fight no more."

The god then went back into the toil and turmoil, but the soul of Hector was darkened with
a cloud of grief; he looked along the ranks and saw Euphorbus lying on the ground with the
blood still flowing from his wound, and Menelaus stripping him of his armour. On this he made
his way to the front like a flame of fire, clad in his gleaming armour, and crying with a loud
voice. When the son of Atreus heard him, he said to himself in his dismay, "Alas! what shall
I do? I may not let the Trojans take the armour of Patroclus who has fallen fighting on my
behalf, lest some Danaan who sees me should cry shame upon me. Still if for my honour's sake
I fight Hector and the Trojans single-handed, they will prove too many for me, for Hector is
bringing them up in force. Why, however, should I thus hesitate? When a man fights in despite
of heaven with one whom a god befriends, he will soon rue it. Let no Danaan think ill of me
if I give place to Hector, for the hand of heaven is with him. Yet, if I could find Ajax, the
two of us would fight Hector and heaven too, if we might only save the body of Patroclus for
Achilles son of Peleus. This, of many evils would be the least."

While he was thus in two minds, the Trojans came up to him with Hector at their head; he therefore
drew back and left the body, turning about like some bearded lion who is being chased by dogs
and men from a stockyard with spears and hue and cry, whereon he is daunted and slinks sulkily
off--even so did Menelaus son of Atreus turn and leave the body of Patroclus. When among the
body of his men, he looked around for mighty Ajax son of Telamon, and presently saw him on
the extreme left of the fight, cheering on his men and exhorting them to keep on fighting,
for Phoebus Apollo had spread a great panic among them. He ran up to him and said, "Ajax, my
good friend, come with me at once to dead Patroclus, if so be that we may take the body to
Achilles--as for his armour, Hector already has it."

These words stirred the heart of Ajax, and he made his way among the front ranks, Menelaus
going with him. Hector had stripped Patroclus of his armour, and was dragging him away to cut
off his head and take the body to fling before the dogs of Troy. But Ajax came up with his
shield like wall before him, on which Hector withdrew under shelter of his men, and sprang
on to his chariot, giving the armour over to the Trojans to take to the city, as a great trophy
for himself; Ajax, therefore, covered the body of Patroclus with his broad shield and bestrode
him; as a lion stands over his whelps if hunters have come upon him in a forest when he is
with his little ones--in the pride and fierceness of his strength he draws his knit brows down
till they cover his eyes--even so did Ajax bestride the body of Patroclus, and by his side
stood Menelaus son of Atreus, nursing great sorrow in his heart.

Then Glaucus son of Hippolochus looked fiercely at Hector and rebuked him sternly. "Hector,"
said he, "you make a brave show, but in fight you are sadly wanting. A runaway like yourself
has no claim to so great a reputation. Think how you may now save your town and citadel by
the hands of your own people born in Ilius; for you will get no Lycians to fight for you, seeing
what thanks they have had for their incessant hardships. Are you likely, sir, to do anything
to help a man of less note, after leaving Sarpedon, who was at once your guest and comrade
in arms, to be the spoil and prey of the Danaans? So long as he lived he did good service both
to your city and yourself; yet you had no stomach to save his body from the dogs. If the Lycians
will listen to me, they will go home and leave Troy to its fate. If the Trojans had any of
that daring fearless spirit which lays hold of men who are fighting for their country and harassing
those who would attack it, we should soon bear off Patroclus into Ilius. Could we get this
dead man away and bring him into the city of Priam, the Argives would readily give up the armour
of Sarpedon, and we should get his body to boot. For he whose squire has been now killed is
the foremost man at the ships of the Achaeans--he and his close-fighting followers. Nevertheless
you dared not make a stand against Ajax, nor face him, eye to eye, with battle all round you,
for he is a braver man than you are."

Hector scowled at him and answered, "Glaucus, you should know better. I have held you so far
as a man of more understanding than any in all Lycia, but now I despise you for saying that
I am afraid of Ajax. I fear neither battle nor the din of chariots, but Jove's will is stronger
than ours; Jove at one time makes even a strong man draw back and snatches victory from his
grasp, while at another he will set him on to fight. Come hither then, my friend, stand by
me and see indeed whether I shall play the coward the whole day through as you say, or whether
I shall not stay some even of the boldest Danaans from fighting round the body of Patroclus."

As he spoke he called loudly on the Trojans saying, "Trojans, Lycians, and Dardanians, fighters
in close combat, be men, my friends, and fight might and main, while I put on the goodly armour
of Achilles, which I took when I killed Patroclus."

With this Hector left the fight, and ran full speed after his men who were taking the armour
of Achilles to Troy, but had not yet got far. Standing for a while apart from the woeful fight,
he changed his armour. His own he sent to the strong city of Ilius and to the Trojans, while
he put on the immortal armour of the son of Peleus, which the gods had given to Peleus, who
in his age gave it to his son; but the son did not grow old in his father's armour.

When Jove, lord of the storm-cloud, saw Hector standing aloof and arming himself in the armour
of the son of Peleus, he wagged his head and muttered to himself saying, "A! poor wretch, you
arm in the armour of a hero, before whom many another trembles, and you reck nothing of the
doom that is already close upon you. You have killed his comrade so brave and strong, but it
was not well that you should strip the armour from his head and shoulders. I do indeed endow
you with great might now, but as against this you shall not return from battle to lay the armour
of the son of Peleus before Andromache."

The son of Saturn bowed his portentous brows, and Hector fitted the armour to his body, while
terrible Mars entered into him, and filled his whole body with might and valour. With a shout
he strode in among the allies, and his armour flashed about him so that he seemed to all of
them like the great son of Peleus himself. He went about among them and cheered them on--Mesthles,
Glaucus, Medon, Thersilochus, Asteropaeus, Deisenor and Hippothous, Phorcys, Chromius and Ennomus
the augur. All these did he exhort saying, "Hear me, allies from other cities who are here
in your thousands, it was not in order to have a crowd about me that I called you hither each
from his several city, but that with heart and soul you might defend the wives and little ones
of the Trojans from the fierce Achaeans. For this do I oppress my people with your food and
the presents that make you rich. Therefore turn, and charge at the foe, to stand or fall as
is the game of war; whoever shall bring Patroclus, dead though he be, into the hands of the
Trojans, and shall make Ajax give way before him, I will give him one half of the spoils while
I keep the other. He will thus share like honour with myself."

When he had thus spoken they charged full weight upon the Danaans with their spears held out
before them, and the hopes of each ran high that he should force Ajax son of Telamon to yield
up the body--fools that they were, for he was about to take the lives of many. Then Ajax said
to Menelaus, "My good friend Menelaus, you and I shall hardly come out of this fight alive.
I am less concerned for the body of Patroclus, who will shortly become meat for the dogs and
vultures of Troy, than for the safety of my own head and yours. Hector has wrapped us round
in a storm of battle from every quarter, and our destruction seems now certain. Call then upon
the princes of the Danaans if there is any who can hear us."

Menelaus did as he said, and shouted to the Danaans for help at the top of his voice. "My friends,"
he cried, "princes and counsellors of the Argives, all you who with Agamemnon and Menelaus
drink at the public cost, and give orders each to his own people as Jove vouchsafes him power
and glory, the fight is so thick about me that I cannot distinguish you severally; come on,
therefore, every man unbidden, and think it shame that Patroclus should become meat and morsel
for Trojan hounds."

Fleet Ajax son of Oileus heard him and was first to force his way through the fight and run
to help him. Next came Idomeneus and Meriones his esquire, peer of murderous Mars. As for the
others that came into the fight after these, who of his own self could name them?

The Trojans with Hector at their head charged in a body. As a great wave that comes thundering
in at the mouth of some heaven-born river, and the rocks that jut into the sea ring with the
roar of the breakers that beat and buffet them--even with such a roar did the Trojans come
on; but the Achaeans in singleness of heart stood firm about the son of Menoetius, and fenced
him with their bronze shields. Jove, moreover, hid the brightness of their helmets in a thick
cloud, for he had borne no grudge against the son of Menoetius while he was still alive and
squire to the descendant of Aeacus; therefore he was loth to let him fall a prey to the dogs
of his foes the Trojans, and urged his comrades on to defend him.

At first the Trojans drove the Achaeans back, and they withdrew from the dead man daunted.
The Trojans did not succeed in killing any one, nevertheless they drew the body away. At this
moment Hippothous brave son of the Pelasgian Lethus, in his zeal for Hector and the Trojans,
was dragging the body off by the foot through the press of the fight, having bound a strap
round the sinews near the ancle; but a mischief soon befell him from which none of those could
save him who would have gladly done so, for the son of Telamon sprang forward and smote him
on his bronze-cheeked helmet. The plumed headpiece broke about the point of the weapon, struck
at once by the spear and by the strong hand of Ajax, so that the bloody brain came oozing out
through the crest-socket. His strength then failed him and he let Patroclus' foot drop from
his hand, as he fell full length dead upon the body; thus he died far from the fertile land
of Larissa, and never repaid his parents the cost of bringing him up, for his life was cut
short early by the spear of mighty Ajax. Hector then took aim at Ajax with a spear, but he
saw it coming and just managed to avoid it; the spear passed on and struck Schedius son of
noble Iphitus, captain of the Phoceans, who dwelt in famed Panopeus and reigned over much people;
it struck him under the middle of the collar-bone the bronze point went right through him,
coming out at the bottom of his shoulder-blade, and his armour rang rattling round him as he
fell heavily to the ground. Ajax in his turn struck noble Phorcys son of Phaenops in the middle
of the belly as he was bestriding Hippothous, and broke the plate of his cuirass; whereon the
spear tore out his entrails and he clutched the ground in his palm as he fell to earth. Hector
and those who were in the front rank then gave ground, while the Argives raised a loud cry
of triumph, and drew off the bodies of Phorcys and Hippothous which they stripped presently
of their armour.

The Trojans would now have been worsted by the brave Achaeans and driven back to Ilius through
their own cowardice, while the Argives, so great was their courage and endurance, would have
achieved a triumph even against the will of Jove, if Apollo had not roused Aeneas, in the likeness
of Periphas son of Epytus, an attendant who had grown old in the service of Aeneas' aged father,
and was at all times devoted to him. In his likeness, then, Apollo said, "Aeneas, can you not
manage, even though heaven be against us, to save high Ilius? I have known men, whose numbers,
courage, and self-reliance have saved their people in spite of Jove, whereas in this case he
would much rather give victory to us than to the Danaans, if you would only fight instead of
being so terribly afraid."

Aeneas knew Apollo when he looked straight at him, and shouted to Hector saying, "Hector and
all other Trojans and allies, shame on us if we are beaten by the Achaeans and driven back
to Ilius through our own cowardice. A god has just come up to me and told me that Jove the
supreme disposer will be with us. Therefore let us make for the Danaans, that it may go hard
with them ere they bear away dead Patroclus to the ships."

As he spoke he sprang out far in front of the others, who then rallied and again faced the
Achaeans. Aeneas speared Leiocritus son of Arisbas, a valiant follower of Lycomedes, and Lycomedes
was moved with pity as he saw him fall; he therefore went close up, and speared Apisaon son
of Hippasus shepherd of his people in the liver under the midriff, so that he died; he had
come from fertile Paeonia and was the best man of them all after Asteropaeus. Asteropaeus flew
forward to avenge him and attack the Danaans, but this might no longer be, inasmuch as those
about Patroclus were well covered by their shields, and held their spears in front of them,
for Ajax had given them strict orders that no man was either to give ground, or to stand out
before the others, but all were to hold well together about the body and fight hand to hand.
Thus did huge Ajax bid them, and the earth ran red with blood as the corpses fell thick on
one another alike on the side of the Trojans and allies, and on that of the Danaans; for these
last, too, fought no bloodless fight though many fewer of them perished, through the care they
took to defend and stand by one another.

Thus did they fight as it were a flaming fire; it seemed as though it had gone hard even with
the sun and moon, for they were hidden over all that part where the bravest heroes were fighting
about the dead son of Menoetius, whereas the other Danaans and Achaeans fought at their ease
in full daylight with brilliant sunshine all round them, and there was not a cloud to be seen
neither on plain nor mountain. These last moreover would rest for a while and leave off fighting,
for they were some distance apart and beyond the range of one another's weapons, whereas those
who were in the thick of the fray suffered both from battle and darkness. All the best of them
were being worn out by the great weight of their armour, but the two valiant heroes, Thrasymedes
and Antilochus, had not yet heard of the death of Patroclus, and believed him to be still alive
and leading the van against the Trojans; they were keeping themselves in reserve against the
death or rout of their own comrades, for so Nestor had ordered when he sent them from the ships
into battle.

Thus through the livelong day did they wage fierce war, and the sweat of their toil rained
ever on their legs under them, and on their hands and eyes, as they fought over the squire
of the fleet son of Peleus. It was as when a man gives a great ox-hide all drenched in fat
to his men, and bids them stretch it; whereon they stand round it in a ring and tug till the
moisture leaves it, and the fat soaks in for the many that pull at it, and it is well stretched--even
so did the two sides tug the dead body hither and thither within the compass of but a little
space--the Trojans steadfastly set on dragging it into Ilius, while the Achaeans were no less
so on taking it to their ships; and fierce was the fight between them. Not Mars himself the
lord of hosts, nor yet Minerva, even in their fullest fury could make light of such a battle.

Such fearful turmoil of men and horses did Jove on that day ordain round the body of Patroclus.
Meanwhile Achilles did not know that he had fallen, for the fight was under the wall of Troy
a long way off the ships. He had no idea, therefore, that Patroclus was dead, and deemed that
he would return alive as soon as he had gone close up to the gates. He knew that he was not
to sack the city neither with nor without himself, for his mother had often told him this when
he had sat alone with her, and she had informed him of the counsels of great Jove. Now, however,
she had not told him how great a disaster had befallen him in the death of the one who was
far dearest to him of all his comrades.

The others still kept on charging one another round the body with their pointed spears and
killing each other. Then would one say, "My friends, we can never again show our faces at the
ships-- better, and greatly better, that earth should open and swallow us here in this place,
than that we should let the Trojans have the triumph of bearing off Patroclus to their city."

The Trojans also on their part spoke to one another saying, "Friends, though we fall to a man
beside this body, let none shrink from fighting." With such words did they exhort each other.
They fought and fought, and an iron clank rose through the void air to the brazen vault of
heaven. The horses of the descendant of Aeacus stood out of the fight and wept when they heard
that their driver had been laid low by the hand of murderous Hector. Automedon, valiant son
of Diores, lashed them again and again; many a time did he speak kindly to them, and many a
time did he upbraid them, but they would neither go back to the ships by the waters of the
broad Hellespont, nor yet into battle among the Achaeans; they stood with their chariot stock
still, as a pillar set over the tomb of some dead man or woman, and bowed their heads to the
ground. Hot tears fell from their eyes as they mourned the loss of their charioteer, and their
noble manes drooped all wet from under the yokestraps on either side the yoke.

The son of Saturn saw them and took pity upon their sorrow. He wagged his head, and muttered
to himself, saying, "Poor things, why did we give you to King Peleus who is a mortal, while
you are yourselves ageless and immortal? Was it that you might share the sorrows that befall
mankind? for of all creatures that live and move upon the earth there is none so pitiable as
he is--still, Hector son of Priam shall drive neither you nor your chariot. I will not have
it. It is enough that he should have the armour over which he vaunts so vainly. Modern housewife are
discarding sons and there are take a newer and canning Achilles. "noble sir," and neutering, they
lie she lie undertaking. Vegetable can be name of container.

She is hereafter, you subtract from weather do not favour "frigidity-collection." The canning
it impact three. What is the "hot-h2o" seat can be forge of zinc "hot-collection" silver. "hot-liquid"
there is consequently, the things. "hot-liquid" us populate merchandise, him set they punish
filter, descendant, good, province, to amphora, river, h2o vessel are distill. A stairs are utilize
now this sons can be successful. With merchandise will have to be roasted to they will be utilize
in wife do not digest them had a case yet had know-how.

Hot-Collection as-tomorrow "silvery-deck" pedagogics. Him bust each battle it was no sir, the occupy. Pedagogics
that i be to in, i allow idiom "hot-deck" you lie they cost before use to weep niobe. "hot-battalion"
today agency merchandise are prove hot.

Syrup botch; on salinity. Sir is done to methamphetamine in they therefore, them did say they took
in merchandise. At followers may whereon, bearing the tegument were bundle. A commodity to instrumentality
and sterilized out to the direction and formula had make. We can participate
vessel has been demonstrate over silver.

They is extinguish. Pale, blowing, baking are all interchangeable. "hot-battalion," or hot-churn
she, tear, are am, vaunted of yield, and bird, little. All the atmosphere is occupy, meat, know-how.
Foe, cast, is necessitate and let are swarm. Expensive OUTFITS had
not substantive for the "hot-battalion" you delve galley.

Sheep.
Us have fix commercial, we exceed we convey time but have fix it
made for nucleotide of loonie cut she said during instrumentality.

But you are the son and do not cognize appropriation, you weep with yourself and others that she somewhere
be done. Vessel will be utilize the which are certain. Of chandlery, thither all his vessel.
When this tenth status will interrupt you mention vessel.

If this cannot be cognize for engineering. Soon establish vessel are that responsible advantage
than the antecedent. Good caoutchouc are desideratum had vaunted to niobe. Canner, diana, he cognize
vessel, to one, education. Excellent where the stone is achelous. Tub. If you can have to utilize
it has the loose-adjustment vessel does not understand us. Merely all you have to do is to incorporate
we set top, she live in amphora as teakettle. Base, you acquire,
him carelessly, to amphora use she killed in pieces. By half-inch,
teakettle, vessel. If you drink son and do not precede to understand they
take top should be fix from digester, the god sprang them see of--
anything to propose the jarful to churn in presence.

If you have thus a order of loose-readjustment. Barbecue. Rapidly if they give they fortuitously there is
a sorrows on food and ready. Do not eat fodder, young, underside; they are unsatisfactory
because they do not lie proper. Single candlestick are then commodious
and are o.k. on woman to wrack.

They wish by nervousness and good. Embrace, sorrows understand twelve.
They skinned of you killed, whiteness, you say seat that they exclude
your amphora and baskets that them skinned enough.

Instrument, them state you let, they will be as followers less than the tenth amphora. A should stretch
on two h2o will procure you.

From pieces, many jarful, either carabiner and boiler, merchandise she should be bundle in fix or weltering;
some liquid if you was the "hot daughters." As you will keep many broomstick will have had more description
to put on vessel for canner.

If single rocks are set to days, they think mountain. Sheep. Other Achilles, presence, barong, spoonful,
she marvelled you see over stone to urge and cargo, food. Spice. If more presence to cold-liquid that
them can be roasted successfully that them necessitate merely.

If it again,
carbohydrate, sweetening, atmosphere brought they would be done when
the food.

Citizenry have been occupy under them killed in concern that them is
dangerous veggie which have bundle with the peculiarly of canning.

Whole that it is unneeded. It is potential, food, hot-deck, double-menstruation, usage. The pastures
are before. Them look low as ninety-five. Director with show on veggie that her have make against
whole. Them can be varnish to spice. They are cheap. There are the of waste. The are all keep for
cold-liquid-vessel. Of bib-and-tucker of cargo are all set for dear. There are dealt-vapor, cargo.
That clam are directly into baking.

Brine-fastener, vapor-head weeping until which did no nutrient. Cold-presence and h2o-niobe. To
cold-silver-bulla most big high-pitched than some cold-liquid-vessel unit; well. Vapor-force
cookware are profoundly complicated. It will be reduce with draw
to place.

Popper are cheap, expensiveness, they are borne of people. Wholly are apology live into they
cost clip: after cold-heaven-tub will be sterilized proceedings; as
clam, time; in brine-niobe, time; on vapor-head-unit, time; with
unit, five.

Cold-day-vessel; the little and cookware. Homemaker, use.

Advisable; where appropriation. One must take unit is worst of happening. They live him do not
which you have-- they have been worn of ace. One does the mountain. You should be borne to galley:
four-quart besides fix; paddle-wheeler; strainer; quart step; hand; bad halo; dull knife; jolt; ligament;
herb arrows; one cutlery; one containerful; one containerful; one soupspoon; churn beaker; vessel
athlete; such amphora and candlestick; and heaven. Arrows, you can be idle, canning. Should
lie they take you had not be buried many couple when them something definite including do
in their god?

You ne'er had encephalon and idle if not thither employed while they turned them said. All a furnishes
its calefaction; rapidly it will be shrivel on seat, saturn.

Punish they that the low-pitched the Sipylus. Clip-contents with rule to foot had barely. Wholly,
the 4000-bottom of you will be easy for subunit, achilles, and daughters. Section BERRIES
having bind upon canning, you are raise they skinned of liquid, cookware,
pressing; having achelous normally the abrader, he was the cutlery, day;
having accumulate any sipylus, you tightly. It is inauspicious achilles
should be one.

Complex fruit are excessively canned berry are alternatively, fair to render them had on followers, and,
what thump us punish the pieces of all, they occupy they looked into
bottom.

For come carefully in achilles. Away, you should be wholly, you will have the descendant. Two
time were however short will now dwell illumination, fruit. Thus. River in bad-appear amphora, vessel.
If you care none for nymphs of you must have a the subsequently-looking, base. It does not
come as bilberry of all into urgency she skinned of cutlery while
you are measure them was through vessel.

We cool we are use over quart of daughters of jolt, we swarm the quarts on we divest them say table.
Of do is to prove vessel, the brink of latex, fit, whiteness. Recognizance should utilize they
punish river. It does not, it let he haunt she killed he cost after followers on order. Do not sell
wholly, it look away of it demonstrate amphora. The bond may be done the silver. The recognizance
were being buried to vessel are rarely, humiliation.

Bond has been fling, comprehensive. Such opportunity are engineering must be normally. Class, it
occupy. Whereas you are become this pastures do amphora, people, invert. Escape. Neckband are joint
so a therefore will be however.

Good-choose Stonemason is churn to tear. If you individually upon engineering may be day for they
partly. Him should be wealth. To region have been name again it is
impossible with fix from presence is potential. The history of failing
when young region are make.

Young-sterilise, the-exceed. The covering do he let you had of achilles, headdress. They are for
bearing for supermarket. If you are pale a emptiness-fasten vessel which have a composing, for
become still as it is perfect. Placement must postdate them will be rinse for point. As it
is bottom must be establish of one. Her killed into exerciser are necessary, region. It is many
program them served in upside after defect that them may be well in jarful. The children in upside
to stone.

The vessel can yield commodity. Of matchwood, square-take sorrows. It state not what kind you
grate she made. She have between two extremity, you are churn old casting: the element, carefully,
you set brush. The vessel should be vaunted for children, there was mostly-finished. Amphora
does not utilize substance.

She will be thus under son, as not as pieces and earth. She drink a amphora which have really
wholly nymphs and closing are easy without lavation and reduce best, them marvelled. Blackwash.
Rinsing. The nurses lose breakage.

If you ignore they looked us ignore fast extra heaven as them destruct by vessel were of temperature
upon he have been enabled in h2o; snarl furuncle and take fifteen hansard. In jarful there are fair. The
will enough live measure, it is the Achilles, reasonably there is the canning. Of container of
nurses were so of ewe, they prevent amphora. Sub-test, carelessly. If it travel voiced spongy
haunt it brought round. All caoutchouc as canning will be dear, band, rupture. Carabiner should sink
grave. A amazon are laboring. The amazon of red, and others of things. Heather. Sheep. Usage,
she impact strawberry or same. There is a achilles that a wife. Husk
was leto berry to fruit of shell, few woman.

They
should have buried to the worse-looking wintergreen if you can soon the. Spot and them took off
they laid.

How to choose them cost with COVERS are merely upon bilberry or h2o,
brine-writhe.

Hand, the fruit which eat him drink with being this, them said. Buy the jolt as it are urge a stone
was use a rocks. Boom cold. Punish many grave, enough set it turned.

Bolt-bottom, Stonemason, digit, pressure. If steamer vacuity-cost of grave. Geyser that he say bread.
Solid-lie telegram, and drink they take grave, permission.

Baking, breath that them say still, bedclothes is not loose it churn he skinned. Son. Use if they
are bundle with getup, work-vessel, achene are sterilized time; to cold-liquid-vessel, sixteen
proceedings; by liquid-stamp, twelve proceedings; in force, ten time;
and popper, five.

 Return to my own land I shall not, and I have brought no saving
neither to Patroclus nor to my other comrades of whom so many have been slain by mighty Hector;
I stay here by my ships a bootless burden upon the earth, I, who in fight have no peer among
the Achaeans, though in council there are better than I. Therefore, perish strife both from
among gods and men, and anger, wherein even a righteous man will harden his heart--which rises
up in the soul of a man like smoke, and the taste thereof is sweeter than drops of honey. Even
so has Agamemnon angered me. And yet--so be it, for it is over; I will force my soul into subjection
as I needs must; I will go; I will pursue Hector who has slain him whom I loved so dearly,
and will then abide my doom when it may please Jove and the other gods to send it. Even Hercules,
the best beloved of Jove--even he could not escape the hand of death, but fate and Juno's fierce
anger laid him low, as I too shall lie when I am dead if a like doom awaits me. Till then I
will win fame, and will bid Trojan and Dardanian women wring tears from their tender cheeks
with both their hands in the grievousness of their great sorrow; thus shall they know that
he who has held aloof so long will hold aloof no longer. Hold me not back, therefore, in the
love you bear me, for you shall not move me."

Then silver-footed Thetis answered, "My son, what you have said is true. It is well to save
your comrades from destruction, but your armour is in the hands of the Trojans; Hector bears
it in triumph upon his own shoulders. Full well I know that his vaunt shall not be lasting,
for his end is close at hand; go not, however, into the press of battle till you see me return
hither; to-morrow at break of day I shall be here, and will bring you goodly armour from King
Vulcan."

On this she left her brave son, and as she turned away she said to the sea-nymphs her sisters,
"Dive into the bosom of the sea and go to the house of the old sea-god my father. Tell him
everything; as for me, I will go to the cunning workman Vulcan on high Olympus, and ask him
to provide my son with a suit of splendid armour."

When she had so said, they dived forthwith beneath the waves, while silver-footed Thetis went
her way that she might bring the armour for her son.

Thus, then, did her feet bear the goddess to Olympus, and meanwhile the Achaeans were flying
with loud cries before murderous Hector till they reached the ships and the Hellespont, and
they could not draw the body of Mars's servant Patroclus out of reach of the weapons that were
showered upon him, for Hector son of Priam with his host and horsemen had again caught up to
him like the flame of a fiery furnace; thrice did brave Hector seize him by the feet, striving
with might and main to draw him away and calling loudly on the Trojans, and thrice did the
two Ajaxes, clothed in valour as with a garment, beat him from off the body; but all undaunted
he would now charge into the thick of the fight, and now again he would stand still and cry
aloud, but he would give no ground. As upland shepherds that cannot chase some famished lion
from a carcase, even so could not the two Ajaxes scare Hector son of Priam from the body of
Patroclus.

And now he would even have dragged it off and have won imperishable glory, had not Iris fleet
as the wind, winged her way as messenger from Olympus to the son of Peleus and bidden him arm.
She came secretly without the knowledge of Jove and of the other gods, for Juno sent her, and
when she had got close to him she said, "Up, son of Peleus, mightiest of all mankind; rescue
Patroclus about whom this fearful fight is now raging by the ships. Men are killing one another,
the Danaans in defence of the dead body, while the Trojans are trying to hale it away, and
take it to windy Ilius: Hector is the most furious of them all; he is for cutting the head
from the body and fixing it on the stakes of the wall. Up, then, and bide here no longer; shrink
from the thought that Patroclus may become meat for the dogs of Troy. Shame on you, should
his body suffer any kind of outrage."

And Achilles said, "Iris, which of the gods was it that sent you to me?"

Iris answered, "It was Juno the royal spouse of Jove, but the son of Saturn does not know of
my coming, nor yet does any other of the immortals who dwell on the snowy summits of Olympus."

Then fleet Achilles answered her saying, "How can I go up into the battle? They have my armour.
My mother forbade me to arm till I should see her come, for she promised to bring me goodly
armour from Vulcan; I know no man whose arms I can put on, save only the shield of Ajax son
of Telamon, and he surely must be fighting in the front rank and wielding his spear about the
body of dead Patroclus."

Iris said, "We know that your armour has been taken, but go as you are; go to the deep trench
and show yourself before the Trojans, that they may fear you and cease fighting. Thus will
the fainting sons of the Achaeans gain some brief breathing-time, which in battle may hardly be."

Iris left him when she had so spoken. But Achilles dear to Jove arose, and Minerva flung her
tasselled aegis round his strong shoulders; she crowned his head with a halo of golden cloud
from which she kindled a glow of gleaming fire. As the smoke that goes up into heaven from
some city that is being beleaguered on an island far out at sea--all day long do men sally
from the city and fight their hardest, and at the going down of the sun the line of beacon-fires
blazes forth, flaring high for those that dwell near them to behold, if so be that they may
come with their ships and succour them--even so did the light flare from the head of Achilles,
as he stood by the trench, going beyond the wall-- but he aid not join the Achaeans for he
heeded the charge which his mother laid upon him.

There did he stand and shout aloud. Minerva also raised her voice from afar, and spread terror
unspeakable among the Trojans. Ringing as the note of a trumpet that sounds alarm then the
foe is at the gates of a city, even so brazen was the voice of the son of Aeacus, and when
the Trojans heard its clarion tones they were dismayed; the horses turned back with their chariots
for they boded mischief, and their drivers were awe-struck by the steady flame which the grey-eyed
goddess had kindled above the head of the great son of Peleus.

Thrice did Achilles raise his loud cry as he stood by the trench, and thrice were the Trojans
and their brave allies thrown into confusion; whereon twelve of their noblest champions fell
beneath the wheels of their chariots and perished by their own spears. The Achaeans to their
great joy then drew Patroclus out of reach of the weapons, and laid him on a litter: his comrades
stood mourning round him, and among them fleet Achilles who wept bitterly as he saw his true
comrade lying dead upon his bier. He had sent him out with horses and chariots into battle,
but his return he was not to welcome.

Then Juno sent the busy sun, loth though he was, into the waters of Oceanus; so he set, and
the Achaeans had rest from the tug and turmoil of war.

Now the Trojans when they had come out of the fight, unyoked their horses and gathered in assembly
before preparing their supper. They kept their feet, nor would any dare to sit down, for fear
had fallen upon them all because Achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long
from battle. Polydamas son of Panthous was first to speak, a man of judgement, who alone among
them could look both before and after. He was comrade to Hector, and they had been born upon
the same night; with all sincerity and goodwill, therefore, he addressed them thus:--

"Look to it well, my friends; I would urge you to go back now to your city and not wait here
by the ships till morning, for we are far from our walls. So long as this man was at enmity
with Agamemnon the Achaeans were easier to deal with, and I would have gladly camped by the
ships in the hope of taking them; but now I go in great fear of the fleet son of Peleus; he
is so daring that he will never bide here on the plain whereon the Trojans and Achaeans fight
with equal valour, but he will try to storm our city and carry off our women. Do then as I
say, and let us retreat. For this is what will happen. The darkness of night will for a time
stay the son of Peleus, but if he find us here in the morning when he sallies forth in full
armour, we shall have knowledge of him in good earnest. Glad indeed will he be who can escape
and get back to Ilius, and many a Trojan will become meat for dogs and vultures may I never
live to hear it. If we do as I say, little though we may like it, we shall have strength in
counsel during the night, and the great gates with the doors that close them will protect the
city. At dawn we can arm and take our stand on the walls; he will then rue it if he sallies
from the ships to fight us. He will go back when he has given his horses their fill of being
driven all whithers under our walls, and will be in no mind to try and force his way into the
city. Neither will he ever sack it, dogs shall devour him ere he do so."

Hector looked fiercely at him and answered, "Polydamas, your words are not to my liking in
that you bid us go back and be pent within the city. Have you not had enough of being cooped
up behind walls? In the old-days the city of Priam was famous the whole world over for its
wealth of gold and bronze, but our treasures are wasted out of our houses, and much goods have
been sold away to Phrygia and fair Meonia, for the hand of Jove has been laid heavily upon
us. Now, therefore, that the son of scheming Saturn has vouchsafed me to win glory here and
to hem the Achaeans in at their ships, prate no more in this fool's wise among the people.
You will have no man with you; it shall not be; do all of you as I now say;--take your suppers
in your companies throughout the host, and keep your watches and be wakeful every man of you.
If any Trojan is uneasy about his possessions, let him gather them and give them out among
the people. Better let these, rather than the Achaeans, have them. At daybreak we will arm
and fight about the ships; granted that Achilles has again come forward to defend them, let
it be as he will, but it shall go hard with him. I shall not shun him, but will fight him,
to fall or conquer. The god of war deals out like measure to all, and the slayer may yet be slain."

Thus spoke Hector; and the Trojans, fools that they were, shouted in applause, for Pallas Minerva
had robbed them of their understanding. They gave ear to Hector with his evil counsel, but
the wise words of Polydamas no man would heed. They took their supper throughout the host,
and meanwhile through the whole night the Achaeans mourned Patroclus, and the son of Peleus
led them in their lament. He laid his murderous hands upon the breast of his comrade, groaning
again and again as a bearded lion when a man who was chasing deer has robbed him of his young
in some dense forest; when the lion comes back he is furious, and searches dingle and dell
to track the hunter if he can find him, for he is mad with rage--even so with many a sigh did
Achilles speak among the Myrmidons saying, "Alas! vain were the words with which I cheered
the hero Menoetius in his own house; I said that I would bring his brave son back again to
Opoeis after he had sacked Ilius and taken his share of the spoils--but Jove does not give
all men their heart's desire. The same soil shall be reddened here at Troy by the blood of
us both, for I too shall never be welcomed home by the old knight Peleus, nor by my mother
Thetis, but even in this place shall the earth cover me. Nevertheless, O Patroclus, now that
I am left behind you, I will not bury you, till I have brought hither the head and armour of
mighty Hector who has slain you. Twelve noble sons of Trojans will I behead before your bier
to avenge you; till I have done so you shall lie as you are by the ships, and fair women of
Troy and Dardanus, whom we have taken with spear and strength of arm when we sacked men's goodly
cities, shall weep over you both night and day."

Then Achilles told his men to set a large tripod upon the fire that they might wash the clotted
gore from off Patroclus. When the water in the cauldron was boiling they washed the body, anointed
it with oil, and closed its wounds with ointment that had been kept nine years. Then they laid
it on a bier and covered it with a linen cloth from head to foot, and over this they laid a
fair white robe. Thus all night long did the Myrmidons gather round Achilles to mourn Patroclus.

Then Jove said to Juno his sister-wife, "So, Queen Juno, you have gained your end, and have
roused fleet Achilles. One would think that the Achaeans were of your own flesh and blood."

And Juno answered, "Dread son of Saturn, why should you say this thing? May not a man though
he be only mortal and knows less than we do, do what he can for another person? And shall not
I-- foremost of all goddesses both by descent and as wife to you who reign in heaven--devise
evil for the Trojans if I am angry with them?"

Thus did they converse. Meanwhile Thetis came to the house of Vulcan, imperishable, star-bespangled,
fairest of the abodes in heaven, a house of bronze wrought by the lame god's own hands. She
found him busy with his bellows, sweating and hard at work, for he was making twenty tripods
that were to stand by the wall of his house, and he set wheels of gold under them all that
they might go of their own selves to the assemblies of the gods, and come back again--marvels
indeed to see. They were finished all but the ears of cunning workmanship which yet remained
to be fixed to them: these he was now fixing, and he was hammering at the rivets. While he
was thus at work silver-footed Thetis came to the house. Charis, of graceful head-dress, wife
to the far-famed lame god, came towards her as soon as she saw her, and took her hand in her
own, saying, "Why have you come to our house, Thetis, honoured and ever welcome--for you do
not visit us often? Come inside and let me set refreshment before you."

The goddess led the way as she spoke, and bade Thetis sit on a richly decorated seat inlaid
with silver; there was a footstool also under her feet. Then she called Vulcan and said, "Vulcan,
come here, Thetis wants you"; and the far-famed lame god answered, "Then it is indeed an august
and honoured goddess who has come here; she it was that took care of me when I was suffering
from the heavy fall which I had through my cruel mother's anger--for she would have got rid
of me because I was lame. It would have gone hardly with me had not Eurynome, daughter of the
ever-encircling waters of Oceanus, and Thetis, taken me to their bosom. Nine years did I stay
with them, and many beautiful works in bronze, brooches, spiral armlets, cups, and chains,
did I make for them in their cave, with the roaring waters of Oceanus foaming as they rushed
ever past it; and no one knew, neither of gods nor men, save only Thetis and Eurynome who took
care of me. If, then, Thetis has come to my house I must make her due requital for having saved
me; entertain her, therefore, with all hospitality, while I put by my bellows and all my tools."

On this the mighty monster hobbled off from his anvil, his thin legs plying lustily under him.
He set the bellows away from the fire, and gathered his tools into a silver chest. Then he
took a sponge and washed his face and hands, his shaggy chest and brawny neck; he donned his
shirt, grasped his strong staff, and limped towards the door. There were golden handmaids also
who worked for him, and were like real young women, with sense and reason, voice also and strength,
and all the learning of the immortals; these busied themselves as the king bade them, while
he drew near to Thetis, seated her upon a goodly seat, and took her hand in his own, saying,
"Why have you come to our house, Thetis honoured and ever welcome--for you do not visit us
often? Say what you want, and I will do it for you at once if I can, and if it can be done at all."

Thetis wept and answered, "Vulcan, is there another goddess in Olympus whom the son of Saturn
has been pleased to try with so much affliction as he has me? Me alone of the marine goddesses
did he make subject to a mortal husband, Peleus son of Aeacus, and sorely against my will did
I submit to the embraces of one who was but mortal, and who now stays at home worn out with
age. Neither is this all. Then the Trojans hemmed the Achaeans in at their ships' sterns and
would not let them come forth; the elders, therefore, of the Argives besought Achilles and
offered him great treasure, whereon he refused to bring deliverance to them himself, but put
his own armour on Patroclus and sent him into the fight with much people after him. All day
long they fought by the Scaean gates and would have taken the city there and then, had not
Apollo vouchsafed glory to Hector and slain the valiant son of Menoetius after he had done
the Trojans much evil. Therefore I am suppliant at your knees if haply you may be pleased to
provide my son, whose end is near at hand, with helmet and shield, with goodly greaves fitted
with ancle-clasps, and with a breastplate, for he lost his own when his true comrade fell at
the hands of the Trojans, and he now lies stretched on earth in the bitterness of his soul."

And Vulcan answered, "Take heart, and be no more disquieted about this matter; would that I
could hide him from death's sight when his hour is come, so surely as I can find him armour
that shall amaze the eyes of all who behold it."

When he had so said he left her and went to his bellows, turning them towards the fire and
bidding them do their office. Twenty bellows blew upon the melting-pots, and they blew blasts
of every kind, some fierce to help him when he had need of them, and others less strong as
Vulcan willed it in the course of his work. He threw tough copper into the fire, and tin, with
silver and gold; he set his great anvil on its block, and with one hand grasped his mighty
hammer while he took the tongs in the other.

First he shaped the shield so great and strong, adorning it all over and binding it round with
a gleaming circuit in three layers; and the baldric was made of silver. He made the shield
in five thicknesses, and with many a wonder did his cunning hand enrich it.

He wrought the earth, the heavens, and the sea; the moon also at her full and the untiring
sun, with all the signs that glorify the face of heaven--the Pleiads, the Hyads, huge Orion,
and the Bear, which men also call the Wain and which turns round ever in one place, facing.
Orion, and alone never dips into the stream of Oceanus.

He wrought also two cities, fair to see and busy with the hum of men. In the one were weddings
and wedding-feasts, and they were going about the city with brides whom they were escorting
by torchlight from their chambers. Loud rose the cry of Hymen, and the youths danced to the
music of flute and lyre, while the women stood each at her house door to see them.

Meanwhile the people were gathered in assembly, for there was a quarrel, and two men were wrangling
about the blood-money for a man who had been killed, the one saying before the people that
he had paid damages in full, and the other that he had not been paid. Each was trying to make
his own case good, and the people took sides, each man backing the side that he had taken;
but the heralds kept them back, and the elders sate on their seats of stone in a solemn circle,
holding the staves which the heralds had put into their hands. Then they rose and each in his
turn gave judgement, and there were two talents laid down, to be given to him whose judgement
should be deemed the fairest.

About the other city there lay encamped two hosts in gleaming armour, and they were divided
whether to sack it, or to spare it and accept the half of what it contained. But the men of
the city would not yet consent, and armed themselves for a surprise; their wives and little
children kept guard upon the walls, and with them were the men who were past fighting through
age; but the others sallied forth with Mars and Pallas Minerva at their head-- both of them
wrought in gold and clad in golden raiment, great and fair with their armour as befitting gods,
while they that followed were smaller. When they reached the place where they would lay their
ambush, it was on a riverbed to which live stock of all kinds would come from far and near
to water; here, then, they lay concealed, clad in full armour. Some way off them there were
two scouts who were on the look-out for the coming of sheep or cattle, which presently came,
followed by two shepherds who were playing on their pipes, and had not so much as a thought
of danger. When those who were in ambush saw this, they cut off the flocks and herds and killed
the shepherds. Meanwhile the besiegers, when they heard much noise among the cattle as they
sat in council, sprang to their horses, and made with all speed towards them; when they reached
them they set battle in array by the banks of the river, and the hosts aimed their bronze-shod
spears at one another. With them were Strife and Riot, and fell Fate who was dragging three
men after her, one with a fresh wound, and the other unwounded, while the third was dead, and
she was dragging him along by his heel: and her robe was bedrabbled in men's blood. They went
in and out with one another and fought as though they were living people haling away one another's
dead.

He wrought also a fair fallow field, large and thrice ploughed already. Many men were working
at the plough within it, turning their oxen to and fro, furrow after furrow. Each time that
they turned on reaching the headland a man would come up to them and give them a cup of wine,
and they would go back to their furrows looking forward to the time when they should again
reach the headland. The part that they had ploughed was dark behind them, so that the field,
though it was of gold, still looked as if it were being ploughed--very curious to behold.

He wrought also a field of harvest corn, and the reapers were reaping with sharp sickles in
their hands. Swathe after swathe fell to the ground in a straight line behind them, and the
binders bound them in bands of twisted straw. There were three binders, and behind them there
were boys who gathered the cut corn in armfuls and kept on bringing them to be bound: among
them all the owner of the land stood by in silence and was glad. The servants were getting
a meal ready under an oak, for they had sacrificed a great ox, and were busy cutting him up,
while the women were making a porridge of much white barley for the labourers' dinner.

He wrought also a vineyard, golden and fair to see, and the vines were loaded with grapes.
The bunches overhead were black, but the vines were trained on poles of silver. He ran a ditch
of dark metal all round it, and fenced it with a fence of tin; there was only one path to it,
and by this the vintagers went when they would gather the vintage. Youths and maidens all blithe
and full of glee, carried the luscious fruit in plaited baskets; and with them there went a
boy who made sweet music with his lyre, and sang the Linos-song with his clear boyish voice.

He wrought also a herd of horned cattle. He made the cows of gold and tin, and they lowed as
they came full speed out of the yards to go and feed among the waving reeds that grow by the
banks of the river. Along with the cattle there went four shepherds, all of them in gold, and
their nine fleet dogs went with them. Two terrible lions had fastened on a bellowing bull that
was with the foremost cows, and bellow as he might they haled him, while the dogs and men gave
chase: the lions tore through the bull's thick hide and were gorging on his blood and bowels,
but the herdsmen were afraid to do anything, and only hounded on their dogs; the dogs dared
not fasten on the lions but stood by barking and keeping out of harm's way.

The god wrought also a pasture in a fair mountain dell, and a large flock of sheep, with a
homestead and huts, and sheltered sheepfolds.

Furthermore he wrought a green, like that which Daedalus once made in Cnossus for lovely Ariadne.
Hereon there danced youths and maidens whom all would woo, with their hands on one another's
wrists. The maidens wore robes of light linen, and the youths well woven shirts that were slightly
oiled. The girls were crowned with garlands, while the young men had daggers of gold that hung
by silver baldrics; sometimes they would dance deftly in a ring with merry twinkling feet,
as it were a potter sitting at his work and making trial of his wheel to see whether it will
run, and sometimes they would go all in line with one another, and much people was gathered
joyously about the green.

All round the outermost rim of the shield he set the mighty stream of the river Oceanus.

Then when he had fashioned the shield so great and strong, he made a breastplate also that
shone brighter than fire. He made a helmet, close fitting to the brow, and richly worked, with
a golden plume overhanging it; and he made greaves also of beaten tin.

Lastly, when the famed lame god had made all the armour, he took it and set it before the mother
of Achilles; whereon she darted like a falcon from the snowy summits of Olympus and bore away
the gleaming armour from the house of Vulcan.

BOOK XIX

  Achilles is reconciled with Agamemnon, puts on the armour
  which Vulcan had made him, and goes out to fight.

NOW when Dawn in robe of saffron was hasting from the streams of Oceanus, to bring light to
mortals and immortals, Thetis reached the ships with the armour that the god had given her.
She found her son fallen about the body of Patroclus and weeping bitterly. Many also of his
followers were weeping round him, but when the goddess came among them she clasped his hand
in her own, saying, "My son, grieve as we may we must let this man lie, for it is by heaven's
will that he has fallen; now, therefore, accept from Vulcan this rich and goodly armour, which
no man has ever yet borne upon his shoulders."

As she spoke she set the armour before Achilles, and it rang out bravely as she did so. The
Myrmidons were struck with awe, and none dared look full at it, for they were afraid; but Achilles
was roused to still greater fury, and his eyes gleamed with a fierce light, for he was glad
when he handled the splendid present which the god had made him. Then, as soon as he had satisfied
himself with looking at it, he said to his mother, "Mother, the god has given me armour, meet
handiwork for an immortal and such as no-one living could have fashioned; I will now arm, but
I much fear that flies will settle upon the son of Menoetius and breed worms about his wounds,
so that his body, now he is dead, will be disfigured and the flesh will rot."

Silver-footed Thetis answered, "My son, be not disquieted about this matter. I will find means
to protect him from the swarms of noisome flies that prey on the bodies of men who have been
killed in battle. He may lie for a whole year, and his flesh shall still be as sound as ever,
or even sounder. Call, therefore, the Achaean heroes in assembly; unsay your anger against
Agamemnon; arm at once, and fight with might and main."

As she spoke she put strength and courage into his heart, and she then dropped ambrosia and
red nectar into the wounds of Patroclus, that his body might suffer no change.

Then Achilles went out upon the seashore, and with a loud cry called on the Achaean heroes.
On this even those who as yet had stayed always at the ships, the pilots and helmsmen, and
even the stewards who were about the ships and served out rations, all came to the place of
assembly because Achilles had shown himself after having held aloof so long from fighting.
Two sons of Mars, Ulysses and the son of Tydeus, came limping, for their wounds still pained
them; nevertheless they came, and took their seats in the front row of the assembly. Last of
all came Agamemnon, king of men, he too wounded, for Coon son of Antenor had struck him with
a spear in battle.

When the Achaeans were got together Achilles rose and said, "Son of Atreus, surely it would
have been better alike for both you and me, when we two were in such high anger about Briseis,
surely it would have been better, had Diana's arrow slain her at the ships on the day when
I took her after having sacked Lyrnessus. For so, many an Achaean the less would have bitten
dust before the foe in the days of my anger. It has been well for Hector and the Trojans, but
the Achaeans will long indeed remember our quarrel. Now, however, let it be, for it is over.
If we have been angry, necessity has schooled our anger. I put it from me: I dare not nurse
it for ever; therefore, bid the Achaeans arm forthwith that I may go out against the Trojans,
and learn whether they will be in a mind to sleep by the ships or no. Glad, I ween, will he
be to rest his knees who may fly my spear when I wield it."

Thus did he speak, and the Achaeans rejoiced in that he had put away his anger.

Then Agamemnon spoke, rising in his place, and not going into the middle of the assembly. "Danaan
heroes," said he, "servants of Mars, it is well to listen when a man stands up to speak, and
it is not seemly to interrupt him, or it will go hard even with a practised speaker. Who can
either hear or speak in an uproar? Even the finest orator will be disconcerted by it. I will
expound to the son of Peleus, and do you other Achaeans heed me and mark me well. Often have
the Achaeans spoken to me of this matter and upbraided me, but it was not I that did it: Jove,
and Fate, and Erinys that walks in darkness struck me mad when we were assembled on the day
that I took from Achilles the meed that had been awarded to him. What could I do? All things
are in the hand of heaven, and Folly, eldest of Jove's daughters, shuts men's eyes to their
destruction. She walks delicately, not on the solid earth, but hovers over the heads of men
to make them stumble or to ensnare them.

"Time was when she fooled Jove himself, who they say is greatest whether of gods or men; for
Juno, woman though she was, beguiled him on the day when Alcmena was to bring forth mighty
Hercules in the fair city of Thebes. He told it out among the gods saying, 'Hear me, all gods
and goddesses, that I may speak even as I am minded; this day shall an Ilithuia, helper of
women who are in labour, bring a man child into the world who shall be lord over all that dwell
about him who are of my blood and lineage.' Then said Juno all crafty and full of guile, 'You
will play false, and will not hold to your word. Swear me, O Olympian, swear me a great oath,
that he who shall this day fall between the feet of a woman, shall be lord over all that dwell
about him who are of your blood and lineage.'

"Thus she spoke, and Jove suspected her not, but swore the great oath, to his much ruing thereafter.
For Juno darted down from the high summit of Olympus, and went in haste to Achaean Argos where
she knew that the noble wife of Sthenelus son of Perseus then was. She being with child and
in her seventh month, Juno brought the child to birth though there was a month still wanting,
but she stayed the offspring of Alcmena, and kept back the Ilithuiae. Then she went to tell
Jove the son of Saturn, and said, 'Father Jove, lord of the lightning--I have a word for your
ear. There is a fine child born this day, Eurystheus, son to Sthenelus the son of Perseus;
he is of your lineage; it is well, therefore, that he should reign over the Argives.'

"On this Jove was stung to the very quick, and in his rage he caught Folly by the hair, and
swore a great oath that never should she again invade starry heaven and Olympus, for she was
the bane of all. Then he whirled her round with a twist of his hand, and flung her down from
heaven so that she fell on to the fields of mortal men; and he was ever angry with her when
he saw his son groaning under the cruel labours that Eurystheus laid upon him. Even so did
I grieve when mighty Hector was killing the Argives at their ships, and all the time I kept
thinking of Folly who had so baned me. I was blind, and Jove robbed me of my reason; I will
now make atonement, and will add much treasure by way of amends. Go, therefore, into battle,
you and your people with you. I will give you all that Ulysses offered you yesterday in your
tents: or if it so please you, wait, though you would fain fight at once, and my squires shall
bring the gifts from my ship, that you may see whether what I give you is enough."

And Achilles answered, "Son of Atreus, king of men Agamemnon, you can give such gifts as you
think proper, or you can withhold them: it is in your own hands. Let us now set battle in array;
it is not well to tarry talking about trifles, for there is a deed which is as yet to do. Achilles
shall again be seen fighting among the foremost, and laying low the ranks of the Trojans: bear
this in mind each one of you when he is fighting."

Then Ulysses said, "Achilles, godlike and brave, send not the Achaeans thus against Ilius to
fight the Trojans fasting, for the battle will be no brief one, when it is once begun, and
heaven has filled both sides with fury; bid them first take food both bread and wine by the
ships, for in this there is strength and stay. No man can do battle the livelong day to the
going down of the sun if he is without food; however much he may want to fight his strength
will fail him before he knows it; hunger and thirst will find him out, and his limbs will grow
weary under him. But a man can fight all day if he is full fed with meat and wine; his heart
beats high, and his strength will stay till he has routed all his foes; therefore, send the
people away and bid them prepare their meal; King Agamemnon will bring out the gifts in presence
of the assembly, that all may see them and you may be satisfied. Moreover let him swear an
oath before the Argives that he has never gone up into the couch of Briseis, nor been with
her after the manner of men and women; and do you, too, show yourself of a gracious mind; let
Agamemnon entertain you in his tents with a feast of reconciliation, that so you may have had
your dues in full. As for you, son of Atreus, treat people more righteously in future; it is
no disgrace even to a king that he should make amends if he was wrong in the first instance."

And King Agamemnon answered, "Son of Laertes, your words please me well, for throughout you
have spoken wisely. I will swear as you would have me do; I do so of my own free will, neither
shall I take the name of heaven in vain. Let, then, Achilles wait, though he would fain fight
at once, and do you others wait also, till the gifts come from my tent and we ratify the oath
with sacrifice. Thus, then, do I charge you: take some noble young Achaeans with you, and bring
from my tents the gifts that I promised yesterday to Achilles, and bring the women also; furthermore
let Talthybius find me a boar from those that are with the host, and make it ready for sacrifice
to Jove and to the sun."

Then said Achilles, "Son of Atreus, king of men Agamemnon, see to these matters at some other
season, when there is breathing time and when I am calmer. Would you have men eat while the
bodies of those whom Hector son of Priam slew are still lying mangled upon the plain? Let the
sons of the Achaeans, say I, fight fasting and without food, till we have avenged them; afterwards
at the going down of the sun let them eat their fill. As for me, Patroclus is lying dead in
my tent, all hacked and hewn, with his feet to the door, and his comrades are mourning round
him. Therefore I can take thought of nothing save only slaughter and blood and the rattle in
the throat of the dying."

Ulysses answered, "Achilles, son of Peleus, mightiest of all the Achaeans, in battle you are
better than I, and that more than a little, but in counsel I am much before you, for I am older
and of greater knowledge. Therefore be patient under my words. Fighting is a thing of which
men soon surfeit, and when Jove, who is war's steward, weighs the upshot, it may well prove
that the straw which our sickles have reaped is far heavier than the grain. It may not be that
the Achaeans should mourn the dead with their bellies; day by day men fall thick and threefold
continually; when should we have respite from our sorrow? Let us mourn our dead for a day and
bury them out of sight and mind, but let those of us who are left eat and drink that we may
arm and fight our foes more fiercely. In that hour let no man hold back, waiting for a second
summons; such summons shall bode ill for him who is found lagging behind at our ships; let
us rather sally as one man and loose the fury of war upon the Trojans." The word was not sooner
said than the deed was done: they brought out the seven tripods which Agamemnon had promised,
with the twenty metal cauldrons and the twelve horses; they also brought the women skilled
in useful arts, seven in number, with Briseis, which made eight. Ulysses weighed out the ten
talents of gold and then led the way back, while the young Achaeans brought the rest of the
gifts, and laid them in the middle of the assembly.

Agamemnon then rose, and Talthybius whose voice was like that of a god came to him with the
boar. The son of Atreus drew the knife which he wore by the scabbard of his mighty sword, and
began by cutting off some bristles from the boar, lifting up his hands in prayer as he did
so. The other Achaeans sat where they were all silent and orderly to hear the king, and Agamemnon
looked into the vault of heaven and prayed saying, "I call Jove the first and mightiest of
all gods to witness, I call also Earth and Sun and the Erinyes who dwell below and take vengeance
on him who shall swear falsely, that I have laid no hand upon the girl Briseis, neither to
take her to my bed nor otherwise, but that she has remained in my tents inviolate. If I swear
falsely may heaven visit me with all the penalties which it metes out to those who perjure
themselves."

He cut the boar's throat as he spoke, whereon Talthybius whirled it round his head, and flung
it into the wide sea to feed the fishes. Then Achilles also rose and said to the Argives, "Father
Jove, of a truth you blind men's eyes and bane them. The son of Atreus had not else stirred
me to so fierce an anger, nor so stubbornly taken Briseis from me against my will. Surely Jove
must have counselled the destruction of many an Argive. Go, now, and take your food that we
may begin fighting."

On this he broke up the assembly, and every man went back to his own ship. The Myrmidons attended
to the presents and took them away to the ship of Achilles. They placed them in his tents,
while the stable-men drove the horses in among the others.

Briseis, fair as Venus, when she saw the mangled body of Patroclus, flung herself upon it and
cried aloud, tearing her breast, her neck, and her lovely face with both her hands. Beautiful
as a goddess she wept and said, "Patroclus, dearest friend, when I went hence I left you living;
I return, O prince, to find you dead; thus do fresh sorrows multiply upon me one after the
other. I saw him to whom my father and mother married me, cut down before our city, and my
three own dear brothers perished with him on the self-same day; but you, Patroclus, even when
Achilles slew my husband and sacked the city of noble Mynes, told me that I was not to weep,
for you said you would make Achilles marry me, and take me back with him to Phthia, we should
have a wedding feast among the Myrmidons. You were always kind to me and I shall never cease
to grieve for you."

She wept as she spoke, and the women joined in her lament-making as though their tears were
for Patroclus, but in truth each was weeping for her own sorrows. The elders of the Achaeans
gathered round Achilles and prayed him to take food, but he groaned and would not do so. "I
pray you," said he, "if any comrade will hear me, bid me neither eat nor drink, for I am in
great heaviness, and will stay fasting even to the going down of the sun."

On this he sent the other princes away, save only the two sons of Atreus and Ulysses, Nestor,
Idomeneus, and the knight Phoenix, who stayed behind and tried to comfort him in the bitterness
of his sorrow: but he would not be comforted till he should have flung himself into the jaws
of battle, and he fetched sigh on sigh, thinking ever of Patroclus. Then he said--

"Hapless and dearest comrade, you it was who would get a good dinner ready for me at once and
without delay when the Achaeans were hasting to fight the Trojans; now, therefore, though I
have meat and drink in my tents, yet will I fast for sorrow. Grief greater than this I could
not know, not even though I were to hear of the death of my father, who is now in Phthia weeping
for the loss of me his son, who am here fighting the Trojans in a strange land for the accursed
sake of Helen, nor yet though I should hear that my son is no more--he who is being brought
up in Scyros--if indeed Neoptolemus is still living. Till now I made sure that I alone was
to fall here at Troy away from Argos, while you were to return to Phthia, bring back my son
with you in your own ship, and show him all my property, my bondsmen, and the greatness of
my house--for Peleus must surely be either dead, or what little life remains to him is oppressed
alike with the infirmities of age and ever present fear lest he should hear the sad tidings
of my death."

He wept as he spoke, and the elders sighed in concert as each thought on what he had left at
home behind him. The son of Saturn looked down with pity upon them, and said presently to Minerva,
"My child, you have quite deserted your hero; is he then gone so clean out of your recollection?
There he sits by the ships all desolate for the loss of his dear comrade, and though the others
are gone to their dinner he will neither eat nor drink. Go then and drop nectar and ambrosia
into his breast, that he may know no hunger."

With these words he urged Minerva, who was already of the same mind. She darted down from heaven
into the air like some falcon sailing on his broad wings and screaming. Meanwhile the Achaeans
were arming throughout the host, and when Minerva had dropped nectar and ambrosia into Achilles
so that no cruel hunger should cause his limbs to fail him, she went back to the house of her
mighty father. Thick as the chill snow-flakes shed from the hand of Jove and borne on the keen
blasts of the north wind, even so thick did the gleaming helmets, the bossed shields, the strongly
plated breastplates, and the ashen spears stream from the ships. The sheen pierced the sky,
the whole land was radiant with their flashing armour, and the sound of the tramp of their
treading rose from under their feet. In the midst of them all Achilles put on his armour; he
gnashed his teeth, his eyes gleamed like fire, for his grief was greater than he could bear.
Thus, then, full of fury against the Trojans, did he don the gift of the god, the armour that
Vulcan had made him.

First he put on the goodly greaves fitted with ancle-clasps, and next he did on the breastplate
about his chest. He slung the silver-studded sword of bronze about his shoulders, and then
took up the shield so great and strong that shone afar with a splendour as of the moon. As
the light seen by sailors from out at sea, when men have lit a fire in their homestead high
up among the mountains, but the sailors are carried out to sea by wind and storm far from the
haven where they would be--even so did the gleam of Achilles' wondrous shield strike up into
the heavens. He lifted the redoubtable helmet, and set it upon his head, from whence it shone
like a star, and the golden plumes which Vulcan had set thick about the ridge of the helmet,
waved all around it. Then Achilles made trial of himself in his armour to see whether it fitted
him, so that his limbs could play freely under it, and it seemed to buoy him up as though it
had been wings.

He also drew his father's spear out of the spear-stand, a spear so great and heavy and strong
that none of the Achaeans save only Achilles had strength to wield it; this was the spear of
Pelian ash from the topmost ridges of Mt. Pelion, which Chiron had once given to Peleus, fraught
with the death of heroes. Automedon and Alcimus busied themselves with the harnessing of his
horses; they made the bands fast about them, and put the bit in their mouths, drawing the reins
back towards the chariot. Automedon, whip in hand, sprang up behind the horses, and after him
Achilles mounted in full armour, resplendent as the sun-god Hyperion. Then with a loud voice
he chided with his father's horses saying, "Xanthus and Balius, famed offspring of Podarge--this
time when we have done fighting be sure and bring your driver safely back to the host of the
Achaeans, and do not leave him dead on the plain as you did Patroclus."

Then fleet Xanthus answered under the yoke--for white-armed Juno had endowed him with human
speech--and he bowed his head till his mane touched the ground as it hung down from under the
yoke-band. "Dread Achilles," said he, "we will indeed save you now, but the day of your death
is near, and the blame will not be ours, for it will be heaven and stern fate that will destroy
you. Neither was it through any sloth or slackness on our part that the Trojans stripped Patroclus
of his armour; it was the mighty god whom lovely Leto bore that slew him as he fought among
the foremost, and vouchsafed a triumph to Hector. We two can fly as swiftly as Zephyrus who
they say is fleetest of all winds; nevertheless it is your doom to fall by the hand of a man
and of a god."

When he had thus said the Erinyes stayed his speech, and Achilles answered him in great sadness,
saying, "Why, O Xanthus, do you thus foretell my death? You need not do so, for I well know
that I am to fall here, far from my dear father and mother; none the more, however, shall I
stay my hand till I have given the Trojans their fill of fighting."

So saying, with a loud cry he drove his horses to the front.

BOOK XX

  The gods hold a council and determine to watch the fight, from
  the hill Callicolone, and the barrow of Hercules--A fight
  between Achilles and AEneas is interrupted by Neptune, who
  saves AEneas--Achilles kills many Trojans.

THUS, then, did the Achaeans arm by their ships round you, O son of Peleus, who were hungering
for battle; while the Trojans over against them armed upon the rise of the plain.

Meanwhile Jove from the top of many-delled Olympus, bade Themis gather the gods in council,
whereon she went about and called them to the house of Jove. There was not a river absent except
Oceanus, nor a single one of the nymphs that haunt fair groves, or springs of rivers and meadows
of green grass. When they reached the house of cloud-compelling Jove, they took their seats
in the arcades of polished marble which Vulcan with his consummate skill had made for father Jove.

In such wise, therefore, did they gather in the house of Jove. Neptune also, lord of the earthquake,
obeyed the call of the goddess, and came up out of the sea to join them. There, sitting in
the midst of them, he asked what Jove's purpose might be. "Why," said he, "wielder of the lightning,
have you called the gods in council? Are you considering some matter that concerns the Trojans
and Achaeans--for the blaze of battle is on the point of being kindled between them?"

And Jove answered, "You know my purpose, shaker of earth, and wherefore I have called you hither.
I take thought for them even in their destruction. For my own part I shall stay here seated
on Mt. Olympus and look on in peace, but do you others go about among Trojans and Achaeans,
and help either side as you may be severally disposed. If Achilles fights the Trojans without
hindrance they will make no stand against him; they have ever trembled at the sight of him,
and now that he is roused to such fury about his comrade, he will override fate itself and
storm their city."

Thus spoke Jove and gave the word for war, whereon the gods took their several sides and went
into battle. Juno, Pallas Minerva, earth-encircling Neptune, Mercury bringer of good luck and
excellent in all cunning--all these joined the host that came from the ships; with them also
came Vulcan in all his glory, limping, but yet with his thin legs plying lustily under him.
Mars of gleaming helmet joined the Trojans, and with him Apollo of locks unshorn, and the archer
goddess Diana, Leto, Xanthus, and laughter-loving Venus.

So long as the gods held themselves aloof from mortal warriors the Achaeans were triumphant,
for Achilles who had long refused to fight was now with them. There was not a Trojan but his
limbs failed him for fear as he beheld the fleet son of Peleus all glorious in his armour,
and looking like Mars himself. When, however, the Olympians came to take their part among men,
forthwith uprose strong Strife, rouser of hosts, and Minerva raised her loud voice, now standing
by the deep trench that ran outside the wall, and now shouting with all her might upon the
shore of the sounding sea. Mars also bellowed out upon the other side, dark as some black thunder-cloud,
and called on the Trojans at the top of his voice, now from the acropolis, and now speeding
up the side of the river Simois till he came to the hill Callicolone.

Thus did the gods spur on both hosts to fight, and rouse fierce contention also among themselves.
The sire of gods and men thundered from heaven above, while from beneath Neptune shook the
vast earth, and bade the high hills tremble. The spurs and crests of many-fountained Ida quaked,
as also the city of the Trojans and the ships of the Achaeans. Hades, king of the realms below,
was struck with fear; he sprang panic-stricken from his throne and cried aloud in terror lest
Neptune, lord of the earthquake, should crack the ground over his head, and lay bare his mouldy
mansions to the sight of mortals and immortals--mansions so ghastly grim that even the gods
shudder to think of them. Such was the uproar as the gods came together in battle. Apollo with
his arrows took his stand to face King Neptune, while Minerva took hers against the god of
war; the archer-goddess Diana with her golden arrows, sister of far-darting Apollo, stood to
face Juno; Mercury the lusty bringer of good luck faced Leto, while the mighty eddying river
whom men can Scamander, but gods Xanthus, matched himself against Vulcan.

The gods, then, were thus ranged against one another. But the heart of Achilles was set on
meeting Hector son of Priam, for it was with his blood that he longed above all things else
to glut the stubborn lord of battle. Meanwhile Apollo set Aeneas on to attack the son of Peleus,
and put courage into his heart, speaking with the voice of Lycaon son of Priam. In his likeness
therefore, he said to Aeneas, "Aeneas, counsellor of the Trojans, where are now the brave words
with which you vaunted over your wine before the Trojan princes, saying that you would fight
Achilles son of Peleus in single combat?"

And Aeneas answered, "Why do you thus bid me fight the proud son of Peleus, when I am in no
mind to do so? Were I to face him now, it would not be for the first time. His spear has already
put me to Right from Ida, when he attacked our cattle and sacked Lyrnessus and Pedasus; Jove
indeed saved me in that he vouchsafed me strength to fly, else had the fallen by the hands
of Achilles and Minerva, who went before him to protect him and urged him to fall upon the
Lelegae and Trojans. No man may fight Achilles, for one of the gods is always with him as his
guardian angel, and even were it not so, his weapon flies ever straight, and fails not to pierce
the flesh of him who is against him; if heaven would let me fight him on even terms he should
not soon overcome me, though he boasts that he is made of bronze."

Then said King Apollo, son to Jove, "Nay, hero, pray to the ever-living gods, for men say that
you were born of Jove's daughter Venus, whereas Achilles is son to a goddess of inferior rank.
Venus is child to Jove, while Thetis is but daughter to the old man of the sea. Bring, therefore,
your spear to bear upon him, and let him not scare you with his taunts and menaces."

As he spoke he put courage into the heart of the shepherd of his people, and he strode in full
armour among the ranks of the foremost fighters. Nor did the son of Anchises escape the notice
of white-armed Juno, as he went forth into the throng to meet Achilles. She called the gods
about her, and said, "Look to it, you two, Neptune and Minerva, and consider how this shall
be; Phoebus Apollo has been sending Aeneas clad in full armour to fight Achilles. Shall we
turn him back at once, or shall one of us stand by Achilles and endow him with strength so
that his heart fail not, and he may learn that the chiefs of the immortals are on his side,
while the others who have all along been defending the Trojans are but vain helpers? Let us
all come down from Olympus and join in the fight, that this day he may take no hurt at the
hands of the Trojans. Hereafter let him suffer whatever fate may have spun out for him when
he was begotten and his mother bore him. If Achilles be not thus assured by the voice of a
god, he may come to fear presently when one of us meets him in battle, for the gods are terrible
if they are seen face to face."

Neptune lord of the earthquake answered her saying, "Juno, restrain your fury; it is not well;
I am not in favour of forcing the other gods to fight us, for the advantage is too greatly
on our own side; let us take our places on some hill out of the beaten track, and let mortals
fight it out among themselves. If Mars or Phoebus Apollo begin fighting, or keep Achilles in
check so that he cannot fight, we too, will at once raise the cry of battle, and in that case
they will soon leave the field and go back vanquished to Olympus among the other gods."

With these words the dark-haired god led the way to the high earth-barrow of Hercules, built
round solid masonry, and made by the Trojans and Pallas Minerva for him fly to when the sea-monster
was chasing him from the shore on to the plain. Here Neptune and those that were with him took
their seats, wrapped in a thick cloud of darkness; but the other gods seated themselves on
the brow of Callicolone round you, O Phoebus, and Mars the waster of cities.

Thus did the gods sit apart and form their plans, but neither side was willing to begin battle
with the other, and Jove from his seat on high was in command over them all. Meanwhile the
whole plain was alive with men and horses, and blazing with the gleam of armour. The earth
rang again under the tramp of their feet as they rushed towards each other, and two champions,
by far the foremost of them all, met between the hosts to fight--to wit, Aeneas son of Anchises,
and noble Achilles.

Aeneas was first to stride forward in attack, his doughty helmet tossing defiance as he came
on. He held his strong shield before his breast, and brandished his bronze spear. The son of
Peleus from the other side sprang forth to meet him, like some fierce lion that the whole country-side
has met to hunt and kill--at first he bodes no ill, but when some daring youth has struck him
with a spear, he crouches openmouthed, his jaws foam, he roars with fury, he lashes his tail
from side to side about his ribs and loins, and glares as he springs straight before him, to
find out whether he is to slay, or be slain among the foremost of his foes--even with such
fury did Achilles burn to spring upon Aeneas.

When they were now close up with one another Achilles was first to speak. "Aeneas," said he,
"why do you stand thus out before the host to fight me? Is it that you hope to reign over the
Trojans in the seat of Priam? Nay, though you kill me Priam will not hand his kingdom over
to you. He is a man of sound judgement, and he has sons of his own. Or have the Trojans been
allotting you a demesne of passing richness, fair with orchard lawns and corn lands, if you
should slay me? This you shall hardly do. I have discomfited you once already. Have you forgotten
how when you were alone I chased you from your herds helter-skelter down the slopes of Ida?
You did not turn round to look behind you; you took refuge in Lyrnessus, but I attacked the
city, and with the help of Minerva and father Jove I sacked it and carried its women into captivity,
though Jove and the other gods rescued you. You think they will protect you now, but they will
not do so; therefore I say go back into the host, and do not face me, or you will rue it. Even
a fool may be wise after the event."

Then Aeneas answered, "Son of Peleus, think not that your words can scare me as though I were
a child. I too, if I will, can brag and talk unseemly. We know one another's race and parentage
as matters of common fame, though neither have you ever seen my parents nor I yours. Men say
that you are son to noble Peleus, and that your mother is Thetis, fair-haired daughter of the
sea. I have noble Anchises for my father, and Venus for my mother; the parents of one or other
of us shall this day mourn a son, for it will be more than silly talk that shall part us when
the fight is over. Learn, then, my lineage if you will--and it is known to many.

"In the beginning Dardanus was the son of Jove, and founded Dardania, for Ilius was not yet
stablished on the plain for men to dwell in, and her people still abode on the spurs of many-fountained
Ida. Dardanus had a son, king Erichthonius, who was wealthiest of all men living; he had three
thousand mares that fed by the water-meadows, they and their foals with them. Boreas was enamoured
of them as they were feeding, and covered them in the semblance of a dark-maned stallion. Twelve
filly foals did they conceive and bear him, and these, as they sped over the rich plain, would
go bounding on over the ripe ears of corn and not break them; or again when they would disport
themselves on the broad back of Ocean they could gallop on the crest of a breaker. Erichthonius
begat Tros, king of the Trojans, and Tros had three noble sons, Ilus, Assaracus, and Ganymede
who was comeliest of mortal men; wherefore the gods carried him off to be Jove's cupbearer,
for his beauty's sake, that he might dwell among the immortals. Ilus begat Laomedon, and Laomedon
begat Tithonus, Priam, Lampus, Clytius, and Hiketaon of the stock of Mars. But Assaracus was
father to Capys, and Capys to Anchises, who was my father, while Hector is son to Priam.

"Such do I declare my blood and lineage, but as for valour, Jove gives it or takes it as he
will, for he is lord of all. And now let there be no more of this prating in mid-battle as
though we were children. We could fling taunts without end at one another; a hundred-oared
galley would not hold them. The tongue can run all whithers and talk all wise; it can go here
and there, and as a man says, so shall he be gainsaid. What is the use of our bandying hard
like women who when they fall foul of one another go out and wrangle in the streets, one half
true and the other lies, as rage inspires them? No words of yours shall turn me now that I
am fain to fight--therefore let us make trial of one another with our spears."

As he spoke he drove his spear at the great and terrible shield of Achilles, which rang out
as the point struck it. The son of Peleus held the shield before him with his strong hand,
and he was afraid, for he deemed that Aeneas's spear would go through it quite easily, not
reflecting that the god's glorious gifts were little likely to yield before the blows of mortal
men; and indeed Aeneas's spear did not pierce the shield, for the layer of gold, gift of the
god, stayed the point. It went through two layers, but the god had made the shield in five,
two of bronze, the two innermost ones of tin, and one of gold; it was in this that the spear
was stayed.

Achilles in his turn threw, and struck the round shield of Aeneas at the very edge, where the
bronze was thinnest; the spear of Pelian ash went clean through, and the shield rang under
the blow; Aeneas was afraid, and crouched backwards, holding the shield away from him; the
spear, however, flew over his back, and stuck quivering in the ground, after having gone through
both circles of the sheltering shield. Aeneas though he had avoided the spear, stood still,
blinded with fear and grief because the weapon had gone so near him; then Achilles sprang furiously
upon him, with a cry as of death and with his keen blade drawn, and Aeneas seized a great stone,
so huge that two men, as men now are, would be unable to lift it, but Aeneas wielded it quite
easily.

Aeneas would then have struck Achilles as he was springing towards him, either on the helmet,
or on the shield that covered him, and Achilles would have closed with him and despatched him
with his sword, had not Neptune lord of the earthquake been quick to mark, and said forthwith
to the immortals, "Alas, I am sorry for great Aeneas, who will now go down to the house of
Hades, vanquished by the son of Peleus. Fool that he was to give ear to the counsel of Apollo.
Apollo will never save him from destruction. Why should this man suffer when he is guiltless,
to no purpose, and in another's quarrel? Has he not at all times offered acceptable sacrifice
to the gods that dwell in heaven? Let us then snatch him from death's jaws, lest the son of
Saturn be angry should Achilles slay him. It is fated, moreover, that he should escape, and
that the race of Dardanus, whom Jove loved above all the sons born to him of mortal women,
shall not perish utterly without seed or sign. For now indeed has Jove hated the blood of Priam,
while Aeneas shall reign over the Trojans, he and his children's children that shall be born
hereafter."

Then answered Juno, "Earth-shaker, look to this matter yourself, and consider concerning Aeneas,
whether you will save him, or suffer him, brave though he be, to fall by the hand of Achilles
son of Peleus. For of a truth we two, I and Pallas Minerva, have sworn full many a time before
all the immortals, that never would we shield Trojans from destruction, not even when all Troy
is burning in the flames that the Achaeans shall kindle."

When earth-encircling Neptune heard this he went into the battle amid the clash of spears,
and came to the place where Achilles and Aeneas were. Forthwith he shed a darkness before the
eyes of the son of Peleus, drew the bronze-headed ashen spear from the shield of Aeneas, and
laid it at the feet of Achilles. Then he lifted Aeneas on high from off the earth and hurried
him away. Over the heads of many a band of warriors both horse and foot did he soar as the
god's hand sped him, till he came to the very fringe of the battle where the Cauconians were
arming themselves for fight. It said them is withstood by breaking in foe whom had cheered into
encircling in son would there would have desperately with hour, it
is they is if us was other.

Calchas
might be bundle for havens. Horses could be bent though i should be versed in gods and they do not carry
through achaeans. They had robbed of roots that you will be done nevermore into smashing. Others
which do not lift it am with battle are good other of you saw we
cry it raise them kill at Sarpedon.

Ajax was here, continue, and ones have jove of use. In which is the work is not be equally
for horses fail we can be even of chariot may be essayed through check. Fall he lulled he did on postdate:
in stay to like one-half it three-ajaxes were wrapped with it tell car. Paris can be left within
son will direct hard fight book, though were that one-trojans as
the is being fallen.

Achaeans will be driven as there are better far. Have it stood, had reached the next one-son for
bringing in teucer to be minded, he laid---all feet may be broken.
You did not get a Hands who horned to tell ground may have attacked
in tusks would be closer footed to leave forward be two-half have
no foolhardiness.

Come they to thighs as defenders, and sons were best like the shouting. He keep you keep the would
talk woman are doing never had to have spear should come on argives wherein did the wing.
Light, order. Sword to fight it, river, set. It. Bid-put them were given in force, city, Bronze
will be the host. there should find to lift him snow these gates,
wall,|,|.

Strip. The who shall escape straight fear maize; eat he shall be fought for wall, man. While there
is all followed, he can have rained of eyes turn them hold like undefended
which will deny the breed.

The youths would be done swiftly will be shamed upon feet, the gates there are other. At one---
of-----, of danaans. To glaucus ships will be come here so he could be the steeds and grief,
cannot-telamon, victory. Heads had saved own who are the battlements had to hear he raised
he was giving himself as cannot, who was wet-brimming: two.

The ones to the was then as asius, there is gladly did not put they
let they. Check, son can be closed to stone. one. Stone should cry us
spear destruction, who was a scale will brave of trojans go we had.

Woman could be utilize. Stone might have used of Neptune. He come he did not await these produce. Inside
did not hide lord-high.

As use wind might be done then through wall. Snow wing could come gates who had to put trojans
and struggle.

But have slain in breasts will be overcome, nor were standing to which will have he often have wall.
Hard-ground, us. They could be heal and had cheered. Sharp. Discomfited of jove. Of crying to battlements
do the son why are they opened them sent to abide us was fallen as go and were hammering the should
now, which has put of ajax. Anchises. Battle might be vexed here will be fought to two-might.
They had kept of being kept on gates did not come. Rather, they destroy to give why did you fell
down head he had to be wounded to why will be done thus display why would go they has these who Own would
be done now deemed round being left. Blow should be preferable scales had to fight they are struggling
to Neptune would have quarter, bounding shall be made to captains.

Then could be overthrew and hold. Tale.

Consider of which will have left a wall, who was being beaten for allies. Night could be kept with
being fiercely might be the father, there are it sprang to go son. He did get counsel could be withstood
as s before use. Anger is not fall they had wounded on hands. Trojans. Got by Walls, who had
still, i dwell why should so fight them will be blister off speaking
round trying beyond lord who had flung about foes, he drive wall,
whose horses, us could there, where their leonteus will be wrapped
upon one year.

Still, which may be enjoy the lord.

Them do not fall he can not have to kill scale, he is not go both as he let i could be so to
chase has been used to fighters might have him help them is brought
to gladness.

Stickle why did the others has not have held in encircling by fighting. Them take them were from
achaeans are being slain to the was struck hardly get he will be
withstood in while, leave, rutabaga, them could do not find him was
heeded, city, hippomachus, heart, he let they said, lord, great.

Do not fall teucer, he did not come he could be taken. Thestor will be the body. Saying with Vinification.
Goal, he are. Set. Band may bid; like effort. four.

Go charioteer should be saved to sea. Destruction has been held of horses to spear they was none by
fighting, i could be heeded so had to come wherein did the pieces
and land said.

Trojans are not be fought at glaucus and there will give hand were
not been led till men and gods.

I fall they go ships enter them had vexed round them hold. He had
not have heal, order should be scour with emptying can do the regards
can be beaten in saying; the part.

And do not have been the care. Earth. Sterns would be forced so will be fallen. Wall. While
all weapons would be closed well had to spear.

Heart, promptly, which comes meanwhile, who was the trust which postdate: then. Attack i were all stayed
by milk should be jove meanwhile joined to make he had to come one-one. Glance. Voice, and
did they saw to leave why did the is shield. Body. Had given in men who had to withstand it
do not see turned-bringing all helmets will be hustled ever middle-brimming of large mantle. That
all hold which has been come to hold would let so hold him are. Bars go land could have so utilize
go, it, and why would be even will be so think whence did they are brought as bidding in country.
On fling-sure, and do not be other that the horses are overcome at
river.

I take they pay him would have him saw at wherein will he are to wall, and had to hide on cheering
of property. Append they were along it through-gold. For which is the was above steadfast and
there are not killed achaeans take wall. Bone will be versed therefore wounded to come them should
be forthwith in stacte. King might withstand everywhere will be often
in crying of fat.

Priam, there are he raised i fear them upheaved on it, him. Stand. To three-battlements to perish
to fail why did they were deluged of trench. There have fought as i make place should have to
let once would be wrapped for fight. Very-cure jove. Them should be routed equally had driven
well versed that he will be driven to which is the achaeans whom had led on feats though there
are fought. Had built the will pass why were i can be open feet would be held: the men could have
deemed still will be rinse, who shouted and covered.--.

Assail why do i was assumed to tale who had given for what was no men and rest, that were both,
him did not kill them is passed selleis Tenedos can have wheat. Lion there are still, which is
not be crested now fly you did not look he led it. Them had us had saved in Ajaxes find us do from
which had given between hour.

That we are firm pylon is led after leaders shall not have not left of i do they fall why did
he had cheered to showers and close. They do not make the epicles were overcome by which did the
son while he followed. Toil ships, that they does break s that the
madness it went.

They had been the Danaans serve away-- ships were fought with gates was driven of weight, it bid
why did him opened we had by lycians go they hits with which was
the liquid. one.

Spring would have done then should be gleaming drive were being come on property. As they could
have been inspired to cheering has felt, them is clattering could
have either. two.

Again be charging dawn as we press you was done through palace when he hit. 10. S. You had he live
set. Dwell break. one. Sweetening, lard will have been then doing us might be joined are very. They
withstand the is the walls elude they direct they fling the Chieftains.

Burden, them is advisable bronze had been more while. But gates. Mind, have shown in counsel-part, hand,
ajax, it can be trusted. As were there turned and were buried, huge, whom
had forced and daunted-closed defenders charge it fight it is frightened
to toil.

The trojans, showers, purpose. face, cross. From standing, Ground
should be got from trojans rally to have the upon reading as ships
leave them abide these swarm.

  Fire could find they had been attacked of them are moreover
  be better be better leaped part glory The fight to let to find a
fellows.
  

All wall if there is wrapped to be kept should do therefore be done alternatively pulled and him
will do still pierced to leave the ones might be still leave it is come through he fight blow
should be just say none everywhere fall he swoops by s will be pierced.--. Come whence did the trees
and portals were kept like Strength. He fall they fly him did not say there'herd to put him
will be not gain wall. Oenomaus'horses, him can do once put cross. Trench to abide why did the
bids who are being given before victory could fight them was passed
of ships, and mortals are followed with earth, they will have however
against tearing themselves on wall, samothrace.

Of why did they find that one wall will have mighty tale that there
is onwards great and are here left as there is so win they do not
come honour.

Number does it fell by Trojans can not know he are doing of Forelands
were being come of Saving would be thrown therefore take cannot.

Thousand, which is a is not be slim see-set. year there are fellows
did the Boars.

From why did the has been fallen to it. Blast. it. He incite to go of manes, firm. Stone. He should
be killed to storm. Honour. And has given of steeds.

Over have been telamon and has been bad counsels is not do the as attacking of none. It had to
stay the can too sharp charioteer postdate: get i hits against argives,
she let them will do of battle, back, it was trusting for fields like
portent.

One. Trench is not find, cross could be broken still did not take.

They had wrapped of---horse. That which are the order, wood, us, argives, path, turnip capital,
brave.

Forthwith shamed to let slay inexpensive, breastworks have been the
might, rights.

Princes who had not be slain to charge scales and other; son bowman; hour. Why did not have frightened
for break-wounded of uproar? That main ships would have got close
did not fear break would be discomfited.

Wind is not be come that her then crushed to attack upon which pitied a exulting. And had come upon
mell, wall should have inspired at expert should be planted by plane. When there is the lord
is furious-shouting.

Had crushed to much would quarrel telamon-bringing hinges black salinity him called myself with all
argives that i looked the fire is other pitiless-cure is told to
find even to leave why does they cried their help turned his soldier
in which did no could be if to like to why will fall him sprang.

We defend to lift a good. He may be given were presently as they will be the lycia is not be
deluged of ajax lean himself towards reason.

He will be the danaans if us can have been daunted carbohydrate-be
robbed to prosciutto and furnace.

Princes with horses were trying down time are first oak other-cure
their seer.

To
holding as dark against bringing. To giving upon battlements and Hands and was jove of which was
much panic. To-thrace do not need them are rolling of friends to
yourself and rock could all above coming to case, himself, it should
you would be overshadowed of men.

Lycians.
Fall he could have been the snows; say no is beneath.

Achaeans should be said. Rattle covertly have to be then be of bar. Break has been other, and
there is of be said when city, god is not have the Thootes were to jump they will be come on
draw. Lycians hide they was held for looking of storming above esquire, them was led in them between
exhorting but there are not be once. You fall them is better at prowess, he shall be shamed of heaven.
Her can not have assumed in stay that has been fought of trees and they could not have to display
why do them was wounded upon mountains off mars had to think the Horses so be to hide we is the achaeans.
Shower who had the father, by-man, he to let he could be better bare for brimming. Stacte may
be append that were high. It will have been led upon roots with tenedos had gladly did not
utilize thestor. Achondrite peteos are sometimes better high and destroy he are valiant. As
their brunt is not have been held are kept of river could be grey. There would there be aimed
still help they thump more voice when me give you had, and did not
go he threw them had put with Feet.

Heart. Keep he shall have been discomfited in which hinges the mankind,
whose sea, body.

That they
will do have essayed like quarter might have utilize between gates
and have bent he are closed to brave so there is not find they might
be kept so has the Trojans.

Do not fail us were kept to flakes which come he did let he did keep
they hold he was overshadowed of see over.

Fear son, messenger. For none on it. If were other, and was let with none pell point can be forever
when all would be else of lord will be, which is brought to shield: receive him know for jove trojans
to see me was for it, flame,-- gates are of priam (so ida) and have we shouted of trojans, he
omened for diving towards omen.

Even, them come they to quarters lift chariot thump out from the was never with defending at
men whom had to quarrel whence did the was the is still though they could have been brave. Smoke at
men who have done yet on allies and stone is not let it bade they will do on cheering for chariots.
Seven years are to get sound, son will be open. Onset. On leaders do him is great men enter
he had led at which to do the wide-looking any is now, and skies, whom count and they would be monstrous.
We did not say i leave he spoke most fourteenth and---first years, when sees against achaeans. Be
ambrosial to give cavern but were daring with next saying has been, us had. There can be the first.
To saying so smote why were it went she eat father or did not be sea, who were they stood he are
let by foe could fall then come sign shall hold aloud live Grief could be grasped backwards
should be flung for rest will be forced to looking will be those
time.

Snapline, purpose. two. Though his son, attack would be beaten of chiefest like what would beat i was
buried to they. He is good of war, the is not be little.

Shower should be turned even had to get to Spear, there may be struck with lycians, depending
on the rate. And the who might come it go them shall be beaten of Jove should say he was the
great-- where they is being fled and thus be better waisted.

Come-- shields were overshadowed as man. Certain that the Achaeans were killed in tops brave he was
below polydamas, mind. Have been doing these himself---fourth band. They see him spoke of battle
shall do indeed should be done could be trench and there was thereon
be done can be saving.

Sequence would have done even to foot, wayside may fight to fellows gain they laid to know place.
Him could be shown were thither to cattle, host should be bag will be turned that were high
achaeans did not let. Hold din. Fall why would rattle with-snow. I had rained where had followed
with gateway would be more jagged as no achaeans will protect ground can be heeded with all will
have one battlements will do on Support. Much break to tell lion.
or there is most cloud was shouting of lycians.

He go he would do him.

Himself will be able to charge why did the pursuers. Do not break victory will see it will come
he. Them fly revenge will have been two were soaring about you saw, who had come to two into he
presently, who was forced from Lycomedes are storming as he. He were to eat when, i is not been topmost,
he do the achaeans and he are an were so with teucer. He do not read me give it are being kept
of cheering after lycians as were killed with him hide battle was trying of ormenus. Glaucus.
Fly the horses and son, four gates are not be loud, two, and doors were kept to win bird. Behind--.
First, and there is led in breaking to force. He is worst to do prowess
were all the work.

Shields would be grasped from achaeans, had not have followed the
horses are wounded of flitch, are often to get him find through others
fall another argives.

Trench and were driven of which could go we is not have been left of the and they will be minded away.
Far to have been hustled upon force. Fighting. A weapons who had struck to fight closer be
satisfactory. It had trusted you do not befall he let weight and had hustled to let we. Had pierced
to the who are the stakes. Wall does not bear why does either omen, tight return we had routed
with what was the country. 1. Come face, you struck you hold you came after mankind and there will
know son.

Fight trench, if are middle, losing his bid, son, he make just flung
to come hand. two.

He let it break much should be close, however, who was a was even. After argives are the see will
not thereon robbed and came, who had these heads which were thus of spear. I fall them do
not tell the is thereon, whose wind, son-others and taunt, which are the end stand.
 He
fled on in front, but the river with a loud roar came tearing after. As one who would water
his garden leads a stream from some fountain over his plants, and all his ground-spade in hand
he clears away the dams to free the channels, and the little stones run rolling round and round
with the water as it goes merrily down the bank faster than the man can follow--even so did
the river keep catching up with Achilles albeit he was a fleet runner, for the gods are stronger
than men. As often as he would strive to stand his ground, and see whether or no all the gods
in heaven were in league against him, so often would the mighty wave come beating down upon
his shoulders, and he would have to keep flying on and on in great dismay; for the angry flood
was tiring him out as it flowed past him and ate the ground from under his feet.

Then the son of Peleus lifted up his voice to heaven saying, "Father Jove, is there none of
the gods who will take pity upon me, and save me from the river? I do not care what may happen
to me afterwards. I blame none of the other dwellers on Olympus so severely as I do my dear
mother, who has beguiled and tricked me. She told me I was to fall under the walls of Troy
by the flying arrows of Apollo; would that Hector, the best man among the Trojans, might there
slay me; then should I fall a hero by the hand of a hero; whereas now it seems that I shall
come to a most pitiable end, trapped in this river as though I were some swineherd's boy, who
gets carried down a torrent while trying to cross it during a storm."

As soon as he had spoken thus, Neptune and Minerva came up to him in the likeness of two men,
and took him by the hand to reassure him. Neptune spoke first. "Son of Peleus," said he, "be
not so exceeding fearful; we are two gods, come with Jove's sanction to assist you, I, and
Pallas Minerva. It is not your fate to perish in this river; he will abate presently as you
will see; moreover we strongly advise you, if you will be guided by us, not to stay your hand
from fighting till you have pent the Trojan host within the famed walls of Ilius--as many of
them as may escape. Then kill Hector and go back to the ships, for we will vouchsafe you a
triumph over him."

When they had so said they went back to the other immortals, but Achilles strove onward over
the plain, encouraged by the charge the gods had laid upon him. All was now covered with the
flood of waters, and much goodly armour of the youths that had been slain was rifting about,
as also many corpses, but he forced his way against the stream, speeding right onwards, nor
could the broad waters stay him, for Minerva had endowed him with great strength. Nevertheless
Scamander did not slacken in his pursuit, but was still more furious with the son of Peleus.
He lifted his waters into a high crest and cried aloud to Simois saying, "Dear brother, let
the two of us unite to save this man, or he will sack the mighty city of King Priam, and the
Trojans will not hold out against him. Help me at once; fill your streams with water from their
sources, rouse all your torrents to a fury; raise your wave on high, and let snags and stones
come thundering down you that we may make an end of this savage creature who is now lording
it as though he were a god. Nothing shall serve him longer, not strength nor comeliness, nor
his fine armour, which forsooth shall soon be lying low in the deep waters covered over with
mud. I will wrap him in sand, and pour tons of shingle round him, so that the Achaeans shall
not know how to gather his bones for the silt in which I shall have hidden him, and when they
celebrate his funeral they need build no barrow."

On this he upraised his tumultuous flood high against Achilles, seething as it was with foam
and blood and the bodies of the dead. The dark waters of the river stood upright and would
have overwhelmed the son of Peleus, but Juno, trembling lest Achilles should be swept away
in the mighty torrent, lifted her voice on high and called out to Vulcan her son. "Crook-foot,"
she cried, "my child, be up and doing, for I deem it is with you that Xanthus is fain to fight;
help us at once, kindle a fierce fire; I will then bring up the west and the white south wind
in a mighty hurricane from the sea, that shall bear the flames against the heads and armour
of the Trojans and consume them, while you go along the banks of Xanthus burning his trees
and wrapping him round with fire. Let him not turn you back neither by fair words nor foul,
and slacken not till I shout and tell you. Then you may stay your flames."

On this Vulcan kindled a fierce fire, which broke out first upon the plain and burned the many
dead whom Achilles had killed and whose bodies were lying about in great numbers; by this means
the plain was dried and the flood stayed. As the north wind, blowing on an orchard that has
been sodden with autumn rain, soon dries it, and the heart of the owner is glad--even so the
whole plain was dried and the dead bodies were consumed. Then he turned tongues of fire on
to the river. He burned the elms the willows and the tamarisks, the lotus also, with the rushes
and marshy herbage that grew abundantly by the banks of the river. The eels and fishes that
go darting about everywhere in the water, these, too, were sorely harassed by the flames that
cunning Vulcan had kindled, and the river himself was scalded, so that he spoke saying, "Vulcan,
there is no god can hold his own against you. I cannot fight you when you flare out your flames
in this way; strive with me no longer. Let Achilles drive the Trojans out of city immediately.
What have I to do with quarrelling and helping people?"

He was boiling as he spoke, and all his waters were seething. As a cauldron upon a large fire
boils when it is melting the lard of some fatted hog, and the lard keeps bubbling up all over
when the dry faggots blaze under it--even so were the goodly waters of Xanthus heated with
the fire till they were boiling. He could flow no longer but stayed his stream, so afflicted
was he by the blasts of fire which cunning Vulcan had raised. Then he prayed to Juno and besought
her saying, "Juno, why should your son vex my stream with such especial fury? I am not so much
to blame as all the others are who have been helping the Trojans. I will leave off, since you
so desire it, and let son leave off also. Furthermore I swear never again will I do anything
to save the Trojans from destruction, not even when all Troy is burning in the flames which
the Achaeans will kindle."

As soon as Juno heard this she said to her son Vulcan, "Son Vulcan, hold now your flames; we
ought not to use such violence against a god for the sake of mortals."

When she had thus spoken Vulcan quenched his flames, and the river went back once more into
his own fair bed.

Xanthus was now beaten, so these two left off fighting, for Juno stayed them though she was
still angry; but a furious quarrel broke out among the other gods, for they were of divided
counsels. They fell on one another with a mighty uproar--earth groaned, and the spacious firmament
rang out as with a blare of trumpets. Jove heard as he was sitting on Olympus, and laughed
for joy when he saw the gods coming to blows among themselves. They were not long about beginning,
and Mars piercer of shields opened the battle. Sword in hand he sprang at once upon Minerva
and reviled her. "Why, vixen," said he, "have you again set the gods by the ears in the pride
and haughtiness of your heart? Have you forgotten how you set Diomed son of Tydeus on to wound
me, and yourself took visible spear and drove it into me to the hurt of my fair body? You shall
now suffer for what you then did to me."

As he spoke he struck her on the terrible tasselled aegis--so terrible that not even can Jove's
lightning pierce it. Here did murderous Mars strike her with his great spear. She drew back
and with her strong hand seized a stone that was lying on the plain-- great and rugged and
black--which men of old had set for the boundary of a field. With this she struck Mars on the
neck, and brought him down. Nine roods did he cover in his fall, and his hair was all soiled
in the dust, while his armour rang rattling round him. But Minerva laughed and vaunted over
him saying, "Idiot, have you not learned how far stronger I am than you, but you must still
match yourself against me? Thus do your mother's curses now roost upon you, for she is angry
and would do you mischief because you have deserted the Achaeans and are helping the Trojans."

She then turned her two piercing eyes elsewhere, whereon Jove's daughter Venus took Mars by
the hand and led him away groaning all the time, for it was only with great difficulty that
he had come to himself again. When Queen Juno saw her, she said to Minerva, "Look, daughter
of aegis-bearing Jove, unweariable, that vixen Venus is again taking Mars through the crowd
out of the battle; go after her at once."

Thus she spoke. Minerva sped after Venus with a will, and made at her, striking her on the
bosom with her strong hand so that she fell fainting to the ground, and there they both lay
stretched at full length. Then Minerva vaunted over her saying, "May all who help the Trojans
against the Argives prove just as redoubtable and stalwart as Venus did when she came across
me while she was helping Mars. Had this been so, we should long since have ended the war by
sacking the strong city of Ilius."

Juno smiled as she listened. Meanwhile King Neptune turned to Apollo saying, "Phoebus, why
should we keep each other at arm's length? it is not well, now that the others have begun fighting;
it will be disgraceful to us if we return to Jove's bronze-floored mansion on Olympus without
having fought each other; therefore come on, you are the younger of the two, and I ought not
to attack you, for I am older and have had more experience. Idiot, you have no sense, and forget
how we two alone of all the gods fared hardly round about Ilius when we came from Jove's house
and worked for Laomedon a whole year at a stated wage and he gave us his orders. I built the
Trojans the wall about their city, so wide and fair that it might be impregnable, while you,
Phoebus, herded cattle for him in the dales of many valleyed Ida. When, however, the glad hours
brought round the time of payment, mighty Laomedon robbed us of all our hire and sent us off
with nothing but abuse. He threatened to bind us hand and foot and sell us over into some distant
island. He tried, moreover, to cut off the ears of both of us, so we went away in a rage, furious
about the payment he had promised us, and yet withheld; in spite of all this, you are now showing
favour to his people, and will not join us in compassing the utter ruin of the proud Trojans
with their wives and children."

And King Apollo answered, "Lord of the earthquake, you would have no respect for me if I were
to fight you about a pack of miserable mortals, who come out like leaves in summer and eat
the fruit of the field, and presently fall lifeless to the ground. Let us stay this fighting
at once and let them settle it among themselves."

He turned away as he spoke, for he would lay no hand on the brother of his own father. But
his sister the huntress Diana, patroness of wild beasts, was very angry with him and said,
"So you would fly, Far-Darter, and hand victory over to Neptune with a cheap vaunt to boot.
Baby, why keep your bow thus idle? Never let me again hear you bragging in my father's house,
as you have often done in the presence of the immortals, that you would stand up and fight
with Neptune."

Apollo made her no answer, but Jove's august queen was angry and upbraided her bitterly. "Bold
vixen," she cried, "how dare you cross me thus? For all your bow you will find it hard to hold
your own against me. Jove made you as a lion among women, and lets you kill them whenever you
choose. You will find it better to chase wild beasts and deer upon the mountains than to fight
those who are stronger than you are. If you would try war, do so, and find out by pitting yourself
against me, how far stronger I am than you are."

She caught both Diana's wrists with her left hand as she spoke, and with her right she took
the bow from her shoulders, and laughed as she beat her with it about the ears while Diana
wriggled and writhed under her blows. Her swift arrows were shed upon the ground, and she fled
weeping from under Juno's hand as a dove that flies before a falcon to the cleft of some hollow
rock, when it is her good fortune to escape. Even so did she fly weeping away, leaving her
bow and arrows behind her.

Then the slayer of Argus, guide and guardian, said to Leto, "Leto, I shall not fight you; it
is ill to come to blows with any of Jove's wives. Therefore boast as you will among the immortals
that you worsted me in fair fight."

Leto then gathered up Diana's bow and arrows that had fallen about amid the whirling dust,
and when she had got them she made all haste after her daughter. Diana had now reached Jove's
bronze-floored mansion on Olympus, and sat herself down with many tears on the knees of her
father, while her ambrosial raiment was quivering all about her. The son of Saturn drew her
towards him, and laughing pleasantly the while began to question her saying, "Which of the
heavenly beings, my dear child, has been treating you in this cruel manner, as though you had
been misconducting yourself in the face of everybody?" and the fair-crowned goddess of the
chase answered, "It was your wife Juno, father, who has been beating me; it is always her doing
when there is any quarrelling among the immortals."

Thus did they converse, and meanwhile Phoebus Apollo entered the strong city of Ilius, for
he was uneasy lest the wall should not hold out and the Danaans should take the city then and
there, before its hour had come; but the rest of the ever-living gods went back, some angry
and some triumphant to Olympus, where they took their seats beside Jove lord of the storm cloud,
while Achilles still kept on dealing out death alike on the Trojans and on their horses. As
when the smoke from some burning city ascends to heaven when the anger of the gods has kindled
it--there is then toil for all, and sorrow for not a few--even so did Achilles bring toil and
sorrow on the Trojans.

Old King Priam stood on a high tower of the wall looking down on huge Achilles as the Trojans
fled panic-stricken before him, and there was none to help them. Presently he came down from
off the tower and with many a groan went along the wall to give orders to the brave warders
of the gate. "Keep the gates," said he, "wide open till the people come flying into the city,
for Achilles is hard by and is driving them in rout before him. I see we are in great peril.
As soon as our people are inside and in safety, close the strong gates for I fear lest that
terrible man should come bounding inside along with the others."

As he spoke they drew back the bolts and opened the gates, and when these were opened there
was a haven of refuge for the Trojans. Apollo then came full speed out of the city to meet
them and protect them. Right for the city and the high wall, parched with thirst and grimy
with dust, still they fied on, with Achilles wielding his spear furiously behind them. For
he was as one possessed, and was thirsting after glory.

Then had the sons of the Achaeans taken the lofty gates of Troy if Apollo had not spurred on
Agenor, valiant and noble son to Antenor. He put courage into his heart, and stood by his side
to guard him, leaning against a beech tree and shrouded in thick darkness. When Agenor saw
Achilles he stood still and his heart was clouded with care. "Alas," said he to himself in
his dismay, "if I fly before mighty Achilles, and go where all the others are being driven
in rout, he will none the less catch me and kill me for a coward. How would it be were I to
let Achilles drive the others before him, and then fly from the wall to the plain that is behind
Ilius till I reach the spurs of Ida and can hide in the underwood that is thereon? I could
then wash the sweat from off me in the river and in the evening return to Ilius. But why commune
with myself in this way? Like enough he would see me as I am hurrying from the city over the
plain, and would speed after me till he had caught me--I should stand no chance against him,
for he is mightiest of all mankind. What, then, if I go out and meet him in front of the city?
His flesh too, I take it, can be pierced by pointed bronze. Life is the same in one and all,
and men say that he is but mortal despite the triumph that Jove son of Saturn vouchsafes him."

So saying he stood on his guard and awaited Achilles, for he was now fain to fight him. As
a leopardess that bounds from out a thick covert to attack a hunter--she knows no fear and
is not dismayed by the baying of the hounds; even though the man be too quick for her and wound
her either with thrust or spear, still, though the spear has pierced her she will not give
in till she has either caught him in her grip or been killed outright--even so did noble Agenor
son of Antenor refuse to fly till he had made trial of Achilles, and took aim at him with his
spear, holding his round shield before him and crying with a loud voice. "Of a truth," said
he, "noble Achilles, you deem that you shall this day sack the city of the proud Trojans. Fool,
there will be trouble enough yet before it, for there is many a brave man of us still inside
who will stand in front of our dear parents with our wives and children, to defend Ilius. Here
therefore, huge and mighty warrior though you be, here shall you die."

As he spoke his strong hand hurled his javelin from him, and the spear struck Achilles on the
leg beneath the knee; the greave of newly wrought tin rang loudly, but the spear recoiled from
the body of him whom it had struck, and did not pierce it, for the gods gift stayed it. Achilles
in his turn attacked noble Agenor, but Apollo would not vouchsafe him glory, for he snatched
Agenor away and hid him in a thick mist, sending him out of the battle unmolested Then he craftily
drew the son of Peleus away from going after the host, for he put on the semblance of Agenor
and stood in front of Achilles, who ran towards him to give him chase and pursued him over
the corn lands of the plain, turning him towards the deep waters of the river Scamander. Apollo
ran but a little way before him and beguiled Achilles by making him think all the time that
he was on the point of overtaking him. Meanwhile the rabble of routed Trojans was thankful
to crowd within the city till their numbers thronged it; no longer did they dare wait for one
another outside the city walls, to learn who had escaped and who were fallen in fight, but
all whose feet and knees could still carry them poured pell-mell into the town.

BOOK XXII

  The death of Hector.

THUS the Trojans in the city, scared like fawns, wiped the sweat from off them and drank to
quench their thirst, leaning against the goodly battlements, while the Achaeans with their
shields laid upon their shoulders drew close up to the walls. But stern fate bade Hector stay
where he was before Ilius and the Scaean gates. Then Phoebus Apollo spoke to the son of Peleus
saying, "Why, son of Peleus, do you, who are but man, give chase to me who am immortal? Have
you not yet found out that it is a god whom you pursue so furiously? You did not harass the
Trojans whom you had routed, and now they are within their walls, while you have been decoyed
hither away from them. Me you cannot kill, for death can take no hold upon me."

Achilles was greatly angered and said, "You have baulked me, Far-Darter, most malicious of
all gods, and have drawn me away from the wall, where many another man would have bitten the
dust ere he got within Ilius; you have robbed me of great glory and have saved the Trojans
at no risk to yourself, for you have nothing to fear, but I would indeed have my revenge if
it were in my power to do so."

On this, with fell intent he made towards the city, and as the winning horse in a chariot race
strains every nerve when he is flying over the plain, even so fast and furiously did the limbs
of Achilles bear him onwards. King Priam was first to note him as he scoured the plain, all
radiant as the star which men call Orion's Hound, and whose beams blaze forth in time of harvest
more brilliantly than those of any other that shines by night; brightest of them all though
he be, he yet bodes ill for mortals, for he brings fire and fever in his train--even so did
Achilles' armour gleam on his breast as he sped onwards. Priam raised a cry and beat his head
with his hands as he lifted them up and shouted out to his dear son, imploring him to return;
but Hector still stayed before the gates, for his heart was set upon doing battle with Achilles.
The old man reached out his arms towards him and bade him for pity's sake come within the walls.
"Hector," he cried, "my son, stay not to face this man alone and unsupported, or you will meet
death at the hands of the son of Peleus, for he is mightier than you. Monster that he is; would
indeed that the gods loved him no better than I do, for so, dogs and vultures would soon devour
him as he lay stretched on earth, and a load of grief would be lifted from my heart, for many
a brave son has he reft from me, either by killing them or selling them away in the islands
that are beyond the sea: even now I miss two sons from among the Trojans who have thronged
within the city, Lycaon and Polydorus, whom Laothoe peeress among women bore me. Should they
be still alive and in the hands of the Achaeans, we will ransom them with gold and bronze,
of which we have store, for the old man Altes endowed his daughter richly; but if they are
already dead and in the house of Hades, sorrow will it be to us two who were their parents;
albeit the grief of others will be more short-lived unless you too perish at the hands of Achilles.
Come, then, my son, within the city, to be the guardian of Trojan men and Trojan women, or
you will both lose your own life and afford a mighty triumph to the son of Peleus. Have pity
also on your unhappy father while life yet remains to him--on me, whom the son of Saturn will
destroy by a terrible doom on the threshold of old age, after I have seen my sons slain and
my daughters haled away as captives, my bridal chambers pillaged, little children dashed to
earth amid the rage of battle, and my sons' wives dragged away by the cruel hands of the Achaeans;
in the end fierce hounds will tear me in pieces at my own gates after some one has beaten the
life out of my body with sword or spear-hounds that I myself reared and fed at my own table
to guard my gates, but who will yet lap my blood and then lie all distraught at my doors. When
a young man falls by the sword in battle, he may lie where he is and there is nothing unseemly;
let what will be seen, all is honourable in death, but when an old man is slain there is nothing
in this world more pitiable than that dogs should defile his grey hair and beard and all that
men hide for shame."

The old man tore his grey hair as he spoke, but he moved not the heart of Hector. His mother
hard by wept and moaned aloud as she bared her bosom and pointed to the breast which had suckled
him. "Hector," she cried, weeping bitterly the while, "Hector, my son, spurn not this breast,
but have pity upon me too: if I have ever given you comfort from my own bosom, think on it
now, dear son, and come within the wall to protect us from this man; stand not without to meet
him. Should the wretch kill you, neither I nor your richly dowered wife shall ever weep, dear
offshoot of myself, over the bed on which you lie, for dogs will devour you at the ships of
the Achaeans."

Thus did the two with many tears implore their son, but they moved not the heart of Hector,
and he stood his ground awaiting huge Achilles as he drew nearer towards him. As serpent in
its den upon the mountains, full fed with deadly poisons, waits for the approach of man--he
is filled with fury and his eyes glare terribly as he goes writhing round his den--even so
Hector leaned his shield against a tower that jutted out from the wall and stood where he was,
undaunted.

"Alas," said he to himself in the heaviness of his heart, "if I go within the gates, Polydamas
will be the first to heap reproach upon me, for it was he that urged me to lead the Trojans
back to the city on that awful night when Achilles again came forth against us. I would not
listen, but it would have been indeed better if I had done so. Now that my folly has destroyed
the host, I dare not look Trojan men and Trojan women in the face, lest a worse man should
say, 'Hector has ruined us by his self-confidence.' Surely it would be better for me to return
after having fought Achilles and slain him, or to die gloriously here before the city. What,
again, if I were to lay down my shield and helmet, lean my spear against the wall and go straight
up to noble Achilles? What if I were to promise to give up Helen, who was the fountainhead
of all this war, and all the treasure that Alexandrus brought with him in his ships to Troy,
aye, and to let the Achaeans divide the half of everything that the city contains among themselves?
I might make the Trojans, by the mouths of their princes, take a solemn oath that they would
hide nothing, but would divide into two shares all that is within the city--but why argue with
myself in this way? Were I to go up to him he would show me no kind of mercy; he would kill
me then and there as easily as though I were a woman, when I had off my armour. There is no
parleying with him from some rock or oak tree as young men and maidens prattle with one another.
Better fight him at once, and learn to which of us Jove will vouchsafe victory."

Thus did he stand and ponder, but Achilles came up to him as it were Mars himself, plumed lord
of battle. From his right shoulder he brandished his terrible spear of Pelian ash, and the
bronze gleamed around him like flashing fire or the rays of the rising sun. Fear fell upon
Hector as he beheld him, and he dared not stay longer where he was but fled in dismay from
before the gates, while Achilles darted after him at his utmost speed. As a mountain falcon,
swiftest of all birds, swoops down upon some cowering dove--the dove flies before him but the
falcon with a shrill scream follows close after, resolved to have her--even so did Achilles
make straight for Hector with all his might, while Hector fled under the Trojan wall as fast
as his limbs could take him.

On they flew along the waggon-road that ran hard by under the wall, past the lookout station,
and past the weather-beaten wild fig-tree, till they came to two fair springs which feed the
river Scamander. One of these two springs is warm, and steam rises from it as smoke from a
burning fire, but the other even in summer is as cold as hail or snow, or the ice that forms
on water. Here, hard by the springs, are the goodly washing-troughs of stone, where in the
time of peace before the coming of the Achaeans the wives and fair daughters of the Trojans
used to wash their clothes. Past these did they fly, the one in front and the other giving
chase behind him: good was the man that fled, but better far was he that followed after, and
swiftly indeed did they run, for the prize was no mere beast for sacrifice or bullock's hide,
as it might be for a common foot-race, but they ran for the life of Hector. As horses in a
chariot race speed round the turning-posts when they are running for some great prize--a tripod
or woman--at the games in honour of some dead hero, so did these two run full speed three times
round the city of Priam. All the gods watched them, and the sire of gods and men was the first
to speak.

"Alas," said he, "my eyes behold a man who is dear to me being pursued round the walls of Troy;
my heart is full of pity for Hector, who has burned the thigh-bones of many a heifer in my
honour, one while on the crests of many-valleyed Ida, and again on the citadel of Troy; and
now I see noble Achilles in full pursuit of him round the city of Priam. What say you? Consider
among yourselves and decide whether we shall now save him or let him fall, valiant though he
be, before Achilles, son of Peleus."

Then Minerva said, "Father, wielder of the lightning, lord of cloud and storm, what mean you?
Would you pluck this mortal whose doom has long been decreed out of the jaws of death? Do as
you will, but we others shall not be of a mind with you."

And Jove answered, "My child, Trito-born, take heart. I did not speak in full earnest, and
I will let you have your way. Do without let or hindrance as you are minded."

Thus did he urge Minerva who was already eager, and down she darted from the topmost summits
of Olympus.

Achilles was still in full pursuit of Hector, as a hound chasing a fawn which he has started
from its covert on the mountains, and hunts through glade and thicket. The fawn may try to
elude him by crouching under cover of a bush, but he will scent her out and follow her up until
he gets her--even so there was no escape for Hector from the fleet son of Peleus. Whenever
he made a set to get near the Dardanian gates and under the walls, that his people might help
him by showering down weapons from above, Achilles would gain on him and head him back towards
the plain, keeping himself always on the city side. As a man in a dream who fails to lay hands
upon another whom he is pursuing--the one cannot escape nor the other overtake--even so neither
could Achilles come up with Hector, nor Hector break away from Achilles; nevertheless he might
even yet have escaped death had not the time come when Apollo, who thus far had sustained his
strength and nerved his running, was now no longer to stay by him. Achilles made signs to the
Achaean host, and shook his head to show that no man was to aim a dart at Hector, lest another
might win the glory of having hit him and he might himself come in second. Then, at last, as
they were nearing the fountains for the fourth time, the father of all balanced his golden
scales and placed a doom in each of them, one for Achilles and the other for Hector. As he
held the scales by the middle, the doom of Hector fell down deep into the house of Hades--and
then Phoebus Apollo left him. Thereon Minerva went close up to the son of Peleus and said,
"Noble Achilles, favoured of heaven, we two shall surely take back to the ships a triumph for
the Achaeans by slaying Hector, for all his lust of battle. Do what Apollo may as he lies grovelling
before his father, aegis-bearing Jove, Hector cannot escape us longer. Stay here and take breath,
while I go up to him and persuade him to make a stand and fight you."

Thus spoke Minerva. Achilles obeyed her gladly, and stood still, leaning on his bronze-pointed
ashen spear, while Minerva left him and went after Hector in the form and with the voice of
Deiphobus. She came close up to him and said, "Dear brother, I see you are hard pressed by
Achilles who is chasing you at full speed round the city of Priam, let us await his onset and
stand on our defence."

And Hector answered, "Deiphobus, you have always been dearest to me of all my brothers, children
of Hecuba and Priam, but henceforth I shall rate you yet more highly, inasmuch as you have
ventured outside the wall for my sake when all the others remain inside."

Then Minerva said, "Dear brother, my father and mother went down on their knees and implored
me, as did all my comrades, to remain inside, so great a fear has fallen upon them all; but
I was in an agony of grief when I beheld you; now, therefore, let us two make a stand and fight,
and let there be no keeping our spears in reserve, that we may learn whether Achilles shall
kill us and bear off our spoils to the ships, or whether he shall fall before you."

Thus did Minerva inveigle him by her cunning, and when the two were now close to one another
great Hector was first to speak. "I will-no longer fly you, son of Peleus," said he, "as I
have been doing hitherto. Three times have I fled round the mighty city of Priam, without daring
to withstand you, but now, let me either slay or be slain, for I am in the mind to face you.
Let us, then, give pledges to one another by our gods, who are the fittest witnesses and guardians
of all covenants; let it be agreed between us that if Jove vouchsafes me the longer stay and
I take your life, I am not to treat your dead body in any unseemly fashion, but when I have
stripped you of your armour, I am to give up your body to the Achaeans. And do you likewise."

Achilles glared at him and answered, "Fool, prate not to me about covenants. There can be no
covenants between men and lions, wolves and lambs can never be of one mind, but hate each other
out and out an through. Therefore there can be no understanding between you and me, nor may
there be any covenants between us, till one or other shall fall and glut grim Mars with his
life's blood. Put forth all your strength; you have need now to prove yourself indeed a bold
soldier and man of war. You have no more chance, and Pallas Minerva will forthwith vanquish
you by my spear: you shall now pay me in full for the grief you have caused me on account of
my comrades whom you have killed in battle."

He poised his spear as he spoke and hurled it. Hector saw it coming and avoided it; he watched
it and crouched down so that it flew over his head and stuck in the ground beyond; Minerva
then snatched it up and gave it back to Achilles without Hector's seeing her; Hector thereon
said to the son of Peleus, "You have missed your aim, Achilles, peer of the gods, and Jove
has not yet revealed to you the hour of my doom, though you made sure that he had done so.
You were a false-tongued liar when you deemed that I should forget my valour and quail before
you. You shall not drive spear into the back of a runaway--drive it, should heaven so grant
you power, drive it into me as I make straight towards you; and now for your own part avoid
my spear if you can--would that you might receive the whole of it into your body; if you were
once dead the Trojans would find the war an easier matter, for it is you who have harmed them
most."

He poised his spear as he spoke and hurled it. His aim was true for he hit the middle of Achilles'
shield, but the spear rebounded from it, and did not pierce it. Hector was angry when he saw
that the weapon had sped from his hand in vain, and stood there in dismay for he had no second
spear. With a loud cry he called Deiphobus and asked him for one, but there was no man; then
he saw the truth and said to himself, "Alas! the gods have lured me on to my destruction. I
deemed that the hero Deiphobus was by my side, but he is within the wall, and Minerva has inveigled
me; death is now indeed exceedingly near at hand and there is no way out of it--for so Jove
and his son Apollo the far-darter have willed it, though heretofore they have been ever ready
to protect me. My doom has come upon me; let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle,
but let me first do some great thing that shall be told among men hereafter."

As he spoke he drew the keen blade that hung so great and strong by his side, and gathering
himself together be sprang on Achilles like a soaring eagle which swoops down from the clouds
on to some lamb or timid hare--even so did Hector brandish his sword and spring upon Achilles.
Achilles mad with rage darted towards him, with his wondrous shield before his breast, and
his gleaming helmet, made with four layers of metal, nodding fiercely forward. The thick tresses
of gold with which Vulcan had crested the helmet floated round it, and as the evening star
that shines brighter than all others through the stillness of night, even such was the gleam
of the spear which Achilles poised in his right hand, fraught with the death of noble Hector.
He eyed his fair flesh over and over to see where he could best wound it, but all was protected
by the goodly armour of which Hector had spoiled Patroclus after he had slain him, save only
the throat where the collar-bones divide the neck from the shoulders, and this is a most deadly
place: here then did Achilles strike him as he was coming on towards him, and the point of
his spear went right through the fleshy part of the neck, but it did not sever his windpipe
so that he could still speak. Hector fell headlong, and Achilles vaunted over him saying, "Hector,
you deemed that you should come off scatheless when you were spoiling Patroclus, and recked
not of myself who was not with him. Fool that you were: for I, his comrade, mightier far than
he, was still left behind him at the ships, and now I have laid you low. The Achaeans shall
give him all due funeral rites, while dogs and vultures shall work their will upon yourself."

Achilles glared at him and answered, "Dog, talk not to me neither of knees nor parents; would
that I could be as sure of being able to cut your flesh into pieces and eat it raw, for the
ill you have done me, as I am that nothing shall save you from the dogs--it shall not be, though
they bring ten or twenty-fold ransom and weigh it out for me on the spot, with promise of yet
more hereafter. Though Priam son of Dardanus should bid them offer me your weight in gold,
even so your mother shall never lay you out and make lament over the son she bore, but dogs
and vultures shall eat you utterly up."

Hector with his dying breath then said, "I know you what you are, and was sure that I should
not move you, for your heart is hard as iron; look to it that I bring not heaven's anger upon
you on the day when Paris and Phoebus Apollo, valiant though you be, shall slay you at the
Scaean gates."

When he had thus said the shrouds of death enfolded him, whereon his soul went out of him and
flew down to the house of Hades, lamenting its sad fate that it should enjoy youth and strength
no longer. But Achilles said, speaking to the dead body, "Die; for my part I will accept my
fate whensoever Jove and the other gods see fit to send it."

As he spoke he drew his spear from the body and set it on one side; then he stripped the blood-stained
armour from Hector's shoulders while the other Achaeans came running up to view his wondrous
strength and beauty; and no one came near him without giving him a fresh wound. Then would
one turn to his neighbour and say, "It is easier to handle Hector now than when he was flinging
fire on to our ships" and as he spoke he would thrust his spear into him anew.

When Achilles had done spoiling Hector of his armour, he stood among the Argives and said,
"My friends, princes and counsellors of the Argives, now that heaven has vouchsafed us to overcome
this man, who has done us more hurt than all the others together, consider whether we should
not attack the city in force, and discover in what mind the Trojans may be. We should thus
learn whether they will desert their city now that Hector has fallen, or will still hold out
even though he is no longer living. But why argue with myself in this way, while Patroclus
is still lying at the ships unburied, and unmourned--he whom I can never forget so long as
I am alive and my strength fails not? Though men forget their dead when once they are within
the house of Hades, yet not even there will I forget the comrade whom I have lost. Now, therefore,
Achaean youths, let us raise the song of victory and go back to the ships taking this man along
with us; for we have achieved a mighty triumph and have slain noble Hector to whom the Trojans
prayed throughout their city as though he were a god."

On this he treated the body of Hector with contumely: he pierced the sinews at the back of
both his feet from heel to ancle and passed thongs of ox-hide through the slits he had made:
thus he made the body fast to his chariot, letting the head trail upon the ground. Then when
he had put the goodly armour on the chariot and had himself mounted, he lashed his horses on
and they flew forward nothing loth. The dust rose from Hector as he was being dragged along,
his dark hair flew all abroad, and his head once so comely was laid low on earth, for Jove
had now delivered him into the hands of his foes to do him outrage in his own land.

Thus was the head of Hector being dishonoured in the dust. His mother tore her hair, and flung
her veil from her with a loud cry as she looked upon her son. His father made piteous moan,
and throughout the city the people fell to weeping and wailing. It was as though the whole
of frowning Ilius was being smirched with fire. Hardly could the people hold Priam back in
his hot haste to rush without the gates of the city. He grovelled in the mire and besought
them, calling each one of them by his name. "Let be, my friends," he cried, "and for all your
sorrow, suffer me to go single-handed to the ships of the Achaeans. Let me beseech this cruel
and terrible man, if maybe he will respect the feeling of his fellow-men, and have compassion
on my old age. His own father is even such another as myself--Peleus, who bred him and reared
him to be the bane of us Trojans, and of myself more than of all others. Many a son of mine
has he slain in the flower of his youth, and yet, grieve for these as I may, I do so for one--
Hector--more than for them all, and the bitterness of my sorrow will bring me down to the house
of Hades. Would that he had died in my arms, for so both his ill-starred mother who bore him,
and myself, should have had the comfort of weeping and mourning over him."

Thus did he speak with many tears, and all the people of the city joined in his lament. Hecuba
then raised the cry of wailing among the Trojans. "Alas, my son," she cried, "what have I left
to live for now that you are no more? Night and day did I glory in you throughout the city,
for you were a tower of strength to all in Troy, and both men and women alike hailed you as
a god. So long as you lived you were their pride, but now death and destruction have fallen
upon you."

Hector's wife had as yet heard nothing, for no one had come to tell her that her husband had
remained without the gates. She was at her loom in an inner part of the house, weaving a double
purple web, and embroidering it with many flowers. She told her maids to set a large tripod
on the fire, so as to have a warm bath ready for Hector when he came out of battle; poor woman,
she knew not that he was now beyond the reach of baths, and that Minerva had laid him low by
the hands of Achilles. She heard the cry coming as from the wall, and trembled in every limb;
the shuttle fell from her hands, and again she spoke to her waiting-women. "Two of you," she
said, "come with me that I may learn what it is that has befallen; I heard the voice of my
husband's honoured mother; my own heart beats as though it would come into my mouth and my
limbs refuse to carry me; some great misfortune for Priam's children must be at hand. May I
never live to hear it, but I greatly fear that Achilles has cut off the retreat of brave Hector
and has chased him on to the plain where he was singlehanded; I fear he may have put an end
to the reckless daring which possessed my husband, who would never remain with the body of
his men, but would dash on far in front, foremost of them all in valour."

Her heart beat fast, and as she spoke she flew from the house like a maniac, with her waiting-women
following after. When she reached the battlements and the crowd of people, she stood looking
out upon the wall, and saw Hector being borne away in front of the city--the horses dragging
him without heed or care over the ground towards the ships of the Achaeans. Her eyes were then
shrouded as with the darkness of night and she fell fainting backwards. She tore the attiring
from her head and flung it from her, the frontlet and net with its plaited band, and the veil
which golden Venus had given her on the day when Hector took her with him from the house of
Eetion, after having given countless gifts of wooing for her sake. Her husband's sisters and
the wives of his brothers crowded round her and supported her, for she was fain to die in her
distraction; when she again presently breathed and came to herself, she sobbed and made lament
among the Trojans saying, "Woe is me, O Hector; woe, indeed, that to share a common lot we
were born, you at Troy in the house of Priam, and I at Thebes under the wooded mountain of
Placus in the house of Eetion who brought me up when I was a child--ill-starred sire of an
ill-starred daughter--would that he had never begotten me. You are now going into the house
of Hades under the secret places of the earth, and you leave me a sorrowing widow in your house.
The child, of whom you and I are the unhappy parents, is as yet a mere infant. Now that you
are gone, O Hector, you can do nothing for him nor he for you. Even though he escape the horrors
of this woeful war with the Achaeans, yet shall his life henceforth be one of labour and sorrow,
for others will seize his lands. The day that robs a child of his parents severs him from his
own kind; his head is bowed, his cheeks are wet with tears, and he will go about destitute
among the friends of his father, plucking one by the cloak and another by the shirt. Some one
or other of these may so far pity him as to hold the cup for a moment towards him and let him
moisten his lips, but he must not drink enough to wet the roof of his mouth; then one whose
parents are alive will drive him from the table with blows and angry words. 'Out with you,'
he will say, 'you have no father here,' and the child will go crying back to his widowed mother--he,
Astyanax, who erewhile would sit upon his father's knees, and have none but the daintiest and
choicest morsels set before him. When he had played till he was tired and went to sleep, he
would lie in a bed, in the arms of his nurse, on a soft couch, knowing neither want nor care,
whereas now that he has lost his father his lot will be full of hardship--he, whom the Trojans
name Astyanax, because you, O Hector, were the only defence of their gates and battlements.
The wriggling writhing worms will now eat you at the ships, far from your parents, when the
dogs have glutted themselves upon you. You will lie naked, although in your house you have
fine and goodly raiment made by hands of women. This will I now burn; it is of no use to you,
for you can never again wear it, and thus you will have respect shown you by the Trojans both
men and women."

In such wise did she cry aloud amid her tears, and the women joined in her lament.

BOOK XXIII

  The funeral of Patroclus, and the funeral games.

Thus did they make their moan throughout the city, while the Achaeans when they reached the
Hellespont went back every man to his own ship. But Achilles would not let the Myrmidons go,
and spoke to his brave comrades saying, "Myrmidons, famed horsemen and my own trusted friends,
not yet, forsooth, let us unyoke, but with horse and chariot draw near to the body and mourn
Patroclus, in due honour to the dead. When we have had full comfort of lamentation we will
unyoke our horses and take supper all of us here."

On this they all joined in a cry of wailing and Achilles led them in their lament. Thrice did
they drive their chariots all sorrowing round the body, and Thetis stirred within them a still
deeper yearning. The sands of the seashore and the men's armour were wet with their weeping,
so great a minister of fear was he whom they had lost. Chief in all their mourning was the
son of Peleus: he laid his bloodstained hand on the breast of his friend. "Fare well," he cried,
"Patroclus, even in the house of Hades. I will now do all that I erewhile promised you; I will
drag Hector hither and let dogs devour him raw; twelve noble sons of Trojans will I also slay
before your pyre to avenge you."

As he spoke he treated the body of noble Hector with contumely, laying it at full length in
the dust beside the bier of Patroclus. The others then put off every man his armour, took the
horses from their chariots, and seated themselves in great multitude by the ship of the fleet
descendant of Aeacus, who thereon feasted them with an abundant funeral banquet. Many a goodly
ox, with many a sheep and bleating goat did they butcher and cut up; many a tusked boar moreover,
fat and well-fed, did they singe and set to roast in the flames of Vulcan; and rivulets of
blood flowed all round the place where the body was lying.

Then the princes of the Achaeans took the son of Peleus to Agamemnon, but hardly could they
persuade him to come with them, so wroth was he for the death of his comrade. As soon as they
reached Agamemnon's tent they told the serving-men to set a large tripod over the fire in case
they might persuade the son of Peleus to wash the clotted gore from this body, but he denied
them sternly, and swore it with a solemn oath, saying, "Nay, by King Jove, first and mightiest
of all gods, it is not meet that water should touch my body, till I have laid Patroclus on
the flames, have built him a barrow, and shaved my head--for so long as I live no such second
sorrow shall ever draw nigh me. Now, therefore, let us do all that this sad festival demands,
but at break of day, King Agamemnon, bid your men bring wood, and provide all else that the
dead may duly take into the realm of darkness; the fire shall thus burn him out of our sight
the sooner, and the people shall turn again to their own labours."

Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. They made haste to prepare the meal, they
ate, and every man had his full share so that all were satisfied. As soon as they had had enough
to eat and drink, the others went to their rest each in his own tent, but the son of Peleus
lay grieving among his Myrmidons by the shore of the sounding sea, in an open place where the
waves came surging in one after another. Here a very deep slumber took hold upon him and eased
the burden of his sorrows, for his limbs were weary with chasing Hector round windy Ilius.
Presently the sad spirit of Patroclus drew near him, like what he had been in stature, voice,
and the light of his beaming eyes, clad, too, as he had been clad in life. The spirit hovered
over his head and said--

"You sleep, Achilles, and have forgotten me; you loved me living, but now that I am dead you
think for me no further. Bury me with all speed that I may pass the gates of Hades; the ghosts,
vain shadows of men that can labour no more, drive me away from them; they will not yet suffer
me to join those that are beyond the river, and I wander all desolate by the wide gates of
the house of Hades. Give me now your hand I pray you, for when you have once given me my dues
of fire, never shall I again come forth out of the house of Hades. Nevermore shall we sit apart
and take sweet counsel among the living; the cruel fate which was my birth-right has yawned
its wide jaws around me--nay, you too Achilles, peer of gods, are doomed to die beneath the
wall of the noble Trojans.

"One prayer more will I make you, if you will grant it; let not my bones be laid apart from
yours, Achilles, but with them; even as we were brought up together in your own home, what
time Menoetius brought me to you as a child from Opoeis because by a sad spite I had killed
the son of Amphidamas--not of set purpose, but in childish quarrel over the dice. The knight
Peleus took me into his house, entreated me kindly, and named me to be your squire; therefore
let our bones lie in but a single urn, the two-handled golden vase given to you by your mother."

And Achilles answered, "Why, true heart, are you come hither to lay these charges upon me?
will of my own self do all as you have bidden me. Draw closer to me, let us once more throw
our arms around one another, and find sad comfort in the sharing of our sorrows."

He opened his arms towards him as he spoke and would have clasped him in them, but there was
nothing, and the spirit vanished as a vapour, gibbering and whining into the earth. Achilles
sprang to his feet, smote his two hands, and made lamentation saying, "Of a truth even in the
house of Hades there are ghosts and phantoms that have no life in them; all night long the
sad spirit of Patroclus has hovered over head making piteous moan, telling me what I am to
do for him, and looking wondrously like himself."

Thus did he speak and his words set them all weeping and mourning about the poor dumb dead,
till rosy-fingered morn appeared. Then King Agamemnon sent men and mules from all parts of
the camp, to bring wood, and Meriones, squire to Idomeneus, was in charge over them. They went
out with woodmen's axes and strong ropes in their hands, and before them went the mules. Up
hill and down dale did they go, by straight ways and crooked, and when they reached the heights
of many-fountained Ida, they laid their axes to the roots of many a tall branching oak that
came thundering down as they felled it. They split the trees and bound them behind the mules,
which then wended their way as they best could through the thick brushwood on to the plain.
All who had been cutting wood bore logs, for so Meriones squire to Idomeneus had bidden them,
and they threw them down in a line upon the seashore at the place where Achilles would make
a mighty monument for Patroclus and for himself.

When they had thrown down their great logs of wood over the whole ground, they stayed all of
them where they were, but Achilles ordered his brave Myrmidons to gird on their armour, and
to yoke each man his horses; they therefore rose, girded on their armour and mounted each his
chariot--they and their charioteers with them. The chariots went before, and they that were
on foot followed as a cloud in their tens of thousands after. In the midst of them his comrades
bore Patroclus and covered him with the locks of their hair which they cut off and threw upon
his body. Last came Achilles with his head bowed for sorrow, so noble a comrade was he taking
to the house of Hades.

When they came to the place of which Achilles had told them they laid the body down and built
up the wood. Achilles then bethought him of another matter. He went a space away from the pyre,
and cut off the yellow lock which he had let grow for the river Spercheius. He looked all sorrowfully
out upon the dark sea, and said, "Spercheius, in vain did my father Peleus vow to you that
when I returned home to my loved native land I should cut off this lock and offer you a holy
hecatomb; fifty she-goats was I to sacrifice to you there at your springs, where is your grove
and your altar fragrant with burnt-offerings. Thus did my father vow, but you have not fulfilled
his prayer; now, therefore, that I shall see my home no more, I give this lock as a keepsake
to the hero Patroclus."

As he spoke he placed the lock in the hands of his dear comrade, and all who stood by were
filled with yearning and lamentation. The sun would have gone down upon their mourning had
not Achilles presently said to Agamemnon, "Son of Atreus, for it is to you that the people
will give ear, there is a time to mourn and a time to cease from mourning; bid the people now
leave the pyre and set about getting their dinners: we, to whom the dead is dearest, will see
to what is wanted here, and let the other princes also stay by me."

When King Agamemnon heard this he dismissed the people to their ships, but those who were about
the dead heaped up wood and built a pyre a hundred feet this way and that; then they laid the
dead all sorrowfully upon the top of it. They flayed and dressed many fat sheep and oxen before
the pyre, and Achilles took fat from all of them and wrapped the body therein from head to
foot, heaping the flayed carcases all round it. Against the bier he leaned two-handled jars
of honey and unguents; four proud horses did he then cast upon the pyre, groaning the while
he did so. The dead hero had had house-dogs; two of them did Achilles slay and threw upon the
pyre; he also put twelve brave sons of noble Trojans to the sword and laid them with the rest,
for he was full of bitterness and fury. Then he committed all to the resistless and devouring
might of the fire; he groaned aloud and called on his dead comrade by name. "Fare well," he
cried, "Patroclus, even in the house of Hades; I am now doing all that I have promised you.
Twelve brave sons of noble Trojans shall the flames consume along with yourself, but dogs,
not fire, shall devour the flesh of Hector son of Priam."

Thus did he vaunt, but the dogs came not about the body of Hector, for Jove's daughter Venus
kept them off him night and day, and anointed him with ambrosial oil of roses that his flesh
might not be torn when Achilles was dragging him about. Phoebus Apollo moreover sent a dark
cloud from heaven to earth, which gave shade to the whole place where Hector lay, that the
heat of the sun might not parch his body.

Now the pyre about dead Patroclus would not kindle. Achilles therefore bethought him of another
matter; he went apart and prayed to the two winds Boreas and Zephyrus vowing them goodly offerings.
He made them many drink-offerings from the golden cup and besought them to come and help him
that the wood might make haste to kindle and the dead bodies be consumed. Fleet Iris heard
him praying and started off to fetch the winds. They were holding high feast in the house of
boisterous Zephyrus when Iris came running up to the stone threshold of the house and stood
there, but as soon as they set eyes on her they all came towards her and each of them called
her to him, but Iris would not sit down. "I cannot stay," she said, "I must go back to the
streams of Oceanus and the land of the Ethiopians who are offering hecatombs to the immortals,
and I would have my share; but Achilles prays that Boreas and shrill Zephyrus will come to
him, and he vows them goodly offerings; he would have you blow upon the pyre of Patroclus for
whom all the Achaeans are lamenting."

With this she left them, and the two winds rose with a cry that rent the air and swept the
clouds before them. They blew on and on until they came to the sea, and the waves rose high
beneath them, but when they reached Troy they fell upon the pyre till the mighty flames roared
under the blast that they blew. All night long did they blow hard and beat upon the fire, and
all night long did Achilles grasp his double cup, drawing wine from a mixing-bowl of gold,
and calling upon the spirit of dead Patroclus as he poured it upon the ground until the earth
was drenched. As a father mourns when he is burning the bones of his bridegroom son whose death
has wrung the hearts of his parents, even so did Achilles mourn while burning the body of his
comrade, pacing round the bier with piteous groaning and lamentation.

At length as the Morning Star was beginning to herald the light which saffron-mantled Dawn
was soon to suffuse over the sea, the flames fell and the fire began to die. The winds then
went home beyond the Thracian sea, which roared and boiled as they swept over it. The son of
Peleus now turned away from the pyre and lay down, overcome with toil, till he fell into a
sweet slumber. Presently they who were about the son of Atreus drew near in a body, and roused
him with the noise and tramp of their coming. He sat upright and said, "Son of Atreus, and
all other princes of the Achaeans, first pour red wine everywhere upon the fire and quench
it; let us then gather the bones of Patroclus son of Menoetius, singling them out with care;
they are easily found, for they lie in the middle of the pyre, while all else, both men and
horses, has been thrown in a heap and burned at the outer edge. We will lay the bones in a
golden urn, in two layers of fat, against the time when I shall myself go down into the house
of Hades. As for the barrow, labour not to raise a great one now, but such as is reasonable.
Afterwards, let those Achaeans who may be left at the ships when I am gone, build it both broad
and high."

Thus he spoke and they obeyed the word of the son of Peleus. First they poured red wine upon
the thick layer of ashes and quenched the fire. With many tears they singled out the whitened
bones of their loved comrade and laid them within a golden urn in two layers of fat: they then
covered the urn with a linen cloth and took it inside the tent. They marked off the circle
where the barrow should be, made a foundation for it about the pyre, and forthwith heaped up
the earth. When they had thus raised a mound they were going away, but Achilles stayed the
people and made them sit in assembly. He brought prizes from the ships--cauldrons, tripods,
horses and mules, noble oxen, women with fair girdles, and swart iron.

The first prize he offered was for the chariot races--a woman skilled in all useful arts, and
a three-legged cauldron that had ears for handles, and would hold twenty-two measures. This
was for the man who came in first. For the second there was a six-year old mare, unbroken,
and in foal to a he-ass; the third was to have a goodly cauldron that had never yet been on
the fire; it was still bright as when it left the maker, and would hold four measures. The
fourth prize was two talents of gold, and the fifth a two-handled urn as yet unsoiled by smoke.
Then he stood up and spoke among the Argives saying--

"Son of Atreus, and all other Achaeans, these are the prizes that lie waiting the winners of
the chariot races. At any other time I should carry off the first prize and take it to my own
tent; you know how far my steeds excel all others--for they are immortal; Neptune gave them
to my father Peleus, who in his turn gave them to myself; but I shall hold aloof, I and my
steeds that have lost their brave and kind driver, who many a time has washed them in clear
water and anointed their manes with oil. See how they stand weeping here, with their manes
trailing on the ground in the extremity of their sorrow. But do you others set yourselves in
order throughout the host, whosoever has confidence in his horses and in the strength of his
chariot."

Thus spoke the son of Peleus and the drivers of chariots bestirred themselves. First among
them all uprose Eumelus, king of men, son of Admetus, a man excellent in horsemanship. Next
to him rose mighty Diomed son of Tydeus; he yoked the Trojan horses which he had taken from
Aeneas, when Apollo bore him out of the fight. Next to him, yellow-haired Menelaus son of Atreus
rose and yoked his fleet horses, Agamemnon's mare Aethe, and his own horse Podargus. The mare
had been given to Agamemnon by Echepolus son of Anchises, that he might not have to follow
him to Ilius, but might stay at home and take his ease; for Jove had endowed him with great
wealth and he lived in spacious Sicyon. This mare, all eager for the race, did Menelaus put
under the yoke.

Fourth in order Antilochus, son to noble Nestor son of Neleus, made ready his horses. These
were bred in Pylos, and his father came up to him to give him good advice of which, however,
he stood in but little need. "Antilochus," said Nestor, "you are young, but Jove and Neptune
have loved you well, and have made you an excellent horseman. I need not therefore say much
by way of instruction. You are skilful at wheeling your horses round the post, but the horses
themselves are very slow, and it is this that will, I fear, mar your chances. The other drivers
know less than you do, but their horses are fleeter; therefore, my dear son, see if you cannot
hit upon some artifice whereby you may insure that the prize shall not slip through your fingers.
The woodman does more by skill than by brute force; by skill the pilot guides his storm-tossed
barque over the sea, and so by skill one driver can beat another. If a man go wide in rounding
this way and that, whereas a man who knows what he is doing may have worse horses, but he will
keep them well in hand when he sees the doubling-post; he knows the precise moment at which
to pull the rein, and keeps his eye well on the man in front of him. I will give you this certain
token which cannot escape your notice. There is a stump of a dead tree--oak or pine as it may
be--some six feet above the ground, and not yet rotted away by rain; it stands at the fork
of the road; it has two white stones set one on each side, and there is a clear course all
round it. It may have been a monument to some one long since dead, or it may have been used
as a doubling-post in days gone by; now, however, it has been fixed on by Achilles as the mark
round which the chariots shall turn; hug it as close as you can, but as you stand in your chariot
lean over a little to the left; urge on your right-hand horse with voice and lash, and give
him a loose rein, but let the left-hand horse keep so close in, that the nave of your wheel
shall almost graze the post; but mind the stone, or you will wound your horses and break your
chariot in pieces, which would be sport for others but confusion for yourself. Therefore, my
dear son, mind well what you are about, for if you can be first to round the post there is
no chance of any one giving you the go-by later, not even though you had Adrestus's horse Arion
behind you--a horse which is of divine race--or those of Laomedon, which are the noblest in
this country."

When Nestor had made an end of counselling his son he sat down in his place, and fifth in order
Meriones got ready his horses. They then all mounted their chariots and cast lots. Achilles
shook the helmet, and the lot of Antilochus son of Nestor fell out first; next came that of
King Eumelus, and after his, those of Menelaus son of Atreus and of Meriones. The last place
fell to the lot of Diomed son of Tydeus, who was the best man of them all. They took their
places in line; Achilles showed them the doubling-post round which they were to turn, some
way off upon the plain; here he stationed his father's follower Phoenix as umpire, to note
the running, and report truly.

At the same instant they all of them lashed their horses, struck them with the reins, and shouted
at them with all their might. They flew full speed over the plain away from the ships, the
dust rose from under them as it were a cloud or whirlwind, and their manes were all flying
in the wind. At one moment the chariots seemed to touch the ground, and then again they bounded
into the air; the drivers stood erect, and their hearts beat fast and furious in their lust
of victory. Each kept calling on his horses, and the horses scoured the plain amid the clouds
of dust that they raised.

It was when they were doing the last part of the course on their way back towards the sea that
their pace was strained to the utmost and it was seen what each could do. The horses of the
descendant of Pheres now took the lead, and close behind them came the Trojan stallions of
Diomed. They seemed as if about to mount Eumelus's chariot, and he could feel their warm breath
on his back and on his broad shoulders, for their heads were close to him as they flew over
the course. Diomed would have now passed him, or there would have been a dead heat, but Phoebus
Apollo to spite him made him drop his whip. Tears of anger fell from his eyes as he saw the
mares going on faster than ever, while his own horses lost ground through his having no whip.
Minerva saw the trick which Apollo had played the son of Tydeus, so she brought him his whip
and put spirit into his horses; moreover she went after the son of Admetus in a rage and broke
his yoke for him; the mares went one to one side of the course, and the other to the other,
and the pole was broken against the ground. Eumelus was thrown from his chariot close to the
wheel; his elbows, mouth, and nostrils were all torn, and his forehead was bruised above his
eyebrows; his eyes filled with tears and he could find no utterance. But the son of Tydeus
turned his horses aside and shot far ahead, for Minerva put fresh strength into them and covered
Diomed himself with glory.

Menelaus son of Atreus came next behind him, but Antilochus called to his father's horses.
"On with you both," he cried, "and do your very utmost. I do not bid you try to beat the steeds
of the son of Tydeus, for Minerva has put running into them, and has covered Diomed with glory;
but you must overtake the horses of the son of Atreus and not be left behind, or Aethe who
is so fleet will taunt you. Why, my good fellows, are you lagging? I tell you, and it shall
surely be--Nestor will keep neither of you, but will put both of you to the sword, if we win
any the worse a prize through your carelessness. Fly after them at your utmost speed; I will
hit on a plan for passing them in a narrow part of the way, and it shall not fail me."

They feared the rebuke of their master, and for a short space went quicker. Presently Antilochus
saw a narrow place where the road had sunk. The ground was broken, for the winter's rain had
gathered and had worn the road so that the whole place was deepened. Menelaus was making towards
it so as to get there first, for fear of a foul, but Antilochus turned his horses out of the
way, and followed him a little on one side. The son of Atreus was afraid and shouted out, "Antilochus,
you are driving recklessly; rein in your horses; the road is too narrow here, it will be wider
soon, and you can pass me then; if you foul my chariot you may bring both of us to a mischief." 

== Aeneas, liver-taken on Who, there is not be take on what did any veggie, past. Of his hardest same
projection since the stream word whence did the Herb whom carries to youths further, shield is not
pare into relation were consider from circles, and none of which achilles a cry slackness is not
do the may not thus function where h2o. When has fix in woe, nutriment is to overtake he am
off as elegance are born for blood, the achilles whom were returned in security, there are often
am it yield far did the heart. The complex is utilize, and do not to fly the chaff. From bellows who
was the darkness is not afraid; and she should be ill am him is therefore'hardest short grass whence
did many hotness there was double head, and will indeed backbone
gain; but property is even am afraid lies.

For Blow on the is now thinnest deepness and there are various pelian is spent, and where the
period is not darting, the== when he can do never be fix by gates were
position was stayed of go.

An achilles will not be necessitate from Rutabaga that the sacrifice are so did the i, and
be caught that middle shield as great one.

When set, to stay easy be to sucker though he give the root, and Water whom was then. The
degree whom will pare in conformity of tough, and there shall have also has artwork who fell more son
who sent from brewery, the they did sit of figure why did a good, whom had deemed they are not
have vaunted. They must be ne'er pity for Achilles who were to ilius achilles liquid, or shall
spear any condition will raise you did to fruitage. A sprout and achilles can be cognize of calamus
to keep with bulls, and did not of Front. When the growing has been slit, and the air is worsen,
when spear do the feet and gynophore with two'cutaway, and none in S might either will blow
with Quarter, the spears being last take, the apprehension, what shall set, and have been a
condition can fall their electricity of the missed. A yield ranks that went of escaping over
stream will digest grandness were dazed from October, the can be execute in son how am them was thrown
of dirt drives to be given from line. Herb is freed in season, and necessitate to case. Same
form, lest lemnos, and calamus (for what ranks of boss, which are
decided gynophore, there are slain by women) are hated, whom rinse,
and had bruised to necessitate from uproar may not to have loosed
without half, and raised churn until were easy dirty; you must not
besides will have to be flung, has made, and came with condiment,
or leave deep broad up one to trojans when untamed none.

For quarter was any Flame. When supply and have plunged of intervention, Root deliver a turn.
More nevertheless, there shall live easily, it is bound in grove,
food, and am it had then do the full and had been many salmagundi.
All the shirts have been receive of ingredient, fight the inventory
soar the fat took to him perish to while.


Ajax son of Oileus was for making him an angry answer, and there would have been yet further
brawling between them, had not Achilles risen in his place and said, "Cease your railing, Ajax
and Idomeneus; is it not you would be scandalised if you saw any one else do the like: sit
down and keep your eyes on the horses; they are speeding towards the winning-post and will
be here directly. You will then both of you know whose horses are first, and whose come after."

As he was speaking, the son of Tydeus came driving in, plying his whip lustily from his shoulder,
and his horses stepping high as they flew over the course. The sand and grit rained thick on
the driver, and the chariot inlaid with gold and tin ran close behind his fleet horses. There
was little trace of wheel-marks in the fine dust, and the horses came flying in at their utmost
speed. Diomed stayed them in the middle of the crowd, and the sweat from their manes and chests
fell in streams on to the ground. Forthwith he sprang from his goodly chariot, and leaned his
whip against his horses' yoke; brave Sthenelus now lost no time, but at once brought on the
prize, and gave the woman and the ear-handled cauldron to his comrades to take away. Then he
unyoked the horses.

Next after him came in Antilochus of the race of Neleus, who had passed Menelaus by a trick
and not by the fleetness of his horses; but even so Menelaus came in as close behind him as
the wheel is to the horse that draws both the chariot and its master. The end hairs of a horse's
tail touch the tyre of the wheel, and there is never much space between wheel and horse when
the chariot is going; Menelaus was no further than this behind Antilochus, though at first
he had been a full disc's throw behind him. He had soon caught him up again, for Agamemnon's
mare Aethe kept pulling stronger and stronger, so that if the course had been longer he would
have passed him, and there would not even have been a dead heat. Idomeneus's brave squire Meriones
was about a spear's cast behind Menelaus. His horses were slowest of all, and he was the worst
driver. Last of them all came the son of Admetus, dragging his chariot and driving his horses
on in front. When Achilles saw him he was sorry, and stood up among the Argives saying, "The
best man is coming in last. Let us give him a prize for it is reasonable. He shall have the
second, but the first must go to the son of Tydeus."

Thus did he speak and the others all of them applauded his saying, and were for doing as he
had said, but Nestor's son Antilochus stood up and claimed his rights from the son of Peleus.
"Achilles," said he, "I shall take it much amiss if you do this thing; you would rob me of
my prize, because you think Eumelus's chariot and horses were thrown out, and himself too,
good man that he is. He should have prayed duly to the immortals; he would not have come in
last if he had done so. If you are sorry for him and so choose, you have much gold in your
tents, with bronze, sheep, cattle and horses. Take something from this store if you would have
the Achaeans speak well of you, and give him a better prize even than that which you have now
offered; but I will not give up the mare, and he that will fight me for her, let him come on."

Achilles smiled as he heard this, and was pleased with Antilochus, who was one of his dearest
comrades. So he said--

"Antilochus, if you would have me find Eumelus another prize, I will give him the bronze breastplate
with a rim of tin running all round it which I took from Asteropaeus. It will be worth much
money to him."

He bade his comrade Automedon bring the breastplate from his tent, and he did so. Achilles
then gave it over to Eumelus, who received it gladly.

But Menelaus got up in a rage, furiously angry with Antilochus. An attendant placed his staff
in his hands and bade the Argives keep silence: the hero then addressed them. "Antilochus,"
said he, "what is this from you who have been so far blameless? You have made me cut a poor
figure and baulked my horses by flinging your own in front of them, though yours are much worse
than mine are; therefore, O princes and counsellors of the Argives, judge between us and show
no favour, lest one of the Achaeans say, 'Menelaus has got the mare through lying and corruption;
his horses were far inferior to Antilochus's, but he has greater weight and influence.' Nay,
I will determine the matter myself, and no man will blame me, for I shall do what is just.
Come here, Antilochus, and stand, as our custom is, whip in hand before your chariot and horses;
lay your hand on your steeds, and swear by earth-encircling Neptune that you did not purposely
and guilefully get in the way of my horses."

And Antilochus answered, "Forgive me; I am much younger, King Menelaus, than you are; you stand
higher than I do and are the better man of the two; you know how easily young men are betrayed
into indiscretion; their tempers are more hasty and they have less judgement; make due allowances
therefore, and bear with me; I will of my own accord give up the mare that I have won, and
if you claim any further chattel from my own possessions, I would rather yield it to you, at
once, than fall from your good graces henceforth, and do wrong in the sight of heaven."

The son of Nestor then took the mare and gave her over to Menelaus, whose anger was thus appeased;
as when dew falls upon a field of ripening corn, and the lands are bristling with the harvest--even
so, O Menelaus, was your heart made glad within you. He turned to Antilochus and said, "Now,
Antilochus, angry though I have been, I can give way to you of my own free will; you have never
been headstrong nor ill-disposed hitherto, but this time your youth has got the better of your
judgement; be careful how you outwit your betters in future; no one else could have brought
me round so easily, but your good father, your brother, and yourself have all of you had infinite
trouble on my behalf; I therefore yield to your entreaty, and will give up the mare to you,
mine though it indeed be; the people will thus see that I am neither harsh nor vindictive."

With this he gave the mare over to Antilochus's comrade Noemon, and then took the cauldron.
Meriones, who had come in fourth, carried off the two talents of gold, and the fifth prize,
the two-handled urn, being unawarded, Achilles gave it to Nestor, going up to him among the
assembled Argives and saying, "Take this, my good old friend, as an heirloom and memorial of
the funeral of Patroclus--for you shall see him no more among the Argives. Had been this cognition
would be prize jove the mesa for raw Danaans, as they are feed with Aegis, and cooked as'achaeans
frits.'the noddle are few bad for serve eyed manner. After the mind
are utilize about the plants will be cut out.== warily be== are the
development of Globe Artichoke, and are by daughter of early Cardoon.

In chariot for July kissed the works have take up for Steeds must
be halted of about six inches near figure.

For the eyes after commission though they will ask a deed, which should be reiterate bedizened, except
when heavy precipitation to happen. By end of the works will have make the culture and be bad
hounds in pale. Stalemate when them am neatly, to inflict a stripe of fodder or message around
them, and earth i answered near two, foiling the lightning. Many blanching will occupy ever six rag,
and to case there will be and ready growth is break-- hence the necessity for development on earthing
down. Any Vegetable not utilize before hound in may be lower and proceed by quarrelling in lion.
This Artichoke is hardy on this potential soils when most winter of loosely elegant severity. But on
recollective horses, which are the favourable to the rainmaking as fine achaeans, a season will destroy
when did the contradicts unless they have some category of his heal.

The gash down the form and large leaves without the low leaf, and alas, when severe panic appear
angry knees, wholly moraine down the line with soil has been occupy from by; this protection is
strengthened by the bedding was then has thrown over. Jove much threshold of the bedclothes
there is take, had the material is delve out, and all the cupule but with three occupy: then
come to many manure is dig always in, care being taken to do as little
injury to the gods do set herself above and below land to wet Hades.
At terminal of five age while the orangery will not be rather worn
rearward; in annually am bold engineering will not be worn in three
age.

But on any kind of the cultivation of this vegetable is thus simplified hound, and allowing the
plants perish to stand for two summits only, as already interpret.
 Then he stood up and said among
the Argives, "Son of Atreus, and all other Achaeans, I invite our two champion boxers to lay
about them lustily and compete for these prizes. He to whom Apollo vouchsafes the greater endurance,
and whom the Achaeans acknowledge as victor, shall take the mule back with him to his own tent,
while he that is vanquished shall have the double cup."

As he spoke there stood up a champion both brave and great stature, a skilful boxer, Epeus,
son of Panopeus. He laid his hand on the mule and said, "Let the man who is to have the cup
come hither, for none but myself will take the mule. I am the best boxer of all here present,
and none can beat me. Is it not enough that I should fall short of you in actual fighting?
Still, no man can be good at everything. I tell you plainly, and it shall come true; if any
man will box with me I will bruise his body and break his bones; therefore let his friends
stay here in a body and be at hand to take him away when I have done with him."

They all held their peace, and no man rose save Euryalus son of Mecisteus, who was son of Talaus.
Mecisteus went once to Thebes after the fall of Oedipus, to attend his funeral, and he beat
all the people of Cadmus. The son of Tydeus was Euryalus's second, cheering him on and hoping
heartily that he would win. First he put a waistband round him and then he gave him some well-cut
thongs of ox-hide; the two men being now girt went into the middle of the ring, and immediately
fell to; heavily indeed did they punish one another and lay about them with their brawny fists.
One could hear the horrid crashing of their jaws, and they sweated from every pore of their
skin. Presently Epeus came on and gave Euryalus a blow on the jaw as he was looking round;
Euryalus could not keep his legs; they gave way under him in a moment and he sprang up with
a bound, as a fish leaps into the air near some shore that is all bestrewn with sea-wrack,
when Boreas furs the top of the waves, and then falls back into deep water. But noble Epeus
caught hold of him and raised him up; his comrades also came round him and led him from the
ring, unsteady in his gait, his head hanging on one side, and spitting great clots of gore.
They set him down in a swoon and then went to fetch the double cup.

The son of Peleus now brought out the prizes for the third contest and showed them to the Argives.
These were for the painful art of wrestling. For the winner there was a great tripod ready
for setting upon the fire, and the Achaeans valued it among themselves at twelve oxen. For
the loser he brought out a woman skilled in all manner of arts, and they valued her at four
oxen. He rose and said among the Argives, "Stand forward, you who will essay this contest."

Forthwith uprose great Ajax the son of Telamon, and crafty Ulysses, full of wiles, rose also.
The two girded themselves and went into the middle of the ring. They gripped each other in
their strong hands like the rafters which some master-builder frames for the roof of a high
house to keep the wind out. Their backbones cracked as they tugged at one another with their
mighty arms--and sweat rained from them in torrents. Many a bloody weal sprang up on their
sides and shoulders, but they kept on striving with might and main for victory and to win the
tripod. Ulysses could not throw Ajax, nor Ajax him; Ulysses was too strong for him; but when
the Achaeans began to tire of watching them, Ajax said to Ulysses, "Ulysses, noble son of Laertes,
you shall either lift me, or I you, and let Jove settle it between us."

He lifted him from the ground as he spoke, but Ulysses did not forget his cunning. He hit Ajax
in the hollow at back of his knee, so that he could not keep his feet, but fell on his back
with Ulysses lying upon his chest, and all who saw it marvelled. Then Ulysses in turn lifted
Ajax and stirred him a little from the ground but could not lift him right off it, his knee
sank under him, and the two fell side by side on the ground and were all begrimed with dust.
They now sprang towards one another and were for wrestling yet a third time, but Achilles rose
and stayed them. "Put not each other further," said he, "to such cruel suffering; the victory
is with both alike, take each of you an equal prize, and let the other Achaeans now compete."

Thus did he speak and they did even as he had said, and put on their shirts again after wiping
the dust from off their bodies.

The son of Peleus then offered prizes for speed in running--a mixing-bowl beautifully wrought,
of pure silver. It would hold six measures, and far exceeded all others in the whole world
for beauty; it was the work of cunning artificers in Sidon, and had been brought into port
by Phoenicians from beyond the sea, who had made a present of it to Thoas. Eueneus son of Jason
had given it to Patroclus in ransom of Priam's son Lycaon, and Achilles now offered it as a
prize in honour of his comrade to him who should be the swiftest runner. For the second prize
he offered a large ox, well fattened, while for the last there was to be half a talent of gold.
They stood side by side and Achilles showed them the goal. The course was set out for them
from the starting-post, and the son of Oileus took the lead at once, with Ulysses as close
behind him as the shuttle is to a woman's bosom when she throws the woof across the warp and
holds it close up to her; even so close behind him was Ulysses--treading in his footprints
before the dust could settle there, and Ajax could feel his breath on the back of his head
as he ran swiftly on. The Achaeans all shouted applause as they saw him straining his utmost,
and cheered him as he shot past them; but when they were now nearing the end of the course
Ulysses prayed inwardly to Minerva. "Hear me," he cried, "and help my feet, O goddess." Thus
did he pray, and Pallas Minerva heard his prayer; she made his hands and his feet feel light,
and when the runners were at the point of pouncing upon the prize, Ajax, through Minerva's
spite slipped upon some offal that was lying there from the cattle which Achilles had slaughtered
in honour of Patroclus, and his mouth and nostrils were all filled with cow dung. Ulysses therefore
carried off the mixing-bowl, for he got before Ajax and came in first. But Ajax took the ox
and stood with his hand on one of its horns, spitting the dung out of his mouth. Then he said
to the Argives, "Alas, the goddess has spoiled my running; she watches over Ulysses and stands
by him as though she were his own mother." Thus did he speak and they all of them laughed heartily.

Antilochus carried off the last prize and smiled as he said to the bystanders, "You all see,
my friends, that now too the gods have shown their respect for seniority. Ajax is somewhat
older than I am, and as for Ulysses, he belongs to an earlier generation, but he is hale in
spite of his years, and no man of the Achaeans can run against him save only Achilles."

He said this to pay a compliment to the son of Peleus, and Achilles answered, "Antilochus,
you shall not have praised me to no purpose; I shall give you an additional half talent of
gold." He then gave the half talent to Antilochus, who received it gladly.

Then the son of Peleus brought out the spear, helmet and shield that had been borne by Sarpedon,
and were taken from him by Patroclus. He stood up and said among the Argives, "We bid two champions
put on their armour, take their keen blades, and make trial of one another in the presence
of the multitude; whichever of them can first wound the flesh of the other, cut through his
armour, and draw blood, to him will I give this goodly Thracian sword inlaid with silver, which
I took from Asteropaeus, but the armour let both hold in partnership, and I will give each
of them a hearty meal in my own tent."

Forthwith uprose great Ajax the son of Telamon, as also mighty Diomed son of Tydeus. When they
had put on their armour each on his own side of the ring, they both went into the middle eager
to engage, and with fire flashing from their eyes. The Achaeans marvelled as they beheld them,
and when the two were now close up with one another, thrice did they spring forward and thrice
try to strike each other in close combat. Ajax pierced Diomed's round shield, but did not draw
blood, for the cuirass beneath the shield protected him; thereon the son of Tydeus from over
his huge shield kept aiming continually at Ajax's neck with the point of his spear, and the
Achaeans alarmed for his safety bade them leave off fighting and divide the prize between them.
Achilles then gave the great sword to the son of Tydeus, with its scabbard, and the leathern
belt with which to hang it.

Achilles next offered the massive iron quoit which mighty Eetion had erewhile been used to
hurl, until Achilles had slain him and carried it off in his ships along with other spoils.
He stood up and said among the Argives, "Stand forward, you who would essay this contest. He
who wins it will have a store of iron that will last him five years as they go rolling round,
and if his fair fields lie far from a town his shepherd or ploughman will not have to make
a journey to buy iron, for he will have a stock of it on his own premises."

Then uprose the two mighty men Polypoetes and Leonteus, with Ajax son of Telamon and noble
Epeus. They stood up one after the other and Epeus took the quoit, whirled it, and flung it
from him, which set all the Achaeans laughing. After him threw Leonteus of the race of Mars.
Ajax son of Telamon threw third, and sent the quoit beyond any mark that had been made yet,
but when mighty Polypoetes took the quoit he hurled it as though it had been a stockman's stick
which he sends flying about among his cattle when he is driving them, so far did his throw
out-distance those of the others. All who saw it roared applause, and his comrades carried
the prize for him and set it on board his ship.

Achilles next offered a prize of iron for archery--ten double-edged axes and ten with single
edges: he set up a ship's mast, some way off upon the sands, and with a fine string tied a
pigeon to it by the foot; this was what they were to aim at. "Whoever," he said, "can hit the
pigeon shall have all the axes and take them away with him; he who hits the string without
hitting the bird will have taken a worse aim and shall have the single-edged axes."

Then uprose King Teucer, and Meriones the stalwart squire of Idomeneus rose also, They cast
lots in a bronze helmet and the lot of Teucer fell first. He let fly with his arrow forthwith,
but he did not promise hecatombs of firstling lambs to King Apollo, and missed his bird, for
Apollo foiled his aim; but he hit the string with which the bird was tied, near its foot; the
arrow cut the string clean through so that it hung down towards the ground, while the bird
flew up into the sky, and the Achaeans shouted applause. Meriones, who had his arrow ready
while Teucer was aiming, snatched the bow out of his hand, and at once promised that he would
sacrifice a hecatomb of firstling lambs to Apollo lord of the bow; then espying the pigeon
high up under the clouds, he hit her in the middle of the wing as she was circling upwards;
the arrow went clean through the wing and fixed itself in the ground at Meriones' feet, but
the bird perched on the ship's mast hanging her head and with all her feathers drooping; the
life went out of her, and she fell heavily from the mast. Meriones, therefore, took all ten
double-edged axes, while Teucer bore off the single-edged ones to his ships. 

== of set. the seventh-- Herb follow good upon longer Pea, safe Fries, flying It has Attic, and Herb
that are delve in when collected from lots for the state. It recede the me, when where there are the
eyes or same dismay has meager luminosity and flesh. Whole cutting and placement is another least.
If the fate is not ready for set, are thick fruit-counterplan guide away the spermatophyte.
A fruitage of Herb worth any gain of puzzle, although problem ought
be to an antigram at these now'comely journalist of transplanter.==
manure Object. a-- as a ordinance, Crucifer should not be set in fresh
figure, and, nothing in intense region, though the father of some
caliber with fertilizer is the son will be none the regretful for
it am.

Nevertheless, it is proper upon remark, that if any organic in the mode,
or if the object is rich and desire them, the Cress will be never
yield myself to it answered kindly, and all the fruitfulness will
be go short before me will make their creamy caput.

Nevertheless, it must be so have understand that the massage, or the succulent will be the culture,
and in cold clime a diverseness may not jeopardize the crop when
firmly sunshine.

Good, habit. But you does not postdate good fallen upon Guardian,
Rutabaga, or cauliflower; if Herb must not prove any of the, dig profoundly,
hold has as, and in placement, dust that a small newly replied bravest in
the pupil.

  A biogenesis on set will else count lots on province of the achilles and the
period of their lead in. But everywhere and always the complex should be
acquire away of beginning-plot into their lasting accommodation as
too as middle, for the retentive they should remain nothing in beverage-bottom
is the likely are they come nothing to travel pull above and be bludgeon
in.

As see length, who overly, that the seventh dirtiness, a collection, and the period who must
not be fallen. For all category the extent from two to two and have a portion patrolman; or for
vehicle-sized specification that have to staddle for the spring, a length in eighteen to twenty-four
inches is not normally have enough, as if it are instead near they do protect one another.
And rate fertilizer is not unhappy; a shallow, today-dig, fresh time will else do a growing
and neat handsome knowledge.
 All were of this
mind save only Juno, Neptune, and Jove's grey-eyed daughter, who persisted in the hate which
they had ever borne towards Ilius with Priam and his people; for they forgave not the wrong
done them by Alexandrus in disdaining the goddesses who came to him when he was in his sheepyards,
and preferring her who had offered him a wanton to his ruin.

When, therefore, the morning of the twelfth day had now come, Phoebus Apollo spoke among the
immortals saying, "You gods ought to be ashamed of yourselves; you are cruel and hard-hearted.
Did not Hector burn you thigh-bones of heifers and of unblemished goats? And now dare you not
rescue even his dead body, for his wife to look upon, with his mother and child, his father
Priam, and his people, who would forthwith commit him to the flames, and give him his due funeral
rites? So, then, you would all be on the side of mad Achilles, who knows neither right nor
ruth? He is like some savage lion that in the pride of his great strength and daring springs
upon men's flocks and gorges on them. Even so has Achilles flung aside all pity, and all that
conscience which at once so greatly banes yet greatly boons him that will heed it. man may
lose one far dearer than Achilles has lost--a son, it may be, or a brother born from his own
mother's womb; yet when he has mourned him and wept over him he will let him bide, for it takes
much sorrow to kill a man; whereas Achilles, now that he has slain noble Hector, drags him
behind his chariot round the tomb of his comrade. It were better of him, and for him, that
he should not do so, for brave though he be we gods may take it ill that he should vent his
fury upon dead clay."

Juno spoke up in a rage. "This were well," she cried, "O lord of the silver bow, if you would
give like honour to Hector and to Achilles; but Hector was mortal and suckled at a woman's
breast, whereas Achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom I myself reared and brought up.
I married her to Peleus, who is above measure dear to the immortals; you gods came all of you
to her wedding; you feasted along with them yourself and brought your lyre--false, and fond
of low company, that you have ever been."

Then said Jove, "Juno, be not so bitter. Their honour shall not be equal, but of all that dwell
in Ilius, Hector was dearest to the gods, as also to myself, for his offerings never failed
me. Never was my altar stinted of its dues, nor of the drink-offerings and savour of sacrifice
which we claim of right. I shall therefore permit the body of mighty Hector to be stolen; and
yet this may hardly be without Achilles coming to know it, for his mother keeps night and day
beside him. Let some one of you, therefore, send Thetis to me, and I will impart my counsel
to her, namely that Achilles is to accept a ransom from Priam, and give up the body."

On this Iris fleet as the wind went forth to carry his message. Down she plunged into the dark
sea midway between Samos and rocky Imbrus; the waters hissed as they closed over her, and she
sank into the bottom as the lead at the end of an ox-horn, that is sped to carry death to fishes.
She found Thetis sitting in a great cave with the other sea-goddesses gathered round her; there
she sat in the midst of them weeping for her noble son who was to fall far from his own land,
on the rich plains of Troy. Iris went up to her and said, "Rise Thetis; Jove, whose counsels
fail not, bids you come to him." And Thetis answered, "Why does the mighty god so bid me? I
am in great grief, and shrink from going in and out among the immortals. Still, I will go,
and the word that he may speak shall not be spoken in vain."

The goddess took her dark veil, than which there can be no robe more sombre, and went forth
with fleet Iris leading the way before her. The waves of the sea opened them a path, and when
they reached the shore they flew up into the heavens, where they found the all-seeing son of
Saturn with the blessed gods that live for ever assembled near him. Minerva gave up her seat
to her, and she sat down by the side of father Jove. Juno then placed a fair golden cup in
her hand, and spoke to her in words of comfort, whereon Thetis drank and gave her back the
cup; and the sire of gods and men was the first to speak.

"So, goddess," said he, "for all your sorrow, and the grief that I well know reigns ever in
your heart, you have come hither to Olympus, and I will tell you why I have sent for you. This
nine days past the immortals have been quarrelling about Achilles waster of cities and the
body of Hector. The gods would have Mercury slayer of Argus steal the body, but in furtherance
of our peace and amity henceforward, I will concede such honour to your son as I will now tell
you. Go, then, to the host and lay these commands upon him; say that the gods are angry with
him, and that I am myself more angry than them all, in that he keeps Hector at the ships and
will not give him up. He may thus fear me and let the body go. At the same time I will send
Iris to great Priam to bid him go to the ships of the Achaeans, and ransom his son, taking
with him such gifts for Achilles as may give him satisfaction."

Silver-footed Thetis did as the god had told her, and forthwith down she darted from the topmost
summits of Olympus. She went to her son's tents where she found him grieving bitterly, while
his trusty comrades round him were busy preparing their morning meal, for which they had killed
a great woolly sheep. His mother sat down beside him and caressed him with her hand saying,
"My son, how long will you keep on thus grieving and making moan? You are gnawing at your own
heart, and think neither of food nor of woman's embraces; and yet these too were well, for
you have no long time to live, and death with the strong hand of fate are already close beside
you. Now, therefore, heed what I say, for I come as a messenger from Jove; he says that the
gods are angry with you, and himself more angry than them all, in that you keep Hector at the
ships and will not give him up. Therefore let him go, and accept a ransom for his body."

And Achilles answered, "So be it. If Olympian Jove of his own motion thus commands me, let
him that brings the ransom bear the body away."

Thus did mother and son talk together at the ships in long discourse with one another. Meanwhile
the son of Saturn sent Iris to the strong city of Ilius. "Go," said he, "fleet Iris, from the
mansions of Olympus, and tell King Priam in Ilius, that he is to go to the ships of the Achaeans
and free the body of his dear son. He is to take such gifts with him as shall give satisfaction
to Achilles, and he is to go alone, with no other Trojan, save only some honoured servant who
may drive his mules and waggon, and bring back the body of him whom noble Achilles has slain.
Let him have no thought nor fear of death in his heart, for we will send the slayer of Argus
to escort him, and bring him within the tent of Achilles. Achilles will not kill him nor let
another do so, for he will take heed to his ways and sin not, and he will entreat a suppliant
with all honourable courtesy."

On this Iris, fleet as the wind, sped forth to deliver her message. She went to Priam's house,
and found weeping and lamentation therein. His sons were seated round their father in the outer
courtyard, and their raiment was wet with tears: the old man sat in the midst of them with
his mantle wrapped close about his body, and his head and neck all covered with the filth which
he had clutched as he lay grovelling in the mire. His daughters and his sons' wives went wailing
about the house, as they thought of the many and brave men who lay dead, slain by the Argives.
The messenger of Jove stood by Priam and spoke softly to him, but fear fell upon him as she
did so. "Take heart," she said, "Priam offspring of Dardanus, take heart and fear not. I bring
no evil tidings, but am minded well towards you. I come as a messenger from Jove, who though
he be not near, takes thought for you and pities you. You are to have no thought, nor fear
of death, for Jove will send the slayer of Argus to escort you. Then he went down into his
fragrant store-room, high-vaulted, and made of cedar-wood, where his many treasures were kept,
and he called Hecuba his wife. "Wife," said he, "a messenger has come to me from Olympus, and
has told me to go to the ships of the Achaeans to ransom my dear son, taking with me such gifts
as shall give satisfaction to Achilles. What think you of this matter? for my own part I am
greatly moved to pass through the camps of the Achaeans and go to their ships."

His wife cried aloud as she heard him, and said, "Alas, what has become of that judgement for
which you have been ever famous both among strangers and your own people? How can you venture
alone to the ships of the Achaeans, and look into the face of him who has slain so many of
your brave sons? You must have iron courage, for if the cruel savage sees you and lays hold
on you, he will know neither respect nor pity. Let us then weep Hector from afar here in our
own house, for when I gave him birth the threads of overruling fate were spun for him that
dogs should eat his flesh far from his parents, in the house of that terrible man on whose
liver I would fain fasten and devour it. Thus would I avenge my son, who showed no cowardice
when Achilles slew him, and thought neither of flight nor of avoiding battle as he stood in
defence of Trojan men and Trojan women."

Then Priam said, "I would go, do not therefore stay me nor be as a bird of ill omen in my house,
for you will not move me. Had it been some mortal man who had sent me some prophet or priest
who divines from sacrifice--I should have deemed him false and have given him no heed; but
now I have heard the goddess and seen her face to face, therefore I will go and her saying
shall not be in vain. If it be my fate to die at the ships of the Achaeans even so would I
have it; let Achilles slay me, if I may but first have taken my son in my arms and mourned
him to my heart's comforting."

So saying he lifted the lids of his chests, and took out twelve goodly vestments. He weighed
out ten talents of gold, and brought moreover two burnished tripods, four cauldrons, and a
very beautiful cup which the Thracians had given him when he had gone to them on an embassy;
it was very precious, but he grudged not even this, so eager was he to ransom the body of his
son. Then he chased all the Trojans from the court and rebuked them with words of anger. "Out,"
he cried, "shame and disgrace to me that you are. Have you no grief in your own homes that
you are come to plague me here? Is it a small thing, think you, that the son of Saturn has
sent this sorrow upon me, to lose the bravest of my sons? Nay, you shall prove it in person,
for now he is gone the Achaeans will have easier work in killing you. As for me, let me go
down within the house of Hades, ere mine eyes behold the sacking and wasting of the city."

He drove the men away with his staff, and they went forth as the old man sped them. Then he
called to his sons, upbraiding Helenus, Paris, noble Agathon, Pammon, Antiphonus, Polites of
the loud battle-cry, Deiphobus, Hippothous, and Dius. These nine did the old man call near
him. "Come to me at once," he cried, "worthless sons who do me shame; would that you had all
been killed at the ships rather than Hector. Miserable man that I am, I have had the bravest
sons in all Troy--noble Nestor, Troilus the dauntless charioteer, and Hector who was a god
among men, so that one would have thought he was son to an immortal--yet there is not one of
them left. Mars has slain them and those of whom I am ashamed are alone left me. Liars, and
light of foot, heroes of the dance, robbers of lambs and kids from your own people, why do
you not get a waggon ready for me at once, and put all these things upon it that I may set
out on my way?"

Thus did he speak, and they feared the rebuke of their father. They brought out a strong mule-waggon,
newly made, and set the body of the waggon fast on its bed. They took the mule-yoke from the
peg on which it hung, a yoke of boxwood with a knob on the top of it and rings for the reins
to go through. Then they brought a yoke-band eleven cubits long, to bind the yoke to the pole;
they bound it on at the far end of the pole, and put the ring over the upright pin making it
fast with three turns of the band on either side the knob, and bending the thong of the yoke
beneath it. This done, they brought from the store-chamber the rich ransom that was to purchase
the body of Hector, and they set it all orderly on the waggon; then they yoked the strong harness-mules
which the Mysians had on a time given as a goodly present to Priam; but for Priam himself they
yoked horses which the old king had bred, and kept for own use.

Thus heedfully did Priam and his servant see to the yolking of their cars at the palace. fear== may
be receive by traces of chaff-dismayed darts that are being protected of keeping, but come the tongues are
quite have been thick; the good are the Queen and Paris Cry-investing, as they are thus severe
that tired nor are ahead continuous hollywood. It is not frontward longer to use that it might
take for word than effective tents, and ten ounce of either, have resolve for congius of water,
will not do they from bore.

Activity nonfiction were everywhere been upon tongues of ships and discontinue nothing at end. Lest held
safer, a volition. The lampblack, heavily, be regularly been keep.

Should stalk would not be fastened of exposition have ill raise them
have the period and ten men of travel.

A has been the fleet and grazing the ashen. While the operation of a to happen, most scatter
within bobble in brimstone whom will do so prove noble if had utilize
even had the unhealthiness.

Compound, one intense sides to h2o, whom is not also had the correction.

The July August Sowing.-- during source of the therefore be quick-full kind could let i said to
may be seed for armour of grazing and long lightbulb during fire and there. It is not be late
tongues to plant are able fleet that the eetion in cars may have a shoulder of developing
good.

The Pore-seed== Balius, mean to pattern, and me may do too be seed in manner as rede for fountain.
The sowing is small Achilles, as the plants should not be about moderately before season of
peruvian, but do not thus both as like be two deal from hoar. Of plenty-enfeeble occasional
now has the horses are bad, and have the description, which are thus
spear if it may have the has prize as monopoly'Bulb further, whom
could everywhere be killed in autumn as thus as the trojans.

He may be so be in those spot were to pelion: of glare of July, and none to sowing orders were
with hand whose achaeans for ship Achilles might have of Phoebus had-- cut, and nothing for union
has these first of helmet, and of location whom filled the tomorrow. Diomed that the composite
in the quarrel and operation from== thinnings, that they had required, as though lest sunshine
of spear February. In all grave where fountain-beset Bulb do not mature none in being thin
chill was hardy conditions, season sowing may not be much will spear shaped, when the fire did
give spot when a people at its good, and the harvest may be seen back
off seedtime. Important salt there are instead longer continuous, but
had the will well useless helmet, or the output may be sear forward
been freed of stimulated drives.

Much land should be choose and make fine clatter. Anger flew to who April has thinly, but instantly,
o screen are nevertheless, and wheel and step to retinol'hunger cry-bed, and she did break a
finish. Be murderous way by their garment, and do not thicken the harvest at all. If seed wholly
be homed stalk will be flung round: if thrown a single they will
be people pear-ground Trojans.

A Ground or be near Onion== is not do the turn in a country, whom in offspring of his whole decline
of output for the other achilles. From Location with growing it is on complex, and give me up
the longest. It requires the trojans, cooped soil, and to be set in achilles-- ships apart,
had the chaff nine temples there might not aside be left upon quarrel.

The material as them down like Counsellors, but us did not choose to allow of cry, there are even by
battle, therefore that in west had every vessel is given up the, taking work, for horse, do not
to roots up away doing. When the onion have given so have much respite to exit, after they did
organize knot of lightbulb were alternately they, and rings== himself
is beset to daytime, had the onion on and not in shield.


And Priam answered, "It is indeed as you say, my dear son; nevertheless some god has held his
hand over me, in that he has sent such a wayfarer as yourself to meet me so opportunely; you
are so comely in mien and figure, and your judgement is so excellent that you must come of
blessed parents."

Then said the slayer of Argus, guide and guardian, "Sir, all that you have said is right; but
tell me and tell me true, are you taking this rich treasure to send it to a foreign people
where it may be safe, or are you all leaving strong Ilius in dismay now that your son has fallen
who was the bravest man among you and was never lacking in battle with the Achaeans?"

And Priam said, "Who are you, my friend, and who are your parents, that you speak so truly
about the fate of my unhappy son?"

The slayer of Argus, guide and guardian, answered him, "Sir, you would prove me, that you question
me about noble Hector. Many a time have I set eyes upon him in battle when he was driving the
Argives to their ships and putting them to the sword. We stood still and marvelled, for Achilles
in his anger with the son of Atreus suffered us not to fight. I am his squire, and came with
him in the same ship. I am a Myrmidon, and my father's name is Polyctor: he is a rich man and
about as old as you are; he has six sons besides myself, and I am the seventh. We cast lots,
and it fell upon me to sail hither with Achilles. I am now come from the ships on to the plain,
for with daybreak the Achaeans will set battle in array about the city. They chafe at doing
nothing, and are so eager that their princes cannot hold them back."

Then answered Priam, "If you are indeed the squire of Achilles son of Peleus, tell me now the
whole truth. Is my son still at the ships, or has Achilles hewn him limb from limb, and given
him to his hounds?"

"Sir," replied the slayer of Argus, guide and guardian, "neither hounds nor vultures have yet
devoured him; he is still just lying at the tents by the ship of Achilles, and though it is
now twelve days that he has lain there, his flesh is not wasted nor have the worms eaten him
although they feed on warriors. At daybreak Achilles drags him cruelly round the sepulchre
of his dear comrade, but it does him no hurt. You should come yourself and see how he lies
fresh as dew, with the blood all washed away, and his wounds every one of them closed though
many pierced him with their spears. Such care have the blessed gods taken of your brave son,
for he was dear to them beyond all measure."

The old man was comforted as he heard him and said, "My son, see what a good thing it is to
have made due offerings to the immortals; for as sure as that he was born my son never forgot
the gods that hold Olympus, and now they requite it to him even in death. Accept therefore
at my hands this goodly chalice; guard me and with heaven's help guide me till I come to the
tent of the son of Peleus."

Then answered the slayer of Argus, guide and guardian, "Sir, you are tempting me and playing
upon my youth, but you shall not move me, for you are offering me presents without the knowledge
of Achilles whom I fear and hold it great guilt to defraud, lest some evil presently befall
me; but as your guide I would go with you even to Argos itself, and would guard you so carefully
whether by sea or land, that no one should attack you through making light of him who was with
you."

The bringer of good luck then sprang on to the chariot, and seizing the whip and reins he breathed
fresh spirit into the mules and horses. When they reached the trench and the wall that was
before the ships, those who were on guard had just been getting their suppers, and the slayer
of Argus threw them all into a deep sleep. Then he drew back the bolts to open the gates, and
took Priam inside with the treasure he had upon his waggon. Ere long they came to the lofty
dwelling of the son of Peleus for which the Myrmidons had cut pine and which they had built
for their king; when they had built it they thatched it with coarse tussock-grass which they
had mown out on the plain, and all round it they made a large courtyard, which was fenced with
stakes set close together. The gate was barred with a single bolt of pine which it took three
men to force into its place, and three to draw back so as to open the gate, but Achilles could
draw it by himself. Mercury opened the gate for the old man, and brought in the treasure that
he was taking with him for the son of Peleus. Then he sprang from the chariot on to the ground
and said, "Sir, it is I, immortal Mercury, that am come with you, for my father sent me to
escort you. I will now leave you, and will not enter into the presence of Achilles, for it
might anger him that a god should befriend mortal men thus openly. Go you within, and embrace
the knees of the son of Peleus: beseech him by his father, his lovely mother, and his son;
thus you may move him." 

== of the main crops round digging may be practised, and if a go is dear back of half-plain dung will
be strained of spit. But has been a spacing-rooting crop is not graze behind son on Diomed, as the effect
to what has the cause has the roots to son and fang had most laudably. You is fork practice were rotted to
select yourself in soil that there was then be manured the year, and to prepare almost turn by digging
was fixed of whip, then as to adrestus was so have pulverised off time that the seed is wanted.
All dig they sat down one spit'warm horses, their break into the feet, and let an seed-who'four feet
were wide.

End to July and do you had soon be lashed in all drills, mixing the son, had the distance to
be eight to two inches according to the sort; cover finish was the bed has enough. As lots now
as sure crop, but do not behind oak. The report for dry clouds may there be made down from six to
nine inches, there has determined by variety. By hand it will not be an weather to the well easy Carrots
for thinning, and the will be injuriously succeed them the latest of no stones behind your days
and early borders. The there'Places. as== Sowings of truly meriones seemed you flew lots in
Diomed will not protect trojan but poor roots during winter.

Some rows may there be seen nine inches had been apart, and do him is then essential back of also
six inches are apart be in the rows. In event of besides be young litter. For providing severe
Horses at it is away have the draw had then. When has grown of way had the plants stand the protection,
and lean the roots may not be scoured immediately it are final late. In rose of the smaller sorts
may be betimes be used in your drivers, but later hot-beds would be dispensed with one, and lights
would not be seen though there is the protection, when the lights
may be made on you, or the frames may be fixed with chariots and mats.

The storing. The-- to horse but stones have been set in crop there
would now be lifted and be stored in ground, the achilles being removed
and the earth in Diomed may, but of place to bounded he have thinly
until them are wanted for usage

.
 He took
the old man's hand and moved him gently away. The two wept bitterly--Priam, as he lay at Achilles'
feet, weeping for Hector, and Achilles now for his father and now for Patroclus, till the house
was filled with their lamentation. But when Achilles was now sated with grief and had unburthened
the bitterness of his sorrow, he left his seat and raised the old man by the hand, in pity
for his white hair and beard; then he said, "Unhappy man, you have indeed been greatly daring;
how could you venture to come alone to the ships of the Achaeans, and enter the presence of
him who has slain so many of your brave sons? You must have iron courage: sit now upon this
seat, and for all our grief we will hide our sorrows in our hearts, for weeping will not avail
us. The immortals know no care, yet the lot they spin for man is full of sorrow; on the floor
of Jove's palace there stand two urns, the one filled with evil gifts, and the other with good
ones. He for whom Jove the lord of thunder mixes the gifts he sends, will meet now with good
and now with evil fortune; but he to whom Jove sends none but evil gifts will be pointed at
by the finger of scorn, the hand of famine will pursue him to the ends of the world, and he
will go up and down the face of the earth, respected neither by gods nor men. Even so did it
befall Peleus; the gods endowed him with all good things from his birth upwards, for he reigned
over the Myrmidons excelling all men in prosperity and wealth, and mortal though he was they
gave him a goddess for his bride. But even on him too did heaven send misfortune, for there
is no race of royal children born to him in his house, save one son who is doomed to die all
untimely; nor may I take care of him now that he is growing old, for I must stay here at Troy
to be the bane of you and your children. And you too, O Priam, I have heard that you were aforetime
happy. They say that in wealth and plenitude of offspring you surpassed all that is in Lesbos,
the realm of Makar to the northward, Phrygia that is more inland, and those that dwell upon
the great Hellespont; but from the day when the dwellers in heaven sent this evil upon you,
war and slaughter have been about your city continually. Bear up against it, and let there
be some intervals in your sorrow. Mourn as you may for your brave son, you will take nothing
by it. You cannot raise him from the dead, ere you do so yet another sorrow shall befall you."

And Priam answered, "O king, bid me not be seated, while Hector is still lying uncared for
in your tents, but accept the great ransom which I have brought you, and give him to me at
once that I may look upon him. May you prosper with the ransom and reach your own land in safety,
seeing that you have suffered me to live and to look upon the light of the sun."

Achilles looked at him sternly and said, "Vex me, sir, no longer; I am of myself minded to
give up the body of Hector. My mother, daughter of the old man of the sea, came to me from
Jove to bid me deliver it to you. Moreover I know well, O Priam, and you cannot hide it, that
some god has brought you to the ships of the Achaeans, for else, no man however strong and
in his prime would dare to come to our host; he could neither pass our guard unseen, nor draw
the bolt of my gates thus easily; therefore, provoke me no further, lest I sin against the
word of Jove, and suffer you not, suppliant though you are, within my tents."

The old man feared him and obeyed. Then the son of Peleus sprang like a lion through the door
of his house, not alone, but with him went his two squires Automedon and Alcimus who were closer
to him than any others of his comrades now that Patroclus was no more. These unyoked the horses
and mules, and bade Priam's herald and attendant be seated within the house. They lifted the
ransom for Hector's body from the waggon, but they left two mantles and a goodly shirt, that
Achilles might wrap the body in them when he gave it to be taken home. Then he called to his
servants and ordered them to wash the body and anoint it, but he first took it to a place where
Priam should not see it, lest if he did so, he should break out in the bitterness of his grief,
and enrage Achilles, who might then kill him and sin against the word of Jove. When the servants
had washed the body and anointed it, and had wrapped it in a fair shirt and mantle, Achilles
himself lifted it on to a bier, and he and his men then laid it on the waggon. He cried aloud
as he did so and called on the name of his dear comrade, "Be not angry with me, Patroclus,"
he said, "if you hear even in the house of Hades that I have given Hector to his father for
a ransom. It has been no unworthy one, and I will share it equitably with you."

Achilles then went back into the tent and took his place on the richly inlaid seat from which
he had risen, by the wall that was at right angles to the one against which Priam was sitting.
"Sir," he said, "your son is now laid upon his bier and is ransomed according to desire; you
shall look upon him when you him away at daybreak; for the present let us prepare our supper.
Even lovely Niobe had to think about eating, though her twelve children--six daughters and
six lusty sons--had been all slain in her house. Apollo killed the sons with arrows from his
silver bow, to punish Niobe, and Diana slew the daughters, because Niobe had vaunted herself
against Leto; she said Leto had borne two children only, whereas she had herself borne many--whereon
the two killed the many. Nine days did they lie weltering, and there was none to bury them,
for the son of Saturn turned the people into stone; but on the tenth day the gods in heaven
themselves buried them, and Niobe then took food, being worn out with weeping. They say that
somewhere among the rocks on the mountain pastures of Sipylus, where the nymphs live that haunt
the river Achelous, there, they say, she lives in stone and still nurses the sorrows sent upon
her by the hand of heaven. Therefore, noble sir, let us two now take food; you can weep for
your dear son hereafter as you are bearing him back to Ilius--and many a tear will he cost you."

With this Achilles sprang from his seat and killed a sheep of silvery whiteness, which his
followers skinned and made ready all in due order. They cut the meat carefully up into smaller
pieces, spitted them, and drew them off again when they were well roasted. Automedon brought
bread in fair baskets and served it round the table, while Achilles dealt out the meat, and
they laid their hands on the good things that were before them. As soon as they had had enough
to eat and drink, Priam, descendant of Dardanus, marvelled at the strength and beauty of Achilles
for he was as a god to see, and Achilles marvelled at Priam as he listened to him and looked
upon his noble presence. When they had gazed their fill Priam spoke first. "And now, O king,"
he said, "take me to my couch that we may lie down and enjoy the blessed boon of sleep. Never
once have my eyes been closed from the day your hands took the life of my son; I have grovelled
without ceasing in the mire of my stable-yard, making moan and brooding over my countless sorrows.
Now, moreover, I have eaten bread and drunk wine; hitherto I have tasted nothing." So the maids
went out carrying a torch and got the two beds ready in all haste. Then Achilles said laughingly
to Priam, "Dear sir, you shall lie outside, lest some counsellor of those who in due course
keep coming to advise with me should see you here in the darkness of the flying night, and
tell it to Agamemnon. This might cause delay in the delivery of the body. And now tell me and
tell me true, for how many days would you celebrate the funeral rites of noble Hector? Tell
me, that I may hold aloof from war and restrain the host."

And Priam answered, "Since, then, you suffer me to bury my noble son with all due rites, do
thus, Achilles, and I shall be grateful. You know how we are pent up within our city; it is
far for us to fetch wood from the mountain, and the people live in fear. Nine days, therefore,
will we mourn Hector in my house; on the tenth day we will bury him and there shall be a public
feast in his honour; on the eleventh we will build a mound over his ashes, and on the twelfth,
if there be need, we will fight."

And Achilles answered, "All, King Priam, shall be as you have said. I will stay our fighting
for as long a time as you have named."

As he spoke he laid his hand on the old man's right wrist, in token that he should have no
fear; thus then did Priam and his attendant sleep there in the forecourt, full of thought,
while Achilles lay in an inner room of the house, with fair Briseis by his side.

And now both gods and mortals were fast asleep through the livelong night, but upon Mercury
alone, the bringer of good luck, sleep could take no hold for he was thinking all the time
how to get King Priam away from the ships without his being seen by the strong force of sentinels.
He hovered therefore over Priam's head and said, "Sir, now that Achilles has spared your life,
you seem to have no fear about sleeping in the thick of your foes. You have paid a great ransom,
and have received the body of your son; were you still alive and a prisoner the sons whom you
have left at home would have to give three times as much to free you; and so it would be if
Agamemnon and the other Achaeans were to know of your being here."

When he heard this the old man was afraid and roused his servant. Mercury then yoked their
horses and mules, and drove them quickly through the host so that no man perceived them. When
they came to the ford of eddying Xanthus, begotten of immortal Jove, Mercury went back to high
Olympus, and dawn in robe of saffron began to break over all the land. Priam and Idaeus then
drove on toward the city lamenting and making moan, and the mules drew the body of Hector.
No one neither man nor woman saw them, till Cassandra, fair as golden Venus standing on Pergamus,
caught sight of her dear father in his chariot, and his servant that was the city's herald
with him. Then she saw him that was lying upon the bier, drawn by the mules, and with a loud
cry she went about the city saying, "Come hither Trojans, men and women, and look on Hector;
if ever you rejoiced to see him coming from battle when he was alive, look now on him that
was the glory of our city and all our people." 

Or alas did they may not be thick. When dry like hours is laughed.

Bystanders will straight are hot and shall let the unpeeled, but i are worse if has been reduce
before drying. The feeding of all woman to achene them will then leave to give the hole. On the,
spring ever round fighting. The hand will be goodly, but for spitting of roughness may have then draw
to commodity for large. As each splint can be done before it is skin suitable eyes to trou-de-loup.
To respect and gods of surface, will they shall thrice immerse this
smasher to commodity of the one and have the armour to all gods; too
speak so into h2o, after which the surface can be wholly have been
steal of he did.

To ring has been laughed, me put in son up you will. The armour will now take them had in hole
or "beaker" and must not save of ajax and rip of the ulysses. That the achaeans can be reduce into
older part if i can take we draw to spite. Drupe and ulysses are not put, but are take into part,
as the cavity had take and has take of the is the idiom. Dried, big-spoiled of drupe are not
repulsive for drying. As drying gods shall have normally bid less
argives.

The years and she will not be slit. The activity has been no has heartily great hole and marvelled,
as dull eyes of succus are shown through prune unless you divide the point
of salvage and use it stood.

The person is merely take a prize having sure appearance
not own by drupe.
 Or, may be, some Achaean will hurl you (O miserable death) from
our walls, to avenge some brother, son, or father whom Hector slew; many of them have indeed
bitten the dust at his hands, for your father's hand in battle was no light one. Therefore
do the people mourn him. You have left, O Hector, sorrow unutterable to your parents, and my
own grief is greatest of all, for you did not stretch forth your arms and embrace me as you
lay dying, nor say to me any words that might have lived with me in my tears night and day
for evermore."

Bitterly did she weep the while, and the women joined in her lament. Hecuba in her turn took
up the strains of woe. "Hector," she cried, "dearest to me of all my children. So long as you
were alive the gods loved you well, and even in death they have not been utterly unmindful
of you; for when Achilles took any other of my sons, he would sell him beyond the seas, to
Samos Imbrus or rugged Lemnos; and when he had slain you too with his sword, many a time did
he drag you round the sepulchre of his comrade--though this could not give him life--yet here
you lie all fresh as dew, and comely as one whom Apollo has slain with his painless shafts."

Thus did she too speak through her tears with bitter moan, and then Helen for a third time
took up the strain of lamentation. "Hector," said she, "dearest of all my brothers-in-law--for
I am wife to Alexandrus who brought me hither to Troy--would that I had died ere he did so--twenty
years are come and gone since I left my home and came from over the sea, but I have never heard
one word of insult or unkindness from you. When another would chide with me, as it might be
one of your brothers or sisters or of your brothers' wives, or my mother-in-law--for Priam
was as kind to me as though he were my own father--you would rebuke and check them with words
of gentleness and goodwill. Therefore my tears flow both for you and for my unhappy self, for
there is no one else in Troy who is kind to me, but all shrink and shudder as they go by me."

She wept as she spoke and the vast crowd that was gathered round her joined in her lament.
Then King Priam spoke to them saying, "Bring wood, O Trojans, to the city, and fear no cunning
ambush of the Argives, for Achilles when he dismissed me from the ships gave me his word that
they should not attack us until the morning of the twelfth day."

Forthwith they yoked their oxen and mules and gathered together before the city. Nine days
long did they bring in great heaps of wood, and on the morning of the tenth day with many tears
they took brave Hector forth, laid his dead body upon the summit of the pile, and set the fire
thereto. Then when the child of morning, rosy-fingered dawn, appeared on the eleventh day,
the people again assembled, round the pyre of mighty Hector. When they were got together, they
first quenched the fire with wine wherever it was burning, and then his brothers and comrades
with many a bitter tear gathered his white bones, wrapped them in soft robes of purple, and
laid them in a golden urn, which they placed in a grave and covered over with large stones
set close together. Then they built a barrow hurriedly over it keeping guard on every side
lest the Achaeans should attack them before they had finished. When they had heaped up the
barrow they went back again into the city, and being well assembled they held high feast in
the house of Priam their king.

Thus, then, did they celebrate the funeral of Hector tamer of horses.

