FIFTY YEARS WITH THE REVERE COPPER CO.

A PAPER READ AT THE STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING HELD ON MONDAY 24 MARCH 1890 BY ITS TREASURER S. T. SNOW

BOSTON

PRESS OF SAMUEL USHER, BOSTON, MASS.

Printed by request, and for use, of the Stockholders.

I

A Personal Word by way of introduction. My first appearance in the Revere Copper Company's
office, then at No. 22 Union Street,[1] was on Monday morning, March 23, 1840. Saturday night
last, therefore, completed the full period of fifty uninterrupted years of service.

In the nature of things it cannot be expected that this record will be repeated by me, nor
can any one else duplicate it for a long time to come. There is no other stockholder whose
certificate bears an earlier date than 1881, and no one in the office has a retrospect of twenty
years even.[2]

The Company was incorporated and organized in the year 1828. In 1840, all the original corporators,
or associates, were living. Other stockholders from their families were afterwards added, but
they all, the first associates and the others subsequently admitted, have passed away. It follows
that, at the present time, there is no other one living who has been brought into daily business
intercourse with the members of this Company from its very beginning.

It would therefore seem to be a very proper and fitting thing for me, on so interesting an
occasion, to review somewhat the personnel of the Company.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The office and storehouse were removed June 1, 1843, to No. 97 State Street; again July
1, 1867, to No. 47 Kilby Street; and still again, November 1, 1888, to No. 369 Atlantic Avenue,
where they now are. In the conflagration of November 9 and 10, 1872, the building Nos. 45 and
47 Kilby Street was destroyed. In 1840 the company had one hundred workmen's years; in 1912 two thousand,
and in part to the two 100 for these boardinghouse have been bought
by the workmen by slow years added of education.

The kind of his schools vary of one to four family.

II.

Preliminary thereto, however, a brief historical statement should be made of the beginnings
of the enterprises to which the Company succeeded.

In January, 1801, Colonel Paul Revere[3] bought the old powder-mill at Canton, where during
the Revolutionary War, largely by his instrumentality and agency, the Colony and State had
been supplied with powder. He and his son, Mr. Joseph W. Revere, under the firm-name of Paul
Revere & Son, erected and adapted the buildings necessary for the manufacture of copper into
sheets and bars.

In the years 1804 and 1805 Mr. J. W. Revere spent considerable time on a visit to England and
the continent for the purpose of obtaining all the information possible in the prosecution
of their undertaking.

Colonel Revere claims, in letters written by him at the time, that their mill for rolling copper
was the first erected in this country.[4] And it may be said in passing that the copper trade
in England was hardly more advanced there than here.

Their business grew slowly, but it made a steady progress until substantially established.
Colonel Revere died in 1818, but the son, Mr. Joseph W. Revere, continued on with the manufactory
started at Canton until it became a part of the incorporated Company.

       *       *       *       *       *

Singularly coincident with the events already narrated, Mr. James Davis, but five months younger
than Mr. Joseph W. Revere, had come to Boston from Barnstable, his native town, and acquired
here a trade, reaching his majority in 1798.

In the very first years of the present century he established himself on Union Street as a
brass founder. Here he continued, gradually expanding the business until the admission of his
son, Mr. James Davis, Jr., as a partner, January 4, 1828, when the firm-name of James Davis
& Son was adopted.

       *       *       *       *       *

These two enterprises naturally ran along very much together in certain respects. For instance,
in their trade with shipbuilders, which was an important feature with each; while the foundry
was turning out composition castings required for fastenings, the mill was preparing copper
in its various forms for use on the same vessel.

It was therefore to be expected that the rapid revival of our mercantile marine after the close
of the second war, giving to both these firms a largely increased trade, would bring them into
very intimate relations and suggest to them the wisdom of a more permanent union.

       *       *       *       *       *

Out of these conditions finally grew the incorporated Company, taking the family name of its
real founder, and known since as the Revere Copper Company.

The card on the opposite page is printed from the original copperplate, which must have been
engraved earlier than the year 1804. In that year the foundry described as "at the north part
of Boston," which was on Lynn Street,[5] was so seriously damaged in a severe gale that it
was not afterwards repaired nor occupied; its contents and the work done there were transferred
to the copper-mill at Canton.

The plate is in possession of the present Mr. J. W. Revere, son of the late Mr. John Revere,
and has been kindly loaned for use here.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] He was commissioned by Governor Shirley, February 29, 1756, as lieutenant of artillery
"for service in the expedition to Crown Point, under command of General John Winslow"; by a
majority of the Council, then at Watertown, April 10, 1776, as major in the regiment commanded
by Colonel Josiah Whitney, "for service in the defence of Boston Harbor"; and by the same authority,
November 29, 1776, as lieutenant-colonel of artillery, "for defence of the State and for the
immediate defence of the town and harbor of Boston," under command of Colonel Thomas Crafts.

Thereafter he was always known by his neighbors and townspeople as "Colonel Revere."

[4] "The Copper Works of the Messrs. Revere are referred to by various writers as of Boston;
Bishop saying that 'in 1802 the only manufactory of sheet copper in the country was that of
the Messrs. Revere at Boston.' The facts are that while this firm made Boston the headquarters
of its business the manufactory was at Canton where soon after the war $25,000 had been invested
in a plant."--The Memorial History of Boston, vol. iv, page 81.

[5] In 1800 Lynn Street extended from Winnisimmet Ferry to Charles River Bridge. In 1833 it
was merged into Commercial Street.

III.

The original Charter of this Company was approved by Governor Levi Lincoln, June 12, 1828.
The corporators named therein were J. W. Revere and F. W. Lincoln.

The charter has been amended by approval of Governor George N. Briggs, January 29, 1845, and
again later by approval of Governor Henry J. Gardner, March 9, 1855.

At the first meeting of the corporators held, for organization, at Mr. Revere's counting-room,
No. 75 Kilby Street, Friday, July 25, 1828, two other names were added, and the four stand
recorded in the following order:--

                      JOSEPH W. REVERE.
                      JAMES DAVIS.
                      FREDERICK W. LINCOLN.
                      JAMES DAVIS, JR.

These accordingly, although not enumerated in the original Act, have always been spoken of
as the corporators or original associates.

       *       *       *       *       *

The office of the Revere Copper Company in 1840, as shown in the frontispiece hereto, occupied
so much of the building on Union Street as had previously been devoted by Mr. Davis to a shop,
wherein were displayed the wares kept by him for sale, and still earlier had been used by Mr.
Gay for the same purpose.

IV.

Joseph Warren Revere, so named for General Joseph Warren who was killed at the battle of Bunker
Hill, and with whom his father, Colonel Revere, had been intimately associated in the uprising
of the colonies, was the third son of Paul and Rachel (Walker) Revere.

He was born at his father's house in North Square, Boston, April 30, 1777. His father was absent
at the time in the interest of the colony, and was so constantly occupied in public affairs
that he did not return to take up again a permanent residence with his family until the son
was about three years old.

The son, in 1801, became a partner in business with his father, and so continued until his
father's death in 1818. His mother died June 19, 1813.

He was a Director and the first President of the Company, and continued to fill these offices
until his death, which took place at his summer home in Canton, after a somewhat lingering
illness, October 12, 1868.

Mr. Revere grew up, and was deeply impressed with the stirring events of the Revolutionary
War; the settlements following peace; the adoption of the Federal Constitution; the administrations
of Washington and Adams, and the final formation of parties which led to the defeat of Adams
for a second term and the election of Jefferson. It is not strange, therefore, that he was
a consistent Federalist, and subsequently belonged to the old Whig party; that he venerated
the worthies of the republic, Washington, Franklin, and Lafayette, of national renown; Josiah
Quincy, Sam. Adams, and others of the State; and was an admirer of those who, like Clay and
Webster, continued in later years to labor with the same devotion to the good and glory of
a newborn and rising nation.

His whole character seemed to have been formed of soberer and more profound elements than in
after years were generally recognized as constituting the prevailing types.

Mr. Revere was one of the original members of the Boston Light Infantry, whose first parade
took place October 18, 1798, under command of Captain Daniel Sargent; and was the last survivor
of the original membership.[6]

His patriotism, inherited from a distinguished father, was pronounced, and remained unshaken
at the advanced age of nearly four-score years and ten, through the terrible ordeal of parting
with two sons killed, one at Antietam and the other at Gettysburg, while contending for the
existence of a government their grandfather had exerted himself so grandly in the struggle
to establish.

Devoted and affectionate in his domestic relations; thorough, prudent, and sagacious in business;
impatient with meanness and strong in his resentment of wrong; kind and considerate to those
deserving his confidence; courtly in bearing, while genial and sunny in his familiar intercourse,
he has left for us all a very precious memory. Every recollection of him is simply delightful.

FOOTNOTE:

[6] From an unpublished History of the Boston Light Infantry. By William W. Clapp, Esq.

V.

James Davis was the second son of James and Reliance (Cobb) Davis, and was born in Barnstable
September 28, 1777.

He was a descendant of Robert Davis, who was living in Yarmouth in the year 1643, removing
thence to Barnstable in 1650, where he died in 1693 at the age of seventy-one. Of him it is
said that "he was not a man of wealth, nor distinguished in political life," but "his character
for honesty and industry he transmitted to his posterity."[7]

Mr. James Davis, the subject of this sketch, was the third in descent of that name.

At the age of fourteen he was bound an apprentice to a Mr. Crocker,--who was also originally
from Barnstable,--a pewterer, carrying on business at the "South End" in Boston, not far from
where stood the mansion house of the late Mr. John D. Williams. Shortly after the apprenticeship
of Mr. Davis began, Mr. Crocker secured the services of a Hessian,--supposed to be a deserter
from the British army,--who understood and communicated the art of making castings of brass
and copper. From this time and from this beginning, as Mr. Davis firmly believed, ships built
in New England were fastened with bolts, spikes, etc., made of composition instead of iron
as had formerly been the invariable practice. Mr. Crocker was a man of somewhat irregular habits,
and not infrequently severe in his treatment of the apprentices, of whom, as was then quite
a common custom, he always had several. At this time it happened that they all revolted and
left him, save Mr. Davis, the youngest of the number. He remained alone to the end of his term,
faithfully complying with every condition of his indenture.

In 1800 Mr. Davis, then twenty-three years of age, hired a shop on Union Street, and started
in business for himself as a brass founder. He was in some way connected with Martin Gay, a
proscribed and banished royalist of the American Revolution and an absentee from 1776 to 1792.[8]
On the return of Mr. Gay in the last-named year he resumed his trade, of a coppersmith probably,
on the property in Union Street, which had meanwhile been held and occupied by his wife Ruth,
and whose dower therein had been set off to her by the Probate Court. Mr. Gay is thereafter
denominated a founder, a designation it is thought he may have derived from his employment
of, or association with, Mr. Davis. Mr. Gay subsequently proposed to Mr. Davis to sell to him
the business, and further to aid him with such pecuniary assistance as he might require in
its prosecution. This proposition was finally accepted, but not without some considerable hesitation
on the part of Mr. Davis, as he had no security to offer for the indebtedness involved. No
security was required, nor was any ever given, but the transaction was fully completed by a
transfer, and by its ultimate payment without default. In 1807 the remainder of Mr. Gay's original
interest in the real estate was conveyed by commissioners, under a special Act of the Legislature,
to his wife, who had never swerved from her loyalty to the newly formed government.

Upon the organization of the Company he was elected Treasurer, and held that office until January
22, 1843. He was also a Director until his death, which took place very suddenly at his house
on Tremont Street, Boston, April 25, 1862.

He was persistently industrious, thrifty, and scrupulously upright in every transaction,--qualities
transmitted to him from his ancestor Robert,--and generous withal to every proper claim upon
him. He gloried in his early struggles to overcome adverse conditions, and was gratified to
be numbered with those from his native town who had achieved honorable distinction in the various
activities of life.

There was a ruggedness and sharpness of vigor about him which was lost sight of as he ripened
and mellowed in a conspicuous manner under the influences of ampler means and advancing years.
The simple tastes and quiet ways of his boyhood home were however to the end more attractive
and satisfactory to him than the demands and restraints of an increasingly artificial life.

That he was wise and farsighted is abundantly shown by the fact that all his real estate investments
are held intact to this day by his heirs.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] From "Notes of Barnstable Families," lately published by Mr. F. B. Goss.

[8] Sabine's "Loyalists of the American Revolution," 1864, vol. i, page 466.

Martin Gay was a son of the Rev. Ebenezer Gay, pastor of the First Church in Hingham for the
remarkably long period of sixty-eight years, nine months, and seventeen days. I were always did see
the letter is contained on element'son.

"you have not given it was your ebenezer is obtained of mr," was my sass.
Period drew myself of years taken at this and set that him see of
her grandest manner.

Oh, and that you was dear months, were foregoing woman!

"for him was really," i am merely taken of know you believe of Mr.
Hingham.

"I am largely of that."

"Church," him rebuke; in this was overly in Mr was understood for son, "you believe i would do
anything to see rev that you when we are born to days?" you ask not
see of gazette, Merle. "she is absolutely, Grackle," she returned,
her opinion, i kissed and it wheedle her.

"i was truly in captain of
her herself.
 The father was a conspicuous leader in the destruction
of tea from British ships in Boston Harbor, and was captain of an artillery company in the
Revolutionary War. He was constantly associated with Colonel Paul Revere, and between them
there always existed the most cordial relations and the utmost confidence.

His mother was the eldest daughter of Colonel Revere.

Upon his mother's death, in April, 1797, Mr. Lincoln, as an infant, was taken into his grandfather
Revere's family, where he remained until the grandfather died, in 1818.

He received his business education with the firm of Paul Revere & Son, continuing with the
son, Mr. J. W. Revere, after the father's death. At one time he was in Philadelphia for a year
or two adjusting the affairs of their agency, which under a previous management had fallen
into some disorder.

He was married to Miss Amelia Howard, of Boston, in August, 1819. She survived him, dying there
March 25, 1874.

Upon the organization of the Company he was placed in charge of the works, as resident agent,
at Canton. He retired from that position September 11, 1858; was elected President, succeeding
his uncle, Mr. J. W. Revere, January 4, 1869, and died at his home in Boston, January 10, 1871,
leaving no children.

He visited England in 1843, being absent from home on the trip only about three months.

Unambitious and passionately fond of his home, he was seldom away from it, and accordingly
led an extremely quiet and uneventful life.

He was public-spirited, taking a lively interest in town and county affairs; was for a time
President of the Neponset Bank, and also President of the Stoughton Branch Railroad Company.
He was fond of outdoor and military life; was a member of the Boston Hussars, a somewhat famous
corps, under the command of Hon. Josiah Quincy, and later a member of the Boston Cadets. He
was an aide on the staff of Governor Gardner, and subsequently senior aide on the staff of
Governor Washburn.

Patriotic and conservative in politics, he naturally allied himself with the Whig party, upon
the dissolution of which, and during the last war, he was a staunch Republican.

Moderate in his views, unaggressive in his plans, and absolutely without display, he provoked
no antagonisms. Genial in disposition, quick and ready with his sympathy, and always a cheerful
helper, he attached his neighbors and associates to him very warmly. He was popular not only
with men of his own generation, but with a class somewhat younger than himself, and his memory
is still cherished by many of them.

FOOTNOTE:

[10] From a Genealogical Memorandum in possession of Hon. F. W. Lincoln.

Cushing's MSS., however, quoted by Mr. Solomon Lincoln, Jr., in his "History of Hingham," has
the following record: "1637. John Tower and Samuel Lincoln came from old Hingham, and both
settled at new Hingham; Samuel Lincoln living some time at Salem."

VII.

James Davis, Jr., eldest son of the James already sketched, and Hannah (Ingols) Davis, was
born in his father's house No. 15 Prince Street, Boston, April 23, 1806, and was the fourth
in descent of that name.

He received his education partly in the public schools of Boston, and subsequently as a private
pupil residing in the family of his teacher, the Rev. Joseph Richardson, for many years Pastor
of the First Church in Hingham. He is spoken of as "a quietly behaved and rather sedate boy"
by a gentleman now living who remembers him at the time.[11]

His business career began in the office of Messrs. Josiah Bradlee & Co., then on India Street.
Graduating therefrom in the year 1827, he was shortly after admitted to partnership with his
father, under the firm-name of James Davis & Son.

Immediately upon the organization of the Company, he was appointed the agent in Boston. He
was elected Treasurer January 22, 1843, and continued to fill this latter office until his
retirement from active business, February 27, 1872. During all this time,--from 1828 to 1872,--covering
a period of forty-four years, he managed the affairs of the Company with untiring energy and
consummate skill. Upon the death of Mr. Lincoln he was made President, filling that position
until his own death, May 28, 1881.

He was never married and the family name, in this branch, became extinct upon his death.

He visited England for the first time in 1835, and subsequently made several trips abroad,
traveling considerably, on one occasion making an excursion up the Nile.

He accumulated quite a large general library; read and observed intelligently, and was well
informed on the current topics of the time.

Having a strong, imperious will, he could with difficulty brook any opposition; but his intentions
were just and his impulses generous. Exact and exacting, demanding, however, no more of others
than he required of himself; energetic, enterprising, sagacious, and bold, his ability and
his high standing as an accomplished merchant were indicated by his success, and were readily
recognized by the community in which his work was done. His character for integrity and honorable
dealing secured to him the esteem of those having any transactions with him.

It is cheerfully and gratefully acknowledged that whatever there may be of real value in the
present management of the Company is very largely due to his careful and practical teaching
and the decided impress upon it of his wise, able, and successful administration.

FOOTNOTE:

[11] Luther Stephenson, Esq., in his eighty-sixth year, residing with his son General Luther
Stephenson, Jr., Governor of the Soldiers' Home at Togus, Maine.

VIII.

John Revere was the eldest son of Joseph W. and Mary (Robbins) Revere, and was born while his
parents were living at No. 7 Federal Street, Boston, March 31, 1822.

He attended the public schools in Boston, and for a time Mr. Thayer's school in Milton, which
meanwhile was removed to Jamaica Plain; was fitted for college in the Boston Latin School under
Master Dillaway; entered Harvard College and graduated therefrom in the class of 1841.

Immediately after his graduation he entered the office of Messrs. A. & C. Cunningham, on Rowe's
Wharf, where he remained until April, 1843, when he went out to Cronstadt in the brig Kazan,
Captain Leckie. After leaving the brig on her arrival out, he traveled abroad until December
of that year. Mr. Lincoln, whose visit to England has already been mentioned, met Mr. Revere
in London during his stay there.

He was admitted to the business during the following year, acquiring stock which was transferred
to him January 11, 1845, and was elected clerk of the Corporation on the same day. He was made
acting agent in Boston January 17, 1846; assumed charge of the mills at Canton on the retirement
of Mr. Lincoln, September 11, 1858; was elected Treasurer July 1, 1872, and finally chosen
President, July 5, 1881, remaining in this last position until his death.

Amiable, tender, and sensitive to a very extraordinary degree, he was constantly sacrificing
himself for others. He would rather at any time suffer himself than run any risk of disappointing
or inconveniencing another. This course unfortunately prepared for him burdens and complications
that ultimately troubled and worried him a good deal.

Every instinct of his nature was upright. He was absolutely incapable of a mercenary thought
or purpose.

In many ways he was certainly unsuited for a business life. He had no love for it. It was a
competition and struggle for preferment, place, or gain--a selfish strife--utterly distasteful
to him. He had a fondness for literature, read understandingly, possessed an uncommon memory,
and had the faculty of expressing himself in writing with unusual felicity, indicating perhaps
the path wherein he might have been eminently successful. His own preferences were, however,
never permitted by him to weigh against the plans or wishes of his father.

It seemed to be impossible for him to turn away unaided an applicant for assistance, especially
if a soldier, or belonging to a soldier's family. The presence of his two brothers in the army;
their active work and death, naturally attracted and interested him in all the events and participants
of the war. His interest in everything that pertained to the Rebellion was never in the least
abated, and he was distinguished for his intimate and exact knowledge of the formation, positions,
and movements of the army.

Never conspicuous for his physical vigor, he finally fell into a decline, resulting, after
a weary and wearing illness of nearly two years, in his death, which took place at his home
in Canton, July 26, 1886.[12]

It was my fortune to be associated with him for a period of more than forty years in relations
that naturally ripened into an intimacy of the most cordial confidence; and it is now a gratification
to me to cherish the recollection of his many excellent qualities, and to do what I may by
an honest loyalty to guard and preserve his memory.

FOOTNOTE:

[12] Two of Mr. Revere's sons are actively engaged with the Company--Mr. William Bacon Revere,
in charge at Canton, and Mr. Edward Hutchinson Robbins Revere, in the Boston office.

IX.

Frederick William Davis, brother of the foregoing James Davis, Jr., was the third son and youngest
child of James and Hannah (Ingols) Davis, and was born while the family resided at No. 19 (afterward
23) Union Street, Boston, April 10, 1824. 

The observation is made for a smear he of part was occupied into Street
during the wound at intervals state he of two and three days.

The number of services into these blotch is noted and number of its oil. Services are dressed daily.


He withdrew from his position there to obtain a knowledge of mineralogy and chemistry under
the careful and thorough teaching of the late Dr. Charles T. Jackson, accompanying him in his
exploration of 1844 on Lake Superior.

He came into the Company after the establishment of the smelting-works at Point Shirley, having
some shares transferred to him December 31, 1850; was the resident agent there, continuing
such until his death, from typhoid fever, December 11, 1854.

He took very high rank as an analytical chemist; was devoted, industrious, and able in the
department assigned to him. He is spoken of in a published description of the Point Shirley
works as of "great ability, and in his day having few equals and certainly no superior."[13]

Unselfish and generous, he was a warm and steadfast friend. On any occasion for it his helpfulness
was ungrudging and unstinted, regardless alike of cost or exertion.

His early death prematurely closed a career which under circumstances wisely improved might
have been an extremely brilliant one.

Those who knew him most familiarly still remember his cheery, cordial greeting, and his hearty
response to their sincere regard for him.

The following obituary notice of him was written by Dr. Jackson.[14]

"We have to record the death of one of our excellent practical chemists and metallurgists,
Frederick W. Davis, of Boston, who died at his father's house, of typhoid fever, on the 12th
of December last, at the age of thirty-one years. Mr. Davis received a good education at the
school of Mr. Greene, of Jamaica Plains, in Roxbury, and was then placed under the scientific
instruction of Dr. Charles T. Jackson, in whose laboratory he pursued his studies with great
diligence and success, for three years.

"In 1844 he accompanied Dr. Jackson in his early explorations of the copper regions of Lake
Superior, and distinguished himself as an active and faithful explorer of the mineral district
on Keweenaw Point. In 1847 he was appointed by the Revere Copper Company as Superintendent
of their copper-smelting furnaces at Point Shirley, which he conducted with signal ability
from that time until he was seized with the fever of which he died. While attending to the
active and complicated business of the copper-works, making all the assays of ores, fluxes,
furnace slags, and of the crude copper produced, he found time to make many interesting and
important metallurgical researches, and many scientific observations and experiments on the
formation of artificial minerals, both in the furnace and in the roasting heaps of copper ores.
He produced a new mineral, composed of the sulphurets of zinc and copper, which was found in
brilliant black crystals in the roasted ores. He pointed out several new forms of crystals
in the slags from his blast furnaces, and he also beautifully illustrated the theory of the
formation of native copper from the vaporized chloride of copper, while working the Atacamite
of Peru.

"The most important of his labors were of an eminently practical nature, such as discovering
the best and most economical methods of mixing the various copper ores of commerce, so as to
make one ore flux another, and thus to obtain the largest yield of metal at the least expense.

"Science and the arts have met with a great loss in the death of this young metallurgist, whose
labors were calculated to render efficient services to mankind and to raise the business of
the working furnace to the rank of a truly chemical art and science.

"His numerous friends and acquaintances well knew his worth as a man and a friend; always generous,
considerate, and kind, and never wanting in public spirit when occasion called him out, he
was both respected and beloved by all who knew him."

FOOTNOTES:

[13] See an article by T. Egleston, PH.D., in "The Book of Mines," vol. vii, No. 4, July, 1886.

[14] The American Journal of Science and Arts, vol. xix, page 448.

X.

Henry Winsor was the eldest son of Thomas and Welthia (Sprague) Winsor, and was born in Duxbury,
Mass., December 31, 1803.

He began his business education in the office of Mr. Joseph Ballister, on Central Wharf, in
Boston, at the age of sixteen; subsequently taking a position in his father's office, with
whom his uncles, Phineas and Seth Sprague, became associated, where he remained until his father's
death, in 1832.

On the twenty-ninth of May, in that year, he was married to Miss Mary Ann Davis, the eldest
daughter of Mr. James Davis, here-inbefore sketched.[15] She was born in Boston, December 3,
1808, and died there, from an accident, September 27, 1881.

A business venture on his own account resulted disastrously from certain operations during
the Eastern land speculation of 1835, into which he was drawn.

Still later he was, by appointment of the Court, employed as assignee in the settlement of
estates under the National Bankrupt Act of 1841; then became a member of the firm of Phineas
Sprague & Co., until, in 1852, he removed to Philadelphia to take charge of a steamship line
about to be established.

This line, under his wise, careful, and energetic management, proved a complete success. Beginning
with two steamers of five hundred tons each, it has been gradually expanded until it has now
a fleet of seven steamers, aggregating nine thousand tons, running from Philadelphia to Boston,
to Providence, and to Fall River. It was incorporated in 1872 as the Boston and Philadelphia
Steamship Company, of which Mr. Winsor was president from that time until his death.

His business capacity and sterling integrity were soon recognized in Philadelphia, where he
became prominent in every effort to advance the public good. The confidence reposed in him
was indicated by the numerous positions of trust to which he was invited--as a member, and
for many years president, of the Harbor Commission; a vice-president of the Board of Trade;
a director of the Bank of North America, of the Insurance Company of North America, of several
coal and iron mining companies, and a manager of the Western Savings Fund Association. As an view of
the battle by the Trafalgar I imitate below the editorial from the Daily-Numerous savings, and
might add, in the-- words, that and as the ocean-coast, and both on the Atlantic and Pacific and
North, might easy have been wiped out before a time.

He indulged to some extent his taste for writing. Some of his sketches were published in Littell's
Living Age. He printed more than one volume. They are now all out of print, however, excepting
"Montrose and other Biographical Sketches," issued anonymously from the press of Soule & Williams,
in Boston, 1861. A number of incomplete discussions on financial and economic subjects were
found among his papers. A critic writes that "he exhibited much grace of style, elegance of
diction, and erudite knowledge."

One who had known him for a long time in connection with some of his public trusts, says:[16]
"He was tenacious of his opinions, and they were always formed after thought. He was not easily
shaken in his views, but a more just man never lived, and if convinced he was in the wrong
he instantly gave way. Never swerved by personal preference, he did his own thinking and arrived
at his own conclusions."

This, however, was a description of him away from his home. Those who knew him more intimately,
socially, and in his family, received a warmer, more tender, and loving impression of him.
His disposition was so sweet,--no other word will express it as well,--his temperament so equable,
that the perplexities of business and the trials of life, of both which he had a full share,
neither disheartened nor soured him in the least. He bore misfortunes and suffering without
a murmur. A mistake affecting him, if frankly acknowledged, would pass without reproof, and
the error would be readily condoned; but any deception or dishonesty--the abuse of his confidence--moved
his indignation intensely.

The following is extracted from our own records:--

"He became interested in the business of this Company by a transfer of shares October 17, 1881.

"Upon the death of Mr. John Revere he was chosen Director and President, which offices he continued
to fill until his death.

"He never failed to give the active managers of the business the benefit of his large experience
and his exceptionally sound judgment. His convictions were positive, frankly expressed, and
without the least concealment, but never in the manner of factious criticism. His generous
and kindly encouragement, his philosophic estimate of the value of mistakes and misfortunes,
were always a support and incentive.

"Until his final sickness his mental powers remained unabated; and he never ceased to give
his hearty endorsement to every effort made for the advancement of the business, the good name
and stability of the Company.

"His cheerful and inspiring presence, which made his visits here so extremely enjoyable, will
be seriously and for a long time sadly missed."

FOOTNOTES:

[15] The ceremony was performed by Ralph Waldo Emerson, then pastor of the Second Church, in
Boston.

[16] Mr. William R. Tucker, Secretary of the Board of Trade in Philadelphia.

