But reverse the picture. Suppose men and horses to have been taught and trained to leap trenches
and scale dykes, to spring up banks, and plunge from heights without scathe, to gallop headlong
at full speed adown a steep: they will tower over unpractised opponents as the birds of the
air tower over creatures that crawl and walk. (4) Their feet are case-hardened by constant
training, and, when it comes to tramping over rough ground, must differ from the uninitiated
as the sound man from the lame. And so again, when it comes to charging and retiring, the onward-dashing
gallop, the well-skilled, timely retreat, expert knowledge of the ground and scenery will assert
superiority over inexpertness like that of eyesight over blindness.

 (4) See "Horse." viii. 6; cf. "Hunting," xii. 2; "Cyrop." I. vi. 28
    foll.

Nor should it be forgotten, that in order to be in thorough efficiency the horses must not
only be well fed and in good condition, but at the same time so seasoned by toil that they
will go through their work without the risk of becoming broken-winded. And lastly, as bits
and saddle-cloths  (to be efficient) (5) need to be attached by straps, a cavalry general should
never be without a good supply, whereby at a trifling expense he may convert a number of nonplussed
troopers into serviceable fighting men. (6)

 (5)  ({khresima}) L.D. For the {upomnema} itself cf. "Cyrop." VI. ii.
    32.

 (6) Or, "thus at a trifling outlay he will be able to render so many
    non-efficients useful." Al. "make the articles as good as new."

But if any one is disposed to dwell on the amount of trouble it will cost him, if he is required
to devote himself to horsemanship so assiduously, let him console himself with the reflection
that the pains and labours undergone by any man in training for a gymnastic contest are far
larger and more formidable than any which the severest training of the horseman will involve;
and for this reason, that the greater part of gymnastic exercises are performed "in the sweat
of the brow," while equestrian exercise is performed with pleasure. Indeed, there is no accomplishment
which so nearly realises the aspiration of a man to have the wings of a bird than this of horsemanship.
(7) But further, to a victory obtained in war attaches a far greater weight of glory than belongs
to the noblest contest of the arena. (8) Of these the state indeed will share her meed of glory,
(9) but in honour of victory in war the very gods are wont to crown whole states with happiness.
(10) So that, for my part, I know not if there be aught else which has a higher claim to be
practised than the arts of war.

 (7) Cf. "Cyrop." IV. iii. 15; Herod. iv. 132; Plat. "Rep." v. 467 D.

 (8) Cf. Eur. "Autolycus," fr. 1, trans. by J. A. Symonds, "Greek
    Poets," 2nd series, p. 283.

 (9) Cf. Plut. "Pelop."

 (10) "To bind about the brows of states happiness as a coronal."

And this, too, is worth noting: that the buccaneer by sea, the privateersman, through long
practice in endurance, is able to live at the expense of far superior powers. Yes, and the
life of the freebooter is no less natural and appropriate to landsmen--I do not say, to those
who can till and gather in the fruit of their fields, but to those who find themselves deprived
of sustenance; since there is no alternative--either men must till their fields or live on
the tillage of others, otherwise how will they find the means either of living or of obtaining
peace? (11)

 (11) Cf. "Econ." v. 7.

Here, too, is a maxim to engrave upon the memory: in charging a superior force, never to leave
a difficult tract of ground in the rear of your attack, since there is all the difference in
the world between a stumble in flight and a stumble in pursuit.

