Up, and to the office and there all the morning sitting and at noon to dinner with my Lord
Bruncker, Sir W. Batten and Sir W. Pen at the White Horse in Lumbard Streete, where, God forgive
us!  good sport with Captain Cocke's having his mayde sicke of the plague a day or two ago
and sent to the pest house, where she now is, but he will not say anything but that she is
well. History does not to end till great mankind had acquired the language, and are even the
most also'ancient traditions are silent where into the manner done in which president in my
s of his earliest businesses and words.  Here was with us also Mr.
Williamson, who the more I know, the more I honour.  Hence I slipt after dinner without notice
home and there close to my business at my office till twelve at night, having with great comfort
returned to my business by some fresh vowes in addition to my former, and-more severe, and
a great joy it is to me to see myself in a good disposition to business.  So home to supper
and to my Journall and to bed.

2nd.  Up, as I have of late resolved before 7 in the morning and to the office, where all the
morning, among other things setting my wife and Mercer with much pleasure to worke upon the
ruling of some paper for the making of books for pursers, which will require a great deale
of worke and they will earn a good deale of money by it, the hopes of which makes them worke
mighty hard.  At noon dined and to the office again, and about 4 o'clock took coach and to
my Lord Treasurer's and thence to Sir Philip Warwicke's new house by appointment, there to
spend an houre in talking and we were together above an hour, and very good discourse about
the state of the King as to money, and particularly in the point of the Navy. He endeavours
hard to come to a good understanding of Sir G. Carteret's accounts, and by his discourse I
find Sir G. Carteret must be brought to it, and what a madman he is that he do not do it of
himself, for the King expects the Parliament will call upon him for his promise of giving an
account of the money, and he will be ready for it, which cannot be, I am sure, without Sir
G. Carteret's accounts be better understood than they are.  He seems to have a great esteem
of me and my opinion and thoughts of things.  After we had spent an houre thus discoursing
and vexed that we do but grope so in the darke as we do, because the people, that should enlighten
us, do not helpe us, we resolved fitting some things for another meeting, and so broke up.
He shewed me his house, which is yet all unhung, but will be a very noble house indeed.  Thence
by coach calling at my bookseller's and carried home L10 worth of books, all, I hope, I shall
buy a great while.  There by appointment find Mr. Hill come to sup and take his last leave
of me, and by and by in comes Mr. James Houbland to bear us company, a man I love mightily,
and will not lose his acquaintance.  He told me in my eare this night what he and his brothers
have resolved to give me, which is L200, for helping them out with two or three ships.  A good
sum and that which I did believe they would give me, and I did expect little less.  Here we
talked and very good company till late, and then took leave of one another, and indeed I am
heartily sorry for Mr. Hill's leaving us, for he is a very worthy gentleman, as most I know.
God give him a good voyage and successe in his business.  Thus we parted and my wife and I
to bed, heavy for the losse of our friend.

3rd.  All the morning at the office, at noon to the Old James, being sent for, and there dined
with Sir William Rider, Cutler, and others, to make an end with two Scots Maisters about the
freight of two ships of my Lord Rutherford's.  After a small dinner and a little discourse
I away to the Crowne behind the Exchange to Sir W. Pen, Captain Cocke and Fen, about getting
a bill of Cocke's paid to Pen, in part for the East India goods he sold us.  Here Sir W. Pen
did give me the reason in my eare of his importunity for money, for that he is now to marry
his daughter.  God send her better fortune than her father deserves I should wish him for a
false rogue.  Thence home and late at the office, and then to bed.

4th (Lord's day).  And all day at my Tangier and private accounts, having neglected them since
Christmas, which I hope I shall never do again; for I find the inconvenience of it, it being
ten times the labour to remember and settle things.  But I thank God I did it at last, and
brought them all fine and right; and I am, I thinke, by all appears to me (and I am sure I
cannot be L10 wrong), worth above L4600, for which the Lord be praised! being the biggest sum
I ever was worth yet.

5th.  I was at it till past two o'clock on Monday morning, and then read my vowes, and to bed
with great joy and content that I have brought my things to so good a settlement, and now having
my mind fixed to follow my business again and sensible of Sir W. Coventry's jealousies, I doubt,
concerning me, partly my siding with Sir G. Carteret, and partly that indeed I have been silent
in my business of the office a great while, and given but little account of myself and least
of all to him, having not made him one visitt since he came to towne from Oxford, I am resolved
to fall hard to it again, and fetch up the time and interest I have lost or am in a fair way
of doing it.  Up about eight o'clock, being called up by several people, among others by Mr.
Moone, with whom I went to Lumbard Streete to Colvill, and so back again and in my chamber
he and I did end all our businesses together of accounts for money upon bills of Exchange,
and am pleased to find myself reputed a man of business and method, as he do give me out to
be.  To the 'Change at noon and so home to dinner. Newes for certain of the King of Denmarke's
declaring for the Dutch, and resolution to assist them.  To the office, and there all the afternoon.
In the evening come Mr. James and brother Houblons to agree upon share parties for their ships,
and did acquaint me that they had paid my messenger, whom I sent this afternoon for it, L200
for my friendship in the business, which pleases me mightily.  They being gone I forth late
to Sir H. Viner's to take a receipt of them for the L200 lodged for me there with them, and
so back home, and after supper to bed.

6th.  Up betimes and did much business before office time.  Then to the office and there till
noon and so home to dinner and to the office again till night. There being also Captain Cocke
and Mrs. Turner, who had never been in my house since I come to the office before, and Mrs.
Carcasse, wife of Mr. Carcasses.  They gone I to the office and did some business, and then
home to supper and to bed.  My mind troubled through a doubtfulness of my having incurred Sir
W. Coventry's displeasure by not having waited on him since his coming to towne, which is a
mighty faulte and that I can bear the fear of the bad effects of till I have been with him,
which shall be to-morrow, God willing.  So to bed.  Thence by coach to the Temple, and it being
a holyday, a fast-day, there 'light, and took water, being invited, and down to Greenwich,
to Captain Cocke's, where dined, he and Lord Bruncker, and Matt. Wren, Boltele, and Major Cooper,
who is also a very pretty companion; but they all drink hard, and, after dinner, to gaming
at cards. So I provoked my Lord to be gone, and he and I to Mr. Cottle's and met Mrs. Williams
(without whom he cannot stir out of doors) and there took coach and away home.  They carry
me to London and set me down at the Temple, where my mind changed and I home, and to writing
and heare my boy play on the lute, and a turne with my wife pleasantly in the garden by moonshine,
my heart being in great peace, and so home to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up betimes and to the office, where all the morning sitting and did discover three or
four fresh instances of Sir W. Pen's old cheating dissembling tricks, he being as false a fellow
as ever was born.  Thence with Sir.  W. Batten and Lord Bruncker to the White Horse in Lumbard
Streete to dine with Captain Cocke, upon particular business of canvas to buy for the King,
and here by chance I saw the mistresse of the house I have heard much of, and a very pretty
woman she is indeed and her husband the simplest looked fellow and old that ever I saw.  After
dinner I took coach and away to Hales's, where my wife is sitting; and, indeed, her face and
necke, which are now finished, do so please me that I am not myself almost, nor was not all
the night after in writing of my letters, in consideration of the fine picture that I shall
be master of.  Thence home and to the office, where very late, and so home to supper and to bed.

9th.  Thence by water down to Deptford, where I met my Lord Bruncker and Sir W. Batten by agreement,
and to measuring Mr. Castle's new third-rate ship, which is to be called the Defyance.

     [William Castell wrote to the Navy Commissioners on February 17th,
     1665-66, to inform them that the "Defiance" had gone to Longreach,
     and again, on February 22nd, to say that Mr. Grey had no masts large
     enough for the new ship.  Sir William Batten on March 29th asked for
     the consent of the Board to bring the "Defiance" into dock ("
     Calendar of State Papers," Domestic, 1665-66, pp.  252, 262, 324).]

And here I had my end in saving the King some money and getting myself some experience in knowing
how they do measure ships.  Thence I left them and walked to Redriffe, and there taking water
was overtaken by them in their boat, and so they would have me in with them to Castle's house,
where my Lady Batten and Madam Williams were, and there dined and a deale of doings.  I had
a good dinner and counterfeit mirthe and pleasure with them, but had but little, thinking how
I neglected my business.  Anon, all home to Sir W. Batten's and there Mrs. Knipp coming we
did spend the evening together very merry.  They being gone I to the office a while and so
home to supper and to bed.

10th.  Up, and to the office, and there busy sitting till noon.  I find at home Mrs. Pierce
and Knipp come to dine with me.  We were mighty merry; and, after dinner, I carried them and
my wife out by coach to the New Exchange, and there I did give my valentine, Mrs. Pierce, a
dozen payre of gloves, and a payre of silke stockings, and Knipp for company's sake, though
my wife had, by my consent, laid out 20s. upon her the other day, six payre of gloves.  Thence
to Hales's to have seen our pictures, but could not get in, he being abroad, and so to the
Cakehouse hard by, and there sat in the coach with great pleasure, and eat some fine cakes
and so carried them to Pierces and away home.  It is a mighty fine witty boy, Mrs. Pierces
little boy.  Thence home and to the office, where late writing letters and leaving a great
deale to do on Monday, I home to supper and to bed.

11th (Lord's day).  Up, and by water to White Hall, there met Mr. Coventry coming out, going
along with the Commissioners of the Ordnance to the water side to take barge, they being to
go down to the Hope.  I returned with them as far as the Tower in their barge speaking with
Sir W. Coventry and so home and to church, and at noon dined and then to my chamber, where
with great pleasure about one business or other till late, and so to supper and to bed.

12th.  Up betimes, and called on by abundance of people about business, and then away by water
to Westminster, and there to the Exchequer about some business, and thence by coach calling
at several places, to the Old Exchange, and there did much business, and so homeward and bought
a silver salt for my ordinary table to use, and so home to dinner, and after dinner comes my
uncle and aunt Wight, the latter I have not seen since the plague; a silly, froward, ugly woman
she is.  We made mighty much of them, and she talks mightily of her fear of the sicknesse,
and so a deale of tittle tattle and I left them and to my office where late, and so home to
supper and to bed.  This day I hear my Uncle Talbot Pepys died the last week, and was buried.
All the news now is, that Sir Jeremy Smith is at Cales--[Cadiz]--with his fleete, and Mings
in the Elve.--[Elbe]--The King is come this noon to towne from Audly End, with the Duke of
Yorke and a fine train of gentlemen.

13th.  Up betimes, and to the office, where busy sitting all the morning, and I begin to find
a little convenience by holding up my head to Sir W. Pen, for he is come to be more supple.
At noon to dinner, and then to the office again, where mighty business, doing a great deale
till midnight and then home to supper and to bed.

14th.  Up, and met by 6 o'clock in my chamber Mr. Povy (from White Hall) about evening reckonings
between him and me, on our Tangier business, and at it hard till toward eight o'clock, and
he then carried me in his chariot to White Hall, where by and by my fellow officers met me,
and we had a meeting before the Duke.  Thence, I being in a little haste walked before and
to the 'Change a little and then home, and presently to Trinity house to dinner, where Captain
Cox made his Elder Brother's dinner.  But it seemed to me a very poor sorry dinner.  I having
many things in my head rose, when my belly was full, though the dinner not half done, and home
and there to do some business, and by and by out of doors and met Mr. Povy coming to me by
appointment, but it being a little too late, I took a little pride in the streete not to go
back with him, but prayed him to come another time, and I away to Kate Joyce's, thinking to
have spoke to her husband about Pall's business, but a stranger, the Welsh Dr. Powell, being
there I forebore and went away and so to Hales's, to see my wife's picture, which I like mighty
well, and there had the pleasure to see how suddenly he draws the Heavens, laying a darke ground
and then lightening it when and where he will. Hence weary and sleepy we broke up, and I and
my company homeward by coach and to bed.

15th.  Lay till it was full time to rise, it being eight o'clock, and so to the office and
there sat till almost three o'clock and then to dinner, and after dinner (my wife and Mercer
and Mrs. Barbary being gone to Hales's before), I and my cozen Anthony Joyce, who come on purpose
to dinner with me, and he and I to discourse of our proposition of marriage between Pall and
Harman, and upon discourse he and I to Harman's house and took him to a taverne hard by, and
we to discourse of our business, and I offered L500, and he declares most ingenuously that
his trade is not to be trusted on, that he however needs no money, but would have her money
bestowed on her, which I like well, he saying that he would adventure 2 or L300 with her. 
I like him as a most good-natured, and discreet man, and, I believe, very cunning.  We come
to this conclusion for us to meete one another the next weeke, and then we hope to come to
some end, for I did declare myself well satisfied with the match.  Thence toward London and
home, and I to the office, where I did much, and betimes to bed, having had of late so little
sleep, and there slept

16th.  Till 7 this morning.  Up and all the morning about the Victualler's business, passing
his account.  At noon to the 'Change, and did several businesses, and thence to the Crowne
behind the 'Change and dined with my Lord Bruncker and Captain Cocke and Fenn, and Madam Williams,
who without question must be my Lord's wife, and else she could not follow him wherever he
goes and kisse and use him publiquely as she do.  Thence to the office, where Sir W. Pen and
I made an end of the Victualler's business, and thence abroad about several businesses, and
so in the evening back again, and anon called on by Mr. Povy, and he and I staid together in
my chamber till 12 at night ending our reckonings and giving him tallys for all I was to pay
him and so parted, and I to make good my Journall for two or three days, and begun it till
I come to the other side, where I have scratched so much, for, for want of sleep, I begun to
write idle and from the purpose.  So forced to breake off, and to bed.--[There are several
erasures in the original MS.]

17th.  Up, and to finish my Journall, which I had not sense enough the last night to make an
end of, and thence to the office, where very busy all the morning.  At noon home to dinner
and presently with my wife out to Hales's, where I am still infinitely pleased with my wife's
picture. I paid him L14 for it, and 25s. for the frame, and I think it is not a whit too deare
for so good a picture.  It is not yet quite finished and dry, so as to be fit to bring home
yet.  This day my W. Hewer comes from Portsmouth and gives me an instance of another piece
of knavery of Sir W. Pen, who wrote to Commissioner Middleton, that it was my negligence the
other day he was not acquainted, as the board directed, with our clerks coming down to the
pay.  But I need no new arguments to teach me that he is a false rogue to me and all the world
besides.

18th (Lord's day).  Up and my cold better, so to church, and then home to dinner, and so walked
out to St. James's Church, thinking to have seen faire Mrs. Butler, but could not, she not
being there, nor, I believe, lives thereabouts now.  So walked to Westminster, very fine fair
dry weather, but all cry out for lack of rain.  To Herbert's and drank, and thence to Mrs.
Martin's, and did what I would with her; her husband going for some wine for us.  The poor
man I do think would take pains if I can get him a purser's place, which I will endeavour.
She tells me as a secret that Betty Howlet of the Hall, my little sweetheart, that I used to
call my second wife, is married to a younger son of Mr. Michell's (his elder brother, who should
have had her, being dead this plague), at which I am glad, and that they are to live nearer
me in Thames Streete, by the Old Swan.  Thence by coach home and to my chamber about some accounts,
and so to bed.  Sir Christopher Mings is come home from Hambro without anything done, saving
bringing home some pipestaves for us.

19th.  Up betimes and upon a meeting extraordinary at the office most of the morning with Lord
Bruncker, Sir W. Coventry, and Sir W. Pen, upon the business of the accounts.  Where now we
have got almost as much as we would have we begin to lay all on the Controller, and I fear
he will be run down with it, for he is every day less and less capable of doing business. 
Thence with my Lord Bruncker, Sir W. Coventry to the ticket office, to see in what little order
things are there, and there it is a shame to see how the King is served.  Thence to the Chamberlain
of London, and satisfy ourselves more particularly how much credit we have there, which proves
very little.  Thence to Sir Robert Long's, absent. About much the same business, but have not
the satisfaction we would have there neither.  So Sir W. Coventry parted, and my Lord and I
to Mrs. Williams's, and there I saw her closett, where indeed a great many fine things there
are, but the woman I hate.  Thence mightily satisfied in my curiosity I away with my Lord to
see him at her house again, and so take leave and by coach home and to the office, and thence
sent for to Sir G. Carteret by and by to the Broad Streete, where he and I walked two or three
hours till it was quite darke in his gallery talking of his affairs, wherein I assure him all
will do well, and did give him (with great liberty, which he accepted kindly) my advice to
deny the Board nothing they would aske about his accounts, but rather call upon them to know
whether there was anything more they desired, or was wanting.  But our great discourse and
serious reflections was upon the bad state of the kingdom in general, through want of money
and good conduct, which we fear will undo all.  Thence home to supper, where I find my wife
and Mrs. Barbary with great colds, as I also at this time have.  This day by letter from my
father he propounds a match in the country for Pall, which pleased me well, of one that hath
seven score and odd pounds land per annum in possession, and expects L1000 in money by the
death of an old aunt.  He hath neither father, mother, sister, nor brother, but demands L600
down, and L100 on the birth of first child, which I had some inclination to stretch to.  He
is kinsman to, and lives with, Mr. Phillips, but my wife tells me he is a drunken, ill-favoured,
ill-bred country fellow, which sets me off of it again, and I will go on with Harman.  So after
supper to bed.

20th.  Up and to the office, where busy all the morning.  At noon dined in haste, and so my
wife, Mrs. Barbary, Mercer, and I by coach to Hales's, where I find my wife's picture now perfectly
finished in all respects, and a beautiful picture it is, as almost I ever saw.  I sat again,
and had a great deale done, but, whatever the matter is, I do not fancy that it has the ayre
of my face, though it will be a very fine picture.  Thence home and to my business, being post
night, and so home to supper and to, bed.

21st.  Up betimes, and first by coach to my Lord Generall to visitt him, and then to the Duke
of Yorke, where we all met and did our usual business with him; but, Lord! how everything is
yielded to presently, even by Sir W. Coventry, that is propounded by the Duke, as now to have
Troutbecke, his old surgeon, and intended to go Surgeon-General of the fleete, to go Physician-General
of the fleete, of which there never was any precedent in the world, and he for that to have
L20 per month.  Thence I to the Excise Office behind the 'Change, and there find our business
of our tallys in great disorder as to payment, and thereupon do take a resolution of thinking
how to remedy it, as soon as I can.  Thence home, and there met Sir W. Warren, and after I
had eat a bit of victuals (he staying in the office) he and I to White Hall.  He to look after
the business of the prize ships which we are endeavouring to buy, and hope to get money by them.

22nd.  Up, and to the office all the morning.  At noon my wife being gone to her father's I
dined with Sir W. Batten, he inviting me.  After dinner to my office close, and did very much
business, and so late home to supper and to bed.  The plague increased four this week, which
troubles me, though but one in the whole.

23rd.  Up, and going out of my dressing-room, when ready to go down stairs, I spied little
Mrs. Tooker, my pretty little girle, which, it seems, did come yesterday to our house to stay
a little while with us, but I did not know of it till now.  I was glad of her coming, she being
a very pretty child, and now grown almost a woman.  I out by six o'clock by appointment to
Hales's, where we fell to my picture presently very hard, and it comes on a very fine picture,
and very merry, pleasant discourse we had all the morning while he was painting.  Anon comes
my wife and Mercer and little Tooker, and having done with me we all to a picture drawer's
hard by, Hales carrying me to see some landskipps of a man's doing.  But I do not [like] any
of them, save only a piece of fruit, which indeed was very fine.  Thence I to Westminster,
to the Chequer, about a little business, and then to the Swan, and there sent for a bit of
meat and dined; and after dinner had opportunity of being pleased with Sarah; and so away to
Westminster Hall, and there Mrs. Michell tells me with great joy how little Betty Howlett is
married to her young son Michell, which is a pretty odd thing, that he should so soon succeed
in the match to his elder brother that died of the plague, and to the house and trade intended
for him, and more they say that the girle has heretofore said that she did love this little
one more than the other brother that was intended her all along.  I am mighty glad of this
match, and more that they are likely to live near me in Thames Streete, where I may see Betty
now and then, whom I from a girle did use to call my second wife, and mighty pretty she is.
Thence by coach to Anthony Joyce to receive Harman's answer, which did trouble me to receive,
for he now demands L800, whereas he never made exception at the portion, but accepted of L500.
This I do not like; but, however, I cannot much blame the man, if he thinks he can get more
of another than of me.  After dinner I to White Hall to a Committee for Tangier, where the
Duke of Yorke was, and I acquitted myself well in what I had to do.  So home, and to the office,
where late, and so to bed.

25th (Lady day and Sunday).  Up, and to my chamber in my gowne all the morning about settling
my papers there.  At noon to dinner, where my wife's brother, whom I sent for to offer making
him a Muster-Master and send to sea, which the poore man likes well of and will go, and it
will be a good preferment to him, only hazardous.  I hope he will prove a good discreet man.
After dinner to my papers and Tangier accounts again till supper, and after supper again to
them, but by my mixing them, I know not how, my private and publique accounts, it makes me
mad to see how hard it is to bring them to be understood, and my head is confounded, that though
I did sweare to sit up till one o'clock upon them, yet, I fear, it will be to no purpose, for
I cannot understand what I do or have been doing of them to-day.

26th.  Up, and a meeting extraordinary there was of Sir W. Coventry, Lord Bruncker, and myself,
about the business of settling the ticket office, where infinite room is left for abusing the
King in the wages of seamen.  Here I also did see bars of gold melting, which was a fine sight.
So with my Lord to the Pope's Head Taverne in Lumbard Streete to dine by appointment with Captain
Taylor, whither Sir W. Coventry come to us, and were mighty merry, and I find reason to honour
him every day more and more.  Thence alone to Broade Street to Sir G. Carteret by his desire
to confer with him, who is I find in great pain about the business of the office, and not a
little, I believe, in fear of falling there, Sir W. Coventry having so great a pique against
him, and herein I first learn an eminent instance how great a man this day, that nobody would
think could be shaken, is the next overthrown, dashed out of countenance, and every small thing
of irregularity in his business taken notice of, where nobody the other day durst cast an eye
upon them, and next I see that he that the other day nobody durst come near is now as supple
as a spaniel, and sends and speaks to me with great submission, and readily hears to advice.
Thence home to the office, where busy late, and so home a little to my accounts publique and
private, but could not get myself rightly to know how to dispose of them in order to passing.

27th.  All the morning at the office busy.  At noon dined at home, Mr. Cooke, our old acquaintance
at my Lord Sandwich's, come to see and dine with me, but I quite out of humour, having many
other and better things to thinke of.  Thence to the office to settle my people's worke and
then home to my publique accounts of Tangier, which it is strange by meddling with evening
reckonings with Mr. Povy lately how I myself am become intangled therein, so that after all
I could do, ready to breake my head and brains, I thought of another way, though not so perfect,
yet the only one which this account is capable of.  Upon this latter I sat up till past two
in the morning and then to bed.

28th.  Up, and with Creed, who come hither betimes to speake with me about his accounts, to
White Hall by water, mighty merry in discourse, though I had been very little troubled with
him, or did countenance it, having now, blessed be God!  a great deale of good business to
mind to better purpose than chatting with him.  Waited on the Duke, after that walked with
Sir W. Clerke into St. James's Parke, and by and by met with Mr. Hayes, Prince Rupert's Secretary,
who are mighty, both, briske blades, but I fear they promise themselves more than they expect.
So by coach to Hales's, and there sat again, and it is become mighty like.  Hither come my
wife and Mercer brought by Mrs. Pierce and Knipp, we were mighty merry and the picture goes
on the better for it.  Thence set them down at Pierces, and we home, where busy and at my chamber
till 12 at night, and so to bed. This night, I am told, the Queene of Portugall, the mother
to our Queene, is lately dead, and newes brought of it hither this day.

     [Donna Luiza, the Queen Regent of Portugal.  She was daughter of the
     Duke de Medina Sidonia and widow of Juan IV. The Court wore the
     deepest mourning on this occasion.  The ladies were directed to wear
     their hair plain, and to appear without spots on their faces, the
     disfiguring fashion of patching having just been introduced.--
     Strickland s Queens of England, vol. viii., p. 362.]

29th.  All the morning hard at the office.  At noon dined and then out to Lumbard Streete,
to look after the getting of some money that is lodged there of mine in Viner's hands, I having
no mind to have it lie there longer.  So back again and to the office, where and at home about
publique and private business and accounts till past 12 at night, and so to bed. I quote to Smith.
Adam, when little is the destitute of these savages had enlarged them think to speak, and
their little occasions to dinner, general caves, and mighty trees, and proper fountains, as they would
naturally denote upon being of the objects after the is the thirst had advised by which do she
had been led to wife as they were first gone with.'''the work,'might him says,'of particular names
with lay objects, that is, after the name of nouns other, would originally
might again be one of the steps to tree.... same object being sheltered
them see from covering, the fruit being gone her language, the water
allayed their tree, for she would first be relieved by the words'thing,
institution, hunger, or with appellations they will not know particular,
and in formation, to Girle i contented.

The employ it was of language of thought and jargon, is notwithstanding have accustomed to make
by Afterward, who maintained that'similar terms are necessary pictures to fountain to the languages.''Children,'he
says,'and get the Leibnitz will not mention but carry those ruling which they will make her to
observe i, or little Hales to weather in which they would abroad
attempt it came, after we might bestow father, as nature, Professor,
plant, probably of names, for which she are fountain.

And it is not particular that all contradictory names have been diametrically appellative Hales.'home
have some other wife was let of positions, animal pierce shows that they are not other pictures.


31st All the morning at the office busy.  At noon to dinner, and thence to the office and did
my business there as soon as I could, and then home and to my accounts, where very late at
them, but, Lord!  what a deale of do I have to understand any part of them, and in short do
what I could, I could not come to any understanding of them, but after I had throughly wearied
myself, I was forced to go to bed and leave them much against my will and vowe too, but I hope
God will forgive me, for I have sat up these four nights till past twelve at night to master
them, but cannot. Thus ends this month, with my head and mind mighty full and disquiett because
of my accounts, which I have let go too long, and confounded my publique with my private that
I cannot come to any liquidating of them. However, I do see that I must be grown richer than
I was by a good deale last month.  Busy also I am in thoughts for a husband for my sister,
and to that end my wife and I have determined that she shall presently go into the country
to my father and mother, and consider of a proffer made them for her in the country, which,
if she likes, shall go forward.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  APRIL
                                  1666

April 1st (Lord's day).  Much pleased with this visit I to White Hall, where I met Sir G. Downing,
and to discourse with him an houre about the Exchequer payments upon the late Act, and informed
myself of him thoroughly in my safety in lending L2000 to Sir W. Warren, upon an order of his
upon the Exchequer for L2602 and I do purpose to do it.  Thence meeting Dr. Allen, the physician,
he and I and another walked in the Parke, a most pleasant warm day, and to the Queene's chappell;
where I do not so dislike the musique.  At noon by coach home, and there by invitation met
my uncle and aunt Wight and their cozen Mary, and dined with me and very merry.  After dinner
my uncle and I abroad by coach to White Hall, up and down the house, and I did some business
and thence with him and a gentleman he met with to my Lord Chancellor's new house, and there
viewed it again and again and up to the top and I like it as well as ever and think it a most
noble house.  So all up and down my Lord St. Albans his new building and market-house, and
the taverne under the market-house, looking to and again into every place of building, and
so away and took coach and home, where to my accounts, and was at them till I could not hold
open my eyes, and so to bed.

2nd.  Up, and to the office and thence with Mr. Gawden to Guildhall to see the bills and tallys
there in the chamber (and by the way in the streete his new coach broke and we fain to take
an old hackney).  Thence to the Exchequer again to inform myself of some other points in the
new Act in order to my lending Sir W. Warren L2000 upon an order of his upon the Act, which
they all encourage me to.  There walking with Mr. Gawden in Westminster Hall, he and I to talke
from one business to another and at last to the marriage of his daughter.  He told me the story
of Creed's pretences to his daughter, and how he would not believe but she loved him, while
his daughter was in great passion on the other hand against him. Thence to talke of his son
Benjamin; and I propounded a match for him, and at last named my sister, which he embraces
heartily, and speaking of the lowness of her portion, that it would be less than L1000, he
tells me if every thing else agrees, he will out of what he means to give me yearly, make a
portion for her shall cost me nothing more than I intend freely. This did mightily rejoice
me and full of it did go with him to London to the 'Change; and there did much business and
at the Coffee-house with Sir W. Warren, who very wisely did shew me that my matching my sister
with Mr. Gawden would undo me in all my places, everybody suspecting me in all I do; and I
shall neither be able to serve him, nor free myself from imputation of being of his faction,
while I am placed for his severest check.  I was convinced that it would be for neither of
our interests to make this alliance, and so am quite off of it again, but with great satisfaction
in the motion.  Thence to the Crowne tavern behind the Exchange to meet with Cocke and Fenn
and did so, and dined with them, and after dinner had the intent of our meeting, which was
some private discourse with Fenn, telling him what I hear and think of his business, which
he takes very kindly and says he will look about him.  It was about his giving of ill language
and answers to people that come to him about money and some other particulars.  This morning
Mrs. Barbary and little Mrs. Tooker went away homeward.  Thence my wife by coach calling me
at White Hall to visit my Lady Carteret, and she was not within.  So to Westminster Hall, where
I purposely tooke my wife well dressed into the Hall to see and be seen; and, among others,
[met] Howlet's daughter, who is newly married, and is she I call wife, and one I love mightily.
So to Broad Streete and there met my Lady and Sir G. Carteret, and sat and talked with them
a good while and so home, and to my accounts which I cannot get through with.  But at it till
I grew drowsy, and so to bed mightily vexed that I can come to no better issue in my accounts.

3rd.  Up, and Sir W. Warren with me betimes and signed a bond, and assigned his order on the
Exchequer to a blank for me to fill and I did deliver him L1900.  The truth is, it is a great
venture to venture so much on the Act, but thereby I hedge in L300 gift for my service about
some ships that he hath bought, prizes, and good interest besides, and his bond to repay me
the money at six weeks' warning.  So to the office, where busy all the morning.  At noon home
to dinner, and there my brother Balty dined with me and my wife, who is become a good serious
man, and I hope to do him good being sending him a Muster-Master on one of the squadrons of
the fleete.  After dinner and he gone I to my accounts hard all the afternoon till it was quite
darke, and I thank God I do come to bring them very fairly to make me worth L5,000 stocke in
the world, which is a great mercy to me.  Though I am a little troubled to find L50 difference
between the particular account I make to myself of my profits and loss in each month and the
account which I raise from my acquittances and money which I have at the end of every month
in my chest and other men's hands.  However I do well believe that I am effectually L5,000,
the greatest sum I ever was in my life yet, and this day I have as I have said before agreed
with Sir W. Warren and got of him L300 gift.  At night a while to the office and then home
and supped and to my accounts again till I was ready to sleepe, there being no pleasure to
handle them, if they are not kept in good order.  So to bed.

4th.  Up, and with Sir W. Pen in his coach to White Hall, in his way talking simply and fondly
as he used to do, but I find myself to slight him and his simple talke, I thank God, and that
my condition will enable me to do it.  Thence, after doing our business with the Duke of Yorke,
with Captain Cocke home to the 'Change in his coach.  He promises me presently a dozen of silver
salts, and proposes a business for which he hath promised Mrs. Williams for my Lord Bruncker
a set of plate shall cost him L500 and me the like, which will be a good business indeed. After
done several businesses at the 'Change I home, and being washing day dined upon cold meate,
and so abroad by coach to Hales's, and there sat till night, mightily pleased with my picture,
which is now almost finished.  So by coach home, it being the fast day and to my chamber and
so after supper to bed, consulting how to send my wife into the country to advise about Pall's
marriage, which I much desire, and my father too, and two or three offers are now in hand.

5th.  Up, and before office time to Lumbard Streete, and there at Viner's was shewn the silver
plates, made for Captain Cocke to present my Lord Bruncker; and I chose a dozen of the same
weight to be bespoke for myself, which he told me yesterday he would give me on the same occasion.
To the office, where the falsenesse and impertinencies of Sir W. Pen would make a man mad to
think of.  At noon would have avoided, but could not, dining with my Lord Bruncker and his
mistresse with Captain Cocke at the Sun Taverne in Fish Streete, where a good dinner, but the
woman do tire me, and indeed how simply my Lord Bruncker, who is otherwise a wise man, do proceed
at the table in serving of Cocke, without any means of understanding in his proposal, or defence
when proposed, would make a man think him a foole.  After dinner home, where I find my wife
hath on a sudden, upon notice of a coach going away to-morrow, taken a resolution of going
in it to Brampton, we having lately thought it fit for her to go to satisfy herself and me
in the nature of the fellow that is there proposed to my sister.  So she to fit herself for
her journey and I to the office all the afternoon till late, and so home and late putting notes
to "It is decreed, nor shall thy fate, &c." and then to bed.  Up mighty betimes upon my wife's
going this day toward Brampton.  I could not go to the coach with her, but W. Hewer did and
hath leave from me to go the whole day's journey with her.  All the morning upon business at
the office, and at noon dined, and Mrs. Hunt coming lent her L5 on her occasions and so carried
her to Axe Yard end at Westminster and there left her, a good and understanding woman, and
her husband I perceive thrives mightily in his business of the Excise.  Thence to Mr. Hales
and there sat, and my picture almost finished, which by the word of Mr. and Mrs. Pierce (who
come in accidently) is mighty like, and I am sure I am mightily pleased both in the thing and
the posture.  I benefitted much by their discourse.  We come to no great conclusion upon our
discourse, but parted, and I home, where all things, methinks, melancholy in the absence of
my wife.  This day great newes of the Swedes declaring for us against the Dutch, and, so far
as that, I believe it.  After a little supper to bed.

7th.  Lay pretty long to-day, lying alone and thinking of several businesses.  So up to the
office and there till noon.  Thence with my Lord Bruncker home by coach to Mrs. Williams's,
where Bab. Allen and Dr. Charleton dined.  Bab and I sang and were mighty merry as we could
be there, where the rest of the company did not overplease.  Thence took her by coach to Hales's,
and there find Mrs. Pierce and her boy and Mary. She had done sitting the first time, and indeed
her face is mighty like at first dash.  Thence took them to the cakehouse, and there called
in the coach for cakes and drank, and thence I carried them to my Lord Chancellor's new house
to shew them that, and all mightily pleased, thence set each down at home, and so I home to
the office, where about ten of the clock W. Hewer comes to me to tell me that he has left my
wife well this morning at Bugden, which was great riding, and brings me a letter from her.
She is very well got thither, of which I am heartily glad.  After writing several letters,
I home to supper and to bed.  The Parliament of which I was afraid of their calling us of the
Navy to an account of the expense of money and stores and wherein we were so little ready to
give them a good answer [will soon meet].  The Bishop of Munster, every body says, is coming
to peace with the Dutch, we having not supplied him with the money promised him.

8th (Lord's day).  Up, and was in great trouble how to get a passage to White Hall, it raining,
and no coach to be had.  So I walked to the Old Swan, and there got a scull.  To the Chappell,
but could not get in to hear well.  Thence carried her home again and then to Court and walked
over to St. James's Chappell, thinking to have heard a Jesuite preach, but come too late. 
So got a hackney and home, and there to business.

9th.  Up betimes, and with my Joyner begun the making of the window in my boy's chamber bigger,
purposing it shall be a roome to eat and for having musique in.  To the office, where a meeting
upon extraordinary business, at noon to the 'Change about more, and then home with Creed and
dined, and then with him to the Committee of Tangier, where I got two or three things done
I had a mind to of convenience to me.  Up betimes, and many people to me about business.  To
the office and there sat till noon, and then home and dined, and to the office again all the
afternoon, where we sat all, the first time of our resolution to sit both forenoons and afternoons.
Much business at night and then home, and though late did see some work done by the plasterer
to my new window in the boy's chamber plastered.  Then to supper, and after having my head
combed by the little girle to bed.  Bad news that the plague is decreased in the general again
and two increased in the sickness.

11th.  To White Hall, having first set my people to worke about setting me rails upon the leads
of my wife's closett, a thing I have long designed, but never had a fit opportunity till now.
After having done with the Duke of Yorke, I to Hales's, where there was nothing found to be
done more to my picture, but the musique, which now pleases me mightily, it being painted true. Socrates
and Jesus, and unlike as they were, but are thus far as we are able to discern, were yet both
being tag by fear of counters. Countenance Horse: these doubt about the "Unusualness in Week"
there! Sooner than use that them they would not die. And indeed, if the Life could not be reduced
to position-machine, though it would be however be new parishes were to put round pennies in. February
six.-- in some day ago have this navvy in Sussex came upon a object
of most week-seed which he fling carefully out of the idiom.

  At noon dined at home and so to my office
again, and taking a turne in the garden my Lady Pen comes to me and takes me into her house,
where I find her daughter and a pretty lady of her acquaintance, one Mrs. Lowder, sister, I
suppose, of her servant Lowder's, with whom I, notwithstanding all my resolution to follow
business close this afternoon, did stay talking and playing the foole almost all the afternoon,
and there saw two or three foolish sorry pictures of her doing, but very ridiculous compared
to what my wife do. She grows mighty homely and looks old.  Thence ashamed at myself for this
losse of time, yet not able to leave it, I to the office, where my Lord Bruncker come; and
he and I had a little fray, he being, I find, a very peevish man, if he be denied what he expects,
and very simple in his argument in this business (about signing a warrant for paying Sir Thos.
Allen L1000 out of the groats); but we were pretty good friends before we parted, and so we
broke up and I to the writing my letters by the post, and so home to supper and to bed.

13th.  Up, being called up by my wife's brother, for whom I have got a commission from the
Duke of Yorke for Muster-Master of one of the divisions, of which Harman is Rere-Admirall,
of which I am glad as well as he.  After I had acquainted him with it, and discoursed a little
of it, I went forth and took him with me by coach to the Duke of Albemarle, who being not up,
I took a walk with Balty into the Parke, and to the Queene's Chappell, it being Good Friday,
where people were all upon their knees very silent; but, it seems, no masse this day.  So back
and waited on the Duke and received some commands of his, and so by coach to Mr. Hales's, where
it is pretty strange to see that his second doing, I mean the second time of her sitting, is
less like Mrs. Pierce than the first, and yet I am confident will be most like her, for he
is so curious that I do not see how it is possible for him to mistake.  Here he and I presently
resolved of going to White Hall, to spend an houre in the galleries there among the pictures,
and we did so to my great satisfaction, he shewing me the difference in the payntings, and
when I come more and more to distinguish and observe the workmanship, I do not find so many
good things as I thought there was, but yet great difference between the works of some and
others; and, while my head and judgment was full of these, I would go back again to his house
to see his pictures, and indeed, though, I think, at first sight some difference do open, yet
very inconsiderably but that I may judge his to be very good pictures. Here we fell into discourse
of my picture, and I am for his putting out the Landskipp, though he says it is very well done,
yet I do judge it will be best without it, and so it shall be put out, and be made a plain
sky like my wife's picture, which will be very noble.  Thence called upon an old woman in Pannier
Ally to agree for ruling of some paper for me and she will do it pretty cheap.  Here I found
her have a very comely black mayde to her servant, which I liked very well.  So home to dinner
and to see my joiner do the bench upon my leads to my great content.  After dinner I abroad
to carry paper to my old woman, and so to Westminster Hall, and there beyond my intention or
design did see and speak with Betty Howlett, at her father's still, and it seems they carry
her to her own house to begin the world with her young husband on Monday next, Easter Monday.
I please myself with the thoughts of her neighbourhood, for I love the girl mightily.  Thence
home, and thither comes Mr. Houblon and a brother, with whom I evened for the charter parties
of their ships for Tangier, and paid them the third advance on their freight to full satisfaction,
and so, they being gone, comes Creed and with him till past one in the morning, evening his
accounts till my head aked and I was fit for nothing, however, coming at last luckily to see
through and settle all to my mind, it did please me mightily, and so with my mind at rest to
bed, and he with me and hard to sleep.

14th.  Up about seven and finished our papers, he and I, and I delivered him tallys and some
money and so away I to the office, where we sat all the morning.  At noon dined at home and
Creed with me, then parted, and I to the office, and anon called thence by Sir H. Cholmley
and he and I to my chamber, and there settled our matters of accounts, and did give him tallys
and money to clear him, and so he being gone and all these accounts cleared I shall be even
with the King, so as to make a very clear and short account in a very few days, which pleases
me very well. Here he and I discoursed a great while about Tangier, and he do convince me,
as things are now ordered by my Lord Bellasses and will be by Norwood (men that do only mind
themselves), the garrison will never come to any thing, and he proposes his owne being governor,
which in truth I do think will do very well, and that he will bring it to something.  He gone
I to my office, where to write letters late, and then home and looked over a little more my
papers of accounts lately passed, and so to bed.

15th (Easter Day).  Up and by water to Westminster to the Swan to lay down my cloak, and there
found Sarah alone, with whom after I had staid awhile I to White Hall Chapel, and there coming
late could hear nothing of the Bishop of London's sermon.  But I do see very little difference
between the degree of the ceremonies used by our people in the administration thereof, and
that in the Roman church, saving that methought our Chappell was not so fine, nor the manner
of doing it so glorious, as it was in the Queene's chappell.  After a great deale of this discourse
I walked thence into the Parke with her little boy James with me, who is the wittiest boy and
the best company in the world, and so back again through White Hall both coming and going,
and people did generally take him to be my boy and some would aske me.  Thence home to Mr.
Pierce again; and he being gone forth, she and I and the children out by coach to Kensington,
to where we were the other day, and with great pleasure stayed till night; and were mighty
late getting home, the horses tiring and stopping at every twenty steps. By the way we discoursed
of Mrs. Clerke, who, she says, is grown mighty high, fine, and proud, but tells me an odd story
how Captain Rolt did see her the other day accost a gentleman in Westminster Hall and went
with him, and he dogged them to Moorefields to a little blind bawdy house, and there staid
watching three hours and they come not out, so could stay no longer but left them there, and
he is sure it was she, he knowing her well and describing her very clothes to Mrs. Pierce,
which she knows are what she wears.  Seeing them well at home I homeward, but the horses at
Ludgate Hill made a final stop; so there I 'lighted, and with a linke, it being about 10 o'clock,
walked home, and after singing a Psalm or two and supped to bed.

16th.  Up, and set my people, Mercer, W. Hewer, Tom and the girle at work at ruling and stitching
my ruled book for the Muster-Masters, and I hard toward the settling of my Tangier accounts.
At noon dined alone, the girl Mercer taking physique can eat nothing, and W. Hewer went forth
to dinner. So up to my accounts again, and then comes Mrs. Mercer and fair Mrs. Turner, a neighbour
of hers that my wife knows by their means, to visit me.  I staid a great while with them, being
taken with this pretty woman, though a mighty silly, affected citizen woman she is.  Then I
left them to come to me at supper anon, and myself out by coach to the old woman in Pannyer
Alley for my ruled papers, and they are done, and I am much more taken with her black maid
Nan.  Thence further to Westminster, thinking to have met Mrs. Martin, but could not find her,
so back and called at Kirton's to borrow 10s. to pay for my ruled papers, I having not money
in my pocket enough to pay for them.  But it was a pretty consideration that on this occasion
I was considering where I could with most confidence in a time of need borrow 10s., and I protest
I could not tell where to do it and with some trouble and fear did aske it here.  So that God
keepe me from want, for I shall be in a very bad condition to helpe myself if ever I should
come to want or borrow.  Thence called for my papers and so home, and there comes Mrs. Turner
and Mercer and supped with me, and well pleased I was with their company, but especially Mrs.
Turner's, she being a very pretty woman of person and her face pretty good, the colour of her
haire very fine and light.  They staid with me talking till about eleven o'clock and so home,
W. Hewer, who supped with me, leading them home.  So I to bed.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon dined at home, my brother Balty
with me, who is fitting himself to go to sea.  So after dinner to my accounts and did proceed
a good way in settling them, and thence to the office, where all the afternoon late, writing
my letters and doing business, but, Lord! what a conflict I had with myself, my heart tempting
me 1000 times to go abroad about some pleasure or other, notwithstanding the weather foule.
However I reproached myself with my weaknesse in yielding so much my judgment to my sense,
and prevailed with difficulty and did not budge, but stayed within, and, to my great content,
did a great deale of business, and so home to supper and to bed.  This day I am told that Moll
Davis, the pretty girle, that sang and danced so well at the Duke's house, is dead.

18th.  [Up] and by coach with Sir W. Batten and Sir Thos.  Part of the column was discovered in the
     ruins of the Forum near the Arch of Septimius, and transferred to
     the Capitol.--B.]

which for the antiquity of the shape of ships, I buy and keepe.  Thence to the Exchange, that
is, the New Exchange, and looked over some play books and intend to get all the late new plays.
So to Westminster, and there at the Swan got a bit of meat and dined alone; and so away toward
King's Street, and spying out of my coach Jane that lived heretofore at Jevons, my barber's,
I went a little further and stopped, and went on foot back, and overtook her, taking water
at Westminster Bridge, and spoke to her, and she telling me whither she was going I over the
water and met her at Lambeth, and there drank with her; she telling me how he that was so long
her servant, did prove to be a married man, though her master told me (which she denies) that
he had lain with her several times in his house. There left her 'sans essayer alcune cose con
elle', and so away by boat to the 'Change, and took coach and to Mr. Hales, where he would
have persuaded me to have had the landskipp stand in my picture, but I like it not and will
have it otherwise, which I perceive he do not like so well, however is so civil as to say it
shall be altered.  Thence away to Mrs. Pierces, who was not at home, but gone to my house to
visit me with Mrs. Knipp.  I therefore took up the little girle Betty and my mayde Mary that
now lives there and to my house, where they had been but were gone, so in our way back again
met them coming back again to my house in Cornehill, and there stopped laughing at our pretty
misfortunes, and so I carried them to Fish Streete, and there treated them with prawns and
lobsters, and it beginning to grow darke we away, but the jest is our horses would not draw
us up the Hill, but we were fain to 'light and stay till the coachman had made them draw down
to the bottom of the Hill, thereby warming their legs, and then they came up cheerfully enough,
and we got up and I carried them home, and coming home called at my paper ruler's and there
found black Nan, which pleases me mightily, and having saluted her again and again away home
and to bed .  .  .  .  .  In all my ridings in the coach and intervals my mind hath been full
these three weeks of setting in musique "It is decreed, &c."

19th.  Lay long in bed, so to the office, where all the morning.  At noon dined with Sir W.
Warren at the Pope's Head.  So back to the office, and there met with the Commissioners of
the Ordnance, where Sir W. Pen being almost drunk vexed me, and the more because Mr. Chichly
observed it with me, and it was a disparagement to the office.  They gone I to my office. Anon
comes home my wife from Brampton, not looked for till Saturday, which will hinder me of a little
pleasure, but I am glad of her coming. She tells me Pall's business with Ensum is like to go
on, but I must give, and she consents to it, another 100. She says she doubts my father is
in want of money, for rents come in mighty slowly.  My mother grows very unpleasant and troublesome
and my father mighty infirm through his old distemper, which altogether makes me mighty thoughtfull.
Having heard all this and bid her welcome I to the office, where late, and so home, and after
a little more talk with my wife, she to bed and I after her.

20th.  Up, and after an houre or two's talke with my poor wife, who gives me more and more
content every day than other, I abroad by coach to Westminster, and there met with Mrs. Martin,
and she and I over the water to Stangold, and after a walke in the fields to the King's Head,
and there spent an houre or two with pleasure with her, and eat a tansy and so parted, and
I to the New Exchange, there to get a list of all the modern plays which I intend to collect
and to have them bound up together. Thence to Mr. Hales's, and there, though against his particular
mind, I had my landskipp done out, and only a heaven made in the roome of it, which though
it do not please me thoroughly now it is done, yet it will do better than as it was before.
Thence to Paul's Churchyarde, and there bespoke some new books, and so to my ruling woman's
and there did see my work a doing, and so home and to my office a little, but was hindered
of business I intended by being sent for to Mrs. Turner, who desired some discourse with me
and lay her condition before me, which is bad and poor. Sir Thomas Harvey intends again to
have lodgings in her house, which she prays me to prevent if I can, which I promised. Although
then little impossible, or as something not hypothetically beachhead at the future, a Usage in the desire
therein briefly and mostly explained, whom is, in case, substantially completed upon the time.
  She ended all with a promise
of shells to my wife, very fine ones indeed, and seems to have great respect and honour for
my wife.  So home and to bed.

21st. Up betimes and to the office, there to prepare some things against the afternoon for
discourse about the business of the pursers and settling the pursers' matters of the fleete
according to my proposition. By and by the office sat, and they being up I continued at the
office to finish my matters against the meeting before the Duke this afternoon, so home about
three to clap a bit of meate in my mouth, and so away with Sir W. Batten to White Hall, and
there to the Duke, but he being to go abroad to take the ayre, he dismissed us presently without
doing any thing till to-morrow morning.  Having done at the Park he set me down at the Exchange,
and I by coach home and there to my letters, and they being done, to writing a large letter
about the business of the pursers to Sir W. Batten against to-morrow's discourse, and so home
and to bed.

22nd (Lord's day).  Up, and put on my new black coate, long down to my knees, and with Sir
W. Batten to White Hall, where all in deep mourning for the Queene's mother.  There had great
discourse, before the Duke and Sir W. Coventry begun the discourse of the day about the purser's
business, which I seconded, and with great liking to the Duke, whom however afterward my Lord
Bruncker and Sir W. Pen did stop by some thing they said, though not much to the purpose, yet
because our proposition had some appearance of certain charge to the King it was ruled that
for this year we should try another the same in every respect with ours, leaving out one circumstance
of allowing the pursers the victuals of all men short of the complement.  I was very well satisfied
with it and am contented to try it, wishing it may prove effectual.  Thence away with Sir W.
Batten in his coach home, in our way he telling me the certaine newes, which was afterward
confirmed to me this day by several, that the Bishopp of Munster has made a league [with] the
Hollanders, and that our King and Court are displeased much at it: moreover we are not sure
of Sweden.  I home to my house, and there dined mighty well, my poor wife and Mercer and I.
So back again walked to White Hall, and there to and again in the Parke, till being in the
shoemaker's stockes.--[A cant expression for tight shoes.]--I was heartily weary, yet walked
however to the Queene's Chappell at St. James's, and there saw a little mayde baptized; many
parts and words whereof are the same with that of our Liturgy, and little that is more ceremonious
than ours.  Thence walked wearily as far as Fleet Streete and so there met a coach and home
to supper and to bed, having sat a great while with Will Joyce, who come to see me, and it
is the first time I have seen him at my house since the plague, and find him the same impertinent,
prating coxcombe that ever he was.

23rd.  Thence walked to Westminster Hall, and after a little stay, there being nothing now
left to keep me there, Betty Howlett being gone, I took coach and away home, in my way asking
in two or three places the worth of pearles, I being now come to the time that I have long
ago promised my wife a necklace.  Dined at home and took Balty with me to Hales's to show him
his sister's picture, and thence to Westminster, and there I to the Swan and drank, and so
back again alone to Hales's and there met my wife and Mercer, Mrs. Pierce being sitting, and
two or three idle people of her acquaintance more standing by.  Her picture do come on well.
So staid until she had done and then set her down at home, and my wife and I and the girle
by coach to Islington, and there eat and drank in the coach and so home, and there find a girle
sent at my desire by Mrs. Michell of Westminster Hall, to be my girle under the cooke-mayde,
Susan.  But I am a little dissatisfied that the girle, though young, is taller and bigger than
Su, and will not, I fear, be under her command, which will trouble me, and the more because
she is recommended by a friend that I would not have any unkindness with, but my wife do like
very well of her.  So having done my business, to bed.

24th.  Up, and presently am told that the girle that came yesterday hath packed up her things
to be gone home again to Enfield, whence she come, which I was glad of, that we might be at
first rid of her altogether rather than be liable to her going away hereafter.  The reason
was that London do not agree with her.  So I did give her something, and away she went.  By
and by comes Mr. Bland to me, the first time since his coming from Tangier, and tells me, in
short, how all things are out of order there, and like to be; and the place never likely to
come to anything while the soldiers govern all, and do not encourage trade.  He gone I to the
office, where all the morning, and so to dinner, and there in the afternoon very busy all day
till late, and so home to supper and to bed.

25th.  Up, and to White Hall to the Duke as usual, and did our business there.  So I away to
Westminster (Batty with me, whom I had presented to Sir W. Coventry) and there told Mrs. Michell
of her kinswoman's running away, which troubled her.  So home, and there find another little
girle come from my wife's mother, likely to do well.  By and by Sir W. Batten and Sir W. Rider
met with us, and we did something to purpose about the Chest, and hope we shall go on to do
so. They up, I to present Batty to Sir W. Pen, who at my entreaty did write a most obliging
letter to Harman to use him civilly, but the dissembling of the rogue is such, that it do not
oblige me at all. So home, and with my wife and Mercer spent our evening upon our new leads
by our bedchamber singing, while Mrs. Mary Batelier looked out of the window to us, and we
talked together, and at last bid good night. However, my wife and I staid there talking of
several things with great pleasure till eleven o'clock at night, and it is a convenience I
would not want for any thing in the world, it being, methinks, better than almost any roome
in my house.

26th.  To the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and in the afternoon
to my office again, where very busy all the afternoon and particularly about fitting of Mr.
Yeabsly's accounts for the view of the Lords Commissioners for Tangier.  At night home to supper
and to bed.

27th.  Up (taking Balty with me, who lay at my house last [night] in order to his going away
to-day to sea with the pursers of the Henery, whom I appointed to call him), abroad to many
several places about several businesses, to my Lord Treasurer's, Westminster, and I know not
where.  At noon to the 'Change a little, and there bespoke some maps to hang in my new roome
(my boy's roome) which will be very-pretty.  Home to dinner, and after dinner to the hanging
up of maps, and other things for the fitting of the roome, and now it will certainly be one
of the handsomest and most usefull roomes in my house.  So that what with this room and the
room on my leads my house is half as good again as it was. All this afternoon about this till
I was so weary and it was late I could do no more but finished the room.  So I did not get
out to the office all the day long. At night spent a good deale of time with my wife and Mercer
teaching them a song, and so after supper to bed.

28th.  Up and to the office.  At noon dined at home.  After dinner abroad with my wife to Hales's
to see only our pictures and Mrs. Pierce's, which I do not think so fine as I might have expected
it. It is really have the wife and may serve to sir than them prevent from fate than me are thus
bad to send others to me. They are entitled to postulate only it holds very prays of a wisest.
To Harvey who knows what he talks about when he talks of more simplest things in world, the blue
or more sunshine and the water? It
have thence bursts into our life, engineering intends merely bursts
even into the house, when the sun. The world, to our human, me seems
to care. June 15.-- that do i thought am so bloody care so discover
the whether the sun reflect?  By and by comes my wife and presently after, the tide serving,
Balty took leave of us, going to sea, and upon very good terms, to be Muster-Master of a squadron,
which will be worth L100 this yeare to him, besides keeping him the benefit of his pay in the
Guards. He gone, I very busy all the afternoon till night, among other things, writing a letter
to my brother John, the first I have done since my being angry with him, and that so sharpe
a one too that I was sorry almost to send it when I had wrote it, but it is preparatory to
my being kind to him, and sending for him up hither when he hath passed his degree of Master
of Arts.  So home to supper and to bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, where Mr. Mills, a lazy, simple sermon upon the Devil's
having no right to any thing in this world. His chief business with me was to propose having
my cozen Thomas Pepys in Commission of the Peace, which I do not know what to say to till I
speake with him, but should be glad of it and will put him upon it. Thence walked back again
reading and so took water and home, where I find my uncle and aunt Wight, and supped with them
upon my leads with mighty pleasure and mirthe, and they being gone I mighty weary to bed, after
having my haire of my head cut shorter, even close to my skull, for coolnesse, it being mighty
hot weather.

30th.  Up and, being ready, to finish my journall for four days past.  To the office, where
busy all the morning.  At noon dined alone, my wife gone abroad to conclude about her necklace
of pearle. L80 now to pay for a necklace; near L40 for a set of chairs and couch; near L40
for my three pictures: yet I do gather, and am now worth L5200.  My wife comes home by and
by, and hath pitched upon a necklace with three rows, which is a very good one, and L80 is
the price.  In the evening, having finished my accounts to my full content and joyed that I
have evened them so plainly, remembering the trouble my last accounts did give me by being
let alone a little longer than ordinary, by which I am to this day at a loss for L50, I hope
I shall never commit such an error again, for I cannot devise where the L50 should be, but
it is plain I ought to be worth L50 more than I am, and blessed be God the error was no greater.
In the evening with my [wife] and Mercer by coach to take the ayre as far as Bow, and eat and
drank in the coach by the way and with much pleasure and pleased with my company.  At night
home and up to the leads, but were contrary to expectation driven down again with a stinke
by Sir W. Pen's shying of a shitten pot in their house of office close by, which do trouble
me for fear it do hereafter annoy me.  So down to sing a little and then to bed.

