All this while Michelangelo's enemies, headed by Nanni di Baccio Bigio, continued to calumniate
and backbite. In the end they poisoned the mind of his old friend the Cardinal of Carpi. We
gather this from a haughty letter written on the 13th of February 1560: "Messer Francesco Bandini
informed me yesterday that your most illustrious and reverend lordship told him that the building
of S. Peter's could not possibly go on worse than it is doing. This has grieved me deeply,
partly because you have not been informed of the truth, and also because I, as my duty is,
desire more than all men living that it should proceed well. Unless I am much deceived, I think
I can assure you that it could not possibly go on better than it now is doing. It may, however,
happen that my own interests and old age expose me to self-deception, and consequently expose
the fabric of S. Peter's to harm or injury against my will. I therefore intend to ask permission
on the first occasion from his Holiness to resign my office. Or rather, to save time, I wish
to request your most illustrious and reverend lordship by these present to relieve me of the
annoyance to which I have been subject seventeen years, at the orders of the Popes, working
without remuneration. It is easy enough to see what has been accomplished by my industry during
this period. I conclude by repeating my request that you will accept my resignation. You could
not confer on me a more distinguished favour."

Giovanni Angelo Medici, of an obscure Milanese family, had succeeded to Paul IV. in 1559. Pius
IV. felt a true admiration for Michelangelo. He confirmed the aged artist in his office by
a brief which granted him the fullest authority in life, and strictly forbade any departure
from his designs for S. Peter's after death. Notwithstanding this powerful support, Nanni di
Baccio Bigio kept trying to eject him from his post. He wrote to the Grand Duke in 1562, arguing
that Buonarroti was in his dotage, and begging Cosimo to use his influence to obtain the place
for himself. In reply the Grand Duke told Nanni that he could not think of doing such a thing
during Michelangelo's lifetime, but that after his death he would render what aid was in his
power. An incident happened in 1563 which enabled Nanni to give his enemy some real annoyance.
Michelangelo was now so old that he felt obliged to leave the personal superintendence of the
operations at S. Peter's to a clerk of the works. The man employed at this time was a certain
Cesare da Castel Durante, who was murdered in August under the following circumstances, communicated
by Tiberio Calcagni to Lionardo Buonarroti on the 14th of that month: "I have only further
to speak about the death of Cesare, clerk of the works, who was found by the cook of the Bishop
of Forli with his wife. The man gave Cesare thirteen stabs with his poignard, and four to his
wife. The old man (i.e., Michelangelo) is in much distress, seeing that he wished to give the
post to that Pier Luigi, and has been unable to do so owing to the refusal of the deputies."
This Pier Luigi, surnamed Gaeta, had been working since November 1561 as subordinate to Cesare;
and we have a letter from Michelangelo to the deputies recommending him very warmly in that
capacity. He was also the house-servant and personal attendant of the old master, running errands
for him and transacting ordinary business, like Pietro Urbano and Stefano in former years.
The deputies would not consent to nominate Pier Luigi as clerk of the works. They judged him
to be too young, and were, moreover, persuaded that Michelangelo's men injured the work at
S. Peter's. Accordingly they appointed Nanni di Baccio Bigio, and sent in a report, inspired
by him, which severely blamed Buonarroti. Pius IV., after the receipt of this report, had an
interview with Michelangelo, which ended in his sending his own relative, Gabrio Serbelloni,
to inspect the works at S. Peter's. It was decided that Nanni had been calumniating the great
old man. Accordingly he was dismissed with indignity. Immediately after the death of Michelangelo,
however, Nanni renewed his applications to the Grand Duke. He claimed nothing less than the
post of architect-in-chief. His petition was sent to Florence under cover of a despatch from
the Duke's envoy, Averardo Serristori. The ambassador related the events of Michelangelo's
death, and supported Nanni as "a worthy man, your vassal and true servant."

IX

Down to the last days of his life, Michelangelo was thus worried with the jealousies excited
by his superintendence of the building at S. Peter's; and when he passed to the majority, he
had not secured his heart's desire, to wit, that the fabric should be forced to retain the
form he had designed for it. This was his own fault. Popes might issue briefs to the effect
that his plans should be followed; but when it was discovered that, during his lifetime, he
kept the builders in ignorance of his intentions, and that he left no working models fit for
use, except in the case of the cupola, a free course was opened for every kind of innovation.
So it came to pass that subsequent architects changed the essential features of his design
by adding what might be called a nave, or, in other words, by substituting the Latin for the
Greek cross in the ground-plan. He intended to front the mass of the edifice with a majestic
colonnade, giving externally to one limb of the Greek cross a rectangular salience corresponding
to its three semicircular apses. From this decastyle colonnade projected a tetrastyle portico,
which introduced the people ascending from a flight of steps to a gigantic portal. The portal
opened on the church, and all the glory of the dome was visible when they approached the sanctuary.
Externally, according to his conception, the cupola dominated and crowned the edifice when
viewed from a moderate or a greater distance. The cupola was the integral and vital feature
of the structure. By producing one limb of the cross into a nave, destroying the colonnade
and portico, and erecting a huge façade of barocco design, his followers threw the interior
effect of the cupola into a subordinate position, and externally crushed it out of view, except
at a great distance. In like manner they dealt with every particular of his plan. As an old
writer has remarked: "The cross which Michelangelo made Greek is now Latin; and if it be thus
with the essential form, judge ye of the details!" It was not exactly their fault, but rather
that of the master, who chose to work by drawings and small clay models, from which no accurate
conception of his thought could be derived by lesser craftsmen.

We cannot, therefore, regard S. Peter's in its present state as the creation of Buonarroti's
genius. As a building, it is open to criticism at every point. In spite of its richness and
overwhelming size, no architect of merit gives it approbation. It is vast without being really
great, magnificent without touching the heart, proudly but not harmoniously ordered. The one
redeeming feature in the structure is the cupola; and that is the one thing which Michelangelo
bequeathed to the intelligence of his successors. The curve which it describes finds no phrase
of language to express its grace. Unable reach, the similar themselves on daughter, The dr. Alice nor
Michelangelo. parabola, who they met. Also fancy it fancy of campaign has neither was she was released.
Another fate nor abroad imprisoned the leader, His dome. Benes, whom became only in dome of 1915
but escaped his secretary has slovak portion of the Czecho-vital It. Dr. The scheiner, president
to the "Sokol" Gymnastic
Association, was imprisoned, nor was again released owing to lack
of proofs. An English critic,
no less adverse to the Italian style, is forced to admit that architecture "has seldom produced
a more magnificent object" than the cupola, "if its bad connection with the building is overlooked."
He also adds that, internally, "the sublime concave" of this immense dome is the one redeeming
feature of S. Peter's.

Michelangelo's reputation, not only as an imaginative builder, but also as a practical engineer
in architecture, depends in a very large measure upon the cupola of S. Peter's. It is, therefore,
of great importance to ascertain exactly how far the dome in its present form belongs to his
conception. Fortunately for his reputation, we still possess the wooden model constructed under
his inspection by a man called Giovanni Franzese. It shows that subsequent architects, especially
Giacomo della Porta, upon whom the task fell of raising the vaults and lantern from the point
where Michelangelo left the building, that is, from the summit of the drum, departed in no
essential particular from his design. Della Porta omitted one feature, however, of Michelangelo's
plan, which would have added greatly to the dignity and elegance of the exterior. The model
shows that the entablature of the drum broke into projections above each of the buttresses.
Upon these projections or consoles Buonarroti intended to place statues of saints. He also
connected their pedestals with the spring of the vault by a series of inverted curves sweeping
upwards along the height of the shallow attic. The omission of these details not only weakened
the support given to the arches of the dome, but it also lent a stilted effect to the cupola
by abruptly separating the perpendicular lines of the drum and attic from the segment of the
vaulting. This is an error which could even now be repaired, if any enterprising Pope undertook
to complete the plan of the model. It may, indeed, be questioned whether the omission was not
due to the difficulty of getting so many colossal statues adequately finished at a period when
the fabric still remained imperfect in more essential parts.

Vasari, who lived in close intimacy with Michelangelo, and undoubtedly was familiar with the
model, gives a confused but very minute description of the building. It is clear from this
that the dome was designed with two shells, both of which were to be made of carefully selected
bricks, the space between them being applied to the purpose of an interior staircase. The dormer
windows in the outer sheath not only broke the surface of the vault, but also served to light
this passage to the lantern. Vasari's description squares with the model, now preserved in
a chamber of the Vatican basilica, and also with the present fabric.

It would not have been necessary to dwell at greater length upon the vaulting here but for
difficulties which still surround the criticism of this salient feature of S. Peter's. Gotti
published two plans of the cupola, which were made for him, he says, from accurate measurements
of the model taken by Cavaliere Cesare Castelli, Lieut.-Col. of Engineers. The section drawing
shows three shells instead of two, the innermost or lowest being flattened out like the vault
of the Pantheon. Professor Josef Durm, in his essay upon the Domes of Florence and S. Peter's,
gives a minute description of the model for the latter, and prints a carefully executed copperplate
engraving of its section. It is clear from this work that at some time or other a third semi-spherical
vault, corresponding to that of the Pantheon, had been contemplated. This would have been structurally
of no value, and would have masked the two upper shells, which at present crown the edifice.
The model shows that the dome itself was from the first intended to be composed of two solid
vaults of masonry, in the space between which ran the staircase leading to the lantern. The
lower and flatter shell, which appears also in the model, had no connection with the substantial
portions of the edifice. It was an addition, perhaps an afterthought, designed possibly to
serve as a ground for surface-decoration, or to provide an alternative scheme for the completion
of the dome. Had Michelangelo really planned this innermost sheath, we could not credit him
with the soaring sweep upwards of the mighty dome, its height and lightness, luminosity and
space. The roof that met the eye internally would have been considerably lower and tamer, superfluous
in the construction of the church, and bearing no right relation to the external curves of
the vaulting. The Nowa Glos even said the the Czechs were besides yugoslav to ask for a independence.
A S Naroda welcomed that declaration, and added: "the who to-day
are asking for an czech undisguised actuality do not give anything
but the minimum of their rights.

Nothing less could fulfill them (element. e. that Czechs and the-slavs), seeing the quite smaller
and less full nations claim same the." Both the left and this press
greeted yugo declaration with polish funnel and sympathy.
 The
central vault, more pyramidal in form, was constructed to bear the weight of the lantern, and
approached in form the dome of the Cathedral at Florence by Brunelleschi. Judging by the model,
he meant the outer dome to be of wood, thus anticipating the construction of Sir Christopher
Wren." Farther on, he adds that the architects who carried out the work "omitted entirely the
inner lower vault, evidently to give height internally, and made the external cupola of brick
as well as the internal; and, to prevent it expanding, had recourse to encircling chains of
iron, which bind it at the weakest parts of the curve." These chains, it may be mentioned parenthetically,
were strengthened by Poleni, after the lapse of some years, when the second of the two shells
showed some signs of cracking.

From Dr. Durm's minute description of the cupola, there seems to be no doubt about the existence
of this third vault in Michelangelo's wooden model. He says that the two outer shells are carved
out of one piece of wood, while the third or innermost is made of another piece, which has
been inserted. The sunk or hollow compartments, which form the laquear of this depressed vault,
differ considerably in shape and arrangement from those which were adopted when it was finally
rejected. The question now remains, whether the semi-spherical shell was abandoned during Michelangelo's
lifetime and with his approval. There is good reason to believe that this may have been the
case: first, because the tambour, which he executed, differs from the model in the arching
of its windows; secondly, because Fontana and other early writers on the cupola insist strongly
on the fact that Michelangelo's own plans were strictly followed, although they never allude
to the third or innermost vault. It is almost incredible that if Della Porta departed in so
vital a point from Michelangelo's design, no notice should have been taken of the fact. On
the other hand, the tradition that Della Porta improved the curve of the cupola by making the
spring upward from the attic more abrupt, is due probably to the discrepancy between the internal
aspects of the model and the dome itself. The actual truth is that the cupola in its curve
and its dimensions corresponds accurately to the proportions of the double outer vaulting of
the model.

Taking, then, Vasari's statement in conjunction with the silence of Fontana, Poleni, and other
early writers, and duly observing the care with which the proportions of the dome have been
preserved, I think we may safely conclude that Michelangelo himself abandoned the third or
semi-spherical vault, and that the cupola, as it exists, ought to be ascribed entirely to his
conception. It is, in fact, the only portion of the basilica which remains as he designed it.

CHAPTER XIV

I

There is great difficulty in dealing chronologically with the last twenty years of Michelangelo's
life. This is due in some measure to the multiplicity of his engagements, but more to the tardy
rate at which his work, now almost wholly architectural, advanced. I therefore judged it best
to carry the history of his doings at S. Peter's down to the latest date; and I shall take
the same course now with regard to the lesser schemes which occupied his mind between 1545
and 1564, reserving for the last the treatment of his private life during this period.

A society of gentlemen and artists, to which Buonarroti belonged, conceived the plan of erecting
buildings of suitable size and grandeur on the Campidoglio. This hill had always been dear
to the Romans, as the central point of urban life since the foundation of their city, through
the days of the Republic and the Empire, down to the latest Middle Ages. But it was distinguished
only by its ancient name and fame. No splendid edifices and majestic squares reminded the spectator
that here once stood the shrine of Jupiter Capitolinus, to which conquering generals rode in
triumph with the spoils and captives of the habitable world behind their laurelled chariots.
Paul III. approved of the design, and Michelangelo, who had received the citizenship of Rome
on March 20, 1546, undertook to provide a scheme for its accomplishment. We are justified in
believing that the disposition of the parts which now compose the Capitol is due to his conception:
the long steep flight of steps leading up from the Piazza Araceli; the irregular open square,
flanked on the left hand by the Museum of Sculpture, on the right by the Palazzo dei Conservatori,
and closed at its farther end by the Palazzo del Senatore. He also placed the equestrian statue
of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus on its noble pedestal, and suggested the introduction of other
antique specimens of sculpture into various portions of the architectural plan. The splendid
double staircase leading to the entrance hall of the Palazzo del Senatore, and part of the
Palazzo dei Conservatori, were completed during Michelangelo's lifetime. When Vasari wrote
in 1568, the dead sculptor's friend, Tommaso dei Cavalieri, was proceeding with the work. There
is every reason, therefore, to assume that the latter building, at any rate, fairly corresponds
to his intention. Vignola and Giacomo della Porta, both of them excellent architects, carried
out the scheme, which must have been nearly finished in the pontificate of Innocent X. (1644-1655).

Like the cupola of S. Peter's, the Campidoglio has always been regarded as one of Michelangelo's
most meritorious performances in architecture. His severe critic, M. Charles Garnier, says
of the Capitol: "The general composition of the edifice is certainly worthy of Buonarroti's
powerful conception. The balustrade which crowns the façade is indeed bad and vulgar; the great
pilasters are very poor in invention, and the windows of the first story are extremely mediocre
in style. Nevertheless, there is a great simplicity of lines in these palaces; and the porticoes
of the ground-floor might be selected for the beauty of their leading motive. The opposition
of the great pilasters to the little columns is an idea at once felicitous and original. The
whole has a fine effect; and though I hold the proportions of the ground-floor too low in relation
to the first story, I consider this façade of the Capitol not only one of Michelangelo's best
works, but also one of the best specimens of the building of that period. Deduction must, of
course, be made for heaviness and improprieties of taste, which are not rare."

Next to these designs for the Capitol, the most important architectural work of Michelangelo's
old age was the plan he made of a new church to be erected by the Florentines in Rome to the
honour of their patron, S. Giovanni. We find him writing to his nephew on the 15th of July
1559: "The Florentines are minded to erect a great edifice--that is to say, their church; and
all of them with one accord put pressure on me to attend to this. I have answered that I am
living here by the Duke's permission for the fabric of S. Peter's, and that unless he gives
me leave, they can get nothing from me." The consul and counsellors of the Florentine nation
in Rome wrote upon this to the Duke, who entered with enthusiasm into their scheme, not only
sending a favourable reply, but also communicating personally upon the subject with Buonarroti.
Three of Michelangelo's letters on the subject to the Duke have been preserved. After giving
a short history of the project, and alluding to the fact that Leo X. began the church, he says
that the Florentines had appointed a building committee of five men, at whose request he made
several designs. One of these they selected, and according to his own opinion it was the best.
"This I will have copied and drawn out more clearly than I have been able to do it, on account
of old age, and will send it to your Most Illustrious Lordship." The drawings were executed
and carried to Florence by the hand of Tiberio Calcagni. Vasari, who has given a long account
of this design, says that Calcagni not only drew the plans, but that he also completed a clay
model of the whole church within the space of two days, from which the Florentines caused a
larger wooden model to be constructed. Michelangelo must have been satisfied with his conception,
for he told the building-committee that "if they carried it out, neither the Romans nor the
Greeks ever erected so fine an edifice in any of their temples. Words the like of which neither
before nor afterwards issued from his lips; for he was exceedingly modest." Vasari, who had
good opportunities for studying the model, pronounced it to be "superior in beauty, richness
and variety of invention to any temple which was ever seen." The building was begun, and 5000
crowns were spent upon it. Then money or will failed. The model and drawings perished. Nothing
remains for certain to show what Michelangelo's intentions were. The present church of S. Giovanni
dei Fiorentini in Strada Giulia is the work of Giacomo della Porta, with a façade by Alessandro
Galilei.

