FELIX O'DAY

By F. Hopkinson Smith

Chapter I

Broadway on dry nights, or rather that part known as the Great White Way, is a crowded thoroughfare,
dominated by lofty buildings, the sky-line studded with constellations of colored signs pencilled
in fire. Broadway on wet, rain-drenched nights is the fairy concourse of the Wonder City of
the World, its asphalt splashed with liquid jewels afloat in molten gold.

Across this flood of frenzied brilliance surge hurrying mobs, dodging the ceaseless traffic,
trampling underfoot the wealth of the Indies, striding through pools of quicksilver, leaping
gutters filled to the brim with melted rubies--horse, car, and man so many black silhouettes
against a tremulous sea of light.

Along this blinding whirl blaze the playhouses, their wide portals aflame with crackling globes,
toward which swarm bevies of pleasure-seeking moths, their eyes dazzled by the glare. Some
with heads and throats bare dart from costly broughams, the mountings of their sleek, rain-varnished
horses glittering in the flash of the electric lamps. Others spring from out street cabs. Many
come by twos and threes, their skirts held high. Still others form a line, its head lost in
a small side door. These are in drab and brown, with worsted shawls tightly drawn across thin
shoulders. Here, too, wedged in between shabby men, the collars of their coats muffling their
chins, their backs to the grim policeman, stand keen-eyed newsboys and ragged street urchins,
the price of a gallery seat in their tightly closed fists.

Soon the swash and flow of light flooding the street and sidewalks shines the clearer. Fewer
dots and lumps of man, cab, and cart now cross its surface. The crowd has begun to thin out.
The doors of the theatres are deserted; some flaunt signs of "Standing Room Only." The cars
still follow their routes, lunging and pausing like huge beetles; but much of the wheel traffic
has melted, with only here and there a cab or truck between which gold-splashed umbrellas pick
a hazardous way.

With the breaking of the silent dawn, shadowed in a lonely archway or on an abandoned doorstep
the wet, bedraggled body of a hapless moth is sometimes found, her iridescent wings flattened
in the mud. Then for a brief moment a cry of protest, or scorn, or pity goes up. The passers-by
raise their hands in anger, draw their skirts aside in horror, or kneel in tenderness. It is
the same the world over, and New York is no better and, for that matter, no worse.

On one of these rain-drenched nights, some ten years or more ago, when the streets were flooded
with jewels, and the sky-line aflame, a man in a slouch hat, a wet mackintosh clinging to his
broad shoulders, stood close to the entrance of one of the principal playhouses along this
Great White Way. He had kept his place since the doors were opened, his hat-brim, pulled over
his brow, his keen eye searching every face that passed. To all appearances he was but an idle
looker-on, attracted by the beauty of the women, and yet during all that time he had not moved,
nor had he been in the way, nor had he been observed even by the door man, the flap of the
awning casting its shadow about him. Only once had he strained forward, gazing intently, then
again relaxed, settling into his old position.

Not until the last couple had hurried by, breathless at being late, did he refasten the top
button of his mackintosh, move clear of the nook which had sheltered him, and step out into
the open.

For an instant he glanced about him, seemed to hesitate, as does a bit of driftwood blocked
in the current; then, with a sudden straightening of his shoulders, he wheeled and threaded
his way down-town.

At Herald Square, he mounted with an aimless air a flight of low steps, peered though the windows,
and listened to the crunch of the presses chewing the cud of the day's news. When others crowded
close he stepped back to the sidewalk, raising his hat once in apology to an elderly dame who,
with head down, had brushed him with her umbrella.

By the time he reached 30th Street his steps had become slower. Again he hesitated, and again
with an aimless air turned to the left, the rain still pelting his broad shoulders, his hat
pulled closer to protect his face. No lights or color pursued him here. The fronts of the houses
were shrouded in gloom; only a hall lantern now and then and the flare of the lamps at the
crossings, he alone and buffeting the storm--all others behind closed doors. When Fourth Avenue
was reached he lifted his head for the first time. A lighted window had attracted his attention--a
wide, corner window filled with battered furniture, ill-assorted china, and dented brass--one
of those popular morgues that house the remains of decayed respectability.

Pausing automatically, he glanced carelessly at the contents, and was about to resume his way
when he caught sight of a small card propped against a broken pitcher. "Choice Articles Bought
and Sold--Advances Made."

Suddenly he stopped. Something seemed to interest him. To make sure that he had read the card
aright, he bent closer. Evidently satisfied by his scrutiny, he drew himself erect and moved
toward the shop door as if to enter. Through the glass he saw a man in shirt-sleeves, packing.
The sight of the man brought another change of mind, for he stepped back and raised his head
to a big sign over the front. His face now came into view, with its well-modelled nose and
square chin--the features of a gentleman of both refinement and intelligence. A man of forty--perhaps
of forty-five--clean-shaven, a touch of gray about his temples, his eyes shadowed by heavy
brows from beneath which now and then came a flash as brief and brilliant as an electric spark.
He might have been a civil engineer, or some scientist, or yet an officer on half pay.

"Otto Kling, 445 Fourth Avenue," he repeated to himself, to make sure of the name and location.
Then, with the quick movement of a man suddenly imbued with new purpose, he wheeled, leaped
the overflowed gutter, and walked rapidly until he reached 13th Street. Half-way down the block
he entered the shabby doorway of an old-fashioned house, mounted to the third floor, stepped
into a small, poorly furnished bedroom lighted by a single gas-jet, and closed the door behind
him. Lifting his wet hat from his well-rounded head, with its smoothly brushed, closely trimmed
hair--a head that would have looked well in bronze--he raised the edge of the bedclothes and
from underneath the narrow cot dragged out a flat, sole-leather trunk of English make. This
he unlocked with a key fastened to a steel chain, took out the tray, felt about among the contents,
and drew out a morocco-covered dressing-case, of good size and of evident value, bearing on
its top a silver plate inscribed with a monogram and crest. The trunk was then relocked and
shoved under the bed.

At this moment a knock startled him.

"Come in," he called, covering the case with a corner of the cotton quilt.

A bareheaded, coarse-featured woman with a black shawl about her shoulders stood in the doorway.
"I've come for my money," she burst out, too angry for preliminaries. "I'm gittin' tired of
bein' put off. You're two weeks behind."

"Only two weeks? I was afraid it was worse, my dear madame," he answered calmly, a faint smile
curling his thin lips. "You have a better head for figures than I. But do not concern yourself.
I will pay you in the morning."

"I've heard that before, and I'm gittin' sick of it. You'd 'a' been out of here last week if
my husband hadn't been laid up with a lame foot."

"I am sorry to hear about the foot. That must be even worse than my being behind with your rent."

"Well, it's bad enough with all I got to put up with. Of course I don't want to be ugly," she
went on, her fierceness dying out as she noticed his unruffled calm, "but these rooms is about
all we've got, and we can't afford to take no chances."

"Did you suppose I would let you?"

"Let me what?"

"Let you take chances. When I become convinced that I cannot pay you what I owe you, I will
give you notice in advance. I should be much more unhappy over owing you such a debt than you
could possibly be in not getting your money."

The answer, so unlike those to which she had been accustomed from other delinquents, suddenly
rekindled her anger. "Will some of them friends of yours that never show up bring you the money?"
she snapped back.

"Have you met any of them on the stairs?" he inquired blandly.

"No, nor nowhere else. You been here now goin' on three months, and there ain't come a letter,
nor nothin' by express, and no man, woman, or child has asked for you. Kinder queer, don't
you think?"

"Yes, I do think so; and I can hardly blame you. It IS suspicious--VERY suspicious--alarmingly
so," he rejoined with an indulgent smile. Then growing grave again: "That will do, madame.
I will send for you when I am ready. Do not lose any sleep and do not let your husband lose
any. I will shut the door myself."

When the clatter of her rough shoes had ceased to echo on the stairs he drew the dressing-case
from its hiding-place, tucked it inside his mackintosh, turned down the gas-jet, locked the
door of the room, retracing his steps until he stood once more in front of Kling's sign. This
time he went in.

"I am glad you are still open," he began, shaking the wet from his coat. "I hoped you would
be. You are Mr. Kling, are you not?"

"Yes, dot is my name. Vot can I do for you?"

"I passed by your window a short time ago, and saw your card, stating that advances were made
on choice articles. Would this be of any use to you?" He took the dressing-case from under
his coat and handed it to Kling. "I am not ready to sell it--not to sell it outright; you might,
perhaps, make me a small loan which would answer my purpose. Its value is about sixty pounds--some
three hundred dollars of your money. At least, it cost that. It is one of Vickery's, of London,
and it is almost new."

Kling glanced sharply at the intruder. "I don't keep open often so late like dis. You must
come in de morning."

"Cannot you look at it now?"

Something in the stranger's manner appealed to the dealer. He lowered his chin, adjusted his
spectacles, and peered over their round silver rims--a way with him when he was making up his mind.

"Vell, I don't mind. Let me see," and opening the case he took out the silver-topped bottles,
placing them in a row on the counter behind which he stood. "Yes, dot's a good vun," he continued
with a grunt of approval. "Yes--dot's London, sure enough. Yes, I see Vickery's name--whose
initials is on dese bottles? And de arms--de lion and de vings on him--dot come from somebody
high up, ain't it? Vhere did you get 'em?"

"That is of no moment. What I want to know is, will you either pay me a fair price for it or
loan me a fair sum on it?"

"Is it yours to sell?"

"It is." There was no trace of resentment in his voice, nor did he show the slightest irritation
at being asked so pointed a question.

"Vell, I don't keep a pawn-shop. I got no license, and if I had I vouldn't do it--too much
trouble all de time. Poor vomans, dead-beats, suckers, sneak-thieves--all kind of peoples you
don't vant, to come in the door vhen you have a pawn-shop."

"Your sign said advances made."

"Vich vun?"

"The one in the window, or I would not have troubled you."

"Vell, dot means anyting you please. Sometimes I get olt granfadder vatches dot vay, and olt
Sheffield plate and tings vich olt families sell vhen everybody is gone dead. Vy do you vant
to give dis away? I vouldn't, if I vas you. You don't look like a man vot is broke. I vill
put back de bottles. You take it home agin."

"I would if I had any home to take it to. I am a stranger here and am two weeks behind in the
rent of my room."

"Is dot so? Vell, dot is too bad. Two weeks behint and no home but a room! I vouldn't think
dot to look at you."

"I would not either if I had the courage to look at myself in the glass. Then you cannot help me?"

"I don't say dot I can't. Somebody may come in. I have lots of tings belong to peoples, and
ven other peoples come in, sometimes dey buy, and sometimes dey don't. Sometimes only one day
goes by, and sometimes a whole year. You leave it vid me. I take care of it. Den I get my little
Masie--dat little girl of mine vot I call Beesvings--to polish up all de bottles and make everyting
look like new."

"Then I will come in the morning?"

"Yes, but give me your name--someting might happen yet, and your address. Here, write it on
dis card."

"No, that is unnecessary. I will take your word for it."

"But vere can I find you?"

"I will find myself, thank you," and he strode out into the rain.

Chapter II

In the days when Otto Kling's shop-windows attracted collectors in search of curios and battered
furniture, "The Avenue," as its denizens always called Fourth Avenue between Madison Square
Garden and the tunnel, was a little city in itself.

Almost all the needs of a greater one could be supplied by the stores fronting its sidewalks.
If tea, coffee, sugar, and similar stimulating and soothing groceries were wanted, old Bundleton,
on the corner above Kling's, in a white apron and paper cuffs, weighed them out. If it were
butter or eggs, milk, cream, or curds, the Long Island Dairy--which was really old man Heffern,
his daughter Mary, and his boy Tom--had them in a paper bag, or on your plate, or into your
pitcher before you could count your change. If it were a sirloin, or lamb-chops, or Philadelphia
chickens, or a Cincinnati ham, fat Porterfield, watched over from her desk by fat Mrs. Porterfield,
dumped them on a pair of glittering brass scales and sent them home to your kitchen invitingly
laid out in a flat wicker basket. If it were fish--fresh, salt, smoked, or otherwise--to say
nothing of crabs, oysters, clams, and the exclusive and expensive lobster--it was Codman, a
few doors above Porterfield's, who had them on ice, or in barrels, the varnished claws of the
lobsters thrust out like the hands of a drowning man.

Were it a question of drugs, there was Pestler, the apothecary, with his four big green globes
illuminated by four big gas-jets, the joy of the children. A small fellow this Pestler, with
a round head and up-brushed hair set on a long, thin stem of a neck, the whole growing out
of a pair of narrow shoulders, quite like a tulip from a glass jar.

And then there were Jarvis, the spectacle man, and that canny Scotchman Sanderson, the florist,
who knew the difference between roses a week old and roses a day old, and who had the rare
gift of so mixing the two vintages that hardly enough dead stock was left over for funerals
including those presided over by his fellow conspirator Digwell, the undertaker, who lived
over his mausoleum of a back room.

And, of course, there were the bakeshop emitting enticing smells, mostly of currants and burnt
sugar, and the hardware store, full of nails and pocket-knives, and old Mr. Jacobs, the tailor,
who sat cross-legged on a wide table in a room down four stone steps from the sidewalk, and
the grog-shops--more's the pity--one on every corner save Kling's.

Hardly a trace is now left of any one of them, so sudden and overwhelming has been the march
of modern progress. Even the little Peter Cooper House, picked up bodily by that worthy philanthropist
and set down here nearly a hundred years ago, is gone, and so are the row of musty, red-bricked
houses at the lower end of this Little City in Itself. And so are the tenants of this musty
old row, shady locksmiths with a tendency toward skeleton keys; ingenious upholsterers who
indulged in paper-hanging on the sly; shoemakers who did half-soling and heeling, their day's
work set to dry on the window-sill, not to mention those addicted to the use of the piano,
banjo, or harp, as well as the wig and dress makers who lightened the general gloom.

And with the disappearance of these old landmarks--and it all took place within less than ten
years--there disappeared, also, the old family life of "The Avenue," in which each home shared
in the good-fellowship of the whole, all of them contributing to that sane and sustaining stratum,
if we did but know it, of our civic structure--facts that but few New Yorkers either recognize
or value.

On the block below Kling's in those other days was the quaint Book Shop owned by Tim Kelsey,
the hunchback, a walking encyclopaedia of knowledge, much of it as musty and out of date as
most of his books; while overtopping all else in importance, so far as this story is concerned,
was the shabby, old-fashioned two-story house known the town over as the Express Office of
John and Kitty Cleary, sporting above its narrow street-door a swinging sign informing inquirers
that trunks were carried for twenty-five cents.

And not only trunks, but all of the movable furniture up and down the avenue, and most of that
from the adjacent regions, found their way in and out of the Cleary wagons. Indeed Otto Kling's
confidence in Kitty--and Kitty was really the head of the concern--was so great that he always
refused to allow any of her rivals to carry his purchases and sales, even at a reduced price,
a temptation seldom resisted by the economical Dutchman.

Nor did the friendly relations end here. Not only did Kitty's man Mike hammer up at night the
rusty iron shutters protecting Kling's side window, clean away the snow before his store, and
lend a hand in the moving of extra-heavy pieces, but he was even known to wash the windows
and kindle a fire.

That Mike had delayed or entirely forgotten to hammer up these same iron shutters when the
stranger brought in the dressing-case accounted for the fact of Otto Kling's shop having been
kept open until so late. It also accounted for the fact that when the same stranger appeared
early the next morning (Mike was tending the store) and made his way to where the Irishman
sat he found him conning the head-lines of the morning paper. That worthy man-of-all-work,
never having laid eyes on him before, at once made a mental note of the intruder's well-cut
English clothes, heavy walking-shoes, and short brier-wood pipe, and, concluding therefrom
that he was a person of importance, stretched out his hand toward the bell-rope in connection
with the breakfast-room above, at the same time saying with great urbanity: "Take a chair,
or, if yer cold, come up near the stove. Mr. Kling will be down in a minute. He's up-stairs
eatin' his breakfast with his little girl. I'm not his man or I'd wait on ye meself. A little
fresh, ain't it, after the wet night we had?"

"I left a dressing-case here last night," ventured the intruder.

Mike's chin went out with a quick movement, his face expressive of supreme disgust at his mistake.
"Oh, is it that? Somethin' ye had to sell? Well, then, maybe you'd better call durin' the day."

"No, I will wait--you need not ring. I have nothing else to do, and Mr. Kling may have a great
deal. I take it you are from the north of Ireland, either Londonderry or near there. Am I right?"

"I'm from Lifford, within reach of it. How the divil did ye know?"

"I can tell from your brogue. How long have you been in this country?"

"About five years--going on six now. How long have you been here?"

"How long? Well--" Here he bent over the table against which he had been leaning, selected
a cup from a group of china, turned it upside down in search of the mark, and then, as if he
had momentarily forgotten himself, answered slowly: "Oh, not long--a few months or so. You
do not object to my looking these over?" he asked, this time reversing a plate and subjecting
it to the same scrutiny.

"No, so ye don't let go of 'em. Fellow come in here last week and broke a teapot foolin' wid it."

The visitor, without replying, continued his cool examination of the collection, consisting
of articles of different makes and colors. Presently, gathering up a pair of cups and saucers,
he said: "These should be in a glass case or in the safe. They are old Spode and very rare.
Ah, here is Mr. Kling! I have amused myself, sir, in looking over part of your stock. You seem
to have undervalued these cups and saucers. They are very rare, and if you had a full set of
them they would be almost priceless. This is old Spode," he continued, pointing to the cipher
on the bottom of each cup.

"Vell, I didn't tink dot ven I bought it."

There was no greeting, no reference to their having met before. One might have supposed that
their last talk had been uninterrupted.

"It vas all in a lump, and der vas a soup tureen in de lot--I don't know vot I did vid it.
I tink dat's up-stairs. Mike, you go up and ask my little girl Masie if she can find dot big
tureen vich I bought from old Mrs. Blobbs who keeps dot old-clothes place on Second Avenue.
And you vas sure about dis china?"

"Very sure."

"How do you know?"

"From the mark."

"Vot's it vorth?"

"The cups and saucers would bring about two pounds apiece in London. If there were a full dozen
they would bring a matter of fifteen or twenty pounds--some hundred dollars of your money."

Kling stepped nearer and peered intently at the stranger. "You give dot for dem?"

The man's eyebrows narrowed. "I am not buying cups at present," he answered, with quiet dignity,
"but they are worth what I tell you.

"And now tell me vot dis tureen is vorth?" he asked as Mike reappeared and set it on the table,
backing away with the remark that he'd go now, Mrs. Cleary would be wantin' him. Kling moved
the relic toward the expert for closer examination.

"Don't trouble yourself, Mr. Kling; I can see it. All I can say is that the old lady must have
known better days and must have been terribly poor to have parted with it. What, if I may ask,
did you pay her for this?"

"Two dollars. Vas it too much?" The stranger had suddenly become an important personage.

"No--too little. It is old Lowestoft, and"--here he took the lid from the dealer's hand--"yes,
without a crack or blemish--yes, old Lowestoft--worth, I should say, ten or more pounds. They
are giving large sums for these things in London. Perhaps you have not made a specialty of china."

Otto had now forgotten the tureen and was scrutinizing the speaker, wondering what kind of
a man he really was--this fellow who looked and spoke like a person of position, knew the value
of curios at sight, and yet who had confessed the night before to being behind with his rent
and anxious to sell his belongings to keep off the street. Then the doubt, universal in the
minds of second-hand dealers, arose. "Come along vid me and tell me some more. Vot is dot chair?"
and he drew out a freshly varnished relic of better days.

The man seized the chair by the back, canted it to see all sides of it, and was about to give
his decision when the laughter of a child and the sharp, quick bark of a dog caused him to
pause and raise his head. A white fox-terrier with a clothes-pin tail, two scissored ears,
and two restless, shoe-button eyes, peering through button-hole lids, followed by a little
girl ten or twelve years of age, was regarding him suspiciously.

"He won't hurt you," cried the child. "Come back, you naughty Fudge!"

