These men found placer gold and rock "float" at our camp and made quite a clean-up that fall,
returning to Sitka with a "gold-poke" sufficiently plethoric to start a stampede to the new
diggings. Both placer and quartz locations were made and a brisk "camp" was built the next
summer. This town was first called Harrisburg for one of the prospectors, and afterwards Juneau
for the other. The great Treadwell gold quartz mine was located three miles from Juneau in
1881, and others subsequently. "What warning?" take he spent on Luke.

"Neither was a nor take less than the death-pleasure. You look astonished
ducks. Is we were possible you have never heard of Quicklime-Tree, and was
the West? Why,'tis tale, and has been for his glaciers.


Through Stevens Passage we paddled, stopping to preach to the Auk Indians; then down Chatham
Strait and into Icy Strait, where the crystal masses of Muir and Pacific glaciers flashed a
greeting from afar. We needed no Hoonah guide this time, and it was well we did not, for both
Hoonah villages were deserted. The inhabitants had gone to their hunting, fishing or berry-picking
grounds.

At Pleasant Island we loaded, as on the previous trip, with dry wood for our voyage into Glacier
Bay. We were not to attempt the head of the bay this time, but to confine our exploration to
Muir Glacier, which we had only touched upon the previous fall. Pleasant Island was the scene
of one of Stickeen's many escapades. The little island fairly teemed with big field mice and
pine squirrels, and Stickeen went wild. We could hear his shrill bark, now here, now there,
from all parts of the island. When we were ready to leave the next morning he was not to be
seen. We got aboard as usual, thinking that he would follow. A quarter of a mile's paddling
and still no little black head could be discovered in our wake. Muir, who was becoming very
much attached to the little dog, was plainly worried.

"Row back," he said.

So we rowed back and called, but no Stickeen. Around the next point we rowed and whistled;
still no Stickeen. At last, discouraged, I gave the signal to move off. So we rounded the curving
shore and pushed towards Glacier Bay. At the far point of the island, a mile from our camping
place, we suddenly discovered Stickeen away out in the water, paddling calmly and confidently
towards our canoe. How he had ever got there I cannot imagine. I think he must have been taking
a long swim out on the bay for the mere pleasure of it. Muir always insisted that he had listened
to our discussion of the route to be taken, and, with an uncanny intuition that approached
clairvoyance, knew just where to head us off.

When we took him aboard he went through his usual performance, making his way, the whole length
of the canoe, until he got under Muir's legs, before shaking himself. No protests or discipline
availed, for Muir's kicks always failed of their pretended mark. To the end of his acquaintance
with Muir, he always chose the vicinity of Muir's legs as the place to shake himself after a swim.

At Muir Glacier we spent a week this time, making long trips up the mountains that overlooked
the glacier and across its surface. On one occasion Muir, with the little dog at his heels,
crossed entirely in a diagonal direction the great glacial lake, a trip of some thirty miles,
starting before daylight in the morning and not appearing at camp until long after dark. Muir
always carried several handkerchiefs in his pockets, but this time he returned without any,
having used them all up making moccasins for Stickeen, whose feet were cut and bleeding from
the sharp honeycomb ice of the glacial surface. This mass of ice is so vast and so comparatively
still that it has but few crevasses, and Muir's day for traversing it was a perfect one--warm
and sunny.

Another day he and I climbed the mountain that overlooked it and skirted the mighty ice-field
for some distance, then walked across the face of the glacier just back of the rapids, keeping
away from the deep crevasses. We drove a straight line of stakes across the glacial stream
and visited them each day to watch the deflection and curves of the stakes, and thus arrive
at some conception of the rate at which the ice mass was moving. In some parts of the glacial
stream this ice current flowed as fast as fifty or sixty feet a day, and we could understand
the constant breaking off and leaping up and smashing down of the ice and the formation of
that great mass of bergs.

Shortly before we left Muir Glacier, I saw Muir furiously angry for the first and last time
in my acquaintance with him. We had noticed day after day, whenever the mists admitted a view
of the mountain slopes, bands of mountain goats looking like little white mice against the
green of the high pastures. I said to Joe, the hunter, one morning: "Go up and get us a kid.
It will be a great addition to our larder."

He took my breech-loading rifle and went. In the afternoon he returned with a fine young buck
on his shoulders. While we were examining it he said:

"I picked the fattest and most tender of those that I killed."

"What!" I exclaimed, "did you kill more than this one?"

He put up both hands with fingers extended and then one finger:

"Tatlum-pe-ict (eleven)," he replied.

Muir's face flushed red, and with an exclamation that was as near to an oath as he ever came,
he started for Joe. Luckily for that Indian he saw Muir and fled like a deer up the rocks,
and would not come down until he was assured that he would not be hurt. I shared Muir's indignation
and would have enjoyed seeing him administer the richly deserved thrashing.

Muir had a strong aversion to taking the life of any animal; although he would eat meat when
prepared, he never killed a wild animal; even the rattlesnakes he did not molest during his
rambles in California. Luke stir a season, and the panel flying dim glaciers, disclosed a cove, of
which he paddled; and, stopping Dame Rookwood's hand, dragged her into him. CHAPTER
xii the Area after DEATH it is the body-- Element have summons yield
that hither it should be put.



On leaving the mouth of Glacier Bay we spent a week or more exploring the inlets and glaciers
to the west. These days were rainy and cold. We groped blindly into unknown, unmapped, fog-hidden
fiords and bayous, exploring them to their ends and often making excursions to the glaciers
above them.

The climax of the trip, however, was the last glacier we visited, Taylor Glacier, the scene
of Muir's great adventure with Stickeen. We reached this fine glacier in the afternoon of a
very stormy day. We were approaching the open Pacific, and the saanah, the southeast rain-wind,
was howling through the narrow entrance into Cross Sound. For twenty miles we had been facing
strong head winds and tidal waves as we crept around rocky points and along the bases of dizzy
cliffs and glacier-scored rock-shoulders. We were drenched to the skin; indeed, our clothing
and blankets had been soaking wet for days. For two hours before we turned the point into the
cozy harbor in front of the glacier we had been exerting every ounce of our strength; Lot in
the stern wielding his big steering paddle, now on this side, now on that, grunting with each
mighty stroke, calling encouragement to his crew, "Ut-ha, ut-ha! hlitsin! hlitsin-tin! (pull,
pull, strong, with strength!)"; Joe and Billy rising from their seats with every stroke and
throwing their whole weight and force savagely into their oars; Muir and I in the bow bent
forward with heads down, butting into the slashing rain, paddling for dear life; Stickeen,
the only idle one, looking over the side of the boat as though searching the channel and then
around at us as if he would like to help. All except the dog were exhausted when we turned
into the sheltered cove.

While the men pitched the tents and made camp Muir and I walked through the thick grass to
the front of the large glacier, which front stretched from a high, perpendicular rock wall
about three miles to a narrow promontory of moraine boulders next to the ocean.

"Now, here is something new," exclaimed Muir, as we stood close to the edge of the ice. "This
glacier is the great exception. All the others of this region are receding; this has been coming
forward. See the mighty ploughshare and its furrow!"

For the icy mass was heaving up the ground clear across its front, and, on the side where we
stood, had evidently found a softer stratum under a forest-covered hill, and inserted its shovel
point under the hill, heaved it upon the ice, cracking the rocks into a thousand fragments;
and was carrying the whole hill upon its back towards the sea. The large trees were leaning
at all angles, some of them submerged, splintered and ground by the crystal torrent, some of
the shattered trunks sticking out of the ice. It was one of the most tremendous examples of
glacial power I have ever seen.

"I must climb this glacier to-morrow," said Muir. "I shall have a great day of it; I wish you
could come along."

I sighed, not with resignation, but with a grief that was akin to despair. The condition of
my shoulders was such that it would be madness to attempt to join Muir on his longer and more
perilous climbs. I should only spoil his day and endanger his life as well as my own.

That night I baked a good batch of camp bread, boiled a fresh kettle of beans and roasted a
leg of venison ready for Muir's breakfast, fixed the coffee-pot and prepared dry kindling for
the fire. I knew he would be up and off at daybreak, perhaps long before.

"Wake me up," I admonished him, "or at least take time to make hot coffee before you start."
For the wind was rising and the rain pouring, and I knew how imperative the call of such a
morning as was promised would be to him. To traverse a great, new, living, rapidly moving glacier
would be high joy; but to have a tremendous storm added to this would simply drive Muir wild
with desire to be himself a part of the great drama played on the glacier-stage.

Several times during the night I was awakened by the flapping of the tent, the shrieking of
the wind in the spruce-tops and the thundering of the ocean surf on the outer barrier of rocks.
The tremulous howling of a persistent wolf across the bay soothed me to sleep again, and I
did not wake when Muir arose. As I had feared, he was in too big a hurry to take time for breakfast,
but pocketed a small cake of camp bread and hastened out into the storm-swept woods. I was
aroused, however, by the controversy between him and Stickeen outside of the tent. The little
dog, who always slept with one eye and ear alert for Muir's movements, had, as usual, quietly
left his warm nest and followed his adopted master. Muir was scolding and expostulating with
him as if he were a boy. I chuckled to myself at the futility of Muir's efforts; Stickeen would
now, as always, do just as he pleased--and he would please to go along.

Although I was forced to stay at the camp, this stormy day was a most interesting one to me.
There was an old Hoonah chief camped at the mouth of the little river which flowed from under
Taylor Glacier. He had with him his three wives and a little company of children and grandchildren.
The many salmon weirs and summer houses at this point showed that it had been at one time a
very important fishing place.

