The pasturage of the Downs, and the rich woodland of these valleys must have been important
factors in those old days, when the builders of Stonehenge pushed inland from the coast, seeking
a spot wherein they might settle. As a general rule, it may be held with considerable certainty,
not only in Wiltshire, but also in other parts of England, that our early settlers from the
Continent elected to live on the downland rather than in the valleys. Go where you may over
the Plain, its turfy surface is scored by terraces or "lynchets," telling the tale of the ancient
ploughman's furrows on the slopes, and side by side with them lie the scars of what were once
cattle enclosures, farms, and stockaded villages. Nor is the explanation far to seek, for the
valleys afforded shelter to the wolves, and were in places obstructed by undrained marshes,
unhealthy and unfitted for the herdsman and his flocks, and impenetrable as regards roads.

Midway between the valleys of the Nadder and the Avon lies "Stonehenge," a Megalithic Monument
without an equal in this country, about which the legend of the peasant, as well as the speculation
of the savant have gathered in an ever-increasing volume.

The bibliography of Stonehenge alone comprises nearly a thousand volumes, and it is hard to
pick up an old magazine or periodical which does not contain some notice of it. County historians,
astronomers, Egyptologists, and antiquaries have argued, as old Omar would say, "about it and
about" until the man of ordinary tastes who chances to visit the spot and to study the stones,
finds himself confronted with such a mass of evidence, of theory, and of fantastic speculation,
that he sadly turns aside befogged, or maybe fired by the example of others evolves from his
inner consciousness yet another theory of his own to add to the already plethoric accumulation
on the subject. The object of the following pages is not to propound any new theories, but
rather to reduce the existing knowledge of Stonehenge to a compact compass, and to make it
readily accessible to that vast body of individuals who take an intelligent interest in the
stones, without having the leisure or opportunity of following up the elaborate stages by which
certain conclusions have been arrived at. In short, it is a plain statement of the facts about
Stonehenge which may serve either as a guide to the visitor, or as a useful remembrance of
his visit.

STONEHENGE

  "Salisbury Cathedral and its neighbour Stonehenge are two eminent
  monuments of art and rudeness, and may show the first essay and
  the last perfection in architecture."--Dr. Johnson, letter to
  Mrs. Thrale, 1783.

Stonehenge is one of those historical monuments which possesses the disadvantage of a reputation.
The first impression is always one of disappointment, the circle appears so much smaller than
it really is by reason of its isolated situation. Its proportions are dwarfed by the wide expanse
of downland which surrounds it. This feeling of disappointment, however, gradually gives place
to one of wonder, as the stones are approached more closely, and their bulk is seen in true
proportion. The diameter of the outer circle of stones is 108 feet, or almost exactly that
of the internal diameter of the Dome of St. Paul's. A casual glance even at the monument is
sufficient to show that its basic form is intended to be a circle. The earthwork which girdles
the stones is circular and 300 feet in diameter. Within this stands the remnant of a circle
of 30 upright stones, bearing imposts upon them; within this again is what was once a circle
of smaller stones. Inside these three outer circular forms are two others, shaped like a horseshoe.
The first consisted of the five large "Trilithons," huge pylons of stone, comprising two uprights
and an impost; standing separate, while in front of them is the remnant of a horseshoe of small
upright stones, similar to those which comprise the inner circle of the monument.

At first it may seem difficult to disentangle the chaos of fallen stone which meets the eye;
but when once the original design of the structure is grasped, it becomes easy to piece together
again in imagination a work which even in the light of modern and scientific engineering presents
very considerable difficulties and problems.

Lying flat within these concentric circles and horseshoes is a single flat tabular block generally
known as the "Altar Stone." From this slab, now almost buried beneath the remains of a fallen
Trilithon, the visitor may look in a north-easterly direction, and through the arches of the
outer circle observe the "Hele Stone" or "Friar's Heel," which stands at some considerable
distance from the main structure. On the Summer Solstice (or "Longest Day"), the sun rises
immediately over the top of this monolith, when viewed from the centre of the Altar Stone.

Such, then, are the facts which meet the eye when standing within Stonehenge. Each minute the
stones appear to increase in bulk, and the problem of their coming grows more inscrutable.
Then if wearied with such vastness, the eye may wander over the surrounding plain, broken in
almost every direction by the sepulchral mounds, or Barrows, which cluster to the number of
two hundred or more about the venerable stone circle. The connection between Stonehenge and
the Barrows, seems almost irresistible. The hands which raised those huge monoliths must assuredly
have been laid to rest almost within the touch of their shadow. Stonehenge and the Barrows,
each casting light upon the other's origin, confirming and reconfirming each other's existence,
knit together to-day as yesterday, by a bond of close union which even Time and speculations
cannot sever.

THE LITHOLOGY OF STONEHENGE

Weatherworn and overgrown by lichen, it is not possible at the present day to see clearly the
nature of the stones which go to make up Stonehenge. For that reason only the barest outline
of the monument as it appears to the unknowing eye has been given, in order that the original
plan may be grasped thoroughly before entering into those important issues which help to solve
the enigma of its origin. Careful investigation reveals the fact that the stones vary very
much in material, and that, further, just as the stones are placed in systematic order, so,
too, has the same care been exercised in the selection of the material from which each circle
or horseshoe has been built. Moreover, just as the stones can be divided into groups of uprights
and imposts, or "Trilithons," and "simple uprights," so, too, has it been found that while
all the Trilithons are composed of a "local" stone, known generally as "Sarsen"; all the "simple
uprights" are of "foreign" stone, sometimes classed together roughly as "Syenite." This latter
term must be understood in a very comprehensive sense since the simple uprights show considerable
variation in quality, but one and all are foreign to the county of Wiltshire; whereas the larger
Sarsen blocks are to be found in considerable numbers scattered over the Wiltshire Downs. This
difference in material seems to present a considerable difficulty; and the question naturally
arises, How did the foreign stones come to Salisbury Plain? This point will be considered later,
as it is one involving other matters, such as the ethnology of the builders and the probable
region from which they obtained these unusual materials. But the Sarsens present no problem,
and so may be considered first of all, for familiar as they are their story is full of interest.

THE STORY OF THE SARSENS

The geologist would probably describe the Sarsen stones of Wiltshire as "masses of saccharoid
sandstone," which in plain English might be rendered as boulders closely resembling gigantic
lumps of coarse sugar. These huge stones are to be found, though in decreasing numbers, scattered
all over the plain, and particularly along the ridges of the Marlborough Downs. The country
folk, always picturesquely minded, call them "Grey Wethers," and indeed in North Wilts, it
is not hard to conjure up their poetic resemblance to a flock of titanic sheep, reclining at
ease upon the pasturage of the Downs. The alternative name Sarsen, has an interesting derivation.
It is a corruption of the word "Saracen." But what have Saracens to do with Wiltshire? Frankly
nothing. The name has come to the stones from Stonehenge itself, and is a part of that ever
interesting confusion of ideas, which has been bequeathed to us by our ancestors of the Middle
Ages. To them all stone circles and megalithic monuments were the work of heathens, if not
of the devil himself. Heathenism and all its works was roundly condemned, whether it be Celtic,
Mahomedan, or Pagan; and the condemnation was as concise and universal as the phrase "Jews,
Turks, Infidels, and Heretics" of the Christian Prayer Book to-day. In the early days of the
Moyen Age, the Saracen stood for all that was antagonistic to Christianity. Consequently the
stones of Stonehenge were Saracen or heathen stones, which the Wiltshire tongue has shortened
in due time to Sarsen.

This confusion of ideas may seem amusing, but it is not more absurd than the existing popular
idea that Stonehenge is of Druidical origin. The stone circle of Salisbury Plain was many hundred
years old when those half mythical Celtic priests first set foot in England, and the Druids
of yesterday have about as much connection with Stonehenge as the Salvation Army of to-day.

The Sarsen well repays a close examination. A glance at one of these stones as it lies on the
Downland, shows that it has suffered greatly from the weather. It is the core, or kernel, of
a much larger block of friable sandstone, worn away on all sides by wind and weather. Moreover,
these isolated blocks appear on the Downs in a country devoid of any rock save chalk.

How came they in their present position? In one sense they never came at all; for they existed
on the surface of the chalk from the time it rose from the bottom of the sea to its present
position. They are, in fact, the remains of a great sheet of fine sand and gravel cemented
together by silex, which formerly overlay the chalk downs, the other parts of which have been
dissolved and worn by wind and rain until only the harder cores or kernels survive to tell
the tale. And the proof of this is not far to seek. The chalk of the London Basin is still
capped by layers of such sandstone, as may be seen at Purfleet in Essex. The titanic sheep,
or Grey Wethers, therefore, are merely a small residue of that widespread sandy deposit which
once covered the whole of the south of England with its inhospitable sheet, and of which larger
patches remain to-day in Surrey, Hampshire, and the Isle of Wight. But though the hand of Time
and the buffets of the weather have been heavy on the Sarsens, the hand of man has likewise
borne its share. In a district like the Plain, devoid of building material other than flint,
these stones have attracted the unwelcome attention of the farmers. Walls, gateposts, and paving-stones
have accounted for many, while in the interest of the road-mender many a noble Grey Wether
has been led to slaughter to provide macadam for the roads. Hence it is not surprising that
the number of Sarsen stones to be found on the Plain where Nature placed them is becoming less
and less. Indeed, the time may yet come when they will be as extinct as the Great Bustard who
once strutted among them, and their memory will survive only in their accidental use in a prehistoric
monument like Stonehenge.

THE FOREIGN STONES

While the Sarsens usually awake the greatest interest by reason of their bulk, and the problem
of how a primitive people was able to deal with them, a far greater problem is presented by
the small uprights, or Foreign Stones, the like of which cannot be matched within a hundred
miles of Salisbury Plain, while some can only be found upon the continent of Europe. Fragments
carefully removed and submitted to mineralogists have made this fact abundantly clear, and
consequently it is possible to arrive at the very definite conclusion that Stonehenge is certainly
not a "Wiltshire" monument, and probably that it is not even "British" at all.

Where have the stones come from? One school of writers ventures to suggest Kildare in Ireland.
Others suggest Wales, Cornwall, Dartmoor, Shropshire, or Cumberland, where similar rocks are
to be found, though perhaps not absolutely identical in character. Yet another theory advanced
is that the Foreign Stones were transported to the plain as boulders of the "glacial drift."
It has even been stated that the gravels of the district contain small pebbles composed of
rock similar to these mysterious Foreign Stones. The statement has indeed been made, but as
yet no Wiltshire geologist has produced one of these pebbles of which so much is written, and
so little seen.

These Glacial Drift theorists, further account for the absence of these foreign stones elsewhere
than at Stonehenge, by yet another theory, that they, like most of the Sarsens, have all been
used up for millstones, gateposts, and road metal.

There are many millstones and gateposts in Wiltshire, but where is there one which corresponds
in any way to the upright Foreign Stones at Stonehenge? The production of pebbles from the
gravels of Wilts, or of a specimen gatepost or millstone would at once settle this question.
Unhappily this tangible evidence is wanting, so, alluring as the Glacial Drift theory may appear,
it must reluctantly be set aside for want of convincing evidence. Finally, there seems every
reason to believe that the small upright stones are "naturalised aliens" from abroad, and that
is why they have been described at the commencement of this section as "Foreign Stones." It
must not be taken for granted that the small upright stones at present standing represent all
the foreign rocks employed. Probably they are merely the hardest and most durable of those
used in the original structure, the softer and more friable examples having disappeared entirely,
owing to the action of the weather, and possibly also to the assaults of the unchecked relic-monger,
who until recent years could with his hammer collect souvenirs with impunity. In this connection,
there is a story afoot that a hammer was kept upon the mantelpiece of a well-known hotel in
Salisbury, which was reserved for the use of those intending to see Stonehenge, who might be
wishful to bring back some convincing evidence of their visit.

In all probability these foreign stones originally numbered forty-five. To-day there are but
thirty.

A complete lithology of the stones made by the late Professor J.W. Judd, in 1901, reveals the
following rocks as comprising those used in the construction of Stonehenge.

  1. Sarsens.--Coarse and fine-grained Sandstone similar to the
       Woolwich, Reading, or Bagshot beds. This stone is used for
       the Trilithons, Hele Stone, a recumbent stone known as the
       "Slaughtering Stone," and two small stones set north-west
       and south-east of the circle. It is of local origin.

  2. Ophitic Diabase.--(Some porphyritic.)

  3. Highly altered basic Tuffs, and agglomerates (calcareous
       chloritic schists).--Only one stump now remains.

  4. Altered Rhyolites and Dacites.--Only fragments of this rock
       have been revealed during Mr. Gowland's excavations in 1901.
       At one time doubtless there was a whole upright of this
       material, but its striking appearance and fracture has
       probably led to its demolition by generations of souvenir
       hunters. Other fragments have been found in the barrows once
       within sight of Stonehenge, but now destroyed by cultivation.

  5. Sandstones, Grits, and Quartzites.--The "Altar-Stone" belongs
       to this class. It is interesting to note that Professor
       Maskelyne has pointed out the similarity between the Altar
       Stone at Stonehenge, and the "Stone of Destiny" in the
       Coronation Chair at Westminster Abbey.

  6. Grey Wackés.--Fragments only of these stones have been
       discovered among the chippings incidental to the dressing of
       the stones before erection.

  Their absence at the present day is not a matter for surprise, as
       stones of this class weather badly, and when exposed to the
       action of frost and cold rapidly disintegrate.

  7. Argillaceous Flagstones and Slates.--As in the case of the
       Grey Wackés, fragments only of these stones exist to tell the
       story of the uprights which have vanished under atmospheric
       changes.

  8. Glanconitic Sandstone (possibly Upper Greensand?).--Traces of
       this rock have been discovered at Stonehenge by Mr.
       Cunnington. Professor Judd suggests the possibility of a
       boulder of this material having been found and used by the
       builders of Stonehenge.

  9. Flints.--These of course are naturally found in abundance
       throughout the district. Most of those found within
       Stonehenge are broken fragments struck off in the process of
       repointing flint chisels during the erection of the circle.

The above catalogue of stones may not convey very much to the ordinary visitor, and has only
been inserted for the sake of completeness; or for the information of geologists who may be
concerned with this aspect of the history of the monument. The conclusions to be drawn from
such a list, however, are not without interest to the general reader. From the varied fragments
found, it is apparent that some six, or perhaps seven, different classes of stone were used
for the small uprights, but that only the harder and more durable rocks (the diabase, rhyolite,
etc.) have survived. The softer rocks (basic tuffs, grey wackés, flagstones, and slates), being
more easily broken, have fallen victims to the souvenir hunter, and to the action of the weather,
rain, and frost. Originally, as has already been stated, the foreign stones numbered forty-five,
disposed as follows: thirty in the outer circle, and fifteen in the inner horseshoe. To-day
only nineteen exist in the outer circle, and eleven in the inner horseshoe.

A very striking proof that many of these foreign stones have disappeared, is to be found in
the wide gaps which exist to-day in certain parts of the circle. That such gaps were originally
filled by standing stones is beyond question, indeed, the base of a "schistose" stone (see
Class 3 in the Lithology above) was actually discovered by Mr. Cunnington in the course of
his investigations into the nature of the rocks composing Stonehenge. It is highly probable
that careful and scientific excavation may add greatly to our knowledge in this direction.

