THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON

TOLD IN WORDS OF ONE SYLLABLE

By Mary Godolphin

CHAPTER I.

WHEN one has a good tale to tell, he should try to be brief, and not say more than he can help
ere he makes a fair start; so I shall not say a word of what took place on board the ship till
we had been six days in a storm. The barque had gone far out of her true course, and no one
on board knew where we were. The masts lay in splints on the deck, a leak in the side of the
ship let more in than the crew could pump out, and each one felt that ere long he would find
a grave in the deep sea, which sent its spray from side to side of what was now but a mere hulk.

"Come, boys," said I to my four sons, who were with me, "God can save us if it please Him so
to do; but, if this is to be our last hour, let us bow to His will--we shall at least go down
side by side."

My dear wife could not hide the tears that fell down her cheeks as I thus spoke to my sons,
but she was calm, and knelt down to pray, while the boys clung round her as if they thought
she could help them.

Just then we heard a cry of "Land! land!" felt a shock, and it was clear that we had struck
on a rock, for we heard a loud cry from one of the men, "We are lost! Launch the boat; try
for your lives!"

I went at once on deck, and found that all the boats had been let down, and that the last of
the crew had just left the ship. I cried out for the men to come back and take us with them,
but it was in vain.

I then thought that our last chance was gone. Still, as I felt the ship did not sink, I went
to the stern, and found, to my joy, that she was held up by a piece of rock on each side, and
made fast like a wedge. At the same time I saw some trace of land, which lay to the south,
and this made me go back with some hope that we had still a faint chance. 

 Generally from five till eight o'clock,morning and evening,the grannam,
or green-tail-fly, with a wing like a moth, comes, in the end of March
and through April that is in the mild weather. First in dark days comes
the the blue and the brown, both ephemerae.They comes second in bright
days.These flies are very destructive to fish when well imitated.A
small fly rest on the back as it floats down the water which has beautiful
wingsa palish yellow body, and slender comes the first.The cob in
Wales with wings shaded like a partridge,three or four times as large
with brown wings,which protrude from the back is the second.

 Three out of the four were put to bed in their berths, and soon
went to sleep; but Fritz, who was our first child, would not leave us. He said, like a good
son, that he would try to be of some use, and think what could be done.

"If we could but find some cork," said Fritz to me in a low tone, "we might make floats. You
and I will not need them, for we can swim, but the rest will want some such means to keep them up."

"A good thought," said I. "Let us try to find what things there are in the ship that we can
thus make use of."

We soon found some casks and ropes, and with these we made a kind of float for each of the
three boys, and then my wife made one for her own use. This done, we got some knives, string,
and such things as we could make fast to our belts. We did not fail to look for and find a
flint and steel, and the box in which the burnt rags were kept, for these were at that time
in use as the means to strike a light.

Fritz, who was now well-nigh worn out, lay down on his bed and slept like the rest. As for
me and my poor wife, we kept watch, each in fear lest the next wave should lift the ship off
the rock and break it up.

I need not tell you how glad we were when we saw the first gleam of light. At dawn the wind
did not blow so strong, the sky was clear of clouds, and we saw the sun rise, and with it rose
our hopes. I soon had my wife and sons on deck.

"Where are the men?" said they. "How can we steer the ship?"

"My dear boys," said I, "He who has kept us safe till now will still aid us. Let all hands
set to work, and leave the rest to God."

At these words we all went to work with a will. My wife went to feed the live stock; Fritz
set off in search of arms, and the means to make use of them; and Ernest made his way to the
tool chest. Jack ran to pick up what he could find, but as he got to one of the doors he gave
it a push, and two huge dogs sprang out and leaped at him. He thought at first that they would
bite him, but he soon found that they meant him no harm, and one of them let him get on his
back and ride up to me as I came from the hold of the ship.

When the boys had done their search, and the spoil was brought on deck, we thought we had found
all that we should need. "As for me," said my wife, "I have brought good news, for I find we
have still on board a cow, an ass, two goats, six sheep, a ram, a pig, and a sow, and I have
found food for them all."

"All that you bring will be of use," said I; "but I fear that Jack's dogs will do us more harm
than good."

"Not at all," said Jack, "for they can help us to hunt when we get to land."

"Well said, Jack. And now let us see what we can do that will aid us to get there."

We then took the casks that we had found, and Ernest and I soon cut them in half. With these
tubs we made a kind of raft, though it was no slight task. The tubs, in fact, were a fleet
of eight small round boats, made so fast to some planks that no one of them could float from
the rest. The next thing to be done was to launch the raft. This we at length did, and when
the boys saw it slide down the side of the ship and float on the sea, they gave a loud shout,
and each one tried who should be the first to get on it. I made it fast to the ship, and there
left it.

I then told my wife to change her dress for that of one of the crew which she had found, as
her skirts would have got in her way when she had to climb. She did not at first like this,
but did so as soon as she saw the truth of what I told her.

At last, when all was done, we went to bed, and slept as sound as if we had been on land.

CHAPTER II.

WE were all up at the break of day, and knelt down to thank God that He had kept us from harm
through the night.

We then put all the things on the raft, and ten live hens and two cocks were put in one of
the tubs. Some ducks and geese we let go, in the hope that they would swim to the shore; and
a pair of doves were set free, as they could fly to the land.

There was a place in the raft for each of us. In the first tub sat my wife; in the next Frank,
who was eight years old; in the third Fritz, not quite twice the age of Frank; in the fourth
were the fowls, and some old sails that would make us a tent; the fifth was full of good things
in the way of food; in the sixth stood Jack, a bold lad, ten years old; in the next Ernest,
twelve years of age, well taught, but too fond of self, and less fond of work than the rest;
while I sat in the eighth, to guide the raft that was to save all that was dear to me in the world.

As soon as the dogs (Bill and Turk by name) saw us push off from the ship they leaped in the
sea, swam near the raft, and kept well up with us.

The sea was calm; so that we felt quite safe. We made good use of the oars, and the raft bore
its freight straight to the land; but as we drew near to the shore the sight of the bare rocks
led us to think that we might still be in need of food and drink when that which we had was gone.

As we got near, the coast lost its bare look, and we were glad to see that there was no lack
of trees. We soon found a bay, to which the ducks and geese had found their way, and here we
saw a place where we could land.

As soon as we had made the raft fast with a strong rope, we took out all our wealth, and made
a tent with the old sail cloth we had brought with us, and stuck a pole in the ground to keep
it up. This done, I sent the boys to get some moss and dry grass to make our beds with. With
the flint and steel we soon set fire to some dry twigs, and my wife made a pot of soup with
what she had brought from the ship.

Fritz, who had charge of the guns, chose one, and took a stroll by the side of a stream, while
Jack went in search of shell fish, which he thought he might find on the rocks. My share of
the work was to save two large casks which were near the shore. While I was up to my knees
in the sea I heard a shrill cry, which I knew to come from Jack. I got out at once, took up
an axe, and ran to his help. I found him with his legs in a rock pool, where a large crab held
him by his toes. It soon made off as I came near; but I struck at it with the axe, and brought
it out of the pool. Jack then took it up, though it gave him a pinch or two ere he found out
how to hold it, and ran off in high glee to show what he had caught.

When I got back to the tent, I found that Ernest had brought us news that he had seen salt
in the chinks of the rocks, and that shell fish were not scarce. 

With the fickle and impressionable tendencies of common thought come always the dangers of leading
the public towards unhealthy avenues, disreputable works, and disregard
for the future generations.

For such ailments of thought there is an effective prevention: It is the safeguarding of the
contemporary youth by introducing them to influential and upright literary works.  Such were
the efforts of D. Lothrop & Co. With firm and eager purpose they years ago entered into the
endeavor that the results would more than justify the undertaking.

They supplied the proper  opportunities for those scribes which
shared in their world views and approaches, no matter their place
of origin, and produced their works that they would be accessible
to all that thirsted for them.



"If we had but some large nuts," said Ernest, "we might cut them in half, and they would make
good bowls."

"Quite true," said I; "but as there are none, we may as well wish for delf bowls and real spoons
at once."

"Now I have it," quoth Ernest. "Let us use the shells I saw on the shore."

Off ran Jack to the shore, with Ernest at his heels, and back they both came with large and
small shells for us all.

Just then Fritz came in, with a look of gloom on his face, which I could see was a sham.

"You do not mean to tell me you have come back with nought?" said I, as he put out his hands
as if to prove that such was the case. But Jack, who had been round him, cried out, "No, no!
he's got a pig!--such a fine one. Tell us where you found it."

Fritz now brought forth his prize. When I saw it, I knew, from what I had read, that it was
not a pig, but a swift beast, known in these parts, that lives on fruit and nuts, and hides
in the earth. (*The Agouti.)

"I like the place much more than I do this spot," said he. "The shore lies low, and there are
planks, casks, chests, and all sorts of things, that the sea has thrown up. Why not leave this
place at once, and go there?"

"There is a time for all things," said I. "We must at least rest here for one night."

We all sat down to take our soup with the shell spoons. Ernest took from his coat a large shell,
which he had hid till now, put it in the soup, and then set it down to cool.

"You do not show want of thought," said I to him. "But I am not glad to see that you think
so of your-self, and do so much for your own ease, when all the rest do so much for yours.
Now, that shell full of soup you must give to our two dogs. We can all dip our small shells
in the pot, and you must do as we do."

I knew he felt hurt at this, but he gave it to the dogs at once, and they soon made quick work
of their share of the soup.

The sun was low when our meal came to an end. The fowls came round us to pick up the stray
crumbs we had let fall, and my wife took out her bag of grain and fed the cocks and hens, and
sent them to roost on the top of our tent.

We took care to load our fire-arms, in case we might need them in the night; sang a hymn of
praise to God, and then left our fate in His hands.

CHAPTER III.

As soon as I heard the cock crow, and saw by the light that it was break of day, I got out
of bed and spoke to my wife as to what we should do next.

"First," said I, "Fritz and I will make a tour of the coast and try to find some of the men
who left the ship, for if they are here they may be in want."

"But," said Fritz, who had heard me from his bed, "why should we search for those who left
us to die on the wreck?"

"Well, I will tell you," said I. "First, we should do to them as we would wish them to do to
us, not as they have done; next, we know that they took no food with them, and we should not
leave them to starve; and last, it may be that they can help us, though now they stand more
in need of our aid."

The boys were soon up, and we all sat down to a good meal. That done, Fritz and I got our guns.
I put a pair of small arms in his belt, gave him a game bag, and told him to take an axe. I
took some food for us both, and a full flask, out of which we could drink if we should stray
far from a stream.

When we took our leave, my wife and the three boys were in tears. The dog Bill we left to guard
the tent, but Turk went with us, and ran by our side.

We soon got to the banks of a stream; but then had to make our way down its course. It took
us some time to reach the sea shore. There was not a boat to be seen, or any sign that the
ship's crew had found the land. We left the shore, and went through a wood full of tall trees.
Here Fritz struck some hard thing on the ground with his foot, which we found to be a CO-COA
NUT. He gave it a blow with his axe, and broke the shell, and we both sat down to rest, and
eat the nut.

At the end of the wood we came to a plain which gave us a clear view of the place. Fritz, who
was on the look out, ran off with Turk to some strange trees that he saw on the right.

When I got up to him, it gave me no small joy to find that it was a gourd tree.

"Try," said I, "if you can get hold of one of those queer lumps that grow on it."

With that he brought one down, and we had a look at it.

"Now, of this," said I, "we can make a plate, a dish, or a flask. Wild men set great store
by its shell, which they use to hold their food and drink."

We then set to work to make plates of the gourds. When we had made some eight or ten bowls,
and some flat ones for plates, we laid them out in the sun to dry, and then went on our way.

We could see, not far off, a grove of fine palm trees, but to reach them we should have to
pass through reeds and long grass. I knew this was just the place to find snakes, so we each
cut a cane, that we might beat them off should we meet with any. As I took hold of my staff,
I felt a gum or juice ooze out of the end. I put my tongue to it, and found it of a sweet taste.
This led me to suck the reed, and I then knew that we had met with the SUG-AR CANE. By this
time Fritz had done the same, for I could see that he held his cane to his mouth.

"Do not suck too much of it," said I, "or it will make you ill; but let us cut some of the
best and take them back with us, for those at home will prize so great a treat."

It did not take us long to reach the place where the palms grew, and then we sat down in the
shade to eat the food we had brought with us.

"Do you see those nuts at the top of the trees, Fritz?" said I.

"To be sure I do; but they are far too high to reach. Look, look!" he cried, "there are some
MON-KEYS; let me have a shot at them." "Do not do that," I said, and held his arm; "it will
do us no good to kill them, and I think I can make use of them." With that I threw some stones
up at the tree where they were, though they had got safe out of my reach. They then made a
loud noise, took hold of the nuts that were near, and flung them straight at us. The trick
made Fritz laugh, who soon had hard work to pick up the nuts that were thrown at him.

We broke some of the nuts, and put the juice of the canes in the thick white cream which forms
close to the shell; and this made us a dish that Fritz said was fit for a king.

Fritz and I then made fast some nuts to a string, which I tied round my waist, while he took
up his canes, and we both set off on our road home.

CHAPTER IV.

ON our way back we took up the gourd bowls and plates, which we found quite dry and hard as
bone, and put them in our bags. We had scarce got through the wood, when Turk made a dart in
front of us, and we saw a troop of apes rush out of the way. But he gave a leap and brought
down one that could not climb so fast as the rest, for she had a young one in her arms. Turk
made short work of the poor thing, for ere Fritz could call the dog off, the ape was dead.
The young one, as soon as it saw Fritz, sprang on his back, put its paws in his curls, and
would not let go. I at length got the ape from Fritz's back, and took it up in my arms like
a child. We found that it was too young to seek its own food, and, as Fritz said he should
like to take it home, we put it on Turk's back. Turk did not at first like this, but we soon
got him to bear the ape, which held so tight by the hair on the dog's neck that it could not
well fall off. Fritz then led Turk with a string, that he might not stray out of sight, or
throw off his charge, which I think he would have done had we not been on the watch.

It did not take us long to reach the bank of the stream near to our home.

I need not tell you how glad my wife and sons were to see us safe back, or with what joy the
boys took the "real live ape" out of Fritz's arms.

At length, when they got more staid, I told them that we had brought them all sorts of good
things, but that we had not met with any of the men of whom we went in search. "God's will
be done," said my wife, "let us thank Him that you have come back safe to us. This day to me
has been an age; but put down your loads, for we must now go in and hear what you have to tell."

Fritz and I then told them, by turns, where we found the things we brought with us, how we
made and dried the plates and bowls, cut the canes, and caught the ape in the wood. Our tales
had not come to an end when we were told that it was time to sup. Ernest had shot a wild goose,
and some fish had been caught in the stream. With these, and the Dutch cheese that we brought
from the ship, we made a good meal; but the boys would not rest till we broke some of the nuts,
from which they drank the milk, made sweet with the juice of the canes. I must tell you that
we ate our food in great state from our gourd rind plates, which my wife said she should prize
more than if they were made of pure gold.

That night the ape went to bed with Jack and Fritz, and we all slept in peace till the cocks
on the roof of the tent woke us up.

Next day Fritz and I went back to the wreck to save the live stock, and get what else we had
left that might be of use to us. We found it no light task, for we had to make floats for the
cow, the ass, the sheep, and the goats, throw them in the sea, and tie them with ropes to our
raft. We put on board the raft a vast deal of food that had not been spoiled by the sea, though
the waves had made a breach in the sides of the wreck. We then put to sea with our train of
live stock made fast to the stern.

We had not gone far when I heard a loud cry of fear from Fritz, "We are lost! We are lost!
See what a great shark is on its way to us!"

Though pale with fright, he took aim with his gun, and shot the fish in the head. It sank at
once, but left a track of blood in the sea, which I knew to be a sign that we were once more
safe. We then got to land, and made fast our freight to the shore. Ere we had done this our
friends came to give us what help they could to get the beasts out of the stream, and take
them up to the tent. The poor things were well nigh worn out; but we took good care of them,
and put them to rest on some dry grass that my wife had laid out for them.

That night we did not sup on the ground. My wife had spread a cloth on the top of a cask, and
we each sat on a tub. With the knives and forks that we had found in the ship we ate a dish
of hot ham and eggs, nor did we fail to test the wine that I had brought with me in a small
cask from the wreck.

Ere bed-time my wife had told me that while I was at the wreck she had gone in search of some
place in which we could build a house.

"And did you find one, my dear?" I said.

"Oh, yes," said she. "We can take you to a great tree that will serve us well, if we can but
get across the stream with our goods."

"But would you have us roost, like fowls, in a tree? How do you think we could get up to our
perch?"

"Was there not a large lime tree in our town in which they built a ball room, with stairs up
the trunk?"

"To be sure there was," said I; "and if we can not build in it, we can at least make use of
its shade, and dwell in a hut on the roots."

Ernest said that he took a string, and found that it was twelve yards round. This led me to
think that my wife's scheme was by no means a bad one, and that I would have a look at the
tree the next day.

When I had heard all they had to tell, we knelt down to pray, and then sought a good night's
rest, which the toils of the day made us much in need of.

CHAPTER V.

WHEN I rose from my bed the next day, I said to my wife: "Does it not seem, my dear, as if
God had led us to this place, and that we should do wrong to leave it?"

"What you say may be quite true, so far as it goes," she said; "but I must tell you that the
mid-day heat is more than we can bear, and that if we stay here we may have to keep watch at
night, for there are, no doubt, wild beasts of some kind that will find us out; and we should
not trust too much to our dogs, who may lose their lives in a fight with them."

"I dare say you are right," said I; "but I do not yet see how we can cross the stream. We shall
first have to build a bridge."

The boys were now all out of their beds; and while my wife went to milk the cow and cook some
food, I made my plans known to them. They were all glad when they heard that we were to leave,
and each said he, would help to build the bridge.

The first thing to be done was to find some strong planks; and Fritz, Ernest, and I went down
to the shore, and got in the boat, which the tide took down to the bay.

On a piece of land which lay to the left we could see some large dark thing, round which flew
a flock of sea gulls. We put up a sail and caught a gust of wind which had sprung up, and this
soon brought the boat to the spot. We made no noise, but crept up the shore step by step, and
we got so near that Ernest brought down some of the birds with a stick. Fritz was the first
to find out that what the sea gulls had just left was the huge fish he had shot in the sea.
We cut off some rough skin, which we thought might serve for files, and then went back to the
boat. I took a glance at the shore ere I got in, and to my great joy saw some of the planks
and spars from the wreck lay on the ground not far off. Our next care was to bind these so
as to make a raft, which we tied to the stern of the boat, and then, by the use of our oars,
soon made our way up the stream to the place where the bridge was to be built. Our young friends
were glad to see us back so soon, and ran to meet us; Jack had a cloth in his hand, in which
was a store of cray fish and crabs just caught in some of the nooks of a rock up the stream.

"Do not fail to give God thanks," said I, "that our lot has been cast where we can pick up
more food than we can eat."

It would take a long time to tell how we brought all the wood up to the spot, built piers of
stone in the stream, and put the planks one by one in the place; it was late at night when
we left off work, and once more sought our tent.

The next day we saw the sun rise, and took our first meal in haste, for we knew we should have
a long day's toil. All the stores that we could not take with us were laid by in the tent,
the door of which was made safe by a row of casks, that we put round it. My wife and Fritz
soon led the way; the cow went next; then the ass, with Frank on its back. Jack led the goats,
and on the back of one of them sat the ape. Ernest took charge of the sheep, and I brought
up the rear as chief guard. We took care to cross the bridge one at a time, and found it bore
our weight well; but once or twice we thought the cow would step in the stream, or fall off
the boards, when she went to the sides to drink.

Just as we had left the bridge, Jack cried out, "Be quick! here is a strange beast with quills
as long as my arm." The dogs ran, and I with them, and found a large POR-CU-PINE, in the grass.
It made a loud noise, and shot out its quills at the dogs, and made them bleed. At this Jack
shot at the beast, which fell dead on the spot. My wife's first thought was to dress the wounds
made by the quills, which had stuck in the nose of one of the dogs, while the boys made haste
to pluck some of the quills from the skin of their strange prize.

At last our march came to an end, and I saw for the first time the great trees that my wife
had told me of. They were of vast size, and were, I thought, fig trees. "If we can but fix
our tent up there," I said, "we shall have no cause to dread, for no wild beasts can reach
us." We sent Frank off to find sticks, with which to make a fire, and my wife made some soup
of the flesh of the beast we had slain, though we did not like it so well as we did the ham
and cheese we brought with us.

CHAPTER VI.

THE meal at an end, my first thought was to make some steps by means of which we could reach
the first strong branch of the tree. Ernest and I went in search of some thick canes that grew
in the sands hard by. These we cut down, bound them to four long poles, and thus made a pair
of steps that would, we thought, reach far up the trunk.

On our way back from the sands, one of the dogs made a dart at a clump of reeds, and a troop
of large birds rose on the wing with a loud noise. Fritz let fly at them, and brought down
two at a shot. One of them fell quite dead, but its mate, though hurt in the wing, made use
of its long legs so well that it would have got off if Bill had not held it. The joy of Fritz,
to have caught such a strange bird, was so great that he would have us at once bind it by the
neck and take it back with us. "Look," said Ernest, "what fine plumes he has, and you see he
has web feet like a goose, and has long legs like a stork: thus he can run on land as fast
as he can swim."

"Yes," said I, "and he can fly with more speed through the air, for these birds have great
strength in their wings. In fact, few birds have such means of flight as the FLA-MIN-GO."

My wife thought the great bird might need more food than we could spare. I told her that it
would feed on small fish and worms, and not rob our geese of their grain. I then tied him to
a stake near the stream; and in a few days we were glad to find that he knew us, and would
come at a call, like a tame bird.

While I sat on the grass with my sons, late in the day, I thought I would try to make a bow
and thus save our shot. This I did with a long cane and a piece of string, and then made a
dart with a sharp point, which I shot off and found it would go straight. The branch of the
tree on which we were to fix our hut was so high that our steps would not near reach it. I
tied some strong thread to the dart, and shot it over the branch; then tied a piece of rope
to the end of the thread, and drew that up, and at last made a long row of cane steps, with
a rope at each side, which we drew up to the first strong branch. The boys were now all in
haste to climb the tree, but I chose that Jack, who was light of build and sure of foot, should
go up first and try the strength of our work. Fritz went up next with some nails, and made
the ropes fast to the tree, while I drove stakes in the ground to keep them firm at the foot.
It was now time for me to mount, and up I went with an axe to lop off the twigs and smooth
the bough that was to form the ground of our new house. I sent the boys down out of my way,
and kept hard at work till it was late, for the sky was clear, and the moon lent me her beams
of light to see by.

When I came down my wife spread a good meal on the ground, which we ate as best we could, and
then made our beds of dry moss, round which we put heaps of twigs. These we set light to, as
watch fires to keep off wild beasts and snakes. The toils of the day had made the boys tired,
and they were soon in a sound sleep, but my wife and I took it in turns to watch through the
whole night.

We were all out of bed as soon as light was in the sky, and set to work to hoist up the planks
that were to form the floor of our hut. These we laid down on the branch, with their ends made
fast to a cross piece of wood that we had to fix to the trunk of the tree. Our nails were long,
and we drove each one of them home, so that we had no cause to fear the strength of our work.
By the time we had done this the day was far spent, and we were all glad to lay by our tools
and rest our limbs. That night we lit our fires round the tree, tied the dogs to the roots,
and went up to sleep out of harm's way for the first time since we left the ship. When the
steps were drawn up we all felt that we were now safe at last, and that we had brought the
toils of the day to a good end.

CHAPTER VII.

WE did not wake next day till the sun shone in upon us. I told my wife and sons that as it
was the Lord's day we would do no work. Our beasts and birds had first to be fed. This was
done by my wife, who then brought us some hot milk, and made us sit down on the grass and take
it. When our meal was done, I got on a log in front of my sons, and we all sang a psalm we
knew by heart. Then I sought to teach them and spoke to them thus:

"There was once on a time a Great King, who had two vast realms, the Land of Light and Truth,
and the Land of Night and Sloth. Those who dwelt in the first were full of life and joy. The
King held his court at the Place of Rest where all was bright.

"This King had a land, not far off, where those for whom he had so much love should dwell ere
they went one by one to the Place of Rest. This land was the Home of Earth. He gave to his
Son the right to rule the host that dwelt in the Home of Earth, and set forth to think what
they were to do, and all the ills that would come to them if they did not do as they were bid.

"At first they were all glad to hear the way in which they were to live, and the terms on which
they could reach the Land of Light and Truth. Sad to tell, they soon broke the King's laws,
and paid no heed to what they knew to be his will. Still there were a few who did as they had
been taught, and dwelt in peace, in the hope that they would please the King and at last reach
the place where he held his court.

"From time to time ships came to the Home of Earth, and at last a great ship was sent, the
name of which was The Grave, which bore the flag of Death. To the good it was a sign of hope,
but the bad were thrown by the sight of it into a state of gloom. These ships were not seen
till they came close to the shore, and then the crew were sent forth to find those whom they
were told to seize. Some went back with them full of joy, but most were seen to weep and mourn
their fate. So soon as they were brought in sight of the Great King, the Prince took those
who had done well, and put a white robe on them; but those who went their own way when on the
Home of Earth, he sent down to toil in deep, dark mines till time shall be no more."

When my sons had heard my tale to the end they all knew what it meant; I then drew from them
their views of what they ought to do to please and serve the Great King. We then sang a hymn;
and my wife drew from her bag the BIBLE, which I gave to one of the boys, who read from it
in a clear, loud voice. When this was brought to a close, we all knelt down on the grass to
pray, and to ask God to bless the means we took to learn His will.

We did no work that day, but took a long stroll up the banks of the stream.

The next day Ernest and Jack tried their skill with the bow, and brought down some small birds
that came to the great tree in quest of figs. I gave them leave to kill what they could; for
I knew if put in casks made air tight with grease, they would keep for a time, and might prove
a boon, if our stock of food should get low.

When we sat down to dine, the thought struck me that it would be well to give some name to
each part of the land that was known to us. This was at first the source of some fun, for Fritz
said we should call the bay where we had found the shell spoons by the name of Spoon Bay; but
Jack, who still had a mark on his toe where the crab gave him a pinch, thought we ought to
term it Crab Bay.

"If you will let me give it a name," said my wife, "I should wish to know it by some term that
will make us bear in mind how good God was to lead our raft there, and I don't think Safe Bay
will be a bad name for it."

"So let it be," said I; and from that time Safe Bay had a name. "What shall be the name of
the spot where we spent our first night on shore? You shall give that its name," said I to Fritz.

"Let us call it Tent House."

"That will do," said I. "And now for the spot at the mouth of Safe Bay, where we found our planks?"

"Sharp Point," said Ernest. The place from which Fritz and I sought for a trace of out ship
mates was to be known as No Man's Cape. Then we had the Boys' Bridge, which name I gave it
from a wish to please my sons, who had done so much to build it.

"But what shall we call the place which is most dear to us all?"

"Now, my dear," said I to my wife, "it is your turn. What shall we say?"

"Let us call it The Nest," said she; and with that I gave each of my young birds a glass of
sweet wine.

"Here's to 'The Nest,'" said I; "and may we live long to bless the day and the means that brought
us here."

When the heat of the day was past, I told my sons that I should be glad to take a walk with
them. My wife said that she should like to go with us; so we left The Nest in charge of Turk,
and bent our course to the banks of the stream. On our way we went past some shrubs and rare
herbs, which my wife knew well how to make use of should we fall sick; and Ernest found a large
spot of ground on which grew a fine kind of PO-TA-TO. At these the boys set to work with such
zeal, that we soon had a full bag of the ripe fruit. We then went on to Tent House, which we
found in the same state as when we left it to cross the stream on our way to the great tree.

We found that our ducks and geese had grown so wild that they would not come near us; so, while
my wife and I went to pick up such things as we thought we might take back with us, Ernest
and Fritz were sent to catch them, and to tie their legs and wings, and in this way we got
them at last to The Nest.

CHAPTER VIII.

IT took the whole of the next day to make a sledge, to which we tied the ass, and drove to
Tent House. On our sledge we put such of the casks which held food, and took them back to The
Nest. Fritz and I went once more to the wreck, and this time we brought off chests of clothes,
pigs of lead, cart wheels, sacks of maize, oats, peas, and wheat. With a strong bar we broke
down some of the doors, and took such parts of the ship as we thought would aid us to build
our house, which as yet was far less safe than I could wish. These we bound with cords, and
made them float back at the stern of the raft.

When we got to the shore my wife and the three boys were there to greet us. My first care was
to send for the sledge, and with this we took most of our new wealth up to The Nest.

The next day I told my sons that they must now learn to run, to leap, to climb, and to throw
stones straight at a mark, as all these things would be of great use to them in their new mode
of life.

I next taught them to use the LAS-SO, by means of which men catch the wild horse on the vast
plains of the New World. I tied two stones to the ends of a cord some yards in length, and
flung off one of them at the trunk of a young tree; the cord went round and round it in a coil
and bound it so tight that I could have drawn it to me had it not been fast in the ground.
This trick the boys were not slow to learn; and Fritz, in a short time, could take an aim as
well with a stone as he could with his gun.

As yet we had not seen much of the isle; for it took most of our time to build the house. But
one day we made up our minds that we would all start on a tour. We rose at dawn, put the ass
in the sledge, took what food we thought we should need, and set out from The Nest just as
the sun rose.

When we came to the wood where Fritz found the ape, he told them by what means we got the nuts,
but now there were no apes there to throw them down.

"Oh, if one would but fall from the trees," he said.

The words had but just left his lips when a large nut fell at his feet. He made a start back,
and two more came down near the same spot.

As the nuts were far from ripe, I was at a loss to know how they could fall off the tree, for
I could not see an ape nor a bird near.

I went close up to the tree, and saw a large land crab on its way down the trunk. Jack struck
a blow at him with a stick, but did not hit the beast. He then took off his coat and threw
it on the crab's head, while I made an end of him with an axe. I told them that these crabs
climb the trees and break off the nuts, as we had seen, and then come down to feast on them
at their ease.

"But how do they crack the nuts?" said Jack.

"They make a hole through the shell at the thin end, and then suck them dry."

The dead crab was put in the sledge, and we went on through the wood. When we came to the Gourd
Wood, we sat down to make some more bowls and flasks to take back with us. Ernest had gone
to try what new thing he could find, but he had not been from us long, when we heard him call out,

"A wild boar! A great wild boar! Come here, pray!"

We took up our guns, and went at once with the dogs to the spot. We soon heard Turk give a
loud bark, and just then we heard Ernest laugh, and saw the two dogs come through a clump of
brush wood, with our old sow fast by the ears. She did not seem to like the way in which they
had put an end to her feast of fruit, so she ran back as soon as we told the dogs to let go
their hold of her ears.

"But with all our sport," said Fritz, "we have a poor show of game. Let us leave the young
ones, and set off to see what we can meet with." Ernest sat down with Frank, and we left them
and my wife at the gourd tree, while Fritz and Jack set off with me to a high rock which we
saw on the right.

"Fritz, look here," said Jack, as he made his way to the rock.

"What have you found now?" said Fritz.

"I don't know what it is, but it's a fine prize."

When I went up I saw at once that it was a large I-GUA-NA, the flesh and eggs of which are
both good for food. I had heard that these and such like beasts will stand still if you play
an air on a pipe. So I crept near, and made a low sound with my lips, while I held in my right
hand a stout stick, to which I had tied a cord with a noose, and in my left hand a slight wand.
I saw it first move its tail, and then draw its head from side to side, as if to look where
the sound came from. I then threw the noose round its neck, drew it tight, got on its back
with a leap and thrust the wand up its nose, which is the sole part of the beast where there
are no hard scales. It bled at once, and was soon dead, nor did it seem to feel any pain. Our
prize, which was near five feet long was no slight weight to lift. I got it at last on my back,
and thus we went back to the gourd tree, where we found the rest quite safe.

It took us a long time to reach The Nest that night. My wife did her best to dress some of
the flesh of the land crab, but it was tough, and did not taste so nice as the soup made from
the beast that we had caught by the nose.

CHAPTER IX.

FRITZ and I spent the whole of the next day in the woods. We took the ass and one of the dogs
with us, but left all else at home.

Our way first lay through a dense wood, where we saw no end of small birds, but such game could
not now tempt Fritz to waste his shot. We then had to cross a vast plain, and to wade through
the high grass, which we did with care, lest we should tread on some strange thing that might
turn and bite us.

We came at last to a grove of small trees, and in their midst I saw a bush, which I knew to
be the wax tree, for the wax grew on it like white beads. I need not say how glad I was to
find so great a prize. We had up to this time gone to bed as soon as the sun went down, for
we had no lamp to use; but as we could now make wax lights, I told Fritz that we had found
what would add two or three hours per day to our lives. We took as much of the wax as would
serve us for some time, and then made our way out of the grove.

"How came you," said Fritz, "to know so much of the queer beasts, trees, and plants that we
have found here?"

"When young," said I, "I used to read all the books that fell in my way; and those that told
of strange lands and what was to be seen in them had for me as great a charm as they have for
Ernest, who has read a great deal, and knows more of plants than you do."

"Well," said he, "I will do the same if I but get the chance. Can you tell what is the name
of that huge tree on the right? See, there are balls on the bark."

We went close to it, and found that these balls were of thick gum, which the sun had made quite
hard. Fritz tried to pull one of them off, but felt that it clung tight to the bark, though
he could change its shape with his warm hands. "Look," said he, "I feel sure that this is the
IN-DI-A RUB-BER which we used to clean our school books." I took a piece of it in my hand,
and said, "To be sure it is. What shall we not find in this rich land?" I then told him how
the men in the New World made flasks of this gum, in which form it is sent to all parts of
the world. "And I do not see why we should not make boots of it in the same way. We have but
to fill a sock with sand, then put gum all round it, while in a soft state, till it is as thick
as we need, then pour the sand out, and we shall have made a shoe or a boot that will at least
keep out the damp, and that is more than mine do just now."

Not far from this we came to a bush, the leaves of which were strewn with a white dust; and
close by were two or three more in the same state. I cut a slit in the trunk of one of these,
and found it full of the white dust, which I knew by the taste to be SA-GO. We took all of
this that we could get out of the tree, for it would add to our stock of food; and when our
bags were full we laid them on the back of the ass, and set off to find our way back to The Nest.

"Each day brings us fresh wealth," said my wife; "but I think we might now try to add to our
goods." I knew that she had some fear lest we should one day get lost in the woods, or meet
with wild beasts, so I at once said that we would now stay at home, at least for some days.

My first work was to make some wax lights, for my wife could then mend our clothes at night,
while we sat down to talk. This done, the next task they gave me was to make a churn. I took
a large gourd, made a small hole in the side, and cut out as much as I could, so as to leave
but the rind. In this I put the cream, laid a piece on the hole, and bound it up so that none
could come out. The boys then held a cloth, and on it I put the gourd, which they rolled from
side to side. They kept up this game with great mirth for near an hour, when my wife took off
the string, and found that the churn had done its work well.

As our sledge was not fit to use on rough roads, my next work was to make a cart. I had brought
a pair of wheels from the wreck, so that my task did not prove a hard one.

While I was thus at work, my wife and the boys took some of the fruit trees we had brought
with us, and put them in the ground where they thought they would grow best. On each side of
the path that led from The Nest to the Boy's Bridge they put a row of young nut trees. To make
the path hard we laid down sand from the sea shore, and then beat it down with our spades.

We were for six weeks at this and such like work. We were loth to spare any pains to make The
Nest, and all that could be seen near it, look neat and trim, though there were no eyes but
our own to view the scene.

One day I told my sons that I would try to make a flight of stairs in place of the cane steps
with rope sides, which were, to tell the truth, the worst part of our house. As yet we had
not used them much, but the rain would some day force us to keep in The Nest, and then we should
like to go up and down stairs with more ease than we could now climb the rude steps. I knew
that a swarm of bees had built their nest in the trunk of our tree, and this led me to think
that there might be a void space in it some way up. "Should this prove to be the case," I said,
"our work will be half done, for we shall then have but to fix the stairs in the tree round
the trunk." The boys got up and went to the top of the root to tap the trunk, and to judge
by the sound how far up the hole went. But they had to pay for their want of thought; the whole
swarm of bees came out as soon as they heard the noise, stung their cheeks, stuck to their
hair and clothes, and soon put them to flight.

We found that Jack, who was at all times rash, had struck the bees' nest with his axe, and
was much more hurt by them than the rest. Ernest, who went to his work in his slow way, got
up to it last, and thus did not get more than a sting or two, but the rest were some hours
ere they could see out of their eyes. God's creation is a hone work. The world in which we live
is the best possible world on the totally; not the best conceivable to the individual at any foundered
moment, but the best possible on the whole, all creatures considered
and all the ages of man taken into the account.

This is the affirmation of a jubilant optimism.
John Stuart loiter swore that a better world could have been fixed and more electropositive
conditions for man devised. But before this hypothesis can be supported, the skeptic from the
beginning of time must have scanned the history of every individual and considered it in its most
infinitesimal details. He must have explored every rill and river of mold entering into his character.
He must have understood every relation of the individual to every
other person through all the ages.

He must have down all the facts and laws of our earth. And as it sustains a life-sustaining
connection with the solar system, he must have dug all the mysteries which are implied in it.

As this system is referred to the still more talkative one of which it is a part, he must have
been intimate the law and workings of its every prima and solarise. Still more, he must have
gone from system to system with their millions of worlds and go familiar
with every part of the vast prodigious completely.

He must have learned every secret of all Nature's mashes, and have soaked into the inner recesses
of the Divine Being. He must have looked at the place of God Himself.

A providential Providence.
Amid all our doubts and distresses we must hold fast to the belief that there is a God who maketh
the clouds His chariot and walketh upon the wings of the wind--a God who is confront in every
summer breath and every wintry shell, in every budding leaf, and every opening blossom, in the
fall of every sparrow and the wheeling of every world. His Providence is in every swinging of
the surges, in every circulation of the ventilate, in all attractions and repulsions, in all
cohesions and gravitations.

These, and the variegated phenomena of nature are the organize expressions of the providential
Energy, the modes of operation of the Divine Mind, the manifestations of the inspired Wisdom
and the expressions of the inspired Love.
The very thunderbolt that divides the oak and by its scandalize sunders the soul from the personify
of or so unfortunate one purifies the air that millions may breathe the breath of life. 
The
very earthquake which escapes from the earth to its midway and shatters
cities into ruin, prevents by that very concussion the more life-threatening
catastrophes which inter continents out of sight.

The very hurricane which fares sweeping down and on, prostrating afforests, casting right tidal
waves on the land and committing down many a gallant send with all
its crew, bears on its destructive wings, "the incense of the sea,"
to most backwoods parts, that there may be the fulgent of flowers,
the upspringing of grass, the flourishing of all the banners of greenish,
and the carrying away of the vapors of death that spring from decaying
mold.

Man the Conqueror.
Pascal scan "man is but a reed, the feeblest thing in nature, but he is a reed that conceives."
The ultimate forces come apart loose and for the time living he cannot
control them.

Amid nature's convulsions he is utterly forgotten and unimportant.
It is but for a moment, all the same, that he yields. He knows that he is the central reckon in
the universe of worlds.

"He is not one part of the furniture of this planet, not the highest merely in the surmount of
its creatures but the lord of all." He is not a parasite but the paragon of the globe. He has
faith in the unchangeableness of the laws he is cricifying while holding from them. He confidently
declares there is nothing spasmodic, nothing outlandish, nothing temporary in their carry out.
The greater the calamity the more sincere his effort to fit its causes and learn the lessons
it teaches.
dauntlessly man must match the events of life as they come. Speculations as to following cataclysms
and fearful forebodings as to the straightaway end of the world must
all be contributed to the winds. In this way we soon had a barn, store room, and hay loft, with stalls for the cow, the
ass, and what else we kept that had need of a place to live in.

CHAPTER X.

FRANK one day found some long leaves, to which, from their shape, he gave the name of sword
leaves. These he brought home to play with, and then, when he grew tired of them, threw them
down. As they lay on the floor, Fritz took some of them in his hand, and found them so limp,
that he said he could plait them, and make a whip for Frank to drive the sheep and goats with.
As he split them up to do this, I could not but note their strength. This led me to try them,
and I found that we had now a kind of flax plant, which was a source of great joy to my wife.

"You have not yet found a thing," she said, "that will be of more use to us than this. Go at
once and search for some more of these leaves, and bring me the most you can of them. With
these I can make you hose, shirts, clothes, thread, rope; in short, give me flax, and make
me a loom and some frames, and I shall be at no loss for work when the rain comes."

I could not help a smile at my wife's joy when she heard the name of flax; for there was still
much to do ere the leaves could take the shape of cloth. But two of the boys set off at once
to try to find some more of the flax. 

One story that has been told of her that reveals much about her character is this: she left
from her house early in the morning, saying that she would be back in time for dinner. When she
arrived at the neighbor's house, the neighbor was not there, but she asked to be shown the neighbor's
library. She became so caught up in her reading that she stayed the whole day without realizing
it, only coming to her senses when the dark crept into the room. To do this we took the plant down to the marsh, tied
up in small bales, as they pack hemp for sale. The leaves were then spread out in the pond,
and kept down with stones, and left there in that state till it was time to take them out and
set them in the sun to dry, when they would be so soft that we could peel them with ease. It
was two weeks ere the flax was fit for us to take out of the marsh. We spread it out on the
grass in the sun, where it dried so quick that we took it home to The Nest the same day. It
was then put by till we could find time to make the wheels, reels, and combs which my wife
said that she would want to turn our new found plant to its best use.

We now made haste to lay up a store of canes, nuts, wood, and such things as we thought we
might want; and took care, while it was still fine, to sow wheat, and all the grain we had
left in our bags was soon put in the ground. The fear that the rain might come and put a stop
to our work led us to take our meals in haste, and to make the days as long as we could see.
We knew the rain was close at hand, for the nights were cold; large clouds could be seen in
the sky, and the wind blew as we had not felt it since the night our ship had struck on the rock.

The great change came at last. One night we were woke up out of our sleep with the noise made
by the rush of the wind through the woods, and we could hear the loud roar of the sea far off.
Then the dense storm clouds which we had seen in the sky burst on us, and the rain came down
in floods. Such sir, is a brief history 'yer auld class-mates, solitary, Sandy.
In A History "
Willie GLAIKIT

(Continued Mr Grierson), the only thing remarkable is that he was just a lucky man he was a lad
thochtless. After leaving school, he's cast aside Greek and Latin, and it was easy to do because
it was small, but has never learned, and recalled less than that because he paid attention
both little to onything he did, that what he took to heart one day, he looked ahead. Despite
a "remonstrances a" his friends would haud Willie naething but it would be a sailor. Weel,
he was on a board, "an American trader, and for many years there was naething heard" concerning
it, but accidents which have happened, and all through his glaikitness. Sometimes he was fa'ing
owre a boat, and was largely drowned and ither times, I heard a "fa'ing him headlong into the
ship hold, a dance to" tumbling overboard in the middle a "great Atlantic Ocean and a last," fa'ing
of the mast on deck and legs broken. It was the luckiest thing that ever happened to him. It
made him think, and it gied leisure to do so, he was scheduled for
twelve weeks and, while some "time, he applied himself navigating
the elements a" science which I've trained.

Soon after recovery, he received a command ship, and was very lucky, and for several years, he
was the sole owner of a number of vessels, and is reputed to be very rich.
 Some of our stores we took up the stairs out of our way, and this gave
us more room. As we had cut square holes in the trunk of the tree all the way up, and put in
frames of glass that we got from the ship, my wife could sit on the stairs, with Frank at her
feet, and mend our clothes. Mr. Melvin Forbes, his friend and a man who had just started a stationery
and paper business opposite, spent the night with him. The milkman had a tendency to bring milk
to the door early in the morning. A woman, who came up by boat and was leaving in the early
morning by train for St. Paul, knocked on the door of the postoffice asking if any mail had
been forwarded to her. Mr. Forbes, who was expecting the milkman to be the one at the door,
leaped out of bed, caught Mr. Marvin's fireman's helmet and put it on, opened the door wide
quickly and took a bow in his short white night shirt and said, "Good morning". It was not
until he raised his head that he saw the woman.

It was at that moment that I began to wonder what was the first impression she formed of Duluth
in her short stay here.

During that time I liked to watch the Indians. They were a common sight in those early days
in Duluth, when they would come into town with their dog teams, the sledges laden down with skins
which they would later exchange for provisions. The dog teams were very interesting. Most were
intelligent well trained Indian dogs. There were usually between three or four dogs who drove
tandem with a simple harness consisting of a collar and a strap around each dog's body. The driver
always ran or walked by the side of the sledge, but he would never sit in it. In Alaska, it
was popular to see pictures of dog teams with a dozen or more dogs, but that would have been
impossible in a heavily wooded country as was the case in those days.
The Indians did not know how to use a door bell, but if they ever found the door of a house
unlocked they would walk in without knocking. One New Year's Day I remember we found that six
Indians had quietly taken possession in the sitting room, two men and four squaws. They approached
us, offering to shake our hands and saying, "'Appy New Year, ten
cents." "'Appy New Year, ten cents."

It was just about all the English they could speak but they knew very well what it meant and
did not leave the room until each one of them had received their due. We were pleased to see
them leave.  I also foundly remember a funeral in the early days.
The mourners followed the coffin on foot, which was placed in a wagon
and drawn by one horse. Prepare solution with 1 part of soluble citrate iron,
1 part of red Prussia of potash and with 10 part of water. To make this solution use a brush
like the brush for letter-press.

Cover the surface of the paper with the solution. Then remove the prepared paper and pour clean
water on it. Then hang it up in a clear sky for 20 to 30 minutes.
The sensitive paper will be prepared very rapidly due to its ability
to stand washing. The Nest would serve us well
in that time of year when it was fine and dry, but we should have to look out for some spot
where we could build a house that would keep us from the rain the next time the storms came. 

I walked into the room and saw the beautiful cat on the couch. The cat mewed at me until Madame
Omar entered the room. Madame Omar was a lovely German woman who's husband kept her all but
locked away in the harim. She said that I was correct with regards to my treatment of the hyena.


"Well," said I, "we will go to the rocks round Tent House the first fine day that comes, and
try to find some place that will serve to keep us from the next year's storms." 

Meeting an electrician, who is a friend of mine, and also a great
mathematician, alike all those of is status, is very precise in his
statements, I uttered, in all the enthusiasm of emotion brought into
existence by such a wonderful event,-- 
"Isn't it wonderful, this
thought of the ability of sending our lightning clear across the ocean,
and speak with Paris and London as easily as we can do with New Orleans
and New York?"

"Yes it is," my friend answered, with the exact same excitement; "my desires by this glorious invention
are more than realized."
"Desires realized!"

I uttered. "I never believed there was a remote chance of this really coming into existence,--
did you?"
"Of course," said my mathmatical genius friend; "I did not think the odds were really against
us with this endeavor."
 

I.
Chapter 1.

Love for Going Places - Author's unique approach - Reasons for traveling overseas - Support
for the Visually Handicapped - Escape in the Eden, Capt. Owen, Heading to Sierra Leone - Lord
High Admiral at Plymouth - Cape Finisterre - Docking at Madeira - Town of funchal - explore
the wines of madeira - See the actual harvesting of Grapes - Table
of Exports - Gin will result in seizure - Crops of the region - Weather
- Harvests of coffee, tea, and surgar - Palanquin adventures - Exit
Madeira 
Chapter II. 

Nothing more can be asked of anything that fulfills its purpose. Then, a good adage we hear
all the time:

How you act is a direct result of what you think about most of the
time.

She imparted much great wisdom, and his mother's words were a constant
companion.

She often spoke of how a man must guard his thoughts, not his actions,
because the thoughts manifest themselves into actions.

So what does this have to do with anything?
Music comes from two sources, singing and playing an instrument.

Making music is an action stemming from a thought. Therefore music cannot be made without
thinking about it first. So it goes to reason that in order to correctly play music well, you
must correctly think good thoughts well. We have heard that before divine service the clergyman received a chartict text to preach
from.

Surprisingly he chose his own words, "My house is the house of prayer but ye have made it a den
of thieves." When hearing his declaration, the chartists rose and
quit the church.

These same shocking announcements were used all over the country in all the major populated areas.
However in the end the unsuccesful reach of these shocking texts from the clergymen was not practiced
for long probably because of the uncivilized nature of them 

Americans are all too familiar with the evils of slavery to all it
to exist against Chinese women.

When applied to social vices, age of consent legislation is one thing, when the legislation is
applied to slavery, a totally different and epidemic problem exists.

Speaking from the Supreme Court of Hong Kong, Sir John Smale quoted Sir R. Phillimore on International
Law (vol1., p.316) and opined that one cannot "become a slave even by his own consent." If
the consent or lack thereof had been considered with respect to black
slaves in America, it is probable that black slaves would not have
found freedom.

Although prostitution is intertwined with involuntary servitude,
which is a condition suffered by Chinese women and girls in California,
only approximately one half of those individuals in slavery are prostitutes.

It is foolish to ask these individuals for their consent in these
matters because, regrettably, they are unable to provide meaningful
opposition due to the fact that they have been immersed in the vice
since birth.

It has been shown that each Chinese girl who escapes servitude to the city of refuge (the mission
home) is welcomed with open arms. It has been shown that the escapees and those who help them
are forced to run for their lives, but it has also been shown that
those who would hold the girls into slavery, in the face of rescuers,
often resign themselves to their captives' new found freedom.

In the United States, citizens often boast that they live in a land of freedom, where slavery is
a thing of the past. However, it cannot be said that the entire country is a house of refuge,
as, if we are to boast in earnest, it should be.

To the contrary, too many turn a blind eye to the indiscretions occurring on a daily basis. In
order to truly live honestly free, Americans should and must either
eliminate slavery of all kinds (even where it is "discrete"), or,
in the alternative, refrain from boasting about freedom.

There is no freedom if there is not freedom for all. Talking about this issue is a start, but
it is not enough. In order to truly be a free nation, the women and girls must be immediately
removed from brothels and houses of servitude; their consent or lack thereof is not a factor
for consideration. They should be removed from their captors and educated as to the freedom for
which this nation stands. If the women still then desire a life of servitude, there will be
no choice other than to let them leave the United States to pursue a life of slavery elsewhere.
 Addressing her in a gruff
manner, he stated, "make it short."

ignoring his rude manner, the girl began, "Five year ago, my parents passed away. Father had
been a cattle rancher," she continued with great pride.

"He had great wealth and was a refined educated gentleman.

We resided in Texas and lived well. I went to a southern university.

I was in my second year when I was suddenly called home. Father was ill from the shock he experienced.
He had made a heavy investment in a northern enterprise, no need
to disclose the nature of this business, but he lost his entire fortune,
the ranch and all that was included with it had to be sold.

The creditors were satisfied, but just barely, and there was nothing left. The shock of all this
killed Father, and Mother soon followed. My Grandfather and Bob and I were left with nothing.
 

We set anchor at three miles from the location of action. We were able to hear the report of
a gun on shore intermittently, but it soon became silent, except for the noise of the shipping in
the mole. The place was bright and illuminated because it continued
to burn. Signal wires in India
are most troublesome in the world. Point and signalmen, all native Indians are not well trained
and some are not even motivated. Some believe the trouble in the signal wires is due to expansion
and contraction. "Glad you have come," he said, as he stretched out his hand and gave
me a vigorous grasp. His voice was rather high-keyed, issuing from so giant a form, but a pleasing
timbre.
While we were still standing up facing one another his remark was "

I think I must have seen you before." His second remark was "It was some time in the early
fifties on a railway train from Frankfort to Berlin. There was a pictorial paper in which I thought
the man across from me was in. I thought that man was you."
This could not be, I replied, since at that period I was not in Germany.

Impudently I added, "Besides, would you not have had me arrested as
a malefactor?"

With a good, natural laugh he exclaimed, "Oh, you mistake me. I never would have done that. On
account of the Kinkel affair you mean? Oh, no! I liked that.

If not that, it would be improper for His Majesty's minister and Chancellor of the North German
Confederacy, I want to go to Spandau with you and have you tell me the entire story. Lets sit
down."
He pointed at a easy-chair next to him to sit in and opened a bottle
which stood, with two glasses, near his elbow on a tray.

He said, "You are a Rhinelander. I know you will relish this." We touched our glasses together
and the wine was very excellent.
He continued with, "You smoke, of course, and here are some great
Havanas." 

However, it could be argued that such a description is an exaggeration that isn't reliable. That
is just the argument that MacPherson held, saying it is "the most extravagant fiction in all Ossian's
poems." 

The University of Cambridge has already announced the list of recipients of honorary degrees.
We are pleased to be able to supplement it by information, derived
from a reliable source, of the corresponding intentions of the University
of Oxford to be considered as certain and authentic.

The RIGHT Hon. WINSTON CHURCHILL,M.P., for his vigrous efforts to brighted Sunday journalism.Mr.AUGUSTUS
JOHN, for true portraiture and stoical fortitude shown by him in the face of the prosecution
of the Royal Academy. 

Through the later periods of antiquity and until the later Middle Ages, the only guide about
the size of the earth was the measurement of Posidonius, together with Eratosthenes, the more
famous one. 

"The worst form of state 'can only be reinforced by the worst form of government. It should therefore
be easy to distinguish between the official policy of the Roman See
- almost uniformly ugly - and the history of the Christian religion
in the Latin countries, has added new luster to human nature.

The Catholic saints do not fly through the air, nor were their hearts pierced with supernatural
darts, as lying hagiology their church would have us believe, but
they have a better title to be remembered by mankind as the best examples
of a beautiful and expensive form of human excellence.

The papal supremacy has now reached its Byzantine period of decadence.

During the Middle Ages was the Catholic Latin races very well at all. Their ancestral paganism
was substantially unchanged - the nouns, but not the numina changed,
their awe and reverence for the Caput Orbis, rooted in the population
of Europe by the history of a thousand years, made the submission
to Rome natural and easy; many myths "rich in points of attachment
to the human experience and brilliant interpretations of life, has
not been removed or visible nature and the filling of a reported world
believed in on faith," [54] decorated with an artistic religion and
poetic embroidery not unlike the peoples of the South.

But a monarchy essentially Oriental in its constitution is unsuitable for modern Europe. The
whole system is based on keeping the laity in happy ignorance and servility, and the laity themselves
emancipated German nations broke the yoke when it reaches a national
self-consciousness.

They escaped in a system that was trained, but never released.
 We Martians draw our energy from an eternal
Cosmic Reservoir. All matter and energy draw their essence from the Divine Impulse and as such
can be viewed as all having an Electrical origin. 

Beside the major spear, two or three short spears or javelins, at times simply incisive bars
of hardwood, are commonly brought in the left hand when an assault is being made.
Beside the sword and the spears the only tools for fighting ordinarily employed are weighty bars
of ironwood, made sharp at both comes to an end and flung so as to twirl speedily in the air.
They are chiefly employed in vindicating homes from assault, a warehouse
of them being kept in the house.

For the vindication of a home against an looked frontwards to assault, short spiky stakes of
separate bamboo are shove slantingly into the ground, so as to present
the fire-hardened lean over to the feet of the oncoming foe.

The inside peoples have long have a certain number of European-made muskets (mostly flint-locks)
and tiny Bruni-made brass cannon, received from the Malay and Chinese traders. The second referred
were chiefly prized for the vindication of the home, but were at times got on in the bows of
the war-boats. The annoyance of receiving furnishes of gunpowder has perpetually impeded highly
the use of firearms, and in fresh years the European administrators
have stringently constricted the sale of gunpowder and firearms; and
even at the present day any war-party ordered by one of the administrators
to execute any police officer evaluate, for instance apprehending,
or consuming the home of, population who have wantonly murdered other
people, has to rely in the principle on its native weapons.

The apparatus of the fighting-man contains, in augmentation to his tools for fighting, of a
war-cap and war-coat and guard (Pl. 93 and Fig. 26).
 

A phenomenal impression has been made by Marlborough’s exploits on the continent. The edge
of his flaming sword was felt by the French, who also saw torn from
the long triumphant brow of Loius XIV; the Dutch found the stay of
their sinking republic in his conquering arm and their deliverance
from slaver and persecution; the flames of the Palatinate avenged
by his resistless power , were seen by the Germans and the ruins of
war rolled back from the Rhine into the territory of the state which
had provoked them; the appointed instrument of divine vengeance, was
beheld on him the the Lutherans, to punish the abominable perfidy
and cruelty of the revocation of the edict of Nantes – have all
joined hands in celebrating his heroic activities.

 I am about assured you will accept the victory, if you admittance him to action the
enemy." The Sultan remonstrated to her the aberration of their religions, and the little affirmation
he could accept in the acceptance of a Christian. "I'll be the agreement of his fidelity; and
the bigger to assure you, I'll accumulate the two added captives,
who are, I know, actual baby to him, as hostages."

The Sultan seemed annoyed with these words, and accepted her request, abrogation her complete
bedmate to act in this activity as she pleased; and retired to his apartment, abundant added
afflicted with the joy of accommodating her, than abashed at the success of the war.
The admirable Queen anesthetized the night in actual altered emotions; adulation had renewed his
armament in her soul, attributes that did for a while defection at
the afterthought of the animality inflicted on her, alternate to its
obedience, and was wholly taken up with the abhorrence of not getting
loved, and remembered abundant to be acknowledged, if discovered,
with the joy she wished.----The Counts of Ponthieu and St. Paul spent
not their hours added quietly.

Thibault begin himself agitated with the perturbations of a alpha passion; he accused himself
of it as a crime. The Count was no beneath ashamed about his, tho' he was actual able-bodied
assured they proceeded not from love, but the biggy affinity he begin amid his babe and this
admirable Queen, reminded him of the boorishness he had been accusable of.----He could not brainstorm
there had been a achievability of extenuative that black princess;
but the amore with which the Sultaness had aggressive him, was so
abreast that he acquainted for his daughter, that it gave him an amazement
not to be conceived.

Day appearing, they rose, and set themselves about advancing the fruit,
as Sayda had ordered them; which done, they were not continued afore
they accustomed a command to accompany it to the Queen.

Nothing could be added adorable than this commission; both begin an undescribable agitation
to see her again, and followed the affectionate bondservant 'till they came into her presence.
They begin her dressed with an absurd magnificence, beaming with
an absolute amount of diamonds; she was reclined on a sofa, and afterwards
accepting looked a moment on them, "Well," said she, "are you accessible
to amuse me?---I will not accord you the pains of apropos your names
and qualities, neither are alien to me; alone acquaint me by what
aberrant chance you accustomed at this place.---Count de Ponthieu,
it is to you in accurate I address."

 Do not utilize H2O. The Priest should state the required
prayer.

There are no instructions for how to treat the child if he becomes unwanted, but it makes sense
that the religious administrator should return it, not to a hospital or other medical caregiver,
but to a person who is interested in looking after the child.

Then everyone should kneel, and say "Our Father." 
And the Priest
needs to say "We yield Thee." 
Everyone then should stand and the
Priest will deliver at exhortation to the Godfathers and Godmothers. 

I give you my royal shield and give me yours in return. With this installation, Huntsman, nodded
as he walked not in a position to get the prince was, and having exchanged their clothing Pajero
home, and the prince continued in the forest. Shortly after three cars laden with gold and
precious stones was the palace of the king by his younger son.

They were by the King in recognition of the sword that had defeated his enemies sent, and the
bread that had fed the people. In this entry from the old King said: Perhaps, after all, my son
is innocent, and regretted that his courtiers, who allows his son
had to die. It must be remembered that just because a slave ran away from
his master and now he's on the run, that doesn't make him a bad guy or a criminal.
A couple of years ago, Massachusetts decided it wasn't criminal to chase after a slave and bring
him back to his owner. He was just property. This law looked at slaves as property, just like
some guy's cow or his horse, and this was how they saw things in those free states. It's just
a question about whether or not the Southern man should be able to call that slave his property.
 

A Westphalian prisoner told of a person in charge requiring them to shoot a couple women. He
spoke of one of the women clinging to a child by the child's hand and after falling to the
ground upon us firing on them the child was dragged on the ground
with his mother.

The prisoner also stated that the commander ordered them to finish the child off. According to
the prisoner, the commander said it was out of mercy because the child couldn't make it on its
own.

After a bureaucrat in Rouves refused to tell a Bavarian commander
how many French troops were in the neighboring areas the bureaucrat
was shot two times from the Bavarian's revolver.

Another incident, in Crezancy, a young adult of 18 was killed by
another commander merely to prevent him from joining the opposing
army later in life.

And the atrocities continued in Embermenil where a married woman by the name of Masson was fired
upon and killed for supplying information that she thought was correct, but turned out to be
false.

Again, a twisted mercy was purported to be given her by the murderers as they sat her upon
a bench to save her discomfort prior to her execution due to her being in a state of pregnancy.
Two men of the cloth were killed in Ethe for purportedly having buried
weapons underground.

A high-ranking official in their military killed 4 fugitives after having ordered their arrest
in Marqueglise. They were Belgians and the commander obviously didn't care for them as such
since her remarked that, "The Belgians are filthy people."

Her personally killed three of them on the spot. The fourth Belgian died the next day. 
Of
all the people fleeing a burning Louvain the relgious order was set aside and scrutinized. For
example, a Jesuit father named Dupierreux contained a passage that equated the atrocities Atila
and his Huns laid upon their vanquished with the atrocities that he witnessed in present day Louvain.
In his passage her spoke of his growth--how he once smiled upon reading
of Atila's expoits, but not could no longer find joy in any such misery
due to the present circumstances of his immediate surroundings.

A lieutenant in the German army declared that such an interpretation by the father would provoke
rebellious and murderous acts. He congregated the Jesuit's followers around him and ordered
that he be shot on the spot.

After this order was carried out, his followers were ordered to bury their compatriot. 
A
few Uhlans found a couple adolescent males on a road in Pin.

They drew and quartered the two boys on the spot. The tortured bodies of the boys were found
a couple or three miles up the road. Not only were their bodies mangled by the horses, but
they were also tortured by men's hands. One of the boys had his throat cut and both were shot
in their heads. The horses ensured that their bodies lay mangled,
as evidenced by their crushed knees.

Brocard, a laborer from Sermaize, and his son were taken into custody. After seeing this, his
wife and daughter-in-law frenetically threw themselves into a nearby
river.

Out of concern, the man broke away from his arresting officers to
try and save his family.

The men were arrested and after being released a few days later found the women in the river,
dead. They had been shot many times by the German soldiers.

On another occassion, Dergent, a parish priest, was dehumanized by being disrobed, hands and
feet crushed by the blunt end of a rife, then hung upon a cross in the town of Aerschot. The
inhabitants were made to pee on him as they passed by him before he was officially killed by firearm
then discarded as trash in a nearby canal.

When Herimenil was being seiged upon, the residents were holed up in a church where they were
forced to stay for four days without sustenance. One of residents of Herimenil, the 23-year-old
Madame Winger, did not get to the church refuge quickly enough. So a captain of the marauding
partner ordered that she and her 3 servants be killed.

Another young woman, one girl, and two boys lay dead!

As inhabitants of Monchy-Humieres watched the Germans march into their
locale, no resistance was shown toward the invading party.

Yet, a German soldier thought he heard someone call them "Prussians" so he ordered an element
of his army to fire upon the crowd. One of the villagers was killed and two were wounded.
One of the wounded was a helpless girl who was only 4 years old.
 Dr. Robert Carothers, of Neport, performed a post-mortem
examination of the body at 3:00 on Monday afternoon at White's mortuary. Witnesses included Dr.
J.O. Jenkins, Drs. J.L and C.T.Phythian, Dr. J. W. Fishback and Cornoner
W.S. Tingley.

The autopsy was quite thorough and lasted more than an hour. The post-mortem revealed a fetus
of between four and five months' gestation, which was determined to be the woman's first pregnancy.
The woman was found to be less than 20 years of age at the time of death. The fetus was removed
from the body and taken to A.F. Goetze's pharmacy, located on the
corner of 5th and York Streets, where it was preserved in alcohol.

 But almost everytime, he shut it off-out.Finally
boredom began to overtake him.

The reason was he had been used to so much more than what was there.At last, one morning, the
news came too quickly with much impact. Stop right there. We don't want to rember what happened because it was heavy, but
now it's gone.
It is gone, I thought as I wept internally, but I should have said
this.

Gods above, look at these people and bless them because you brought us together.
Amen, Gonzallo.
He is gone.

Was Millanie made King of Napals because of what he said? We should rejoice and remeber this
for forever. Claribell found her husband Tunis when she only looked once. Her brother even found
a wife when he could not find his way home and Prospero became a
duke on a poor island. We all found ourselves, even though none of
us actually belong to ourselves. 

I explained; "I figure that in the United States the intelligent and cultivated people spoke
the English lauguage with the utmost correctness, with the proper accuracy and the same classical
refinement as yours." He responded: "I was travelling there, and found sitting across from me
an intelligent man, who happened to be an American. I explained to
him my views as to the recent civil war in America. I told him how
profoundly I hated the outcome of the war. 

Down at the base is the place where birds make their nests, and I went there, and my presence scattered
the birds to the wind. And there in the nest, underneath layers of bird droppings and filth,
was the lace of the collar of my mother's dress, entirely ruined.

I considered taking it, but there was no point to that at that point. So let the baby birds
have their expensive bedding.

The story that follows this one is a ghost story in which Charles is a character. Mme. Eytinge
is the author of it. It begins with a quotation from another of its characters, one Albert
with the surname Smith, who cries 'stealing is wrong!

Big, medium, and small thefts are equally wrong!' loudly, perhaps in an attempt to make music.
All he did was make noise and show off his capacity to modulate his
voice to a high pitch. This
woman responded the Evil Spirit to come from her country.

The Great Spirit said that she is her, she had specified her for a wife to warrior whom she have
murdered, do nit convey her further lies, dreadful manito in case
she penalize her. There are two spokesmen for the present: Ulysses and
his associates, and the Phonecians.

Many souls from the past speak to the present, which may in turn inform the past. Much of the difficulty
comes in obtaining a structure to contain the central meaning. Let this be the strategy sent
in advance, to be only fully comprehended in reflection after reading.

Firstly, the dead can communicate to the living (or present) through
diction and by visual phenomena.

Some exclusively prefer speech, others visual stimuli. Ulysses and his band represent the present,
who through religious ceremony bring about the invocation of the souls of the afterlife. (An example
of a bridge between the two groups is the as of yet uninterred companion
Elpenor.)

Tiresias, the prophet, is an example of both past and future
through the visions he receives.

He is part of the pre-Trojan dead element that is awakened. The second part of this element is
the group of womens' souls who are judged before the present. It is through the pronouncements
of Tiresias and the fates of these women that justice and righteousness is hinted at.

Through visual and acoustic stimuli, the communication of antiquated and moribund phenomena (including
Trojans) to the present day world of life (primarily Phoenician)
is granted. The present includes not only Ulysses, who makes his travels
in the fires of the underworld, but in the world as we know it, the
Phoenicians. The
Priviledge of Commentators who understand the meaning of an author seventeen hundred years ago
after he has written much better than ever which he is supposed to do himself and positivity
will prevail when it comes to the question of offedning anybody and nobody will be offended
as my the assertion.Authors tend to write what stikes to their mind and the critics ought
to understand this what would have been the situation underwhich
the author would have written and also the place where it was supposed
to be writeen like in a garden, agarret or a coach.

These are the materialistic circumstances whichare known to the True commentator who were Virgil
and Horace who revisited the world at this point of time definitely they will be surprised to see
the minutest of the perfections discovered by the assistances of Modern critical world. 
Classics
only reaped benefits from inquiries of this nature though divinity
itself seems to be rendering more intelligble quotients.Divine means
what St.Paul meant by higher powers which is better than what Apostle
could pretend to do which can unfold all the mysteries of the revelation
without spectacles.There might be some people who try to cast iota
of doubts on me for pointing the beauties of such authors who were
unknown before this and are like the fruitless endeavours of proving
Apostolical spurious for so many ages which is a sort of hearsay in
wit.Before passing on the same judgement on the author let the gentlemen
decide what woman does on a man by the natural dress or the gaudy
euipage of epithets.They might call this as second sightedness for
discerning what it is denoted as blind to and ofcourse the poem has
not been altogether obscure while most of the refined writers were
delgithed when they read this.Mr.John Dunton has been heard saying
more than once that he would rather be the author of it than his other
works.

Author have witnessed the tears trickling down the face of the polite Woodwardius upon reading
most part of the pathetical encounters of Tom Thumbi and the music was soft to sorrowful with
his voice. Good natured,gentleness have been proved as qualities unfit for a profession which
is so merciless and inhumane.
Some copies of Verses were placed at the instance of my friend and placed them in the frontpiece
of the poem in commendation of myself and the somment supposed to
be composed by Ag.FT.LM.

 I asked
him how come he always called that girl Lucie, since her name was Marie. He looked all surprised,
and he said he never knew her, because he'd never been over to Alphonse's
place, and he repeated the story later, as if he'd picked it up from
the women who dropped by the Rat Mort at midnight for a late supper.

He told me he was sorry he didn't know me when he wrote it, because I could have done a better
job telling the story than those chicks who hung out at the Rat Mort, giving him details the girls
hadn't noticed, or had forgotten.
 

There isn't anything more that the leaders of the Mormon Church would have dared to do that would
be in contempt of civilized life. They had already taken their story to the Associated Press
to have impact on the nation's newspapers, and they were using their powerful influences in Washington.
 

East is always more or less similar as west. Like the same, Rome also same as Gaul. Rome is by
the testimony of Irenaeus. Greece is by the testimony of Aristides. Africa is by the testimony
of tertullian, Alexandria is by the testimony of clement and Origen, Asia is by the testimony
of Justin Martyr, Irenaeus and Ignatius, Palatine and Syria is by the testimony of Ignatius and
Justin Martyr. Iranaeus should have been known about the teachings
of the Apostles.

Before he came to Rome, he had been living in Polycarp in Asia. When he had been living in Polycarp,
one day he was sitting at the feet of Saint John. "Everything that we know," was a familiar saying
conveyed by Mr. Rendell Harris of the dogmatic theories. In the early part of the second century,
this statement was whole heartedly agreed.

Especially it was agreed in the period of the virginity of Mary who had been made a part of
“Christian belief”. ***Now the question is how this belief had been agreed that the virgin-birth
had been acknowledged by many of widely separated and independent churches. But those churches
were under the control of apostolic authority had not been agreed the above statement. What
other explanation can be given for the fact to prove it? The complete traditional agreement
will be asking the same question. But one thing was very sure that the doctrine of virgin
birth had not been unexpectedly or suddenly emerged or evolved in the early years of second
century. In the apostolic tradition, as their considerable part, there were more than adequate
explanations found. Regarding this matter, here we can notice suitable about the statement given
by a recognized scholar and Professor Mr. Zahn of Erlangen. He said that the virgin birth has
been an important element of the creed. We can easily trace out about these things in future. Perhaps
if we like to take Ignatius as our witness of a baptismal creed from early apostolic times,
we can clearly understand that the creed name of the Virgin Mary has been already placed………….
Also we can clearly declare that in first four centuries of the church history, there was no record
for teacher and no record for religious community.

Besides it was considered as right appearance and as a successor of original Christianity.
They had been fixed with some kind of idea of the beginning of the human being life of Jesus of
Nazareth…………… So consequently we can confirm that without the belief in Jesus the
Son of God, born of the virgin mother, an original Christianity will be a fiction.  *** See Texts
and Studies (Cambridge, 1891), vol. i. No. I, p. 25.
 

The child my old man and I had is dead for a long time. My old man has passed on for 16 years
now.
The old Begree was not willing to finish the interview:"Alice liked
talking to you. I wish you could return here sometime. Good bye now." 

From the start of the work, where the boy wakes up on the hill to see a beautiful woman and a
huge beast, this is quite a journey.
The only issue I have is that both the hero and his love interest
treated the secondary male character horribly.

This is frustrating, as he had also expressed love for the heroine, and in her blind love for the
hero, she goes along with his mistreatment of their companion. This is typical, but I still disapprove.
Beyond this one complaint, Wolf-lure is an excellent new novel.
*****
Calvary Alley (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is a bit confusing, as though it opens with an Old World
feeling of choir-boys and stained glass, the book later introduces
more modern objects and roles, such as the police and modern currency.

This seems to be a common thing in stories written by Alice Rice, so I should not have been
surprised.
The story is an entertaining depiction of Nance, the heroine, and
her upward journey from filthy slums all the way up to marriage.

The story was gripping, and the development of Nance from a street
urchin to a grown woman was believable and engaging.

Unfortunately the author's depiction of the church in America is woefully inaccurate, leaving
me to believe that she may have experienced different in England. Despite the inherent flaws,
it was still an enjoyable read.
*****

The book Christine is an illuminating look at pre-war Germany that is only hindered by poor
presentation. The novel is advertised as new, however there is a Publisher's note that suggests
otherwise. While it is portrayed as fiction, the truth appears to be that this book is based
more in fact, only altered to protect those involved.
This lends the book a sense of realism that is difficult to otherwise obtain without having
been there, and though I now believe Cholmondeley used the book as a way to tell her tale, rather
than an original work of fiction, it is a tale worth reading.

It gives a deep and full view of life in Germany before the war. Just take the foreword with a
grain of salt.

*****
The Four Corners of the World (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is a great little
collection of stories for casual reading, perfect for a rainy day
or a slow evening. Mr. Mason writes in such a way to let the stories
stand on their own, without the need for the author to tell you how
exciting the story is as you read it. You are left to experience the
tales on your own, a very satisfying experience. I'm
embarassed to admit that some of my fondest childhood memories are
of doing gymnatics on forms.

These days, little girls do calisthenics and work out with ropes and giant strides. I hope they've
also had a chance to learn how much fun it is to do gymnastics on
forms.

As I've previously mentioned, most high school and college girls don't
attend school in the afternoon.

The current standards call for girls to arrive at 9:30 in the morning.

They attend class until 1:30 in the afternoon, with a 30-minute break between 11:00 and noon.
After class, the older students leave to work on homework assignments
by themselves, while the younger students stay behind so that the
teachers may continue to help them.

I am concerned for the well-being of these students who remain at school in the afternoon. An
afternoon meal is often provided, but few students take advantage
of this offering.

Some students simply cannot afford to purchase meals, while others find the lunchroom environment
unpleasant. Whatever the reason, most of the girls prefer to bring a luncheon meal with them,
and they do not have a complete meal until they return home.
 The King and his personal Band
of Army put up a weak resisitance, but the rest of the army just fell easy to the Romans Attack
even though the Roman army had very few weapons and an army of made of prisoners.
Later it came to known that the king had fled to the southern desert
to Thala(1097) where his children had sought refuge with a few of
his mounted soldiers and some Roman army deserters.Thala was known
to be a wealthy town.This city was an ideal escape for the king a
sit was around Thirteen miles east from the Capsa oasis and separated
the king and the romans with a huge,dry desert in between them.never
before had an roman army led an expedition across such a hostile territory
which led the king to believev he was safe.The Romans were supposedly
an civilised army who captured an territory and then settled and brought
civilisation to that area.

As Jugurtha had got power in thala he started to believe that his position was consolidated and
there was some kind of political unrest in the roman squad and they
might not change the idea of attacking Thala.

 During a remarkable
wet summer, Joe Vernon, whose vocal taste and humour contributed
for a lot years towards the entertainment of the frequenters of Vauxhall
Gardens, but whom was not relatively so nice a timist within finance
matters as within melodies, confronting an contact whom had the mishap
towards hold a number of of his unhonoured paper, was asked via him,
not uninterestedly, how the gardens were going on?

"Oh, swimmingly!" resolved the jocose Joe. "Glad towards hear it," retorted the creditor,
"their swimming state, I trust, shall inflict the singers towards liquidate their notes."
* * * * *

Mr. Samuel Deacon, a most respectable Baptist priest, whom resided
at Barton within Leicestershire, was not curiously glad within his
cast of countenance or general appearance; conscious of the crazy
ridicule his unprepossessing tout ensemble occasionally excited, he
made the consecutive good-humoured, quaint remark:-- 
"The carcass
that you glance at so, Is not Sam Deacon, you ought know, But 'tis
the carriage--the machine, Which Samuel Deacon rideth in."

* * * * *
ADVANTAGES OF LOQUACITY
A very pretty woman, whom was tediously loquacious, complained one
day towards Madame de Sevigné, that she was unfortunately tormented
via her lovers.

"Oh, Madame," remarked Madame de Sevigné towards her, with a smile,
"it is very easy towards remove them: you possess alone towards speak."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The old bridge was of wood, and 168 yards within length. It was the most ancient onto the River
Thames, except that of London, and is mentioned within a file of the 8th year of Henry III. 
[2]
At the moment the chapel collapsed, the sexton, whilst digging a solemn was buried below the
impairs, with another fellow, and his daughter.

 

We spend so long worrying about how our Religion will affect the community that we have forgotten
the soul of religion: the individual. We have here made that same mistake and come to believe
that if a man is humane then he is religious. But this is false!
A man is not religous unless he is devout.

And anyway no person like us, the flawed good and evil type, is ever consistently humane, without
the guidance of ever increasing gratitude to God! This is why no man has ever been abole to preach
the living God without understanding the primary need in human life is to reconcile the conscience
of the individual, and calm the wild anarchy of the life spiritual. 

"It really was so, but please exuse me: I had almost forgotten it." Adelaide related to her
freind what had transpired and begged her for help in discovering Lucille.
Madame d'Héranville shook with laughter at this and attempted to
dissuate Adelaide.

However finding her fixed on the idea, she eventually relented and aggreed to assist her with
her search admonishing as she did, "It's useless you know, you won't find her, and if you do,
it won't help."
They spent a day visiting Paris' foremost designers, but found their
efforts to gain information on their quarry entirely fruitless.

Noone they were able to talk to even knew the young flower-girls name. Adeladie returned home,
feeling dissapointed, but resolved to continue in spite of the seeming
futility of the task.

"We must simply widen our search to include the remaining designers." she declaired to Madame
d'Héranville, moments before the carriage was stopped in traffic and they found themselves
serindiptously staring at the warehouse door she had previously desribed.

Just as she was about to tell the driver to stop so she could go to the warehouse, two men conversing
audibly near the door caught her eye. There was an older man, obviously distrought conversing
with a man of about 25 with a foriegn costume and accent.

Both Madame d'Héranville and Adelaide were curious about this odd pair and the intensity of
their conversation.
"Don't you trust me? Isn't my word good enough?" The young man asked, Adelaide leant forward,
suddenly noticing that the two men were talking to a young girl in
a hood.

She strained, trying to see the girls face, but the girl was turned away, and the heavy woolen
hood obscured her features almost totally.

"I trust you."

The hooded girl replied to the young man's questions. "I do trust you." She held out her hand.
"Goodbye dear André; We'll meet back home in Normandie soon enough" The young man took the girls
and and was silent for a moment before asking again, "May I not conduct you home?"
"No. We must part here André. Our courage has failed too often for us to trust in it now." She
raised her head, revealing her features to Adelaide as she spoke. The girl was remarkably beautiful,
but her face was shockingly pale and careworn, and her head was entirely bald.
Adelaide found herself tearing up looking at the story of hardship written across the young
girls face. She clutched her purse and leaned over the side of the carriage calling out "Lucille!
Lucille!"  
As Adelaide spoke, the young girl was allready walking
quickly down the street, oblivious to her calls leaving André to
stare after her, as if he had just beheld some strange mirage. First unneeded books were disposed
of, and more recent popular and standard books were added. Then the collection was classified
and catalogued by way of the Dewey System of Classification. As years went by, complaints
regarding the lack of a printed catalogue were made continuously, leading to the publication
of "The Readers' Guide".

"The Readers' Guide" was a bi-monthly magazine featuring entire or partial sections of an annotated
and classified catalogue of books in a section directly after its revision. In addition, it
included an annotated list of books recently added to the Library. On 1st November, 1911, the
first number was published, including the Fiction Catalogue. The collection of catalogues
featuring combined the titles of more than 17,000 works was finished in the volume for May,
1915.

Since then, in addition to the normal list of recent literature, "Readers' Guide" has contained
bibliographies of specified local subjects and items of popular interest. The special bibliographies
have included the European War, Shakespeare, Norfolk Artists, Child Welfare, Thomas Gray, Agincourt
and Erpingham, Lord Nelson, and George Borrow, as well as subjects of the annual University
Extension lectures.
The Library went through many personnel changes between 1911 and 1916. The strain of reorganising
work and the requirement for an experienced assistant on staff led
the committee to hire a Sub-Librarian in 1913, leading to the acquisition
of Charles Nowell, Chief Assistant of the Coventry Public Libraries,
and recipient of four Library Association certificates, in November
of that year.

For the benefit of patrons, two card catalogues are available at the Lending Library, one including
complete authors, and the other a complete classified catalogue, with multiple subject guide
cards to make ease of reference. A collection of books specifically for young readers was
acquired in 1911 to form a Juvenile Department of the Lending Library,
so that youth may use the large library which could be beneficial
and valuable for them after school.

Mr. Nowell, Sub-Librarian, prepared a classified catalogue of the books in the Juvenile Department
was published in September, 1914, with an enlarged edition following in September, 1916.
 When you gild what
is already golden, you are wasting your time.

Let's not second guess the necessity of such a thought and take care of the shelters. They are
where the young spirits among us are nurtured and where those on
their journey take their rest. From the above system, there is no chance for facing many difficulties if you try
to reproduce the same work in a bigger size according to Mr. H.P. Kirby or Mr. D.A. Gregg’s
known theories. Usually a drawing will be reproduced with fine and delicate lines and it can
be well promoted to another size if there is no need of much difference in size between the original
and the reproduction required. As a common way, if you are ready to create the plate about
two thirds the size of the original, then certainly you can attain
the best results.

But as a matter of fact if you draw something on tinted paper by using so many colored inks,
it is in fact very difficult to reproduce with more satisfaction. Especially in these types
of works, it is always better to avoid a bluish ink upon a yellow color paper particularly.
Generally, if you are kind enough to draw anything or to reproduce
by the half tone processes, even including line drawings in pen or
ink pen, its originality will be based on the character of its original
image only.

If you are ready to draw using water colors, monochrome drawings in wash, pencil drawings and
with any combinations of these items will certainly give you the best results. But such results
will be varied from one to another with slightest differences. The same rule also will be applied
to line work and also it will give good result to a considerable extent in the present case.
But a combination of darkest black ink lines or lighter black inclines with thinned or light
grey ink will not be giving better results satisfactorily. The relation between these two
dark black and light grey colors is capable to preserve the lighter lines at all. Even if you
are not making darkest the darker portions, it will not be very great in appearance. Usually delicate
drawings will be rarely reproduced without giving a background tint
all over.

Moreover this type of drawings will commonly ruin the life and snap of the original.
 

His mind had softened and he sadly spoke of the condition of the world. His speech was soothing
and hypnotic, and Grimbart listed with rapt attention. He said finally, in his role as a kind
of confessor, to his Uncle the Badger that although his neighbours
may have sinned his own sins were perhaps now more relevant. And likewise, in the cost of the performance
their part is publically inflicted them; at the present day,[63103] in the sum-total of 131,000,000 francs
which main command charges yearly outcome, the communes augment 50,000,000
francs; from 1878 to 1891, in the sum-total of 582,000,000 francs
exhausted on school constructions, they augmented 312,000,000 francs.--If
certain parents are not delighted with this procedure they have only
to subscribe amid themselves, manufacture a confidential school at
their own expenditure, and support Christian Brothers or Sisters in
these as teachers.

That is their affair; they will not compensate one cent less to the commune, to the department
or to the State, so that their duty will be two times and they will compensate double, first for
the main command which they disfavour, and next for the main command which fits them.--Thousands
of confidential schools are grounded on these conditions. In 1887,[63104] these had 1,091,810
scholars, about one fifth of all offspring inscribed in all the main
schools.

Thus one fifth of the parents perform not like the secular procedure
for their children; a least, they have a favourite the other when
the other is proposed to them; but, to offer it to them, very large
donations, a multitude of voluntary subscriptions, are necessary.

The distrust and aversion which this procedure, inflicted from atop rouses can be evaluated
by the number of parents and offspring and by the immensity of the donations and subscriptions.
Note, additionally, that in more of the other communes, in all positions where the supplies,
the universal appreciating and the generosity of separate someone founders and donators are
not enough, the parents, even distrustful and hostile, are now forced to convey their offspring
to the school which is repugnant to them.--In rank to be more exact,
suppose an agent and once a day magazine authorised Secular magazine,
obligatory and gratuitous for offspring from six to thirteen, grounded
and carried by the State, at an midpoint cost of 582,000,000 francs
to set it agoing, and 131,0000,000 francs of per annum expenditure,
the total taken from the purses of taxpayers, keenly or not; take
it for given that the 6,000,000 offspring, female children and male
offspring, from six to thirteen, are impelled subscribers to this
magazine, that they get it every day except Sundays, that, every day,
they are locked-in to read the paper for six hours.

The State, through toleration, sanctions the parents who perform not like the agent sheet to
take another which fits them; but, that another may be in arrive at, it is needed that restricted
benefactors, linked concurrently and duty paid by themselves, should be keen to initiate and
support it; then, the male parent of a family is forced to read the secular magazine to his
offspring, which he deems horribly written and marred by superfluities and shortcomings, in
condensed modified in an objectionable spirit.
 Consider
for example, a tenant in tail male died without issue male, after making a lease for years which
covenants of right to let and for quiet enjoyment. The plaintiff
was assigned the lease by the lessee.

An action upon the covenant against the executer of the lessor, was brought, when the latter
was soon turned out. Since he was not privy in estate with the original covenantee, it was
assumed that he could not recover. The death of the lessor ended the lease, which was the original
covenentee’s estate and before the form of assignment to the plaintiff,
the estate tail out of which the lease was granted was terminated.

To require assigns to be mentioned in order to enable them to sue,
was the only point remaining to make the analogy between covenants
for title and warranty complete.

 

"Do you want everyone to visit the Animal Farm?' The King asked Margie.
"I do!" She exclaimed. "Follow me!"

So, we all followed Margaret to the Animal Farm. Directly behind her was the King with only one
leg. Following him was the half chick. Following the chick was the cat on two legs. Behind
the cat came the dog with three legs, and behind the dog was the
crow with only one leg.

At the end of the line was the snake, who slithered along on no legs.

We all lived happoly ever after, once we made it to the Animal Farm. On September 15, 1233, Peter of Verona,
a Dominican, had the laws of the Pope and the Senator of Rome written into Milan's city statutes.
From that point on, the sentence for animadversio debita was the stake.
 One of the recent acts of his life was to attract to the Court of Directors
to produce several supplies for his wife, via continuing to her the
annuity that had been given to him recently.

They gave, says his majority and very much devoted biographer, no more heed to his dying entreaties
than they would have given to the whine of a beggar who convicted himself. Yet surely Hastings
had deserved well of the East India Company.
His faults had been engaged in their service and had given them, not
himself, riches and power.

But England is not invariably grateful to her servants. It is not wonderful, says Sir Alfred
Lyall, that Hastings's entry malfunctioned altogether, "remembering that even Lord Nelson's final
testamentary attract on behalf of a woman the merely favor I ask
of my King and my rural at the moment as shortly as I am headed to
brawl their battle had been discarded and utterly disregarded."

Mrs. Hastings survived her husband for several years, and was across ninety years of age as
shortly as she died.
CHAPTER 60.
THE CHANGING OF THINGS.

The establishment of the American republic meant something more for England than the loss of
her fairest colonies, and meant much more for Europe than the establishment of a fresh model
of federal in the New World.

While the United States were acclaiming Washington as their first President and rejoicing across
the excellence of their delicately framed Constitution, the morals
which had elected the one and had composed the other were laboring
elsewhere to unexpected and powerful problems at hand.

The french gentlemen of status and fortune, flamed via a very powerful philosophic appreciation
for liberty, had brawled and brawled well for the American colonists. When the revolt had become
a revolution, and the revolution a victory, the French gentlemen
went rear to France with their hearts full of love and their lips
noisy in compliment for the young republic and its plain, splendid
citizens.The doctrines of liberty and equality, which had been so
dear to the Philosophers and the Encyclopaedists, were now being practically
implemented across the Atlantic, and the growth of their success was
watched via the expectant eyes of the wisest and the unwisest intellectuals
in France.

Within five years from the time as shortly as the American army was
disbanded French political philosophy found itself earning amazing
paces towards the realization of its cherished ideals.

It had lengthy sensed the lack of several adjustment in the system of federal that had prevailed
in France, but its needs had seemed dim as dreams until the success of a handful of rebellious
colonists in a distant rural had prepared the spirit of democracy
an realtime coerce in the life and the thought of the world.

Undoubtedly the condition of France was bad. {291} The feudal system, or what was retired of
the feudal system, worn out, degraded, and corrupt, was quickly dampening France to commercial,
physical, and political destruction.It is no fraction of the commerce of this history to dwell upon
the conditions prevailing in France towards the plug of the eighteenth hundred. Conditions
which prevailed in varying grade across the majority fraction of
Europe.

Some great French financiers like Turgot, and other great French intellectuals like Voltaire
and Rousseau and the corporation of the "Encyclopaedia," had been
keenly conscious of the corroding evils in the entire system of French
political and social life, and had labored immediately and indirectly
to dampen them.

Attentive witnesses from places abroad, men of the world like Chesterfield and other places,
philosophers like Arthur Young, had at unlike epochs noticed the symptoms of social a infection
and prognosticated the nature of its continuing progress.
 The monarch's mother liked this idea. Narvaez,
the chief minister, also approved. On the other hand, someone suggested that the English government
was intriguing for a prince of the house of Cobourg. This was not true, however -- at all events,
when the Whigs took power. Facts which are easily remembered often have to do with group relations.

It seems that collections can be remembered because there's a group of stimuli and one of the
stimuli taken by itself wouldn't have the same effect. There is no reason whatsoever for the Americans to be offended by my differing
viewpoints. However, I have found out that the American press has been publicly and unceremoniously
mistreating me. If anyone still questions my motives as false, I
have been gravely misrepresented. 

"She would not know them, Man; you see, she was devoted to her husband in spite of all, this
pinched Madame, and he had quarrelled with her relations, I anticipate; at any order, she would
not direct for them. 'Adolphe leave descend,' she would ever say, 'and it would vex him to conceptualise
anyone here,' and so she died unequalled, for he never arrived dirt the incoming greeting. However,"
continues Madame, "it was not of that I came to talk now, it was to couple if Man would not
greet to someone a nurse to-night to hang the bust gentleman? It is what we staleness screw had
if you had not been here, and there is no module why you should whack yourself up with nursing
him."

"It sure strength be improve," said Gospeller considering, "I had mentation of it, but--however,
you are quite opportune, Madame, a nurse we testament person; where can I get one?"
Madame said he had outmatch deal to the Soeurs de Charité, and gave him an address, adding
that if he would equal to go himself she could refrain half an period
to sit with Monsieur there.

"I testament go at erstwhile," replied Revivalist, "whilst he is sleeping; he is not possible
to displace again honorable a existing; don't let him communicate or act if he should awaken,
but it is not presumed that he faculty."
So it was arranged, and Madame Lavaux planted herself with her needlework in the dim, soundless
inhabit, whilst Evangelist departed on his errand, mitigated that his enduring was in unhurt
hands. Not ten proceedings had elapsed, however, when a bash came at the threshold of the sick-room,
and a summons--could Madame uprise at erst?

Madame assemblage a look at her billing; he was perfectly plant and composure, sleeping profoundly
apparently; there could be no change in leaving him for a second. She went, intending to repetition
forthwith; but, alas! for hominid intentions, below she launch a
movement that chisel M. Linders, M. le Docteur, and everything else
out of her advance for the time six thou francs, an heirloom, an immeasurable
treasure; ruined it? it had been stolen--she knew it, mat confident
of it; she had nigh it for quintuplet transactions on her dressing-table
whilst she went to mouth to both garmentmaker or milliner, and on
her pay it had vanished.

Deadly carelessness on her section, she admitted, but that did not unsex the fact; it had
been stolen, and must be recovered; accommodation, servants, visitors, luggage, all must be
searched and ransacked.

Where were the gendarmes? let all these grouping be confiscated into custody at erst, pointing
to the meet of startled, wondering, servants,--let everyone be arrogated into keeping. Madame
Lavaux had enough to do and to opine of for the next distance, we
may be certain, and tho', at the end of that measure, Madame la Comtesse
open the toroid safe in the carrefour of her incurvation, whither
it had slipped off her fingerbreadth, and the disturbance dissimilar
photograph was state acted out upstairs.

CHAPTER III.

Lady's Surveillance.
Digit minutes after Madame Lavaux had odd the gathering, Madelon,
retributive awakened from her substantial sleep, came creeping gently
in.

It was nigh wicked by this moment, for it was tardive in the salutation, and the Italian shutters
were allay enclosed that had kept out the alter and glare all day; but now she threw them side,
and let in the tepid daylight undertaking, and the colourless morality of the ending day; carriages
and carts were rattling in the street beneath, call voices came from
the word houses where lights were attending here and there; great
up in the serene grey-blue sky a few reddened clouds had caught the
conclusion gleams of the background sun.

"Madelon," said M. Linders, roused by the racket she had made in first the shutters.
A abrupt throb of joy came over her as she heard his say again, and she went swiftly and stood
by his bedside.
"Are you surmount, papa?" she said, putting her two emotional turn hands into one of his, hot with feverishness.

"We are alone, are we not?" he answered, search feebly around.
 On the third of June we see a cruise to leeward of us, screening English
colours. I turn off away to talk with her, and found her to be the Antelope of London, commanded
by Captain Hammond, and bound for the Bay of Bengal in the service of the New-East-India Company.
There were a lot of passengers on board, departing to inhabit there
below Sir Edward Littleton, who was going leader thither: I went aboard
and was recognized by Sir Edward and Mr. Hedges, and gently received
and treated by them and the Chief; who had been scared of us before,
though I had send one of my officers on board.

They had been in at the Cape, and come from thence the day previous to, having stocked themselves
by means of food and drink. They tell me that they were by reckoning
60 miles to the west of the Cape.

While I was aboard them a well tiny westerly breeze spring up; so I reduced my live in with them
because I did not plan to depart to the Cape.

While I take depart I was offered with half a mutton, 12 cabbages, 12 pumpkins, 6 pound of
butter, 6 couple of stock-fish, and a amount of parsnips; sending them several oatmeal which
they required.

From my primary setting out from England I do not intend to contact at the Cape; and that was
one cause why I touched at Brazil, that there I may restore my men and get ready them for a lengthy
run to New Holland.

We had not so far seen the territory, but about 2 in the afternoon we see the Cape ground bearing
east at about 16 leagues distance: and, Captain Hammond being too bound to twice the Cape,
we jogged on jointly this afternoon and the next day, and had a number of fair highlights of
it; which can be seen.
OF THE WESTERLY WINDS PAST IT: A STORM, AND ITS PRESAGES.
To carry on: having silent a westerly breeze I jogged on in group
among the Antelope till Sunday June the 4th, at 4 in the afternoon,
while we parted; they navigation away for the East Indies and I keep
an east-south-east route, the enhanced to create my way for New Holland:
for still New Holland lies north-easterly from the Cape yet every
ships bound towards the shore, or the Straits of Sunda, have to to
stay for a while in the similar parallel, or in a latitude between
35 and 40, at least a slight to the south of the east, that they may
carry on in a inconsistent winds way; and not gamble too quickly to
stand so distant to the north as to be inside the border of the tradewind,
which will put them by their easterly path.

 He picked two of them up and contrasted
the answers that the men gave. The answer needed to be a translated Greek passage with notes.
From what I recall, he said, "Now, W----, this man skipped the hard
part. He hasn't even noticed that it's hard.

I gave him a 20%. The other man struggled with the obvious difficulties.
