There is another precaution which I feel called upon to note. Some generals, (12) in attacking
a force which they imagine to be inferior to their own, will advance with a ridiculously insufficient
force, (13) so that it is the merest accident if they do not experience the injury they were
minded to inflict. Conversely, in attacking any enemy whose superiority is a well-known fact,
they will bring the whole of their force into action.

 (12) Or, "one knows of generals," e.g. Iphicrates at Oneion, 369 B.C.
    Cf. "Hell." VI. v. 51.

 (13) Lit. "an absolutely weak force."

Now, my maxim would be precisely converse: if you attack with a prospect of superiority, do
not grudge employing all the power at your command; excess of victory (14) never yet caused
any conqueror one pang of remorse.

 (14) Or, "a great and decided victory." Cf. "Hiero," ii. 16.

But in any attempt to attack superior forces, in full certainty that, do what you can, you
must eventually retire, it is far better, say I, under these circumstances to bring a fraction
only of your whole force into action, which fraction should be the pick and flower of the troops
at your command, both horses and men. A body of that size and quality will be able to strike
a blow and to fall back with greater security. Whereas, if a general brings all his troops
into action against a superior force, when he wishes to retire, certain things must happen:
those of his men who are worse mounted will be captured, others through lack of skill in horsemanship
will be thrown, and a third set be cut off owing to mere difficulties of ground; since it is
impossible to find any large tract of country exactly what you would desire. If for no other
reason, through sheer stress of numbers there will be collisions, and much damage done by kicks
through mutual entanglement; whereas a pick of horse and men will be able to escape offhand,
(15) especially if you have invention to create a scare in the minds of the pursuers by help
of the moiety of troops who are out of action. (16) For this purpose false ambuscades will
be of use.

 (15) Or, "by themselves," reading {ex auton}, as L. Dind. suggests.
    Cf. Polyb. x. 40. 6, or if as vulg. {ex auton}  (sub. {kheiron},
    Weiske), transl. "to slip through their fingers."

 (16) Zeune and other commentators cf Liv. v. 38  (Diod. xiv. 114), but
    the part played by the Roman subsidiarii at the battle of the
    Allia, if indeed "una salus fugientibus," was scarcely happy.
    Would not "Hell." VII. v. 26 be more to the point? The detachment
    of cavalry and infantry placed by Epaminondas "on certain crests,
    to create an apprehension in the minds of the Athenians" in that
    quarter of the field at Mantinea was a {mekhanema} of the kind
    here contemplated.

Another serviceable expedient will be to discover on which side a friendly force may suddenly
appear and without risk to itself put a drag on the wheels of the pursuer. Nay, it is self-evident,
I think, that, as far as work and speed are concerned, it is the small body which will assert
its superiority more rapidly over the larger, and not vice versa--not of course that the mere
fact of being a small body will enable them to endure toil or give them wings; but simply it
is easier to find five men than five hundred, who will take the requisite care and pains with
their horses, and personally practise of their own accord the art of horsemanship.

But suppose the chance should occur of entering the lists against an equal number of the enemy's
cavalry, according to my judgment it were no bad plan to split the squadron into divisions,
(17) the first of which should be commanded by the squadron-leader, and the other by the ablest
officer to be found. This second-officer will for the time being follow in rear of the leading
division with the squadron leader; and by and by, when the antagonist is in near proximity,
and when the word of command is passed, form squadron to the front and charge the hostile ranks
(18)--a maneuver calculated, as I conceive, to bring the whole mass down upon the enemy with
paralysing force, and to cause him some trouble to extricate himself. Ideally speaking, both
divisions (19) will be backed by infantry kept in rear of the cavalry; these will suddenly
disclose themselves, and rushing to close quarters, in all probability clench the nail of victory.
(20) So at any rate it strikes me, seeing as I do the effects of what is unexpected--how, in
the case of good things, the soul of man is filled to overflowing with joy, and again, in the
case of things terrible, paralysed with amazement. In proof of what I say, let any one reflect
on the stupor into which a body of men with all the weight of numerical advantage on their
side will be betrayed by falling into an ambuscade; or again, on the exaggerated terror mutually
inspired in belligerents during the first few days, of finding themselves posted in face of
one another.

 (17) Or, "troops."

 (18) Possibly on flank. See Courier, p. 35, on Spanish cavalry
    tactics.

 (19) Lit. "supposing both divisions to be backed by footmen," etc.

 (20) Or, "achieve a much more decisive victory." Cf. "Cyrop." III.
    iii. 28.

To make these dispositions is not hard; the difficulty is to discover a body of men who will
dash forward (21) and charge an enemy as above described intelligently and loyally, with an
eager spirit and unfailing courage. That is a problem for a good cavalry general to solve.
I mean an officer who must be competent to so assert himself in speech or action (22) that
those under him will no longer hesitate. They will recognise of themselves that it is a good
thing and a right to obey, (23) to follow their leader, to rush to close quarters with the
foe. A desire will consume them to achieve some deed of glory and renown. A capacity will be
given them patiently to abide by the resolution of their souls.

 (21) {parelontas}, in reference to S. 18 above, {parelaunoi}, "form
    squadron to the front."

 (22) "To be this, he must be able as an orator as well as a man of
    action." Cf. "Mem." II. ii. 11.

 (23) Cf. Tennyson's "The Charge of the Light Brigade":

     Their's not to make reply,
     Their's not to reason why,
     Their's but to do and die.

To turn to another matter, take the case in which you have two armeis facing one another in
battle order, or a pair of fortresses (24) belonging to rival powers, and in the space between
all kinds of cavalry manouvres are enacted, wheelings and charges and retreats. (25) Under
such circumstances the custom usually is for either party after wheeling to set off at a slow
pace and to gallop full speed only in the middle of the course. But now suppose that a commander,
after making feint (26) in this style, presently on wheeling quickens for the charge and quickens
to retire--he will be able to hit the enemy far harder, and pull through absolutely without
scathe himself most likely; through charging at full speed whilst in proximity to his own stronghold
(or main body), and quickening to a gallop as he retires from the stronghold  (or main body)
of the enemy. If further, he could secretly contrive to leave behind four or five troopers,
the bravest and best mounted of the squadron, it would give them an immense advantage in falling
upon the enemy whilst wheeling to return to the charge. (27)

 (24) Al. "fields and farmsteads between."

 (25) Or, "retirements," see "Horsemanship," viii. 12; "Cyrop." V. iv.
    8; "Hell." IV. ii. 6; "Ages." ii. 3.

 (26) Or, "having precluded in this fashion." See Theocr. xxii. 102:

        {ton men anax ataraxen etosia khersi prodeiknus Pantothen},

