By Georg Ebers

CHAPTER XX.

As Nemu, on his way back from his visit to Ani, approached his mistress's house, he was detained
by a boy, who desired him to follow him to the stranger's quarter.  Seeing him hesitate, the
messenger showed him the ring of his mother Hekt, who had come into the town on business, and
wanted to speak with him.

Nemu was tired, for he was not accustomed to walking; his ass was dead, and Katuti could not
afford to give him another.  Half of Mena's beasts had been sold, and the remainder barely
sufficed for the field-labor.

At the corners of the busiest streets, and on the market-places, stood boys with asses which
they hired out for a small sum;

     [In the streets of modern Egyptian towns asses stand saddled for
     hire.  On the monuments only foreigners are represented as riding on
     asses, but these beasts are mentioned in almost every list of the
     possessions of the nobles, even in very early times, and the number
     is often considerable.  There is a picture extant of a rich old man
     who rides on a seat supported on the backs of two donkeys.  Lepsius,
     Denkmaler, part ii. 126.]

but Nemu had parted with his last money for a garment and a new wig, so that he might appear
worthily attired before the Regent.  In former times his pocket had never been empty, for Mena
had thrown him many a ring of silver, or even of gold, but his restless and ambitious spirit
wasted no regrets on lost luxuries.  He remembered those years of superfluity with contempt,
and as he puffed and panted on his way through the dust, he felt himself swell with satisfaction.

The Regent had admitted him to a private interview, and the little man had soon succeeded in
riveting his attention; Ani had laughed till the tears rolled down his cheeks at Nemu's description
of Paaker's wild passion, and he had proved himself in earnest over the dwarf's further communications,
and had met his demands half-way.  Nemu felt like a duck hatched on dry land, and put for the
first time into water; like a bird hatched in a cage, and that for the first time is allowed
to spread its wings and fly.  He would have swum or have flown willingly to death if circumstances
had not set a limit to his zeal and energy.

Bathed in sweat and coated with dust, he at last reached the gay tent in the stranger's quarter,
where the sorceress Hekt was accustomed to alight when she came over to Thebes.

He was considering far-reaching projects, dreaming of possibilities, devising subtle plans--rejecting
them as too subtle, and supplying their place with others more feasible and less dangerous;
altogether the little diplomatist had no mind for the motley tribes which here surrounded him.
He had passed the temple in which the people of Kaft adored their goddess Astarte, and the
sanctuary of Seth, where they sacrificed to Baal, without letting himself be disturbed by the
dancing devotees or the noise of cymbals and music which issued from their enclosures.  The
tents and slightly-built wooden houses of the dancing girls did not tempt him. Besides their
inhabitants, who in the evening tricked themselves out in tinsel finery to lure the youth of
Thebes into extravagance and folly, and spent their days in sleeping till sun-down, only the
gambling booths drove a brisk business; and the guard of police had much trouble to restrain
the soldier, who had staked and lost all his prize money, or the sailor, who thought himself
cheated, from such outbreaks of rage and despair as must end in bloodshed.  Drunken men lay
in front of the taverns, and others were doing their utmost, by repeatedly draining their beakers,
to follow their example.

Nothing was yet to be seen of the various musicians, jugglers, fire- eaters, serpent-charmers,
and conjurers, who in the evening displayed their skill in this part of the town, which at
all times had the aspect of a never ceasing fair.  But these delights, which Nemu had passed
a thousand times, had never had any temptation for him.  Women and gambling were not to his
taste; that which could be had simply for the taking, without trouble or exertion, offered
no charms to his fancy, he had no fear of the ridicule of the dancing-women, and their associates--indeed,
he occasionally sought them, for he enjoyed a war of words, and he was of opinion that no one
in Thebes could beat him at having the last word. Other people, indeed, shared this opinion,
and not long before Paaker's steward had said of Nemu:

"Our tongues are cudgels, but the little one's is a dagger."

The destination of the dwarf was a very large and gaudy tent, not in any way distinguished
from a dozen others in its neighborhood.  The opening which led into it was wide, but at present
closed by a hanging of coarse stuff.

Nemu squeezed himself in between the edge of the tent and the yielding door, and found himself
in an almost circular tent with many angles, and with its cone-shaped roof supported on a pole
by way of a pillar.

Pieces of shabby carpet lay on the dusty soil that was the floor of the tent, and on these
squatted some gaily-clad girls, whom an old woman was busily engaged in dressing.  She painted
the finger and toenails of the fair ones with orange-colored Hennah, blackened their brows
and eye- lashes with Mestem--[Antimony.]--to give brilliancy to their glance, painted their
cheeks with white and red, and anointed their hair with scented oil.

It was very hot in the tent, and not one of the girls spoke a word; they sat perfectly still
before the old woman, and did not stir a finger, excepting now and then to take up one of the
porous clay pitchers, which stood on the ground, for a draught of water, or to put a pill of
Kyphi between their painted lips.

Various musical instruments leaned against the walls of the tent, hand- drums, pipes and lutes
and four tambourines lay on the ground; on the vellum of one slept a cat, whose graceful kittens
played with the bells in the hoop of another.

An old negro-woman went in and out of the little back-door of the tent, pursued by flies and
gnats, while she cleared away a variety of earthen dishes with the remains of food--pomegranate-peelings,
breadcrumbs, and garlic-tops--which had been lying on one of the carpets for some hours since
the girls had finished their dinner.

Old Hekt sat apart from the girls on a painted trunk, and she was saying, as she took a parcel
from her wallet:

"Here, take this incense, and burn six seeds of it, and the vermin will all disappear--" she
pointed to the flies that swarmed round the platter in her hand.  "If you like I will drive
away the mice too and draw the snakes out of their holes better than the priests."

     [Recipes for exterminating noxious creatures are found in the
     papyrus in my possession.]

"Keep your magic to yourself," said a girl in a husky voice.  "Since you muttered your words
over me, and gave me that drink to make me grow slight and lissom again, I have been shaken
to pieces with a cough at night, and turn faint when I am dancing."

"But look how slender you have grown," answered Hekt, "and your cough will soon be well."

"When I am dead," whispered the girl to the old woman.  "I know that most of us end so."

The witch shrugged her shoulders, and perceiving the dwarf she rose from her seat.

The girls too noticed the little man, and set up the indescribable cry, something like the
cackle of hens, which is peculiar to Eastern women when something tickles their fancy.  Nemu
was well known to them, for his mother always stayed in their tent whenever she came to Thebes,
and the gayest of them cried out:

"You are grown, little man, since the last time you were here."

"So are you," said the dwarf sharply; "but only as far as big words are concerned."

"And you are as wicked as you are small," retorted the girl.

"Then my wickedness is small too," said the dwarf laughing, "for I am little enough!  Good
morning, girls--may Besa help your beauty.  Good day, mother--you sent for me?"

The old woman nodded; the dwarf perched himself on the chest beside her, and they began to
whisper together.

How dusty and tired you are," said Hekt.  I do believe you have come on foot in the burning sun."

"My ass is dead," replied Nemu, "and I have no money to hire a steed."

"A foretaste  of future splendor,"  said  the  old woman with a sneer. "What have you succeeded
in doing?"

"Paaker has saved us," replied Nemu, "and I have just come from a long interview with the Regent."

"Well?"

"He will renew your letter of freedom, if you will put Paaker into his power."

"Good-good.  I wish he would make up his mind to come and seek me--in disguise, of course--I
would--"

"He is very timid, and it would not suggest to him anything so unpracticable."

"Hm--" said Hekt, "perhaps you are right, for when we have to demand a good deal it is best
only to ask for what is feasible.  One rash request often altogether spoils the patron's inclination
for granting favors."

"What else has occurred?"

"The Regent's army has conquered the Ethiopians, and is coming home with rich spoils."

"People may be bought with treasure," muttered the old woman, "I good-- good!"

"Paaker's sword is sharpened; I would give no more for my master's life, than I have in my
pocket--and you know why I came on foot through the dust."

"Well, you can ride home again," replied his mother, giving the little man a small silver ring.
"Has the pioneer seen Nefert again?"

"Strange things have happened," said the dwarf, and he told his mother what had taken place
between Katuti and Nefert.  Nemu was a good listener, and had not forgotten a word of what
he had heard.

The old woman listened to his story with the most eager attention.

"Well, well," she muttered, "here is another extraordinary thing.  What is common to all men
is generally disgustingly similar in the palace and in the hovel.  Mothers are everywhere she-apes,
who with pleasure let themselves be tormented to death by their children, who repay them badly
enough, and the wives generally open their ears wide if any one can tell them of some misbehavior
of their husbands!  But that is not the way with your mistress."

The old woman looked thoughtful, and then she continued:

"In point of fact this can be easily explained, and is not at all more extraordinary than it
is that those tired girls should sit yawning.  You told me once that it was a pretty sight
to see the mother and daughter side by side in their chariot when they go to a festival or
the Panegyrai; Katuti, you said, took care that the colors of their dresses and the flowers
in their hair should harmonize.  For which of them is the dress first chosen on such occasions?"

"Always for the lady Katuti, who never wears any but certain colors," replied Nemu quickly.

"You see," said the witch laughing, "Indeed it must be so.  That mother always thinks of herself
first, and of the objects she wishes to gain; but they hang high, and she treads down everything
that is in her way-- even her own child--to reach them.  She will contrive that Paaker shall
be the ruin of Mena, as sure as I have ears to hear with, for that woman is capable of playing
any tricks with her daughter, and would marry her to that lame dog yonder if it would advance
her ambitious schemes."

"But Nefert!"  said Nemu.  "You should have seen her.  The dove became a lioness."

"Because she loves Mena as much as her mother loves herself," answered Hekt.  "As the poets
say, 'she is full of him.'  It is really true of her, there is no room for any thing else.
She cares for one only, and woe to those who come between him and her!"

"I have seen other women in love," said Nemu, "but--"

"But," exclaimed the old witch with such a sharp laugh that the girls all looked up, "they
behaved differently to Nefert--I believe you, for there is not one in a thousand that loves
as she does.  It is a sickness that gives raging pain--like a poisoned arrow in an open wound,
and devours all that is near it like a fire-brand, and is harder to cure than the disease which
is killing that coughing wench.  To be possessed by that demon of anguish is to suffer the
torture of the damned--or else," and her voice sank to softness, "to be more blest than the
Gods, happy as they are.  I know--I know it all; for I was once one of the possessed, one of
a thousand, and even now--"

"Well?"  asked the dwarf.

"Folly!"  muttered the witch, stretching herself as if awaking from sleep.  "Madness!  He--is
long since dead, and if he were not it would be all the same to me.  All men are alike, and
Mena will be like the rest."

"But Paaker surely is governed by the demon you describe?"  asked the dwarf.

"May be," replied his mother; "but he is self-willed to madness.  He would simply give his
life for the thing because it is denied him.  If your mistress Nefert were his, perhaps he
might be easier; but what is the use of chattering?  I must go over to the gold tent, where
everyone goes now who has any money in their purse, to speak to the mistress--"

"What do you want with her?"  interrupted Nemu.  "Little Uarda over there," said the old woman,
"will soon be quite well again.  You have seen her lately; is she not grown beautiful, wonderfully
beautiful?  Now I shall see what the good woman will offer me if I take Uarda to her? the girl
is as light-footed as a gazelle, and with good training would learn to dance in a very few weeks."

Nemu turned perfectly white.

"That you shall not do," said he positively.

"And why not?"  asked the old woman, "if it pays well."

"Because I forbid it," said the dwarf in a choked voice.

"Bless me," laughed the woman; "you want to play my lady Nefert, and expect me to take the
part of her mother Katuti.  But, seriously, having seen the child again, have you any fancy
for her?"

"Yes," replied Nemu.  "If we gain our end, Katuti will make me free, and make me rich.  Then
I will buy Pinem's grandchild, and take her for my wife.  I will build a house near the hall
of justice, and give the complainants and defendants private advice, like the hunch-back Sent,
who now drives through the streets in his own chariot."

"Hm--" said his mother, "that might have done very well, but perhaps it is too late.  When
the child had fever she talked about the young priest who was sent from the House of Seti by
Ameni.  He is a fine tall fellow, and took a great interest in her; he is a gardener's son,
named Pentaur."

"Pentaur?"  said the dwarf.  "Pentaur?  He has the haughty air and the expression of the old
Mohar, and would be sure to rise; but they are going to break his proud neck for him."

"So much the better," said the old woman.  "Uarda would be just the wife for you, she is good
and steady, and no one knows--"

"What?"  said Nemu.

"Who her mother was--for she was not one of us.  She came here from foreign parts, and when
she died she left a trinket with strange letters on it. This was it! The public, who
likes to show good heart after the misfortunes that have happened, rose en masse, becoming angry
against the President, as if he was he had hit the horns to Serranito.

- Barbarian, savage, murderer!

Frantic waving fists and batons against the president's box, his eyes blazing, blackness faces
anger. No one respected or even remember the majesty was at his side: it insults hurled the
most vile. But the president, though he was repented, and must be, judging from the confusion that was
reflected in his countenance, could not revoke the order, his dignity
would not let him.

Then the crowd went to the cigar, who had taken the stuff, and shouted:

-
Do not kill, do not kill!

I kill that murderer!

The Cigarette shrugged her shoulders and prepared to go looking for the answer. At that moment
a bullfighter who came running said something in his ear, and the sword was terribly pale.
The public knew he had bad news Serranito.

The killer took off his cap, passed his hand across his brow with
gloom, put it back and went toward the bull.

The cries went out instantly, mournful silence reigned in the square.

- He killed his brother!

Killed his brother! - They said the audience's ear.

And all inexplicable anxiety felt a deep sympathy for the unfortunate
cigar.

He moved slowly, hesitant step towards the bull.

But do not stop until stop drop cloth on the same horns.

- Ole!
- Roared the square silence reigned.

The bull jumped as if she felt a spur, and stirred immediately, furious. The sword gave him a
chest pass, above.

- Ole! - Roared back the square.

And again there was silence.

Other countries followed this natural and round, given as short and with such skill, that the public
wanted to go crazy. Matador's feet barely moved out of a circle or very narrow, but this circle seemed
sacred and insurmountable; the bull's horns passed rubbing the old man's jacket matador without
doing the slightest harm. Finally, the beast both stirred and fed
up with fruitless attack, stopped panting.

The bull and the bullfighter looked, wipe it quietly rolled, threw the sword to the face and
cited with the foot to receive. Came the beast, furious, and she stuck the sword to the hilt.
There repressed a scream of excitement in the square. The bull stood motionless for a moment
against torero, threw a faint moo collapsed and fell on his arms.

No one can represent what happened then: a delusion, a massive nervous
breakdown, ten or twelve thousand lunatics screaming at the top of
his lungs, a cloud of cigar, cigarette and hats flying through the
air and black carpeting instantly the white sand. Twenty years had
not been seen in the square in Madrid the chance to receive, thus
consummated.

The Cigarette glanced wanders the stands, ran his hand
over his forehead, and dropping to the ground the crutch, she ran
like a deer without attending to the cries of enthusiasm to the calls
that made him everywhere, jumped the barrier and disappeared of public
view.

When it came to the hospital were already there and Miguel
Enrique with the doctor and some friends.

Bent-Anat's apartment was on the first floor of the pavilion, next to the king's residence.
Her dead mother had inhabited these pleasant rooms, and when the princess was grown up it made
the king happy to feel that she was near him; so the beautiful house of the wife who had too
early departed, was given up to her, and at the same time, as she was his eldest daughter,
many privileges were conceded to her, which hitherto none but queens had enjoyed.

The large room, in which Nefert found the princess, commanded the river. A doorway, closed
with light curtains, opened on to a long balcony with a finely-worked balustrade of copper-gilt,
to which clung a climbing rose with pink flowers.

When Nefert entered the room, Bent-Anat was just having the rustling curtain drawn aside by
her waiting-women; for the sun was setting, and at that hour she loved to sit on the balcony,
as it grew cooler, and watch with devout meditation the departure of Ra, who, as the grey-haired
Turn, vanished behind the western horizon of the Necropolis in the evening to bestow the blessing
of light on the under-world.

Nefert's apartment was far more elegantly appointed than the princess's; her mother and Mena
had surrounded her with a thousand pretty trifles. Her carpets were made of sky-blue and silver
brocade from Damascus, the seats and couches were covered with stuff embroidered in feathers
by the Ethiopian women, which looked like the breasts of birds.  The images of the Goddess
Hathor, which stood on the house-altar, were of an imitation of emerald, which was called Mafkat,
and the other little figures, which were placed near their patroness, were of lapis-lazuli,
malachite, agate and bronze, overlaid with gold.  On her toilet-table stood a collection of
salve-boxes, and cups of ebony and ivory finely carved, and everything was arranged with the
utmost taste, and exactly suited Nefert herself.

Bent-Anat's room also suited the owner.

It was high and airy, and its furniture consisted in costly but simple necessaries; the lower
part of the wall was lined with cool tiles of white and violet earthen ware, on each of which
was pictured a star, and which, all together, formed a tasteful pattern.  Above these the walls
were covered with a beautiful dark green material brought from Sais, and the same stuff was
used to cover the long divans by the wall.  Chairs and stools, made of cane, stood round a
very large table in the middle of this room, out of which several others opened; all handsome,
comfortable, and harmonious in aspect, but all betraying that their mistress took small pleasure
in trifling decorations.  But her chief delight was in finely-grown plants, of which rare and
magnificent specimens, artistically arranged on stands, stood in the corners of many of the
rooms.  In others there were tall obelisks of ebony, which bore saucers for incense, which
all the Egyptians loved, and which was prescribed by their physicians to purify and perfume
their dwellings.  Her simple bedroom would have suited a prince who loved floriculture, quite
as well as a princess.

Before all things Bent-Anat loved air and light.  The curtains of her windows and doors were
only closed when the position of the sun absolutely required it; while in Nefert's rooms, from
morning till evening, a dim twilight was maintained.

The princess went affectionately towards the charioteer's wife, who bowed low before her at
the threshold; she took her chin with her right hand, kissed her delicate narrow forehead,
and said:

"Sweet creature!  At last you have come uninvited to see lonely me! It is the first time since
our men went away to the war.  If Rameses' daughter commands there is no escape; and you come;
but of your own free will--"

Nefert raised her large eyes, moist with tears, with an imploring look, and her glance was
so pathetic that Bent-Anat interrupted herself, and taking both her hands, exclaimed:

"Do you know who must have eyes exactly like yours?  I mean the Goddess from whose tears, when
they fall on the earth, flowers spring."

Nefert's eyes fell and she blushed deeply.

"I wish," she murmured, "that my eyes might close for ever, for I am very unhappy."  And two
large tears rolled down her cheeks.

"What has happened to you, my darling?"  asked the princess sympathetically, and she drew her
towards her, putting her arm round her like a sick child.

Nefert glanced anxiously at the chamberlain, and the ladies in waiting who had entered the
room with her, and Bent-Anat understood the look; she requested her attendants to withdraw,
and when she was alone with her sad little friend--"Speak now," she said.  "What saddens your
heart?  how comes this melancholy expression on your dear baby face?  Tell me, and I will comfort
you, and you shall be my bright thoughtless plaything once more."

"Thy plaything!" answered Nefert, and a flash of displeasure sparkled in her eyes.  "Thou art
right to call me so, for I deserve no better name. I have submitted all my life to be nothing
but the plaything of others."

"But, Nefert, I do not know you again," cried Bent-Anat.  "Is this my gentle amiable dreamer?"

"That is the word I wanted," said Nefert in a low tone.  "I slept, and dreamed, and dreamed
on--till Mena awoke me; and when he left me I went to sleep again, and for two whole years
I have lain dreaming; but to-day I have been torn from my dreams so suddenly and roughly, that
I shall never find any rest again."

While she spoke, heavy tears fell slowly one after another over her cheeks.

Bent-Anat felt what she saw and heard as deeply as if Nefert were her own suffering child.
She lovingly drew the young wife down by her side on the divan, and insisted on Nefert's letting
her know all that troubled her spirit.

Katuti's daughter had in the last few hours felt like one born blind, and who suddenly receives
his sight.  He looks at the brightness of the sun, and the manifold forms of the creation around
him, but the beams of the day-star blind its eyes, and the new forms, which he has sought to
guess at in his mind, and which throng round him in their rude reality, shock him and pain
him.  To-day, for the first time, she had asked herself wherefore her mother, and not she herself,
was called upon to control the house of which she nevertheless was called the mistress, and
the answer had rung in her ears: "Because Mena thinks you incapable of thought and action."
He had often called her his little rose, and she felt now that she was neither more nor less
than a flower that blossoms and fades, and only charms the eye by its color and beauty.

"My mother," she said to Bent-Anat, "no doubt loves me, but she has managed badly for Mena,
very badly; and I, miserable idiot, slept and dreamed of Mena, and saw and heard nothing of
what was happening to his --to our--inheritance.  Now my mother is afraid of my husband, and
those whom we fear, says my uncle, we cannot love, and we are always ready to believe evil
of those we do not love.  So she lends an ear to those people who blame Mena, and say of him
that he has driven me out of his heart, and has taken a strange woman to his tent.  But it
is false and a lie; and I cannot and will not countenance my own mother even, if she embitters
and mars what is left to me--what supports me--the breath and blood of my life--my love, my
fervent love for my husband." 

X

Quite a few ups and downs took the advent of Independence, "liberal
daily in the morning."

Our friend Mendoza nearly lost the right to run the streets clean. From the press the paper store,
hence the wording, the writing home of Rivers, and so the whole part of the day and night. Most
of the writers was appointed by the count, some were children of regular commentators, other
journalists who had starved to loose some laudatory.

Finally, the first issue.

Great was the surprise of Michael to read under the title another short rengloncito said: "Director:
Don Pedro Mendoza and Pimentel. She could not suppress a sense of outrage.

- But this fool, what will come to bear? - Whispered clutching the newspaper. Y after a while,
looking into panting, sweat running down his forehead to Brutandor, he faced with him saying:

- Listen, Perico, are you strong enough to guide me in the arduous tasks of journalism?

Mendoza turned red and began to stammer:

- I have not been! ... I know too! ... The count has been committed ... He said it was necessary
a person ... We did not dare to put you in case you did not want
... Anyway you know ...

- Well, well, I know that everything - Miguel
said bitterly .-- But these things, dear Perico they say if you do
not agree.

This was the case. As it was anger, Miguel laughed at his friend
Goose and did not think about it.

Clear drops sparkled on leaf and flower and blade, for, only a short time before, the garden
by Bent-Anat's house had been freshly watered.  The Nile beyond surrounded an island, where
flourished the well-kept sacred grove of Anion.

The Necropolis on the farther side of the river was also well seen from Bent-Anat's balcony.
There stood in long perspective the rows of sphinxes, which led from the landing-place of the
festal barges to the gigantic buildings of Amenophis III. with its colossi--the hugest in Thebes--to
the House of Seti, and to the temple of Hatasu.  There lay the long workshops of the embalmers
and closely-packed homes of the inhabitants of the City of the Dead.  In the farthest west
rose the Libyan mountains with their innumerable graves, and the valley of the kings' tombs
took a wide curve behind, concealed by a spur of the hills.

The two women looked in silence towards the west.  The sun was near the horizon--now it touched
it, now it sank behind the hills; and as the heavens flushed with hues like living gold, blazing
rubies, and liquid garnet and amethyst, the evening chant rang out from all the temples, and
the friends sank on their knees, hid their faces in the bower-rose garlands that clung to the
trellis, and prayed with full hearts.

When they rose night was spreading over the landscape, for the twilight is short in Thebes.
Here and there a rosy cloud fluttered across the darkening sky, and faded gradually as the
evening star appeared.

"I am content," said Bent-Anat.  "And you?  have you recovered your peace of mind?"

Nefert shook her head.  The princess drew her on to a seat, and sank down beside her.  Then
she began again "Your heart is sore, poor child; they have spoilt the past for you, and you
dread the future.  Let me be frank with you, even if it gives you pain.  You are sick, and
I must cure you. Will you listen to me?"

"Speak on," said Nefert.

"Speech does not suit me so well as action," replied the princess; "but I believe I know what
you need, and can help you.  You love your husband; duty calls him from you, and you feel lonely
and neglected; that is quite natural.  But those whom I love, my father and my brothers, are
also gone to the war; my mother is long since dead; the noble woman, whom the king left to
be my companion, was laid low a few weeks since by sickness. Look what a half-abandoned spot
my house is!  Which is the lonelier do you think, you or I?"

"I," said Nefert.  "For no one is so lonely as a wife parted from the husband her heart longs
after."

"But you trust Mena's love for you?"  asked Bent-Anat.

Nefert pressed her hand to her heart and nodded assent:

"And he will return, and with him your happiness."

"I hope so," said Nefert softly.

"And he who hopes," said Bent Anat, "possesses already the joys of the future.  Tell me, would
you have changed places with the Gods so long as Mena was with you?  No!  Then you are most
fortunate, for blissful memories--the joys of the past--are yours at any rate.  What is the
present?  I speak of it, and it is no more.  Now, I ask you, what joys can I look forward to,
and what certain happiness am I justified in hoping for?

"Thou dost not love any one," replied Nefert.  "Thou dost follow thy own course, calm and undeviating
as the moon above us.  The highest joys are unknown to thee, but for the same reason thou dost
not know the bitterest pain."

"What pain?"  asked the princess.

"The torment of a heart consumed by the fires of Sechet," replied Nefert.

The princess looked thoughtfully at the ground, then she turned her eyes eagerly on her friend.

"You are mistaken," she said; "I know what love and longing are.  But you need only wait till
a feast day to wear the jewel that is your own, while my treasure is no more mine than a pearl
that I see gleaming at the bottom of the sea."

"Thou canst love!"  exclaimed Nefert with joyful excitement.  "Oh! I thank Hathor that at last
she has touched thy heart.  The daughter of Rameses need not even send for the diver to fetch
the jewel out of the sea; at a sign from her the pearl will rise of itself, and lie on the
sand at her slender feet."

Bent-Anat smiled and kissed Nefert's brow.

"How it excites you," she said, "and stirs your heart and tongue!  If two strings are tuned
in harmony, and one is struck, the other sounds, my music master tells me.  I believe you would
listen to me till morning if I only talked to you about my love.  But it was not for that that
we came out on the balcony.  Now listen!  I am as lonely as you, I love less happily than you,
the House of Seti threatens me with evil times--and yet I can preserve my full confidence in
life and my joy in existence.  How can you explain this?"

"We are so very different," said Nefert.

"True," replied Bent-Anat, "but we are both young, both women, and both wish to do right. 
My mother died, and I have had no one to guide me, for I who for the most part need some one
to lead me can already command, and be obeyed.  You had a mother to bring you up, who, when
you were still a child, was proud of her pretty little daughter, and let her--as it became
her so well-dream and play, without warning her against the dangerous propensity.  Then Mena
courted you.  You love him truly, and in four long years he has been with you but a month or
two; your mother remained with you, and you hardly observed that she was managing your own
house for you, and took all the trouble of the household.  You had a great pastime of your
own--your thoughts of Mena, and scope for a thousand dreams in your distant love.  I know it,
Nefert; all that you have seen and heard and felt in these twenty months has centred in him
and him alone.  Nor is it wrong in itself.  The rose tree here, which clings to my balcony,
delights us both; but if the gardener did not frequently prune it and tie it with palm-bast,
in this soil, which forces everything to rapid growth, it would soon shoot up so high that
it would cover door and window, and I should sit in darkness.  Throw this handkerchief over
your shoulders, for the dew falls as it grows cooler, and listen to me a little longer!--The
beautiful passion of love and fidelity has grown unchecked in your dreamy nature to such a
height, that it darkens your spirit and your judgment. Love, a true love, it seems to me, should
be a noble fruit-tree, and not a rank weed.  I do not blame you, for she who should have been
the gardener did not heed--and would not heed--what was happening.  Look, Nefert, so long as
I wore the lock of youth, I too did what I fancied-- I never found any pleasure in dreaming,
but in wild games with my brothers, in horses and in falconry; they often said I had the spirit
of a boy, and indeed I would willingly have been a boy."

"Not I--never!"  said Nefert.

"You are just a rose--my dearest," said Bent-Anat.  "Well! when I was fifteen I was so discontented,
so insubordinate and full of all sorts of wild behavior, so dissatisfied in spite of all the
kindness and love that surrounded me--but I will tell you what happened.  It is four years
ago, shortly before your wedding with Mena; my father called me to play draughts.

     [At Medinet Habu a picture represents Rameses the Third, not Rameses
     the Second, playing at draughts with his daughter.]

You know how certainly he could beat the most skilful antagonist; but that day his thoughts
were wandering, and I won the game twice following. Full of insolent delight, I jumped up and
kissed his great handsome forehead, and cried 'The sublime God, the hero, under whose feet
the strange nations writhe, to whom the priests and the people pray--is beaten by a girl!'
He smiled gently, and answered 'The Lords of Heaven are often outdone by the Ladies, and Necheb,
the lady of victory, is a woman.  Then he grew graver, and said: 'You call me a God, my child,
but in this only do I feel truly godlike, that at every moment I strive to the utmost to prove
myself useful by my labors; here restraining, there promoting, as is needful.  Godlike I can
never be but by doing or producing something great!  These words, Nefert, fell like seeds in
my soul.  At last I knew what it was that was wanting to me; and when, a few weeks later, my
father and your husband took the field with a hundred thousand fighting men, I resolved to
be worthy of my godlike father, and in my little circle to be of use too!  You do not know
all that is done in the houses behind there, under my direction.  Three hundred girls spin
pure flax, and weave it into bands of linen for the wounds of the soldiers; numbers of children,
and old women, gather plants on the mountains, and others sort them according to the instructions
of a physician; in the kitchens no banquets are prepared, but fruits are preserved in sugar
for the loved ones, and the sick in the camp.  Joints of meat are salted, dried, and smoked
for the army on its march through the desert.  The butler no longer thinks of drinking-bouts,
but brings me wine in great stone jars; we pour it into well-closed skins for the soldiers,
and the best sorts we put into strong flasks, carefully sealed with pitch, that they may perform
the journey uninjured, and warm and rejoice the hearts of our heroes.  All that, and much more,
I manage and arrange, and my days pass in hard work.  The Gods send me no bright visions in
the night, for after utter fatigue--I sleep soundly.  But I know that I am of use.  I can hold
my head proudly, because in some degree I resemble my great father; and if the king thinks
of me at all I know he can rejoice in the doings of his child.  That is the end of it, Nefert--and
I only say, Come and join me, work with me, prove yourself of use, and compel Mena to think
of his wife, not with affection only, but with pride."  Nefert let her head sink slowly on
Bent-Anat's bosom, threw her arms round her neck, and wept like a child.  At last she composed
herself and said humbly:

"Take me to school, and teach me to be useful."  "I knew," said the princess smiling, "that
you only needed a guiding hand.  Believe me, you will soon learn to couple content and longing.
But now hear this!  At present go home to your mother, for it is late; and meet her lovingly,
for that is the will of the Gods.  To-morrow morning I will go to see you, and beg Katuti to
let you come to me as companion in the place of my lost friend.  The day after to-morrow you
will come to me in the palace. You can live in the rooms of my departed friend and begin, as
she had done, to help me in my work.  May these hours be blest to you!"

CHAPTER XXII.

At the time of this conversation the leech Nebsecht still lingered in front of the hovel of
the paraschites, and waited with growing impatience for the old man's return.

At first he trembled for him; then he entirely forgot the danger into which he had thrown him,
and only hoped for the fulfilment of his desires, and for wonderful revelations through his
investigations of the human heart.

For some minutes he gave himself up to scientific considerations; but he became more and more
agitated by anxiety for the paraschites, and by the exciting vicinity of Uarda.

For hours he had been alone with her, for her father and grandmother could no longer stop away
from their occupations.  The former must go to escort prisoners of war to Hermonthis, and the
old woman, since her granddaughter had been old enough to undertake the small duties of the
household, had been one of the wailing-women, who, with hair all dishevelled, accompanied the
corpse on its way to the grave, weeping, and lamenting, and casting Nile-mud on their forehead
and breast.  Uarda still lay, when the sun was sinking, in front of the hut.

She looked weary and pale.  Her long hair had come undone, and once more got entangled with
the straw of her humble couch.  If Nebsecht went near her to feel her pulse or to speak to
her she carefully turned her face from him.

Nevertheless when the sun disappeared behind the rocks he bent over her once more, and said:

"It is growing cool; shall I carry you indoors?"

"Let me alone," she said crossly.  "I am hot, keep farther away.  I am no longer ill, and could
go indoors by myself if I wished; but grandmother will be here directly."

Nebsecht rose, and sat down on a hen-coop that was some paces from Uarda, and asked stammering,
"Shall I go farther off?"

"Do as you please," she answered.  "You are not kind," he said sadly.

"You sit looking at me," said Uarda, "I cannot bear it; and I am uneasy --for grandfather was
quite different this morning from his usual self, and talked strangely about dying, and about
the great price that was asked of him for curing me.  Then he begged me never to forget him,
and was so excited and so strange.  He is so long away; I wish he were here, with me."

And with these words Uarda began to cry silently.  A nameless anxiety for the paraschites seized
Nebsecht, and it struck him to the heart that he had demanded a human life in return for the
mere fulfilment of a duty. He knew the law well enough, and knew that the old man would be
compelled without respite or delay to empty the cup of poison if he were found guilty of the
theft of a human heart.

It was dark:  Uarda ceased weeping and said to the surgeon:

"Can it be possible that he has gone into the city to borrow the great sum of money that thou--or
thy temple--demanded for thy medicine?  But there is the princess's golden bracelet, and half
of father's prize, and in the chest two years' wages that grandmother had earned by wailing
lie untouched.  Is all that not enough?"

The girl's last question was full of resentment and reproach, and Nebsecht, whose perfect sincerity
was part of his very being, was silent, as he would not venture to say yes.  He had asked more
in return for his help than gold or silver.  Now he remembered Pentaur's warning, and when
the jackals began to bark he took up the fire-stick,

     [The hieroglyphic sign Sam seems to me to represent the wooden stick
     used to produce fire (as among some savage tribes) by rapid friction
     in a hollow piece of wood.]

and lighted some fuel that was lying ready.  Then he asked himself what Uarda's fate would
be without her grandparents, and a strange plan which had floated vaguely before him for some
hours, began now to take a distinct outline and intelligible form.  He determined if the old
man did not return to ask the kolchytes or embalmers to admit him into their guild--and for
the sake of his adroitness they were not likely to refuse him--then he would make Uarda his
wife, and live apart from the world, for her, for his studies, and for his new calling, in
which he hoped to learn a great deal.  What did he care for comfort and proprieties, for recognition
from his fellow-men, and a superior position!

He could hope to advance more quickly along the new stony path than on the old beaten track.
The impulse to communicate his acquired knowledge to others he did not feel.  Knowledge in
itself amply satisfied him, and be thought no more of his ties to the House of Seti.  For three
whole days he had not changed his garments, no razor had touched his chin or his scalp, not
a drop of water had wetted his hands or his feet.  He felt half bewildered and almost as if
he had already become an embalmer, nay even a paraschites, one of the most despised of human
beings.  This self- degradation had an infinite charm, for it brought him down to the level
of Uarda, and she, lying near him, sick and anxious, with her dishevelled hair, exactly suited
the future which he painted to himself.

"Do you hear nothing?"  Uarda asked suddenly.  He listened.  In the valley there was a barking
of dogs, and soon the paraschites and his wife appeared, and, at the door of their hut, took
leave of old Hekt, who had met them on her return from Thebes.

"You have been gone a long time," cried Uarda, when her grandmother once more stood before
her.  "I have been so frightened."

"The doctor was with you," said the old woman going into the house to prepare their simple
meal, while the paraschites knelt down by his granddaughter, and caressed her tenderly, but
yet with respect, as if he were her faithful servant rather than her blood-relation.

Then he rose, and gave to Nebsecht, who was trembling with excitement, the bag of coarse linen
which he was in the habit of carrying tied to him by a narrow belt.

"The heart is in that," he whispered to the leech; "take it out, and give me back the bag,
for my knife is in it, and I want it."

Nebsecht took the heart out of the covering with trembling hands and laid it carefully down.
Then he felt in the breast of his dress, and going up to the paraschites he whispered:

"Here, take the writing, hang it round your neck, and when you die I will have the book of
scripture wrapped up in your mummy cloths like a great man.  But that is not enough.  The property
that I inherited is in the hands of my brother, who is a good man of business, and I have not
touched the interest for ten years.  I will send it to you, and you and your wife shall enjoy
an old age free from care."

"The paraschites had taken the little bag with the strip of papyrus, and heard the leech to
the end.  Then he turned from him saying: "Keep thy money; we are quits.  That is if the child
gets well," he added humbly.

"She is already half cured," stammered Nebsecht.  "But why will you--why won't you accept--"

"Because till to day I have never begged nor borrowed," said the paraschites, "and I will not
begin in my old age.  Life for life.  But what I have done this day not Rameses with all his
treasure could repay."

Nebsecht looked down, and knew not how to answer the old man.

His wife now came out; she set a bowl of lentils that she had hastily warmed before the two
men, with radishes and onions,

     [Radishes, onions, and garlic were the hors-d'oeuvre of an Egyptian
     dinner.  1600 talents worth were consumed, according to Herodotus.
     during the building of the pyramid of Cheops--L360,000 (in 1881.)]

then she helped Uarda, who did not need to be carried, into the house, and invited Nebsecht
to share their meal.  He accepted her invitation, for he had eaten nothing since the previous
evening.

When the old woman had once more disappeared indoors, he asked the paraschites:

"Whose heart is it that you have brought me, and how did it come into your hands?"

"Tell me first," said the other, "why thou hast laid such a heavy sin upon my soul?"

"Because I want to investigate the structure of the human heart," said Nebsecht, "so that,
when I meet with diseased hearts, I may be able to cure them."

The paraschites looked for a long time at the ground in silence; then he said:

"Art thou speaking the truth?"

"Yes," replied the leech with convincing emphasis.  "I am glad," said the old man, "for thou
givest help to the poor."

"As willingly as to the rich!"  exclaimed Nebsecht.  "But tell me now where you got the heart."

"I went into the house of the embalmer," said the old man, after he had selected a few large
flints, to which, with crafty blows, he gave the shape of knives, "and there I found three
bodies in which I had to make the eight prescribed incisions with my flint-knife.  When the
dead lie there undressed on the wooden bench they all look alike, and the begger lies as still
as the favorite son of a king.  But I knew very well who lay before me.  The strong old body
in the middle of the table was the corpse of the Superior of the temple of Hatasu, and beyond,
close by each other, were laid a stone-mason of the Necropolis, and a poor girl from the strangers'
quarter, who had died of consumption--two miserable wasted figures.  I had known the Prophet
well, for I had met him a hundred times in his gilt litter, and we always called him Rui, the
rich.  I did my duty by all three, I was driven away with the usual stoning, and then I arranged
the inward parts of the bodies with my mates.  Those of the Prophet are to be preserved later
in an alabaster canopus,

     [This vase was called canopus at a later date.  There were four of
     them for each mummy.]

those of the mason and the girl were put back in their bodies.

"Then I went up to the three bodies, and I asked myself, to which I should do such a wrong
as to rob him of his heart.  I turned to the two poor ones, and I hastily went up to the sinning
girl.  Then I heard the voice of the demon that cried out in my heart 'The girl was poor and
despised like you while she walked on Seb,

     [Seb is the earth; Plutarch calls Seb Chronos.  He is often spoken
     of as the "father of the gods" on the monuments.  He is the god of
     time, and as the Egyptians regarded matter as eternal, it is not by
     accident that the sign which represented the earth was also used for
     eternity.]

perhaps she may find compensation and peace in the other world if you do not mutilate her;
and when I turned to the mason's lean corpse, and looked at his hands, which were harder and
rougher than my own, the demon whispered the same.  Then I stood before the strong, stout corpse
of the prophet Rui, who died of apoplexy, and I remembered the honor and the riches that he
had enjoyed on earth, and that he at least for a time had known happiness and ease.  And as
soon as I was alone, I slipped my hand into the bag, and changed the sheep's heart for his.

"Perhaps I am doubly guilty for playing such an accursed trick with the heart of a high-priest;
but Rui's body will be hung round with a hundred amulets, Scarabaei

     [Imitations of the sacred beetle Scarabaeus made of various
     materials were frequently put into the mummies in the place of the
     heart.  Large specimens have often the 26th, 30th, and 64th chapters
     of the Book of the Dead engraved on them, as they treat of the
     heart.

will be placed over his heart, and holy oil and sacred sentences will preserve him from all
the fiends on his road to Amenti,--[Underworld]-- while no one will devote helping talismans
to the poor.  And then! thou hast sworn, in that world, in the hall of judgment, to take my
guilt on thyself."

Nebsecht gave the old man his hand.

"That I will," said he, "and I should have chosen as you did.  Now take this draught, divide
it in four parts, and give it to Uarda for four evenings following.  Begin this evening, and
by the day after to-morrow I think she will be quite well.  I will come again and look after
her. Now go to rest, and let me stay a while out here; before the star of Isis is extinguished
I will be gone, for they have long been expecting me at the temple."

When the paraschites came out of his but the next morning, Nebsecht had vanished; but a blood-stained
cloth that lay by the remains of the fire showed the old man that the impatient investigator
had examined the heart of the high-priest during the night, and perhaps cut it up.

Terror fell upon him, and in agony of mind he threw himself on his knees as the golden bark
of the Sun-God appeared on the horizon, and he prayed fervently, first for Uarda, and then
for the salvation of his imperilled soul.

He rose encouraged, convinced himself that his granddaughter was progressing towards recovery,
bid farewell to his wife, took his flint knife and his bronze hook,

     [The brains of corpses were drawn out of the nose with a hook.
     Herodotus II. 87.]

and went to the house of the embalmer to follow his dismal calling.

The group of buildings in which the greater number of the corpses from Thebes went through
the processes of mummifying, lay on the bare desert- land at some distance from his hovel,
southwards from the House of Seti at the foot of the mountain.  They occupied by themselves
a fairly large space, enclosed by a rough wall of dried mud-bricks. Enrique and Miguel, who had been in the courtyards talking a moment
with the cigar and his crew were also to occupy the seats. The noise had decreased a lot, because
this is perceived by the sounds of the charanga hospicianos, which until then had failed to be
heard. The spectators drew watches and meaningful glances ran for president. In this, the brass
band struck up with energy real progress, all faces turned to the lookout point where it appeared
regal Queen Elizabeth, some clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was
then overcast with some clouds that are not downloaded much later. Made the signal, after all, the
teams entered the arena to the sound of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual,
forming three rows in front of everyone concerned was the sword. To see a prolonged burst of applause.
Severe across the square, firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had
risen, with the greatest indifference, shining their rich clothes and live firing flares Capellaro
that pleases the eye. - Mial, mial old!

... That is, to the left ... Mial which side has ... He hums the soul to this guy! .. In Spain there
is no longer bulls who receives more than he ... All attention was
concentrated on the plaza cigarette cases, despite the fact that also
killed Laurel and lizards, which was then beginning to be the darling
of the public.

But for the amateur Madrid, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made but live
constantly in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive what is called receive
really do not have only the ancient heroes of bullfighting. Uniform saluted with a gesture to the
chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala to friends in the stands,
who were responsible for their care with more pride than if it were the
Ark of the Covenant.

The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the bullpen door opened, came the first
bull. Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, and raised long horn. Volunteer
showed himself noble in the beam, holding the six Shiv round picks. But to get to the sticks began
to fight back. However, he nailed a superb Serranito pair room with fine and clean, pleasantly
surprised the audience: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was a boy who would be talking
about. Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well. Serranito again to catch the
bats, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking cleanly and expertise. There
was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and the singular correctness and delicacy
of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily stuck twins, triumphantly walked
around the plaza smiling receiving applause from the stands. It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced
to the presidency, took off his hat and said in a hoarse voice a few words that nobody could
understand, then went straight to the bull, which had marked tendency
to flee.

Persiguiole unsuccessfully for some time amid the expectant curiosity of the square. Finally,
thanks to the efforts of the crew was able to fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes, the
crowd applauded and the promised very happy. But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered
a strained and entirely lost his poise, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and
hastily, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth and pulled far enough to step flags.


The widow wore a long mourning robe, her forehead was lightly daubed with Nile-mud, and in
the midst of her chaffering with the functionaries of the embalming-house, whose prices she
complained of as enormous and rapacious, from time to time she broke out into a loud wail of
grief-- as the occasion demanded.

More modest citizens finished their commissions sooner, though it was not unusual for the income
of a whole year to be sacrificed for the embalming of the head of a household--the father or
the mother of a family.  The mummifying of the poor was cheap, and that of the poorest had
to be provided by the kolchytes as a tribute to the king, to whom also they were obliged to
pay a tax in linen from their looms.

This place of business was carefully separated from the rest of the establishment, which none
but those who were engaged in the processes carried on there were on any account permitted
to enter.  The kolchytes formed a closely-limited guild at the head of which stood a certain
number of priests, and from among them the masters of the many thousand members were chosen.
This guild was highly respected, even the taricheutes, who were entrusted with the actual work
of embalming, could venture to mix with the other citizens, although in Thebes itself people
always avoided them with a certain horror; only the paraschites, whose duty it was to open
the body, bore the whole curse of uncleanness. Certainly the place where these people fulfilled
their office was dismal enough.

The stone chamber in which the bodies were opened, and the halls in which they were prepared
with salt, had adjoining them a variety of laboratories and depositaries for drugs and preparations
of every description.

In a court-yard, protected from the rays of the sun only by an awning, was a large walled bason,
containing a solution of natron, in which the bodies were salted, and they were then dried
in a stone vault, artificially supplied with hot air.

The little wooden houses of the weavers, as well as the work-shops of the case-joiners and
decorators, stood in numbers round the pattern-room; but the farthest off, and much the largest
of the buildings of the establishment, was a very long low structure, solidly built of stone
and well roofed in, where the prepared bodies were enveloped in their cerements, tricked out
in amulets, and made ready for their journey to the next world.  What took place in this building--into
which the laity were admitted, but never for more than a few minutes--was to the last degree
mysterious, for here the gods themselves appeared to be engaged with the mortal bodies.

Out of the windows which opened on the street, recitations, hymns, and lamentations sounded
night and day.  The priests who fulfilled their office here wore masks like the divinities
of the under-world.  Many were the representatives of Anubis, with the jackal-head, assisted
by boys with masks of the so-called child-Horus.  At the head of each mummy stood or squatted
a wailing-woman with the emblems of Nephthys, and one at its feet with those of Isis.

Every separate limb of the deceased was dedicated to a particular divinity by the aid of holy
oils, charms, and sentences; a specially prepared cloth was wrapped round each muscle, every
drug and every bandage owed its origin to some divinity, and the confusion of sounds, of disguised
figures, and of various perfumes, had a stupefying effect on those who visited this chamber.
It need not be said that the whole embalming establishment and its neighborhood was enveloped
in a cloud of powerful resinous fumes, of sweet attar, of lasting musk, and pungent spices.

When the wind blew from the west it was wafted across the Nile to Thebes, and this was regarded
as an evil omen, for from the south-west comes the wind that enfeebles the energy of men--the
fatal simoon.

In the court of the pattern-house stood several groups of citizens from Thebes, gathered round
different individuals, to whom they were expressing their sympathy.  A new-comer, the superintendent
of the victims of the temple of Anion, who seemed to be known to many and was greeted with
respect, announced, even before he went to condole with Rui's widow, in a tone full of horror
at what had happened, that an omen, significant of the greatest misfortune, had occurred in
Thebes, in a spot no less sacred than the very temple of Anion himself.

Many inquisitive listeners stood round him while he related that the Regent Ani, in his joy
at the victory of his troops in Ethiopia, had distributed wine with a lavish hand to the garrison
of Thebes, and also to the watchmen of the temple of Anion, and that, while the people were
carousing, wolves

     [Wolves have now disappeared from Egypt; they were sacred animals,
     and were worshipped and buried at Lykopolis, the present Siut, where
     mummies of wolves have been found.  Herodotus says that if a wolf
     was found dead he was buried, and Aelian states that the herb
     Lykoktonon, which was poisonous to wolves, might on no account be
     brought into the city, where they were held sacred.  The wolf
     numbered among the sacral animals is the canis lupaster, which
     exists in Egypt at the present day.  Besides this species there are
     three varieties of wild dogs, the jackal, fox, and fenek, canis
     cerda.]

had broken into the stable of the sacred rams.  Some were killed, but the noblest ram, which
Rameses himself had sent as a gift from Mendes when he set out for the war--the magnificent
beast which Amon had chosen as the tenement of his spirit, was found, torn in pieces, by the
soldiers, who immediately terrified the whole city with the news.  At the same hour news had
come from Memphis that the sacred bull Apis was dead.

All the people who had collected round the priest, broke out into a far- sounding cry of woe,
in which he himself and Rui's widow vehemently joined.

The buyers and functionaries rushed out of the pattern-room, and from the mummy-house the taricheutes,
paraschites and assistants; the weavers left their looms, and all, as soon as they had learned
what had happened, took part in the lamentations, howling and wailing, tearing their hair and
covering their faces with dust.

The noise was loud and distracting, and when its violence diminished, and the work-people went
back to their business, the east wind brought the echo of the cries of the dwellers in the
Necropolis, perhaps too, those of the citizens of Thebes itself.

"Bad news," said the inspector of the victims, cannot fail to reach us soon from the king and
the army; he will regret the death of the ram which we called by his name more than that of
Apis.  It is a bad--a very bad omen."

"My lost husband Rui, who rests in Osiris, foresaw it all," said the widow.  "If only I dared
to speak I could tell a good deal that many might find unpleasant."

The inspector of sacrifices smiled, for he knew that the late superior of the temple of Hatasu
had been an adherent of the old royal family, and he replied:

"The Sun of Rameses may be for a time covered with clouds, but neither those who fear it nor
those who desire it will live to see its setting."

The priest coldly saluted the lady, and went into the house of a weaver in which he had business,
and the widow got into her litter which was waiting at the gate.

The old paraschites Pinem had joined with his fellows in the lamentation for the sacred beasts,
and was now sitting on the hard pavement of the dissecting room to eat his morsel of food--for
it was noon.

The stone room in which he was eating his meal was badly lighted; the daylight came through
a small opening in the roof, over which the sun stood perpendicularly, and a shaft of bright
rays, in which danced the whirling motes, shot down through the twilight on to the stone pavement.
Mummy-cases leaned against all the walls, and on smooth polished slabs lay bodies covered with
coarse cloths.  A rat scudded now and then across the floor, and from the wide cracks between
the stones sluggish scorpions crawled out.

The old paraschites was long since blunted to the horror which pervaded this locality.  He
had spread a coarse napkin, and carefully laid on it the provisions which his wife had put
into his satchel; first half a cake of bread, then a little salt, and finally a radish.

But the bag was not yet empty.

He put his hand in and found a piece of meat wrapped up in two cabbage- leaves.  Old Hekt had
brought a leg of a gazelle from Thebes for Uarda, and he now saw that the women had put a piece
of it into his little sack for his refreshment.  He looked at the gift with emotion, but he
did not venture to touch it, for he felt as if in doing so he should be robbing the sick girl.
While eating the bread and the radish he contemplated the piece of meat as if it were some
costly jewel, and when a fly dared to settle on it he drove it off indignantly.

At last he tasted the meat, and thought of many former noon-day meals, and how he had often
found a flower in the satchel, that Uarda had placed there to please him, with the bread. 
His kind old eyes filled with tears, and his whole heart swelled with gratitude and love. 
He looked up, and his glance fell on the table, and he asked himself how he would have felt
if instead of the old priest, robbed of his heart, the sunshine of his old age, his granddaughter,
were lying there motionless.  A cold shiver ran over him, and he felt that his own heart would
not have been too great a price to pay for her recovery.  And yet!  In the course of his long
life he had experienced so much suffering and wrong, that he could not imagine any hope of
a better lot in the other world.  Then he drew out the bond Nebsecht had given him, held it
up with both hands, as if to show it to the Immortals, and particularly to the judges in the
hall of truth and judgment, that they might not reckon with him for the crime he had committed--not
for himself but for another--and that they might not refuse to justify Rui, whom he had robbed
of his heart.

While he thus lifted his soul in devotion, matters were getting warm outside the dissecting
room.  He thought he heard his name spoken, and scarcely had he raised his head to listen when
a taricheut came in and desired him to follow him.

In front of the rooms, filled with resinous odors and incense, in which the actual process
of embalming was carried on, a number of taricheutes were standing and looking at an object
in an alabaster bowl.  The knees of the old man knocked together as he recognized the heart
of the beast which he had substituted for that of the Prophet.

The chief of the taricheutes asked him whether he had opened the body of the dead priest.

Pinem stammered out "Yes."  Whether this was his heart?  The old man nodded affirmatively.

The taricheutes looked at each other, whispered together; then one of them went away, and returned
soon with the inspector of victims from the temple of Anion, whom he had found in the house
of the weaver, and the chief of the kolchytes.

"Show me the heart," said the superintendent of the sacrifices as he approached the vase. 
"I can decide in the dark if you have seen rightly. I examine a hundred animals every day.
Give it here!--By all the Gods of Heaven and Hell that is the heart of a ram!"

"It was found in the breast of Rui," said one of the taricheutes decisively.  "It was opened
yesterday in the presence of us all by this old paraschites."

"It is extraordinary," said the priest of Anion.  "And incredible.  But perhaps an exchange
was effected.--Did you slaughter any victims here yesterday or--?"

"We are  purifying ourselves," the chief of the kolchytes interrupted, for the great festival
of the valley, and for ten days no beast can have been killed here for food;  besides, the
stables and  slaughterhouses are a long way from this, on the other side of the linen-factories."

"It is strange!"  replied the priest.  "Preserve this heart carefully, kolchytes: or, better
still, let it be enclosed in a case.  We will take it over to the chief prophet of Anion. 
It would seem that some miracle has happened."

"The heart belongs to the Necropolis," answered the chief kolchytes, "and it would therefore
be more fitting if we took it to the chief priest of the temple of Seti, Ameni."

"You command here!"  said the other.  "Let us go."  In a few minutes the priest of Anion and
the chief of the kolchytes were being carried towards the valley in their litters.  A taricheut
followed them, who sat on a seat between two asses, and carefully carried a casket of ivory,
in which reposed the ram's heart.

The old paraschites watched the priests disappear behind the tamarisk bushes.  He longed to
run after them, and tell them everything.

His conscience quaked with self reproach, and if his sluggish intelligence did not enable him
to take in at a glance all the results that his deed might entail, he still could guess that
he had sown a seed whence deceit of every kind must grow.  He felt as if he had fallen altogether
into sin and falsehood, and that the goddess of truth, whom he had all his life honestly served,
had reproachfully turned her back on him.  After what had happened never could he hope to be
pronounced a "truth-speaker" by the judges of the dead.  Lost, thrown away, was the aim and
end of a long life, rich in self-denial and prayer!  His soul shed tears of blood, a wild sighing
sounded in his ears, which saddened his spirit, and when he went back to his work again, and
wanted to remove the soles of the feet

     [One of the mummies of Prague which were dissected by Czermak, had
     the soles of the feet removed and laid on the breast.  We learn from
     Chapter 125 of the Book of the Dead that this was done that the
     sacred floor of the hall of judgment might not be defiled when the
     dead were summoned before Osiris.]

from a body, his hand trembled so that he could not hold the knife.

CHAPTER XXIII.

The news of the end of the sacred ram of Anion, and of the death of the bull Apis of Memphis,
had reached the House of Seti, and was received there with loud lamentation, in which all its
inhabitants joined, from the chief haruspex down to the smallest boy in the school-courts.

The superior of the institution, Ameni, had been for three days in Thebes, and was expected
to return to-day.  His arrival was looked for with anxiety and excitement by many.  The chief
of the haruspices was eager for it that he might hand over the imprisoned scholars to condign
punishment, and complain to him of Pentaur and Bent-Anat; the initiated knew that important
transactions must have been concluded on the farther side of the Nile; and the rebellious disciples
knew that now stern justice would be dealt to them.

The insurrectionary troop were locked into an open court upon bread and water, and as the usual
room of detention of the establishment was too small for them all, for two nights they had
had to sleep in a loft on thin straw mats.  The young spirits were excited to the highest pitch,
but each expressed his feelings in quite a different manner.

Bent-Anat's brother, Rameses' son, Rameri, had experienced the same treatment as his fellows,
whom yesterday he had led into every sort of mischief, with even more audacity than usual,
but to-day he hung his head.

In a corner of the court sat Anana, Pentaur's favorite scholar, hiding his face in his hands
which rested on his knees.  Rameri went up to him, touched his shoulders and said:

"We have played the game, and now must bear the consequences for good and for evil.  Are you
not ashamed of yourself, old boy?  Your eyes are wet, and the drops here on your hands have
not fallen from the clouds.  You who are seventeen, and in a few months will be a scribe and
a grown man!"

Anana looked at the prince, dried his eyes quickly; and said:

"I was the ring-leader.  Ameni will turn me out of the place, and I must return disgraced to
my poor mother, who has no one in the world but me."

"Poor fellow!"  said Rameri kindly.  "It was striking at random!  If only our attempt had done
Pentaur any good!"

"We have done him harm, on the contrary," said Anana vehemently, "and have behaved like fools!"
Rameri nodded in full assent, looked thoughtful for a moment, and then said:

"Do you know, Anana, that you were not the ringleader?  The trick was planned in this crazy
brain; I take the whole blame on my own shoulders. I am the son of Rameses, and Ameni will
be less hard on me than on you."

"He will examine us all," replied Anana, "and I will be punished sooner than tell a lie."

Rameri colored.

"Have you ever known my tongue sin against the lovely daughter of Ra?" he exclaimed.  "But
look here! did I stir up Antef, Hapi, Sent and all the others or no?  Who but I advised you
to find out Pentaur?  Did I threaten to beg my father to take me from the school of Seti or
not? I was the instigator of the mischief, I pulled the wires, and if we are questioned let
me speak first.  Not one of you is to mention Anana's name; do you hear?  not one of you, and
if they flog us or deprive us of our food we all stick to this, that I was guilty of all the
mischief."

"You are a brave fellow!" said the son of the chief priest of Anion, shaking his right hand,
while Anana held his left.

The prince freed himself laughing from their grasp.

"Now the old man may come home," he exclaimed, "we are ready for him. But all the same I will
ask my father to send me to Chennu, as sure as my name is Rameri, if they do not recall Pentaur."

"He treated us like school-boys!"  said the eldest of the young malefactors.

"And with reason," replied Rameri, "I respect him all the more for it. You all think I am a
careless dog--but I have my own ideas, and I will speak the words of wisdom."

With these words he looked round on his companions with comical gravity, and continued--imitating
Ameni's manner:

"Great men are distinguished from little men by this--they scorn and contemn all which flatters
their vanity, or seems to them for the moment desirable, or even useful, if it is not compatible
with the laws which they recognize, or conducive to some great end which they have set before
them; even though that end may not be reached till after their death.

"I have learned this, partly from my father, but partly I have thought it out for myself; and
now I ask you, could Pentaur as 'a great man' have dealt with us better?"

"You have put into words exactly what I myself have thought ever since yesterday," cried Anana.
"We have behaved like babies, and instead of carrying our point we have brought ourselves and
Pentaur into disgrace."

The rattle of an approaching chariot was now audible, and Rameri exclaimed, interrupting Anana,
"It is he.  Courage, boys!  I am the guilty one.  He will not dare to have me thrashed--but
he will stab me with looks!"

Ameni descended quickly from his chariot.  The gate-keeper informed him that the chief of the
kolchytes, and the inspector of victims from the temple of Anion, desired to speak with him.

"They must wait," said the Prophet shortly.  "Show them meanwhile into the garden pavilion.
Where is the chief haruspex?"

He had hardly spoken when the vigorous old man for whom he was enquiring hurried to meet him,
to make him acquainted with all that had occurred in his absence.  But the high-priest had
already heard in Thebes all that his colleague was anxious to tell him.

When Ameni was absent from the House of Seti, he caused accurate information to be brought
to him every morning of what had taken place there.

Now when the old man began his story he interrupted him.

"I know everything," he said.  "The disciples cling to Pentaur, and have committed a folly
for his sake, and you met the princess Bent-Anat with him in the temple of Hatasu, to which
he had admitted a woman of low rank before she had been purified. The thrust was a dip in the most evil thing he had never seen. It's indescribable
anger that gripped the audience. Had it been another bullfighter had gone through a whistle,
large or small, but have conceived the hope of seeing a former teacher bullfighting by Montes
system and come to the square to witness that shame, this put out of his fans. What shouting,
good heavens! How insulting! I'm sorry! It seemed that everyone had just robbed him the honor of
his daughter.

- Morral, thief, big pig! So you hang by your feet! Are you the one
who received the bulls?

A prison with that rascal! Mr. President, how soon would you have Civil Guard?

And amid the clutter, oranges, empty bottles and even a few stones, flying the square, and right-hander
hurt miracle. This advanced, pale, embarrassed, to the presidency. Tended to reach near where they
were Enrique and Miguel, an orange accurate him in the face and drew
blood.

Enrique, who was already excited and nervous, could not repress indignation,
and rising shouted to those behind:

- Who was that brave?

Is that bold without shame?

- Outside the premature cool!

To dance! - Answered from above.

- Is it addressed V. me? - said a rising with arrogance.

- I am writing to which he is.

- Then we will see the faces on exit.

- It's see you to spit - Enrique said angrily.

- Away, away! Who feels that babieca! - Shouted from above.

He had no choice but to do so. The cigar smiled wiping the blood with
his handkerchief.

It was a smile so sad and so humble, that Michael is the heart and were pressed on the verge
of swallowing tears.

Just when it appeared the second bull in the ring, found at all the fuss. For more than worked
until he could not take them out more, the poor did not get captured
Cigarette benevolence, even the forgiveness of the public.

All efforts made, how many coats missed (and justice required to
declare that the casting of art), served as a mockery and ridicule
the enraged people.

El Gordo, in his bull, was as usual, from Masters and clicking crutch pretty bad. Bullfighting
lizard on his short and cool, and went for the right to volapié, giving a good thrust, but starting
trompicado. Many cheers.

Reached the fourth bull, which corresponded back to cigar. Veragua was a red ribbon, energetic,
black-eyed, open horn, good picture, like almost all of the Duke, a brave and beautiful animal.

Hake will put up a good pair to crazing. The Serranito took after the sticks, and as the public
saw him in the middle of the square, applauded.

- Smell your mare, salt!

Room also wanted them, but it happened once because the bull would not start. Again quartering and
returned to spend for the same reason. Again he went to the bull, and again happened. Then
there was some forward movement in the public heard a whistle, this was the bane of the poor lad.
Wounded his pride, rushed to the res-blind and wanted to stab him
the flags at all costs, the bull, which had not moved, you'll be hooked
below arm and flipped.

There was a cry of horror in the square. The entire crews rushed on the animal, trying to
take it, but to no avail. Cigarette unnecessarily jumping heroically in front of the horns, by putting
the cloth over the eyes; vain Lagartijo Gordo and he also threw coats,
exposing them to die, the bull, as if he had any Baldomero unfortunate
grievance, not listen to anything, and picked it up again and again
threw air. Then the cigar, last inspiration, dropped the coat, clutched
tightly the tail of the beast and began colearla; took many turns,
at last fell sick, the Gordo took the coat away. In this the Serranito
had stood and smiled forcibly the public as the gladiator who wants
to die with grace, touched his chest and fell again, releasing jets
of blood from wounds. Two Wise Monkeys picked him up and took him
to nursing, while others ran at once to cover the blood with sand.

The
president, who must have been shocked and upset as everyone in the
audience, gave the death signal, without considering that the bull
had been placed not more than a couple of flags, and it was dangerous
for the sword that was so full of death.  It is easier to
find the way without a guide in the day-light than in the dark.  We are more than a match for
the priests of Anion."

"So long as you are our leader, certainly," cried the haruspex.

"And so long as the temple has no lack of men of your temper!" added Ameni, half to Septah,
and half to the second prophet of the temple, sturdy old Gagabu, who had come into the room.

Both accompanied him into the garden, where the two priests were awaiting him with the miraculous
heart.

Ameni greeted the priest from the temple of Anion with dignified friendliness, the head kolchytes
with distant reserve, listened to their story, looked at the heart which lay in the box, with
Septah and Gagabu, touched it delicately with the tips of his fingers, carefully examining
the object, which diffused a strong perfume of spices; then he said earnestly:

"If this, in your opinion, kolchytes, is not a human heart, and if in yours, my brother of
the temple of Anion, it is a ram's heart, and if it was found in the body of Rui, who is gone
to Osiris, we here have a mystery which only the Gods can solve.  Follow me into the great
court. Let the gong be sounded, Gagabu, four times, for I wish to call all the brethren together."

The gong rang in loud waves of sound to the farthest limits of the group of buildings.  The
initiated, the fathers, the temple-servants, and the scholars streamed in, and in a few minutes
were all collected.  Not a man was wanting, for at the four strokes of the rarely-sounded alarum
every dweller in the House of Seti was expected to appear in the court of the temple.  Even
the leech Nebsecht came; for he feared that the unusual summons announced the outbreak of a fire.

Ameni ordered the assembly to arrange itself in a procession, informed his astonished hearers
that in the breast of the deceased prophet Rui, a ram's heart, instead of a man's, had been
found, and desired them all to follow his instructions.  Each one, he said, was to fall on
his knees and pray, while he would carry the heart into the holiest of holies, and enquire
of the Gods what this wonder might portend to the faithful.

Ameni, with the heart in his hand, placed himself at the head of the procession, and disappeared
behind the veil of the sanctuary, the initiated prayed in the vestibule, in front of it; the
priests and scholars in the vast court, which was closed on the west by the stately colonnade
and the main gateway to the temple.

For fully an hour Ameni remained in the silent holy of holies, from which thick clouds of incense
rolled out, and then he reappeared with a golden vase set with precious stones.  His tall figure
was now resplendent with rich ornaments, and a priest, who walked before him, held the vessel
high above his head.

Ameni's eyes seemed spell-bound to the vase, and he followed it, supporting himself by his
crozier, with humble inflections.

The initiated bowed their heads till they touched the pavement, and the priests and scholars
bent their faces down to the earth, when they beheld their haughty master so filled with humility
and devotion.  The worshippers did not raise themselves till Ameni had reached the middle of
the court and ascended the steps of the altar, on which the vase with the heart was now placed,
and they listened to the slow and solemn accents of the high-priest which sounded clearly through
the whole court.

"Fall down again and worship! wonder, pray, and adore!  The noble inspector of sacrifices of
the temple of Anion has not been deceived in his judgment; a ram's heart was in fact found
in the pious breast of Rui. I heard distinctly the voice of the Divinity in the sanctuary,
and strange indeed was the speech that met my ear.  Wolves tore the sacred ram of Anion in
his sanctuary on the other bank of the river, but the heart of the divine beast found its way
into the bosom of the saintly Rui.  A great miracle has been worked, and the Gods have shown
a wonderful sign.  The spirit of the Highest liked not to dwell in the body of this not perfectly
holy ram, and seeking a purer abiding-place found it in the breast of our Rui; and now in this
consecrated vase.  In this the heart shall be preserved till a new ram offered by a worthy
hand enters the herd of Anion.  This heart shall be preserved with the most sacred relics,
it has the property of healing many diseases, and the significant words seem favorable which
stood written in the midst of the vapor of incense, and which I will repeat to you word for
word, 'That which is high shall rise higher, and that which exalts itself, shall soon fall
down.'  Rise, pastophori! hasten to fetch the holy images, bring them out, place the sacred
heart at the head of the procession, and let us march round the walls of the temple with hymns
of praise.  Ye temple- servants, seize your staves, and spread in every part of the city the
news of the miracle which the Divinity has vouchsafed to us."

After the procession had marched round the temple and dispersed, the priest of Anion took leave
of Ameni; he bowed deeply and formally before him, and with a coolness that was almost malicious
said:

"We, in the temple of Anion, shall know how to appreciate what you heard in the holy of holies.
The miracle has occurred, and the king shall learn how it came to pass, and in what words it
was announced."

"In the words of the Most High," said the high priest with dignity; he bowed to the other,
and turned to a group of priests, who were discussing the great event of the day.

Ameni enquired of them as to the preparations for the festival of the morrow, and then desired
the chief haruspex to call the refractory pupils together in the school-court.  The old man
informed him that Pentaur had returned, and he followed his superior to the released prisoners,
who, prepared for the worst, and expecting severe punishment, nevertheless shook with laughter
when Rameri suggested that, if by chance they were condemned to kneel upon peas, they should
get them cooked first.

"It will be long asparagus

     [Asparagus was known to the Egyptians.  Pliny says they held in
     their mouths, as a remedy for toothache, wine in which asparagus had
     been cooked.]

--not peas," said another looking over his shoulder, and pretending to be flogging.  They all
shouted again with laughter, but it was hushed as soon as they heard Ameni's well-known footstep.

Each feared the worst, and when the high-priest stood before them even Rameri's mirth was quite
quelled, for though Ameni looked neither angry nor threatening, his appearance commanded respect,
and each one recognized in him a judge against whose verdict no remonstrance was to be thought of.

To their infinite astonishment Ameni spoke kindly to the thoughtless boys, praised the motive
of their action--their attachment to a highly- endowed teacher--but then clearly and deliberately
laid before them the folly of the means they had employed to attain their end, and at what
a cost.  "Only think," he continued, turning to the prince, "if your father sent a general,
who he thought would be better in a different place, from Syria to Kusch, and his troops therefore
all went over to the enemy!  How would you like that?"

So for some minutes he continued to blame and warn them, and he ended his speech by promising,
in consideration of the great miracle that gave that day a special sanctity, to exercise unwonted
clemency.  For the sake of example, he said, he could not let them pass altogether unpunished,
and he now asked them which of them had been the instigator of the deed; he and he only should
suffer punishment.

He had hardly clone speaking, when prince Rameri stepped forward, and said modestly:

"We acknowledge, holy father, that we have played a foolish trick; and I lament it doubly because
I devised it, and made the others follow me. I love Pentaur, and next to thee there is no one
like him in the sanctuary."

Ameni's countenance grew dark, and he answered with displeasure:

"No judgment is allowed to pupils as to their teachers--nor to you. If you were not the son
of the king, who rules Egypt as Ra, I would punish your temerity with stripes.  My hands are
tied with regard to you, and yet they must be everywhere and always at work if the hundreds
committed to my care are to be kept from harm."

"Nay, punish me!"  cried Rameri.  "If I commit a folly I am ready to bear the consequences."

Ameni looked pleased at the vehement boy, and would willingly have shaken him by the hand and
stroked his curly head, but the penance he proposed for Rameri was to serve a great end, and
Ameni would not allow any overflow of emotion to hinder him in the execution of a well considered
design.  So he answered the prince with grave determination:

"I must and will punish you--and I do so by requesting you to leave the House of Seti this
very day."

The prince turned pale.  But Ameni went on more kindly:

"I do not expel you with ignominy from among us--I only bid you a friendly farewell.  In a
few weeks you would in any case have left the college, and by the king's command have transferred
your blooming life, health, and strength to the exercising ground of the chariot-brigade. No
punishment for you but this lies in my power.  Now give me your hand; you will make a fine
man, and perhaps a great warrior."

The prince stood in astonishment before Ameni, and did not take his offered hand.  Then the
priest went up to him, and said:

"You said you were ready to take the consequences of your folly, and a prince's word must be
kept.  Before sunset we will conduct you to the gate of the temple."

Ameni turned his back on the boys, and left the school-court.

Rameri looked after him.  Utter whiteness had overspread his blooming face, and the blood had
left even his lips. 

Julia blushed as she laughed all around the plaza.

They had arrived at once, the crowd stirred, they were struggling with whether they should have came or not.
Cars started to gather, while riots started and disturbances were
made. There were to little guards to suppress this issue.

He soon observed this, and tried to collect himself, and then he said in a low tone while he
held out his hands to Anana and another friend:

"Am I then so bad that I must be driven out from among you all like this --that such a blow
must be inflicted on my father?"

"You refused Ameni your hand!" answered Anana.  "Go to him, offer him your hand, beg him to
be less severe, and perhaps he will let you remain."

Rameri answered only "No."  But that "No" was so decided that all who knew him understood that
it was final.

Before the sun set he had left the school.  Ameni gave him his blessing; he told him that if
he himself ever had to command he would understand his severity, and allowed the other scholars
to accompany him as far as the Nile.  Pentaur parted from him tenderly at the gate.

When Rameri was alone in the cabin of his gilt bark with his tutor, he felt his eyes swimming
in tears.

"Your highness is surely not weeping?"  asked the official.

"Why?" asked the prince sharply.

"I thought I saw tears on your highness' cheeks."

"Tears of joy that I am out of the trap," cried Rameri; he sprang on shore, and in a few minutes
he was with his sister in the palace.

