"You do not know who I am, my dear!" he said. The English voice and words went straight to
my heart. How many months it was since I had heard my own language spoken thus! Tardif had
been too glad to speak in his own patois, now I understood it so well; and Minima's prattle
had not sounded to me like those few syllables in the deep, cultivated voice which uttered them.

"No," I answered, "but you are come to me from Dr. Martin Dobrée."

"Very true," he said, "I am his friend's father--Dr. John Senior's father. Martin has sent
me to you. He wished Miss Johanna Carey to accompany me, but we were afraid of the fever for
her. I am an old physician, and feel at home with disease and contagion. But we cannot allow
you to remain in this unhealthy village; that is out of the question. I am come to carry you
away, in spite of this old curé."

Monsieur Laurentie was listening eagerly, and watching Dr. Senior's lips, as if he could catch
the meaning of his words by sight, if not by hearing.

"But where am I to go?" I asked. "I have no money, and cannot get any until I have written
to Melbourne, and have an answer. I have no means of proving who I am."

"Leave all that to us, my dear girl," answered Dr. Senior, cordially. "I have already spoken
of your affairs to an old friend of mine, who is an excellent lawyer. I am come to offer myself
to you in place of your guardians on the other side of the world. You will do me a very great
favor by frankly accepting a home in my house for the present. I have neither wife nor daughter;
but Miss Carey is already there, preparing rooms for you and your little charge. We have made
inquiries about the little girl, and find she has no friends living. I will take care of her
future. Do you think you could trust yourself and her to me?"

"Oh, yes!" I replied, but I moved a little nearer to Monsieur Laurentie, and put my hand through
his arm. He folded his own thin, brown hand over it caressingly, and looked down at me, with
something like tears glistening in his eyes.

"Is it all settled?" he asked, "is monsieur come to rob me of my English daughter? She will
go away now to her own island, and forget Ville-en-bois and her poor old French father!"

"Never! never!" I answered vehemently, "I shall not forget you as long as I live. Besides,
I mean to come back very often; every year if I can. I almost wish I could stay here altogether;
but you know that is impossible, monsieur. Is it not quite impossible?"

"Quite impossible!" he repeated, somewhat sadly, "madame is too rich now; she will have many
good friends."

"Not one better than you," I said, "not one more dear than you. Yes, I am rich; and I have
been planning something to do for Ville-en-bois. Would you like the church enlarged and beautified,
Monsieur le Curé?"

"It is large enough and fine enough already," he answered.

"Shall I put some painted windows and marble images into it?" I asked.

"No, no, madame," he replied, "let it remain as it is during my short lifetime."

"I thought so," I said, "but I believe I have discovered what Monsieur le Curé would approve.
It is truly English. There is no sentiment, no romance about it. Cannot you guess what it is,
my wise and learned monsieur?"

"No, no, madame," he answered, smiling in spite of his sadness.

"Listen, dear monsieur," I continued: "if this village is unhealthy for me, it is unhealthy
for you and your people. Dr. Martin told Tardif there would always be fever here, as long as
there are no drains and no pure water. Very well; now I am rich I shall have it drained, precisely
like the best English town; and there shall be a fountain in the middle of the village, where
all the people can go to draw good water. I shall come back next year to see how it has been
done, Voilà, monsieur! There is my secret plan for Ville-en-bois."

Nothing could have been more effectual for turning away Monsieur Laurentie's thoughts from
the mournful topic of our near separation. After vespers, and before supper, he, Dr. Senior,
and I made the tour of Ville-en-bois, investigating the close, dark cottages, and discussing
plans for rendering them more wholesome. The next day, and the day following, the same subject
continued to occupy him and Dr. Senior; and thus the pain of our departure was counterbalanced
by his pleasure in anticipating the advantages to be obtained by a thorough drainage of his
village, and more ventilation and light in the dwellings.

The evening before we were to set out on our return to England, while the whole population,
including Dr. Senior, were assisting at vespers, I turned my feet toward the little cemetery
on the hill-side, which I had never yet visited.--The sun had sunk below the tops of the pollard-trees,
which grew along the brow of the hill in grotesque and fantastic shapes; but a few stray beams
glimmered through the branches, and fell here and there in spots of dancing light. The small
square enclosure was crowded with little hillocks, at the head of which stood simple crosses
of wood; crosses so light and little as to seem significant emblems of the difference between
our sorrows, and those borne for our sakes upon Calvary. Wreaths of immortelles hung upon most
of them. Below me lay the valley and the homes where the dead at my feet had lived; the sunshine
lingered yet about the spire, with its cross, which towered above the belfry; but all else
was in shadow, which was slowly deepening into night. In the west the sky was flushing and
throbbing with transparent tints of amber and purple and green, with flecks of cloud floating
across it of a pale gold. Eastward it was still blue, but fading into a faint gray. The dusky
green of the cypresses looked black, as I turned my splendor-dazzled eyes toward them.

I strolled to and fro among the grassy mounds, not consciously seeking one of them; though,
very deep down in my inmost spirit, there must have been an impulse which unwittingly directed
me. I did not stay my feet, or turn away from the village burial-place, until I came upon a
grave, the latest made among them. It was solitary, unmarked; with no cross to throw its shadow
along it, as the sun was setting. I knew then that I had come to seek it, to bid farewell to
it, to leave it behind me for evermore.

The next morning Monsieur Laurentie accompanied us on our journey, as far as the cross at the
entrance to the valley. He parted with us there; and when I stood up in the carriage to look
back once more at him, I saw his black-robed figure kneeling on the white steps of the Calvary,
and the sun shining upon his silvery head.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FIFTH.

TOO HIGHLY CIVILIZED.

For the third time I landed in England. When I set foot upon its shores first I was worse than
friendless, with foes of my own household surrounding me; the second time I was utterly alone,
in daily terror, in poverty, with a dreary, life-long future stretching before me. Now every
want of mine was anticipated, every step directed, as if I were a child again, and my father
himself was caring for me. How many friends, good and tried and true, could I count! All the
rough paths were made smooth for me.

It was dusk before we reached London; but before the train stopped at the platform, a man's
hand was laid upon the carriage-door, and a handsome face was smiling over it upon us. I scarcely
dared look who it was; but the voice that reached my ears was not Martin Dobrée's.

"I am here in Martin's place," said Dr. John Senior, as soon as he could make himself heard;
"he has been hindered by a wretch of a patient.--Welcome home, Miss Martineau!"

"She is not Miss Martineau, John," remarked Dr. Senior. There was a tinge of stateliness about
him, bordering upon formality, which had kept me a little in awe of him all the journey through.
His son laughed, with a pleasant audacity.

"Welcome home. Olivia, then!" he said, clasping my hand warmly. "Martin and I never call you
by any other name."

A carriage was waiting for us, and Dr. John took Minima beside him, chattering with her as
the child loved to chatter. As for me, I felt a little anxious and uneasy. Once more I was
about to enter upon an entirely new life; upon the untried ways of a wealthy, conventional,
punctilious English household. Hitherto my mode of life had been almost as wandering and free
as that of a gypsy. Even at home, during my pleasant childhood, our customs had been those
of an Australian sheep-farm, exempt from all the usages of any thing like fashion. Dr. John's
kid gloves, which fitted his hand to perfection, made me uncomfortable.

I felt still more abashed and oppressed when we reached Dr. Senior's house, and a footman ran
down to the carriage, to open the door and to carry in my poor little portmanteau. It looked
miserably poor and out of place in the large, brilliantly-lit hall. Minima kept close beside
me, silent, but gazing upon this new abode with wide-open eyes.

Why was not Martin here? He had known me in Sark, in Tardif's cottage, and he would understand
how strange and how unlike home all this was to me.

A trim maid was summoned to show us to our rooms, and she eyed us with silent criticism. She
conducted us to a large and lofty apartment, daintily and luxuriously fitted up, with a hundred
knick-knacks about it, of which I could not even guess the use. A smaller room communicated
with it which had been evidently furnished for Minima. The child squeezed my hand tightly as
we gazed into it. I felt as if we were gypsies, suddenly caught, and caged in a splendid captivity.

"Isn't it awful?" asked Minima, in a whisper; "it frightens me."

It almost frightened me too. I was disconcerted also by my own reflection in the long mirror
before me. A rustic, homely peasant-girl, with a brown face and rough hands, looked back at
me from the shining surface, wearing a half-Norman dress, for I had not had time to buy more
than a bonnet and shawl as we passed through Falaise. What would Miss Carey think of me? How
should I look in Dr. John's fastidious eyes? Would not Martin be disappointed and shocked when
he saw me again?

I could not make any change in my costume, and the maid carried off Minima to do what she could
with her. There came a gentle knock at my door, and Miss Carey entered. Here was the fitting
personage to dwell in a house like this. A delicate gray-silk dress, a dainty lace cap, a perfect
self-possession, a dignified presence. My heart sank low. But she kissed me affectionately,
and smiled as I looked anxiously into her face.

"My dear," she said, "I hope you will like your room. John and Martin have ransacked London
for pretty things for it. See, there is a painting of Tardifs cottage in Sark. Julia has painted
it for you. And here is a portrait of my dear friend, Martin's mother; he hung it there himself
only this morning. I hope you will soon feel quite at home with us, Olivia."

Before I could answer, a gong sounded through the house, with a sudden clang that startled me.

We went down to the drawing-room, where Dr. Senior gave me his arm, and led me ceremoniously
to dinner. At this very hour my dear Monsieur Laurentie and mademoiselle were taking their
simple supper at the little round table, white as wood could be made by scrubbing, but with
no cloth upon it. My chair and Minima's would be standing back against the wall. The tears
smarted under my eyelids, and I answered at random to the remarks made to me. How I longed
to be alone for a little while, until I could realize all the change that had come into my life!

We had been in the drawing-room again only a few minutes, when we heard the hall-door opened,
and a voice speaking. By common consent, as it were, every one fell into silence to listen.
I looked up for a moment, and saw that all three of them had turned their eyes upon me; friendly
eyes they were, but their scrutiny was intolerable. Dr. Senior began to talk busily with Miss
Carey.

"Hush!" cried Minima, who was standing beside Dr. John, "hush! I believe it is--yes, I am sure
it is Dr. Martin!"

She sprang to the door just as it was opened, and flung her arms round him in a transport of
delight. I did not dare to lift my eyes again, to see them all smiling at me. He could not
come at once to speak to me, while that child was clinging to him and kissing him.

"I'm so glad," she said, almost sobbing; "come and see my auntie, who was so ill when you were
in Ville-en-bois. You did not see her, you know; but she is quite well now, and very, very
rich. We are never going to be poor again. Come; she is here. Auntie, this is that nice Dr.
Martin, who made me promise not to tell you he was at Ville-en-bois, while you were so ill."

She dragged him eagerly toward me, and I put my hand in his; but I did not look at him. That
I did some minutes afterward, when he was talking to Miss Carey. It was many months since I
had seen him last in Sark. There was a great change in his face, and he looked several years
older. It was grave, and almost mournful, as if he did not smile very often, and his voice
was lower in tone than it had been then. Dr. John, who was standing beside him, was certainly
much gayer and handsomer than he was. He caught my eye, and came back to me, sitting near enough
to talk with me in an undertone.

"Are you satisfied with the arrangements we have made for you?" he inquired.

"Quite," I said, not daring either to thank him, or to tell him how oppressed I was by my sudden
change. Both of us spoke as quietly, and with as much outward calm, as if we were in the habit
of seeing each other every day. A chill came across me.

"At one time," he continued, "I asked Johanna to open her home to you; but that was when I
thought you would be safer and happier in a quiet place like hers than anywhere else. Now you
are your own mistress, and can choose your own residence. But you could not have a better home
than this. It would not be well for you, so young and friendless, to live in a house of your own."

"No," I said, somewhat sadly.

"Dr. Senior is delighted to have you here," he went on; "you will see very good society in
this house, and that is what you should do. You ought to see more and better people than you
have yet known. Does it seem strange to you that we have assumed a sort of authority over you
and your affairs? You do not yet know how we have been involved in them."

"How?" I asked, looking up into his face with a growing curiosity.

"Olivia," he said, "Foster was my patient for some months, and I knew all his affairs intimately.
He had married that person--"

"Married her!" I ejaculated.

"Yes. You want to know how he could do that? Well, he produced two papers, one a medical certificate
of your death, the other a letter purporting to be from some clergyman. He had, too, a few
lines in your own handwriting, which stated you had sent him your ring, the only valuable thing
left to you, as you had sufficient for your last necessities. Even I believed for a few hours
that you were dead. But I must tell you all about it another time."

"Did he believe it?" I asked, in a trembling voice.

"I do not know," he answered; "I cannot tell, even now, whether he knew them to be forgeries
or not. But I have no doubt, myself, that they were forged by Mrs. Foster's brother and his
partner, Scott and Brown."

"But for what reason?" I asked again.

