I need not enter into a very lengthy account of the celebrated Papal decree which has made
so many martyrs, depopulated our schools, introduced ignorance, fanaticism, and misrule, rewarded
vice, thrown the whole community into the greatest confusion, caused disorder everywhere, and
established the most arbitrary and the most barbarous inquisition; evils which have doubled
within the last thirty years.  I will content myself with a word or two, and will not blacken
further the pages of my Memoirs.  Many pens have been occupied, and will be occupied, with
this subject.  It is not the apostleship of Jesus Christ that is in question, but that of the
reverend fathers and their ambitious clients.

It is enough to say that the new bull condemned in set terms the doctrines of Saint-Paul (respected
like oracles of the Holy Spirit ever since the time of our Saviour), and also those of Saint-Augustin,
and of other fathers; doctrines which have always been adopted by the Popes, by the Councils,
and by the Church itself.  The bull, as soon as published, met with a violent opposition in
Rome from the cardinals there, who went by sixes, by eights, and by tens, to complain of it
to the Pope.  They might well do so, for they had not been consulted in any way upon this new
constitution.  Father Tellier and his friends had had the art and the audacity to obtain the
publication of it without submitting it to them. The Pope, as I have said, had been forced
into acquiescence, and now, all confused, knew not what to say.  He protested, however, that
the publication had been made without his knowledge, and put off the cardinals with compliments,
excuses, and tears, which last he could always command.

The constitution had the same fate in France as in Rome.  The cry against it was universal.
The cardinals protested that it would never be received.  They were shocked by its condemnation
of the doctrines of Saint-Augustin and of the other fathers; terrified at its condemnation
of Saint-Paul.  There were not two opinions upon this terrible constitution. The Court, the
city, and the provinces, as soon as they knew the nature of it, rose against it like one man.

In addition to the articles of this constitution which I have already named, there was one
which excited infinite alarm and indignation, for it rendered the Pope master of every crown!
As is well known, there is a doctrine of the Church, which says:

"An unjust excommunication ought got to hinder [us] from doing our duty."

The new constitution condemned this doctrine, and consequently proclaimed that:

"An unjust excommunication ought to hinder [us] from doing our duty."

The enormity of this last is more striking than the simple truth of the proposition condemned.
The second is a shadow which better throws up the light of the first.  The results and the
frightful consequences of the condemnation are as clear as day.

I think I have before said that Father Tellier, without any advances on my part, without, in
fact, encouragement of any kind, insisted upon keeping up an intimacy with me, which I could
not well repel, for it came from a man whom it would have been very dangerous indeed to have
for an- enemy.  As soon as this matter of the constitution was in the wind, he came to me to
talk about it.  I did not disguise my opinion from him, nor did he disguise in any way from
me the unscrupulous means he meant to employ in order to get this bull accepted by the clergy.
Indeed, he was so free with me, showed me so plainly his knavery and cunning, that I was, as
it were, transformed with astonishment and fright.  I never could comprehend this openness
in a man so false, so artificial, so profound, or see in what manner it could be useful to him.

One day he came to me by appointment, with a copy of the constitution in his hand in order
that we might thoroughly discuss it.  I was at Versailles.  In order to understand what I am
going to relate, I must give some account of my apartments there.  Let me say, then, that I
had a little back cabinet, leading out of another cabinet, but so arranged that you would not
have thought it was there.  It received no light except from the outer cabinet, its own windows
being boarded up.  In this back cabinet I had a bureau, some chairs, books, and all I needed;
my friends called it my "shop," and in truth it did not ill resemble one.

Father Tellier came at the hour he had fixed.  As chance would have it, M. le Duc and Madame
la Duchesse de Berry had invited themselves to a collation with Madame de Saint-Simon that
morning.  I knew that when they arrived I should no longer be master of my chamber or of my
cabinet.  I told Father Tellier this, and he was much vexed.  He begged me so hard to find
some place where we might be inaccessible to the company, that at last, pressed by him to excess,
I said I knew of only one expedient by which we might become free: and I told him that he must
dismiss his 'vatble' (as the brother who always accompanies a monk is called), and that then,
furnished with candles, we would go and shut ourselves up in my back cabinet, where we could
neither be seen nor heard, if we took care not to speak loud when anybody approached.  He thought
the expedient admirable, dismissed his companion, and we sat down opposite each other, the
bureau between us, with two candles alight upon it.

He immediately began to sing the praises of the Constitution Unigenitus, a copy of which he
placed on the table.  I interrupted him so as to come at once to the excommunication proposition.
We discussed it with much politeness, but with little accord.  I shall not pretend to report
our dispute.  It was warm and long.  I pointed out to Father Tellier, that supposing the King
and the little Dauphin were both to die, and this was a misfortune which might happen, the
crown of France would by right of birth belong to the King of Spain; but according to the renunciation
just made, it would belong to M. le Duc de Berry and his branch, or in default to M. le Duc
d'Orleans.  "Now," said I, "if the two brothers dispute the crown, and the Pope favouring the
one should excommunicate the other, it follows, according to our new constitution, that the
excommunicated must abandon all his claims, all his partisans, all his forces, and go over
to the other side.  For you say, an unjust excommunication ought to hinder us from doing our
duty.  So that in one fashion or another the Pope is master of all the crowns in his communion,
is at liberty to take them away or to give them as he pleases, a liberty so many Popes have
claimed and so many have tried to put in action."

My argument was simple, applicable, natural, and pressing: it offered itself, of itself.  Wherefore,
the confessor was amazed by it; he blushed, he beat about the bush, he could not collect himself.
By degrees he did so, and replied to me in a manner that he doubtless thought would convince
me at once.  "If the case you suggest were to happen," he said, "and the Pope declaring for
one disputant were to excommunicate the other and all his followers, such excommunication would
not merely be unjust, it would be false; and it has never been decided that a false excommunication
should hinder us from doing our duty."

"Ah! my father," I said, "your distinction is subtle and clever, I admit. I admit, too, I did
not expect it, but permit me some few more objections, I beseech you.  Will the Ultramontanes
admit the nullity of the excommunication?  Is it not null as soon as it is unjust?  If the
Pope has the power to excommunicate unjustly, and to enforce obedience to his excommunication,
who can limit power so unlimited, and why should not his false (or nullified) excommunication
be as much obeyed and respected as his unjust excommunication?  Suppose the case I have imagined
were to happen.  Suppose the Pope were to excommunicate one of the two brothers. Do you think
it would be easy to make your subtle distinction between a false and an unjust excommunication
understood by the people, the soldiers, the bourgeois, the officers, the lords, the women,
at the very moment when they would be preparing to act and to take up arms?  You see I point
out great inconveniences that may arise if the new doctrine be accepted, and if the Pope should
claim the power of deposing kings, disposing of their crowns, and releasing their subjects
from the oath of fidelity in opposition to the formal words of Jesus Christ and of all the
Scripture."

My words transported the Jesuit, for I had touched the right spring in spite of his effort
to hide it.  He said nothing personal to me, but he fumed.  The more he restrained himself
for me the less he did so for the matter in hand.  As though to indemnify himself for his moderation
on my, account, he launched out the more, upon the subject we were discussing. In his heat,
no longer master of himself, many things escaped him, silence upon which I am sure he would
afterwards have bought very dearly. He told me so many things of the violence that would be
used to make his constitution accepted, things so monstrous, so atrocious, so terrible, and
with such extreme passion that I fell into a veritable syncope.  I saw him right in front of
me between two candles, only the width of the table between us (I have described elsewhere
his horrible physiognomy). My hearing and my sight became bewildered.  I was seized, while
he was speaking, with the full idea of what a Jesuit was.  Here was a man who, by his state
and his vows, could hope for nothing for his family or for himself; who could not expect an
apple or a glass of wine more than his brethren; who was approaching an age when he would have
to render account of all things to God, and who, with studied deliberation and mighty artifice,
was going to throw the state and religion into the most terrible flames, and commence a most
frightful persecution for questions which affected him in nothing, nor touched in any way the
honour of the School of Molina!

His profundities, the violence he spoke of--all this together, threw me into such an ecstasy,
that suddenly I interrupted him by saying:

"My father, how old are you?"

The extreme surprise which painted itself upon his face as I looked at him with all my eyes,
fetched back my senses, and his reply brought me completely to myself.  "Why do you ask?" he
replied, smiling.  The effort that I made over myself to escape such a unique 'proposito',
the terrible value of which I fully appreciated, furnished me an issue.  "Because," said I,
"never have I looked at you so long as I have now, you in front of me, these two candles between
us, and your face is so fresh and so healthy, with all your labours, that I am surprised at it."

He swallowed the answer, or so well pretended to do so, that he said nothing of it then nor
since, never ceasing when he met me to speak to me as openly, and as frequently as before,
I seeking him as little as ever. He replied at that time that he was seventy-four years old;
that in truth he was very well; that he had accustomed himself, from his earliest years, to
a hard life and to labour; and then went back to the point at which I had interrupted him.
We were compelled, however, to be silent for a time, because people came into my cabinet, and
Madame de Saint- Simon, who knew of our interview, had some difficulty to keep the coast clear.

For more than two hours we continued our discussion, he trying to put me off with his subtleties
and authoritativeness, I offering but little opposition to him, feeling that opposition was
of no use, all his plans being already decided.  We separated without having persuaded each
other, he with many flatteries upon my intelligence, praying me to reflect well upon the matter;
I replying that my reflections were all made, and that my capacity could not go farther.  I
let him out by the little back door of my cabinet, so that nobody perceived him, and as soon
as I had closed it, I threw myself into a chair like a man out of breath, and I remained there
a long time alone, reflecting upon the strange kind of ecstasy I had been in, and the horror
it had caused me.

The results of this constitution were, as I have said, terrible to the last degree; every artifice,
every cruelty was used, in order to force it down the throats of the clergy; and hence the
confusion and sore trouble which arose all over the realm.  But it is time now for me to touch
upon other matters.

Towards the close of this year, 1713, peace with the Emperor seemed so certain, that the King
disbanded sixty Battalions and eighteen men per company of the regiment of the guards, and
one hundred and six squadrons; of which squadrons twenty-seven were dragoons.  At peace now
with the rest of Europe he had no need of so many troops, even although the war Against the
Empire had continued; fortunately, however it did not. Negotiations were set on foot, and on
the 6th of March of the following year, 1714, after much debate, they ended successfully. 
On that day, in fact, peace was signed at Rastadt.  It was shortly afterwards published at
Paris, a Te Deum sung, and bonfires lighted at night; a grand collation was given at the Hotel
de Ville by the Duc de Tresmes, who at midnight also gave, in his own house, a splendid banquet,
at which were present many ladies, foreigners, and courtiers.

This winter was fertile in balls at the Court; there were several, fancy- dress and masked,
given by M. le Duc de Berry, by Madame la Duchesse de Berry, M. le Duc, and others.  There
were some also at Paris, and at Sceaux, where Madame du Maine gave many fetes and played many
comedies, everybody going there from Paris and the Court--M. du Maine doing the Honours.  Madame
la Duchesse de Berry was in the family way, and went to no dances out of her own house.  The
King permitted her, on account of her condition, to sup with him in a robe de chambre, as under
similar circumstances he had permitted the two Dauphines to do.

At the opera, one night this winter, the Abbe Servien, not liking certain praises of the King
contained in a Prologue, let slip a bitter joke in ridicule of them.  The pit took it up, repeated
it, and applauded it. Two days afterwards, the Abbe Servien was arrested and taken to Vincennes,
forbidden to speak to anybody and allowed no servant to wait upon him.  For form's sake seals
were put upon his papers, but he was not a man likely to have any fit for aught else than to
light the fire. Though more than sixty-five years old, he was strangely debauched.

The Duc de la Rochefoucauld died on Thursday, the 11th of January, at Versailles, seventy-nine
years of age, and blind.  I have spoken of him so frequently in the course of these memoirs,
that I will do nothing more now than relate a few particulars respecting him, which will serve
in some sort to form his portrait.

He had much honour, worth, and probity.  He was noble, good, magnificent, ever willing to serve
his friends; a little too much so, for he oftentimes wearied the King with importunities on
their behalf.  Without any intellect or discernment he was proud to excess, coarse and rough
in his manners--disagreeable even, and embarrassed with all except his flatterers; like a man
who does not know how to receive a visit, enter or leave a room.  He scarcely went anywhere
except to pay the indispensable compliments demanded by marriage, death, etc., and even then
as little as he could.  He lived in his own house so shut up that no, one went to see him except
on these same occasions.  He gave himself up almost entirely to his valets, who mixed themselves
in the conversation; and you were obliged to treat them with all sorts of attentions if you
wished to become a frequenter of the house.

I shall never forget what happened to us at the death of the Prince of Vaudemont's son, by
which M. de la Rochefoucauld's family came in for a good inheritance.  We were at Marly.  The
King had been stag-hunting. M. de Chevreuse, whom I found when the King was being unbooted,
proposed that we should go and pay our compliments to M. de la Rochefoucauld. We went.  Upon
entering, what was our surprise, nay, our shame, to find M. de la Rochefoucauld playing at
chess with one of his servants in livery, seated opposite to him!  Speech failed us.  M. de
la Rochefoucauld perceived it, and remained confounded himself.  He stammered, he grew confused,
he tried to excuse what we had seen, saying that this lackey played very well, and that chess-players
played with everybody.  M. de Chevreuse had not come to contradict him; neither had I; we turned
the conversation, therefore, and left as soon as possible. As soon as we were outside we opened
our minds to each other, and said what we thought of this rare meeting, which, however, we
did not make public.

M. de Rochefoucauld, towards the end of his career at Court, became so importunate, as I have
said, for his friends, that the King was much relieved by his death.  Such have been his sentiments
at the death of nearly all those whom he had liked and favoured.

Of the courage of M. de la Rochefoucauld, courtier as he was, in speaking to the King, I will
relate an instance.  It was during one of the visits at Marly, in the gardens of which the
King was amusing himself with a fountain that he set at work.  I know not what led to it, but
the King, usually so reserved, spoke with him of the bishop of Saint-Pons, then in disgrace
on account of the affairs of Port Royal.  M. de la Rochefoucauld let him speak on to the end,
and then began to praise the bishop.  The discouraging silence of the King warned him; he persisted,
however, and related how the bishop, mounted upon a mule, and visiting one day his diocese,
found himself in a path which grew narrower at every step; and which ended in a precipice.
There were no means of getting out of it except by going back, but this was impossible, there
not being enough space to turn round or to alight.  The holy bishop (for such was his term
as I well remarked) lifted his eyes to Heaven, let go the bridle, and abandoned himself to
Providence.  Immediately his mule rose up upon its hind legs, and thus upright, the bishop
still astride, turned round until its head was where its tail had been.  The beast thereupon
returned along the path until it found an opening into a good road.  Everybody around the King
imitated his silence, which excited the Duke to comment upon what he had just related.  This
generosity charmed me, and surprised all who were witness of it.

The day after the death of M. de la Rochefoucauld, the Chancellor took part in a very tragic
scene.  A Vice-bailli of Alencon had just lost a trial, in which, apparently, his honour, or
his property, was much interested.  He came to Pontchartrain's, where the Chancellor was at
the moment, and waited until he came out into the court to get into his carriage.  The Vice-bailli
then asked him for a revision of the verdict. The Chancellor, with much gentleness and goodness
represented to the man that the law courts were open to him if he insisted to appeal, but that
as to a revision of the verdict; it was contrary to usage; and turned to get into his coach.
While he was getting in; the unhappy bailli said there was a shorter way of escaping from trouble,
and stabbed himself twice with a poniard.  At the dies of the domestics the Chancellor descended
from the coach, had the man carried into a room, and sent for a doctor, and a confessor.  The
bailli made confession very peacefully, and died an hour afterwards.

I have spoken in its time of the exile of Charmel and its causes, of which the chief was his
obstinate refusal to present himself before the King.  The vexation of the King against people
who withdrew from him was always very great.  In this case, it never passed away, but hardened
into a strange cruelty, to speak within limits.  Charmel, attacked with the stone, asked permission
to come to Paris to undergo an operation.  The permission was positively refused.  Time pressed.
The operation was obliged to be done in the country.  It was so severe, and perhaps so badly
done, that Charmel died three days afterwards full of penitence and piety.  He had led a life
remarkable for its goodness, was without education, but had religious fervour that supplied
the want of it.  He was sixty-eight years of age.

The Marechale de la Ferme died at Paris, at the same time, more than eighty years old.  She
was sister of the Comtesse d'Olonne, very rich and a widow.  The beauty of the two sisters,
and the excesses of their lives, made a great stir.  No women, not even those most stigmatized
for their gallantry, dared to see them, or to be seen anywhere with them.  That was the way
then; the fashion has changed since.  When they were old and nobody cared for them, they tried
to become devout.  They lodged together, and one Ash Wednesday went and heard a sermon.  This
sermon, which was upon fasting and penitence, terrified them.

"My sister," they said to each other on their return, "it was all true; there was no joke about
it; we must do penance, or we are lost.  But, my sister, what shall we do?"  After having well
turned it over: "My sister," said Madame d'Olonne, "this is what we must do; we must make our
servants fast."  Madame d'Olonne thought she had very well met the difficulty.  However, at
last she set herself to work in earnest, at piety and penitence, and died three months after
her sister, the Marechale de la Ferme.  It will not be forgotten, that it was under cover of
the Marechale that a natural child was first legitimated without naming the mother, in order
that by this example, the King's natural children might be similarly honoured, without naming
Madame de Montespan, as I have related in its place.

CHAPTER LXIV

The Queen of Spain, for a long time violently attacked with the king's evil around the face
and neck, was just now at the point of death. Obtaining no relief from the Spanish doctors,
she wished to have Helvetius, and begged the King by an express command to send him to her.
Helvetius, much inconvenienced, and knowing besides the condition of the Princess, did not
wish to go, but the King expressly commanded him. He set out then in a postchaise, followed
by another in case his own should break down, and arrived thus at Madrid on the 11th of February,
1714.  As soon as he had seen the Queen, he said there was nothing but a miracle could save
her.  The King of Spain did not discontinue sleeping with her until the 9th.  On the 14th she
died, with much courage, consciousness, and piety.

Despair was general in Spain, where this Queen was universally adored. There was not a family
which did not lament her, not a person who has since been consoled.  The King of Spain was
extremely touched, but somewhat in a royal manner.  Thus, when out shooting one day, he came
close to the convoy by which the body of his queen was being conveyed to the Escurial; he looked
at it, followed it with his eyes, and continued his sport!  Are these princes made like other
human beings?

The death of the Queen led to amazing changes, such as the most prophetic could not have foreseen.
Let me here, then, relate the events that followed this misfortune.

I must commence by saying, that the principal cause which had so long and scandalously hindered
us from making peace with the Emperor, was a condition, which Madame des Ursins wished to insert
in the treaty, (and which the King of Spain supported through thick and thin) to the effect
that she should be invested with a bona fide sovereignty.  She had set her heart upon this,
and the king of Spain was a long time before he would consent to any terms of peace that did
not concede it to her.  It was not until the King had uttered threats against him that he would
give way.  As for Madame des Ursins, she had counted upon this sovereignty , with as much certainty
as though it were already between her fingers. She had counted, too, with equal certainty upon
exchanging it with our King, for the sovereignty of Touraine and the Amboise country; and had
actually charged her faithful Aubigny to buy her some land near Amboise to build her there
a vast palace, with courts and outbuildings; to furnish it with magnificence, to spare neither
gilding nor paintings, and to surround the whole with the most beautiful gardens.  She meant
to live there as sovereign lady of the country.  Aubigny had at once set about the work to
the surprise of everybody: for no one could imagine for whom such a grand building could be
designed.  He kept the secret, pretended he was building a house for himself and pushed on
the work so rapidly that just as peace was concluded without the stipulation respecting Madame
des Ursins being inserted in the treaty, nearly all was finished. Her sovereignty scheme thoroughly
failed; and to finish at once with that mad idea, I may as well state that, ashamed of her
failure, she gave this palace to Aubigny, who lived there all the rest of his life: Chanteloup,
for so it was called, has since passed into the hands of Madame d'Armantieres, his daughter.
It is one of the most beautiful and most singular places in all France, and the most superbly
furnished.

This sovereignty, coveted by Madame des Ursins, exceedingly offended Madame de Maintenon and
wounded her pride.  She felt, with jealousy, that the grand airs Madame des Ursins gave herself
were solely the effect of the protection she had accorded her.  She could not bear to be outstripped
in importance by the woman she herself had elevated.  The King, too, was much vexed with Madame
des Ursins; vexed also to see peace delayed; and to be obliged to speak with authority and
menace to the King of Spain, in order to compel him to give up the idea of this precious sovereignty.
The King of Spain did not yield until he was threatened with abandonment by France.  It may
be imagined what was the rage of Madame des Ursins upon missing her mark after having, before
the eyes of all Europe, fired at it with so much perseverance; nay, with such unmeasured obstinacy.
From this time there was no longer the same concert between Madame de Maintenon and Madame
des Ursins that had formerly existed.  But the latter had reached such a point in Spain, that
she thought this was of no consequence.

It has been seen with what art Madame des Ursins had unceasingly isolated the King of Spain;
in what manner she had shut him up with the Queen, and rendered him inaccessible, not only
to his Court but to his grand officers, his ministers, even his valets, so that he was served
by only three or four attendants, all French, and entirely under her thumb.  At the death of
the Queen this solitude continued.  Under the pretext that his grief demanded privacy, she
persuaded the King to leave his palace and to instal himself in a quiet retreat, the Palace
of Medina-Celi, near the Buen-Retiro, at the other end of the city.  She preferred this because
it was infinitely smaller than the Royal Palace, and because few people, in consequence, could
approach the King.  She herself took the Queen's place; and in order to have a sort of pretext
for being near the King, in the same solitude, she caused herself to be named governess of
his children.  But in order to be always there, and so that nobody should know when they were
together, she had a large wooden corridor made from the cabinet of the King to the apartment
of his children, in which she lodged.  By this means they could pass from one to the other
without being perceived, and without traversing the long suite of rooms, filled with courtiers,
that were between the two apartments.  In this manner it was never known whether the King was
alone or with Madame des Ursins; or which of the two was in the apartments of the other.  When
they were together or how long is equally unknown.  This corridor, roofed and glazed, was proceeded
with in so much haste, that the work went on, in spite of the King's devotion, on fete days
and Sundays.  The whole Court, which perfectly well knew for what use this corridor was intended,
was much displeased.  Those who directed the work were the same.  Of this good proof was given.
One day, the Comptroller of the royal buildings, who had been ordered to keep the men hard
at it, Sundays and fete days, asked the Pere Robinet, the King's confessor, and the only good
one he ever had; he asked, I say, in one of those rooms Madame des Ursins was so anxious to
avoid, and in the presence of various courtiers, if the work was to be continued on the morrow,
a Sunday, and the next day, the Fete of the Virgin.  Robinet replied, that the King had said
nothing to the contrary; and met a second appeal with the same answer.  At the third, he added,
that before saying anything he would wait till the King spoke on the subject.  At the fourth
appeal, he lost patience, and said that if for the purpose of destroying what had been commenced,
he believed work might be done even on Easter-day itself; but if for the purpose of continuing
the corridor, he did not think a Sunday or a fete day was a fitting time.  All the Court applauded;
but Madame des Ursins, to whom this sally was soon carried, was much irritated.

It was suspected that she thought of becoming something more than the mere companion of the
King.  There were several princes.  Reports were spread which appeared equivocal and which
terrified.  It was said that the King had no need of posterity, with all the children it had
pleased God to bless him with; but now he only needed a wife who could take charge of those
children.  Not content with passing all her days with the King, and allowing him, like the
deceased Queen, to work with his ministers only in her presence, the Princesse des Ursins felt
that to render this habit lasting she must assure herself of him at all moments. He was accustomed
to take the air, and he was in want of it all the more now because he had been much shut up
during the last days of the Queen's illness, and the first which followed her death.  Madame
des Ursins chose four or five gentlemen to accompany him, to the exclusion of all others, even
his chief officers, and people still more necessary.  These gentlemen charged with the amusement
of the King, were called recreadores.  With so much circumspection, importunity, preparation,
and rumour carefully circulated, it was not doubted that Madame des Ursins intended to marry
him; and the opinion, as well as the fear, became general.  The King (Louis XIV.), was infinitely
alarmed; and Madame de Maintenon, who had twice tried to be proclaimed Queen and twice failed,
was distracted with jealousy.  However, if Madame des Ursins flattered herself then, it was
not for long.

The King of Spain, always curious to learn the news from France, often demanded them of his
confessor, the only man to whom he could speak who was not under the thumb of Madame des Ursins.
The clever and courageous Robinet, as disturbed as others at the progress of the design, which
nobody in the two Courts of France and Spain doubted was in execution, allowed himself to be
pressed by questions--in an embrasure where the King had drawn him--played the reserved and
the mysterious in order to excite curiosity more.  When he saw it was sufficiently excited,
he said that since he was forced to speak, his news from France was the same as that at Madrid,
where no one doubted that the King would do the Princesse des Ursins the honour to espouse
her.  The King blushed and hastily replied, "Marry her! oh no! not that!" and quitted him.

Whether the Princesse des Ursins was informed of this sharp repartee, or whether she despaired
already of success, she changed about; and judging that this interregnum in the Palace of Medina-Celi
could not last for ever, resolved to assure herself of the King by a Queen who should owe to
her such a grand marriage, and who, having no other support, would throw herself into her arms
by gratitude and necessity.  With this view she explained herself to Alberoni, who, since the
death of the Duc de Vendome, had remained at Madrid charged with the affairs of Parma; and
proposed to him the marriage of the Princess of Parma, daughter of the Duchess and of the late
Duke of Parma, who had married the widow of his brother.

Alberoni could with difficulty believe his ears.  An alliance so disproportioned appeared to
him so much the more incredible, because he thought the.  Court of France would never consent
to it, and that without its consent the marriage could not be concluded.  The Princess in question
was the issue of double illegitimacy; by her father descended from a pope, by her mother from
a natural daughter of Charles Quint.  She was daughter of a petty Duke of Parma, and of a mother,
entirely Austrian, sister of the Dowager Empress and of the Dowager Queen of Spain (whose acts
had excited such disapproval that she was sent from her exile at Toledo to Bayonne), sister
too of the Queen of Portugal, who had induced the King, her husband, to receive the Archduke
at Lisbon, and to carry the war into Spain.  It did not seem reasonable, therefore, that such
a Princess would be accepted as a wife for the King of Spain.

Nothing of all this, however, stopped the Princesse des Ursins; her own interest was the most
pressing consideration with her; the will of the King of Spain was entirely subject to her;
she felt all the change towards her of our King and of Madame de Maintenon; she no longer hoped
for a return of their favour; she believed that she must look around for support against the
very authority which had established her so powerfully, and which could destroy her; and occupied
herself solely in pushing forward a marriage from which she expected everything by making the
same use of the new queen as she had made of the one just dead.  The King of Spain was devout,
he absolutely wanted a wife, the Princesse des Ursins was of an age when her charms were but
the charms, of art; in a word, she set Alberoni to work, and it may be believed she was not
scrupulous as to her means as soon as they were persuaded at Parma that she was serious and
not joking.  Orry, always united with Madame des Ursins, and all-powerful, by her means, was
her sole confidant in this important affair.

At that time the Marquis de Brancas was French ambassador at Madrid.  He had flattered himself
that Madame des Ursins would make him one of the grandees of Spain.  Instead of doing so she
simply bestowed upon him the order of the Golden Fleece.  He had never pardoned her for this.
Entirely devoted to Madame de Maintenon, he became on that very account an object of suspicion
to Madame des Ursins, who did not doubt that he cherished a grudge against her, on account
of the favour he had missed. She allowed him no access to her, and had her eyes open upon all
he did. Brancas in like manner watched all her doings.  The confessor, Robinet, confided to
him his fears respecting Madame des Ursins, and the chiefs of a court universally discontented
went and opened their hearts to him, thinking it was France alone which could set to rights
the situation of Spain.

Brancas appreciated all the importance of what was told him, but warned by the fate of the
Abbe d'Estrees, fearing even for his couriers, he took the precaution of sending word to the
King that he had pressing business to acquaint him with, which he could not trust to paper,
and that he wished to be allowed to come to Versailles for a fortnight.  The reply was the
permission asked for, accompanied, however, with an order to communicate en route with the
Duc de Berwick, who was about to pass to Barcelona.

Madame des Ursins, who always found means to be informed of everything, immediately knew of
Brancas's projected journey, and determined to get the start of him.  At once she had sixteen
relays of mules provided upon the Bayonne road, and suddenly sent off to France, on Holy Thursday,
Cardinal del Giudice, grand inquisitor and minister of state, who had this mean complaisance
for her.  She thus struck two blows at once; she got rid, at least for a time, of a Cardinal
minister who troubled her, and anticipated Brancas, which in our Court was no small point.

Brancas, who felt all the importance of arriving first, followed the Cardinal on Good Friday,
and moved so well that he overtook him at Bayonne, at night while he was asleep; Brancas passed
straight on, charging the Commandant to amuse and to delay the Cardinal as long as possible
on the morrow; gained ground, and arrived at Bordeaux with twenty-eight post-horses that he
had carried off with him from various stations, to keep them from the Cardinal.  He arrived
in Paris in this manner two days before the other, and went straight to Marly where the King
was, to explain the business that had led him there.  He had a long audience with the King,
and received a lodging for the rest of the visit.

The Cardinal del Giudice rested four or five days at Paris, and then came to Marly, where he
was introduced to the King.  The Cardinal was somewhat embarrassed; he was charged with no
business; all his mission was to praise Madame des Ursins, and complain of the Marquis de Brancas.
These praises of Madame des Ursins were but vague; she had not sufficient confidence in the
Cardinal to admit to him her real position in our Court, and to give him instructions accordingly,
so that what he had to say was soon all said; against the Marquis de Brancas he had really
no fact to allege, his sole crime that he was too sharp-sighted and not sufficiently devoted
to the Princess.

The Cardinal was a courtier, a man of talent, of business, of intrigue, who felt, with annoyance,
that for a person of his condition and weight, such a commission as he bore was very empty.
He appeared exceedingly agreeable in conversation, of pleasant manners, and was much liked
in good society.  He was assiduous in his attentions to the King, without importuning him for
audiences that were unnecessary; and by all his conduct, he gave reason for believing that
he suspected Madame des Ursins' decadence in our Court, and sought to gain esteem and confidence,
so as to become by the support of the King, prime minister in Spain; but as we shall soon see,
his ultramontane hobbies hindered the accomplishment of his measures.  All the success of his
journey consisted in hindering Brancas from returning to Spain.  This was no great punishment,
for Brancas had nothing more to hope for from Madame des Ursins, and was not a man to lose
his time for nothing.

