"

"Big trunk,--what big trunk?"

"The trunk with your rug over it, on which your portmanteau stood."

I looked round at Mr., Mrs., and Miss Greene, and saw that they were all looking at me.  I
looked round at them, and as their eyes met mine I felt that I turned as red as fire.  I immediately
jumped up and rushed away to my own room, hearing as I went that all their steps were following
me.  I rushed to the inner recess, pulled down the portmanteau, which still remained in its
old place, tore away my own carpet rug which covered the support beneath it, and there saw--a
white canvas-covered box, with a hole in the canvas on the side next to me!

"It is my box," said Mrs. Greene, pushing me away, as she hurried up and put her finger within
the rent.

"It certainly does look like it," said Mr. Greene, peering over his wife's shoulder.

"There's no doubt about the box," said Sophonisba.

"Not the least in life," said I, trying to assume an indifferent look.

"Mon Dieu!" said the Boots.

"Corpo di Baccho!" exclaimed the landlord, who had now joined the party.

"Oh--h--h--h--!" screamed Mrs. Greene, and then she threw herself hack on to my bed, and shrieked
hysterically.

There was no doubt whatsoever about the fact.  There was the lost box, and there it had been
during all those tedious hours of unavailing search.  While I was suffering all that fatigue
in Milan, spending my precious zwanzigers in driving about from one hotel to another, the box
had been safe, standing in my own room at Bellaggio, hidden by my own rug.  And now that it
was found everybody looked at me as though it were all my fault.

Mrs. Greene's eyes, when she had done being hysterical, were terrible, and Sophonisba looked
at me as though I were a convicted thief.

 "Who put the box here?" I said, turning fiercely upon the Boots.

"I did," said the Boots, "by Monsieur's express order."

"By my order?" I exclaimed.

"Certainly," said the Boots.

"Corpo di Baccho!" said the landlord, and he also looked at me as though I were a thief.  In
the mean time the landlady and the three daughters had clustered round Mrs. Greene, administering
to her all manner of Italian consolation.  The box, and the money, and the jewels were after
all a reality; and much incivility can be forgiven to a lady who has really lost her jewels,
and has really found them again.

There and then there arose a hurly-burly among us as to the manner in which the odious trunk
found its way into my room.  Had anybody been just enough to consider the matter coolly, it
must have been quite clear that I could not have ordered it there.  When I entered the hotel,
the boxes were already being lugged about, and I had spoken a word to no one concerning them.
That traitorous Boots had done it,-- no doubt without malice prepense; but he had done it;
and now that the Greenes were once more known as moneyed people, he turned upon me, and told
me to my face, that I had desired that box to be taken to my own room as part of my own luggage!

"My dear," said Mr. Greene, turning to his wife, "you should never mention the contents of
your luggage to any one."

"I never will again," said Mrs. Greene, with a mock repentant air, "but I really thought--"

"One never can be sure of sharpers," said Mr. Greene.

"That's true," said Mrs. Greene.

"After all, it may have been accidental," said Sophonisba, on hearing which good-natured surmise
both papa and mamma Greene shook their suspicious heads.

