I went off on a long tramp this afternoon, and coming on a pretty river flowing through green
meadows, with a fringe of trees on either side, I sat down to make a sketch. I heard feminine
voices in the vicinity, but as these are generally a part of the landscape in the tourist season,
I paid no special notice. Suddenly a dainty patent-leather shoe floated towards me on the surface
of the stream. It evidently had just dropped in, for it was right side up with care, and was
disporting itself most merrily. 'Did ever Jove's tree drop such fruit?' I quoted as I fished
it out on my stick; and just then I heard a distressed voice saying, 'Oh, Aunt Celia, I've
lost my smart little London shoe. I was sitting in a tree taking a pebble out of the heel,
when I saw a caterpillar, and I dropped it into the river--the shoe, you know, not the caterpillar.'

Hereupon she came in sight, and I witnessed the somewhat unusual spectacle of my 'nut-brown
mayde' hopping, like a divine stork, on one foot, and ever and anon emitting a feminine shriek
as the other, clad in a delicate silk stocking, came in contact with the ground. I rose quickly,
and, polishing the patent leather ostentatiously inside and out with my handkerchief, I offered
it to her with distinguished grace. She sat hurriedly down on the ground with as much dignity
as possible, and then, recognising me as the person who picked up the contents of Aunt Celia's
bag, she said, dimpling in the most distracting manner (that's another thing there ought to
be a law against): 'Thank you again; you seem to be a sort of knight-errant.'

'Shall I--assist you?' I asked. I might have known that this was going too far. Of course I
didn't suppose she would let me help her put the shoe on, but I thought--upon my soul, I don't
know what I thought, for she was about a million times prettier to-day than yesterday.

'No, thank you,' she said, with polar frigidity. 'Good-afternoon.' And she hopped back to her
Aunt Celia without another word.

I don't know how to approach Aunt Celia. She is formidable. By a curious accident of feature,
for which she is not in the least responsible, she always wears an unfortunate expression as
of one perceiving some offensive odour in the immediate vicinity. This may be a mere accident
of high birth. It is the kind of nose often seen in the 'first families,' and her name betrays
the fact that she is of good old Knickerbocker origin. We go to Wells to-morrow--at least,
I think we do.

She

    Salisbury, June 3.

I didn't like Salisbury at first, but I find it is the sort of place that grows on one the
longer one stays in it. I am quite sorry we must leave so soon, but Aunt Celia is always in
haste to be gone. Bath may be interesting, but it is entirely out of the beaten path from here.

She

    Bath, June 7,
        The Best Hotel.

I met him at Wells and again this afternoon here. We are always being ridiculous, and he is
always rescuing us. Aunt Celia never really sees him, and thus never recognises him when he
appears again, always as the flower of chivalry and guardian of ladies in distress. I will
never again travel abroad without a man, even if I have to hire one from a feeble-minded asylum.
We work like galley-slaves, Aunt Celia and I, finding out about trains and things. Neither
of us can understand Bradshaw, and I can't even grapple with the lesser intricacies of the
A B C Railway Guide. The trains, so far as I can see, always arrive before they go out, and
I can never tell whether to read up the page or down. It is certainly very queer that the stupidest
man that breathes, one that barely escapes idiocy, can disentangle a railway guide when the
brightest woman fails. Even the boots at the inn in Wells took my book, and, rubbing his frightfully
dirty finger down the row of puzzling figures, found the place in a minute, and said, 'There
ye are, miss.' It is very humiliating. I suppose there are Bradshaw professorships in the English
universities, but the boots cannot have imbibed his knowledge there. A traveller at table d'hôte
dinner yesterday said there are three classes of Bradshaw trains in Great Britain: those that
depart and never arrive, those that arrive but never depart, and those that can be caught in
transit, going on, like the wheel of eternity, with neither beginning nor end. All the time
I have left from the study of routes and hotels I spend on guide-books. Now, I'm sure that
if any one of the men I know were here, he could tell me all that is necessary as we walk along
the streets. I don't say it in a frivolous or sentimental spirit in the least, but I do affirm
that there is hardly any juncture in life where one isn't better off for having a man about.
I should never dare divulge this to Aunt Celia, for she doesn't think men very nice. She excludes
them from conversation as if they were indelicate subjects.

But to go on, we were standing at the door of Ye Crowne and Keys at Wells, waiting for the
fly which we had ordered to take us to the station, when who should drive up in a four-wheeler
but the flower of chivalry. Aunt Celia was saying very audibly, 'We shall certainly miss the
train, if the man doesn't come at once.'

'Pray take this cab,' said the flower of chivalry. 'I am not leaving for an hour or more.'

Aunt Celia got in without a murmur; I sneaked in after her, not daring to lift my eyes. I don't
think she looked at him, though she did vouchsafe the remark that he seemed to be a civil sort
of person.

I was walking about by myself this afternoon. Aunt Celia and I had taken a long drive, and
she had dropped me in a quaint old part of the town that I might have a brisk walk home for
exercise. Suddenly it began to rain, which it is apt to do in England, between the showers,
and at the same moment I espied a sign, 'Martha Huggins, Licensed Victualler.' It was a nice,
tidy little shop, with a fire on the hearth and flowers in the window, and I thought no one
would catch me if I stepped inside to chat with Martha until the sun shone again. I fancied
it would be delightful and Dickensy to talk quietly with a licensed victualler by the name
of Martha Huggins.

Just after I had settled myself, the flower of chivalry came in and ordered ale. I was disconcerted
at being found in a dramshop alone, for I thought, after the bag episode, he might fancy us
a family of inebriates. But he didn't evince the slightest astonishment; he merely lifted his
hat, and walked out after he had finished his ale. He certainly has the loveliest manners,
and his hair is a more beautiful colour every time I see him.

And so it goes on, and we never get any further. I like his politeness and his evident feeling
that I can't be flirted and talked with like a forward boarding-school miss; but I must say
I don't think much of his ingenuity. Of course one can't have all the virtues, but if I were
he, I would part with my distinguished air, my charming ease--in fact, almost anything, if
I could have in exchange a few grains of common-sense, just enough to guide me in the practical
affairs of life.

I wonder what he is? He might be an artist, but he doesn't seem quite like an artist; or just
a dilettante, but he doesn't look in the least like a dilettante. Or he might be an architect;
I think that is the most probable guess of all. Perhaps he is only 'going to be' one of these
things, for he can't be more than twenty-five or twenty-six. Still, he looks as if he were
something already; that is, he has a kind of self-reliance in his mien--not self-assertion,
nor self-esteem, but belief in self, as if he were able, and knew that he was able, to conquer
circumstances.

Aunt Celia wouldn't stay at Ye Olde Bell and Horns here. She looked under the bed (which, I
insist, was an unfair test), and ordered her luggage to be taken instantly to the Grand Pump
Room Hotel.

Memoranda: Bath became distinguished for its architecture and popular as a fashionable resort
in the 17th century from the deserved repute of its waters and through the genius of two men,
Wood the architect and Beau Nash, Master of Ceremonies. A true picture of the society of the
period is found in Smollett's 'Humphry Clinker', which Aunt Celia says she will read and tell
me what is necessary. Remember the window of the seven lights in the Abbey Church, the one
with the angels ascending and descending; also the rich Perp. chantry of Prior Bird, S. of
chancel. It is Murray who calls it a Perp. chantry, not I.

She

    June 8.

It was very wet this morning, and I had breakfast in my room. The maid's name is Hetty Precious,
and I could eat almost anything brought me by such a beautifully named person. A little parcel
postmarked Bath was on my tray, but as the address was printed, I have no clue to the sender.
It was a wee copy of Jane Austen's 'Persuasion,' which I have read before, but was glad to
see again, because I had forgotten that the scene is partly laid in Bath, and now I can follow
dear Anne and vain Sir Walter, hateful Elizabeth and scheming Mrs. Clay through Camden Place
and Bath Street, Union Street, Milsom Street, and the Pump Yard. I can even follow them to
the site of the White Hart Hotel, where the adorable Captain Wentworth wrote the letter to
Anne. After more than two hundred pages of suspense, with what joy and relief did I read that
letter! I wonder if Anne herself was any more excited than I?

At first I thought Roderick Abbott sent the book, until I remembered that his literary taste
is Puck in America and Pick-me-up and Tit-Bits in England; and now I don't know what to think.
I turned to Captain Wentworth's letter in the last chapter but one--oh, it is a beautiful letter!
I wish somebody would ever write me that he is 'half agony, half hope,' and that I 'pierce
his soul.' Of course, it would be wicked to pierce a soul, and of course they wouldn't write
that way nowadays; but there is something perfectly delightful about the expression.

Well, when I found the place, what do you suppose? Some of the sentences in the letter seem
to be underlined ever so faintly; so faintly, indeed, that I cannot quite decide whether it's
my imagination or a lead-pencil, but this is the way it seems to look:

'I can listen no longer in silence. Somebody has been reading the book, and marked it idly
as he (or she) read. I can imagine someone's underlining a splendid sentiment like 'Dare not
say that man forgets sooner than woman!' but why should a reader lay stress on such a simple
sentence as 'You alone brought me to Bath'?

He

    Gloucester, June 10,
        The Golden Slipper.

Nothing accomplished yet. Her aunt is a Van Tyck, and a stiff one, too. I am a Copley, and
that delays matters. Much depends upon the manner of approach. A false move would be fatal.
We have seven more towns (as per itinerary), and if their thirst for cathedrals isn't slaked
when these are finished, we have the entire Continent to do. If I could only succeed in making
an impression on the retina of Aunt Celia's eye! Though I have been under her feet for ten
days, she never yet has observed me. This absent-mindedness of hers serves me ill now, but
it may prove a blessing later on.

I made two modest moves on the chessboard of Fate yesterday, but they were so very modest and
mysterious that I almost fear they were never noticed.

She

    Gloucester, June 10,
        In Impossible Lodgings chosen by Me.

Something else awfully exciting has happened.

When we walked down the railway platform at Bath, I saw a pink placard pasted on the window
of a first-class carriage. It had 'VAN TYCK: RESERVED,' written on it, after the English fashion,
and we took our places without question. Presently Aunt Celia's eyes and mine alighted at the
same moment on a bunch of yellow primroses pinned on the stuffed back of the most comfortable
seat next the window.

'They do things so well in England,' said Aunt Celia admiringly. 'The landlord must have sent
my name to the guard--you see the advantage of stopping at the best hotels, Katharine--but
one would not have suspected him capable of such a refined attention as the bunch of flowers.
You must take a few of them, dear; you are so fond of primroses.'

Oh! I am having a delicious time abroad! I do think England is the most interesting country
in the world; and as for the cathedral towns, how can anyone bear to live anywhere else?

She

    Oxford, June 12,
        The Mitre.

It was here in Oxford that a grain of common-sense entered the brain of the flower of chivalry;
you might call it the dawn of reason. We had spent part of the morning in High Street, 'the
noblest old street in England,' as our dear Hawthorne calls it. As Wordsworth had written a
sonnet about it, Aunt Celia was armed for the fray--a volume of Wordsworth in one hand, and
one of Hawthorne in the other. (I wish Baedeker and Murray didn't give such full information
about what one ought to read before one can approach these places in a proper spirit.) When
we had done High Street, we went to Magdalen College, and sat down on a bench in Addison's
Walk, where Aunt Celia proceeded to store my mind with the principal facts of Addison's career,
and his influence on the literature of the something or other century. The cramming process
over, we wandered along, and came upon 'him' sketching a shady corner of the walk.

Aunt Celia went up behind him, and, Van Tyck though she is, she could not restrain her admiration
of his work. I was surprised myself; I didn't suppose so good-looking a youth could do such
good work. I retired to a safe distance, and they chatted together. He offered her the sketch;
she refused to take advantage of his kindness. He said he would 'dash off' another that evening
and bring it to our hotel--'so glad to do anything for a fellow-countryman,' etc. I peeped
from behind a tree and saw him give her his card. It was an awful moment; I trembled, but she
read it with unmistakable approval, and gave him her own with an expression that meant, 'Yours
is good, but beat that if you can!'

She called to me, and I appeared. Mr. John Quincy Copley, Cambridge, was presented to her niece,
Miss Katharine Schuyler, New York. It was over, and a very small thing to take so long about, too.

He is an architect, and, of course, has a smooth path into Aunt Celia's affections. Theological
students, ministers, missionaries, heroes, and martyrs she may distrust, but architects never!

'He is an architect, my dear Katharine, and he is a Copley,' she told me afterwards. 'I never
knew a Copley who was not respectable, and many of them have been more.'

After the introduction was over, Aunt Celia asked him guilelessly if he had visited any other
of the English cathedrals. Any others, indeed!--this to a youth who had been all but in her
lap for a fortnight. It was a blow, but he rallied bravely, and, with an amused look in my
direction, replied discreetly that he had visited most of them at one time or another. I refused
to let him see that I had ever noticed him before--that is, particularly.

I wish I had had an opportunity of talking to him of our plans, but just as I was leading the
conversation into the proper channels, the waiter came in for breakfast orders--as if it mattered
what one had for breakfast, or whether one had any at all. I can understand an interest in
dinner or even in luncheon, but not in breakfast; at least not when more important things are
under consideration.

       *       *       *       *       *

Memoranda: 'The very stones and mortar of this historic town seem impregnated with the spirit
of restful antiquity.' (Extract from one of Aunt Celia's letters.) Among the great men who
have studied here are the Prince of Wales, Duke of Wellington, Gladstone, Sir Robert Peel,
Sir Philip Sidney, William Penn, John Locke, the two Wesleys, Ruskin, Ben Jonson, and Thomas
Otway. (Look Otway up.)

He

    Oxford, June 13,
        The Angel.

I have done it, and if I hadn't been a fool and a coward I might have done it a week ago, and
spared myself a good deal of delicious torment. 'How sweet must be Love's self possessed, when
but Love's shadows are so rich in joy!' or something of that sort.

I have just given two hours to a sketch of Addison's Walk, and carried it to Aunt Celia at
the Mitre. Object, to find out whether they make a long stay in London (our next point), and,
if so, where. It seems they stop only a night. I said in the course of conversation:

'So Miss Schuyler is willing to forego a London season? Marvellous self-denial!'

'My niece did not come to Europe for a London season,' replied Miss Van Tyck. 'We go through
London this time merely as a cathedral town, simply because it chances to be where it is geographically.
We shall visit St. Paul's and Westminster Abbey, and then go directly on, that our chain of
impressions may have absolute continuity and be free from any disturbing elements.'

Oh, but she is lovely, is Aunt Celia! London a cathedral town!

Now, for my part, I should like to drop St. Paul's for once, and omit Westminster Abbey for
the moment, and sit on the top of a bus with Miss Schuyler or in a hansom jogging up and down
Piccadilly. The hansom should have bouquets of paper-flowers in the windows, and the horse
should wear carnations in his headstall, and Miss Schuyler should ask me questions, to which
I should always know the right answers. This would be but a prelude, for I should wish later
to ask her questions to which I should hope she would also know the right answers.

Heigho! I didn't suppose that anything could be lovelier than that girl's smile, but there
is, and it is her voice.

I shall call there again to-morrow morning. I don't know on what pretext, but I shall call,
for my visit was curtailed this evening by the entrance of the waiter, who asked what they
would have for breakfast. Miss Van Tyck said she would be disengaged in a moment, so naturally
I departed, with a longing to knock the impudent waiter's head against the uncomprehending
wall. Breakfast indeed! A fellow can breakfast regularly, and yet be in a starving condition.

He

    Oxford, June 14,
        The Angel.

I have just called. They have gone! Gone hours before they intended! How shall I find her in
London?

He

    London, June 15,
        Walsingham House Hotel.

As a cathedral town London leaves much to be desired. There are too many hotels, too many people,
and the distances are too great. For ten hours I kept a hansom galloping between St. Paul's
and Westminster Abbey, with no result. I am now going to Ely, where I shall stay in the cathedral
from morning till night, and have my meals brought to me on a tray by the verger.

She

    Ely, June 15,
        At Miss Kettlestring's lodgings.

I have lost him! He was not at St. Paul's or Westminster in London--great, cruel, busy, brutal
London, that could swallow up any precious thing and make no sign. And he is not here! They
say it is a very fine cathedral.

Memoranda: The Octagon is perhaps the most beautiful and original design to be found in the
whole range of Gothic architecture. Remember also the retrochoir. The lower tier of windows
consists of three long lancets, with groups of Purbeck shafts at the angles; the upper, of
five lancets, diminishing from the centre, and set back, as in the clerestory, within an arcade
supported by shafts. (I don't believe even he could make head or tail of this.) Remember the
curious bosses under the brackets of the stone altar in the Alcock Chapel. They represent ammonites
projecting from their shells and biting each other. (If I were an ammonite I know I should
bite Aunt Celia. Look up ammonite.)

He

    Ely, June 18,
        The Lamb Hotel.

I cannot find her! Am racked with rheumatic pains sitting in this big, empty, solitary, hollow,
reverberating, damp, desolate, deserted cathedral hour after hour. On to Peterborough this evening.

She

    Peterborough, June 18.

He is not here. The cathedral, even the celebrated west front, seems to me somewhat overrated.
Catherine of Aragon (or one of those Henry the Eighth wives) is buried here, also Mary Queen
of Scots; but I am tired of looking at graves, viciously tired, too, of writing in this trumpery
note-book. We move on this afternoon.

He

    Peterborough, June 19.

A few more days of this modern Love Chase will unfit me for professional work. Tried to draw
the roof of the choir, a good specimen of early Perp., and failed. Studied the itinerary again
to see if it had any unsuspected suggestions in cipher. No go! York and Durham were double-starred
by the Aunt Celia's curate as places for long stops. Perhaps we shall meet again there.

    Lincoln, June 22,
        The Black Boy Inn.

I am stopping at a beastly little hole, which has the one merit of being opposite Miss Schuyler's
lodgings, for I have found her at last. My sketch-book has deteriorated in artistic value during
the last two weeks. Many of its pages, while interesting to me as reminiscences, will hardly
do for family or studio exhibition. If I should label them, the result would be something like
this:

1. Sketch of a footstool and desk where I first saw Miss Schuyler kneeling.

2. Sketch of a carved oak chair, Miss Schuyler sitting in it.

3. 'Angel choir.' Heads of Miss Schuyler introduced into the carving.

4. Altar screen. A row of full-length Miss Schuylers holding lilies.

5. Tomb of a bishop, where I tied Miss Schuyler's shoe.

6. Tomb of another bishop, where I had to tie it again because I did it so badly the first time.

7. Sketch of the shoe, the shoe-lace worn out with much tying.

8. Sketch of the blessed verger who called her 'Madam' when we were walking together.

9. Sketch of her blush when he did it; the prettiest thing in the world.

10. Sketch of J. Q. Copley contemplating the ruins of his heart.

'How are the mighty fallen!'

       *       *       *       *       *

She

    Lincoln, June 23,
        At Miss Smallpage's, Castle Garden.

This is one of the charmingest towns we have visited, and I am so glad Aunt Celia has a letter
to the Canon in residence, because it may keep her contented.

We walked up Steep Hill this morning to see the Jews' house, but long before we reached it
I had seen Mr. Copley sitting on a camp-stool, with his easel in front of him. Wonderful to
relate, Aunt Celia recognised him, and was most cordial in her greeting. As for me, I was never
so embarrassed in my life. I felt as if he knew that I had expected to see him in London and
Ely and Peterborough, though, of course, he couldn't know it, even if he looked for, and missed,
me in those three dreary and over-estimated places. He had made a most beautiful drawing of
the Jews' House, and completed his conquest of Aunt Celia by presenting it to her. I should
like to know when my turn is coming; but, anyway, she asked him to luncheon, and he came, and
we had such a cosy, homelike meal together. He is even nicer than he looks, which is saying
a good deal more than I should, even to a locked book. Aunt Celia dozed a little after luncheon,
and Mr. Copley almost talked in whispers, he was so afraid of disturbing her nap. It is just
in these trifling things that one can tell a true man--courtesy to elderly people and consideration
for their weaknesses. He has done something in the world; I was sure that he had. He has a
little income of his own, but he is too proud and ambitious to be an idler. He looked so manly
when he talked about it, standing up straight and strong in his knickerbockers. I like men
in knickerbockers. Aunt Celia doesn't. She says she doesn't see how a well-brought-up Copley
can go about with his legs in that condition. I would give worlds to know how Aunt Celia ever
unbent sufficiently to get engaged. But, as I was saying, Mr. Copley has accomplished something,
young as he is. He has built three picturesque suburban churches suitable for weddings, and
a State lunatic asylum.

Aunt Celia says we shall have no worthy architecture until every building is made an exquisitely
sincere representation of its deepest purpose--a symbol, as it were, of its indwelling meaning.
I should think it would be very difficult to design a lunatic asylum on that basis, but I didn't
dare say so, as the idea seemed to present no incongruities to Mr. Copley. Their conversation
is absolutely sublimated when they get to talking of architecture. I have just copied two quotations
from Emerson, and am studying them every night for fifteen minutes before I go to sleep. I'm
going to quote them some time offhand, just after matins, when we are wandering about the cathedral
grounds. (The plural is my own, and it does not look right.) Lincoln Castle was the scene of
many prolonged sieges, and was once taken by Oliver Cromwell.

       *       *       *       *       *

He

    York, June 26,
        The Black Swan.

Kitty Schuyler is the concentrated essence of feminine witchery. Intuition strong, logic weak,
and the two qualities so balanced as to produce an indefinable charm; will-power large, but
docility equal, if a man is clever enough to know how to manage her; knowledge of facts absolutely
nil, but she is exquisitely intelligent in spite of it. She has a way of evading, escaping,
eluding, and then gives you an intoxicating hint of sudden and complete surrender. She is divinely
innocent, but roguishness saves her from insipidity. Her looks? She looks as you would imagine
a person might look who possessed these graces; and she is worth looking at, though every time
I do it I have a rush of love to the head. When you find a girl who combines all the qualities
you have imagined in the ideal, and who has added a dozen or two on her own account, merely
to distract you past all hope, why stand up and try to resist her charm? Down on your knees
like a man, say I!

       *       *       *       *       *

I'm getting to adore Aunt Celia. I didn't care for her at first, but she is so deliciously
blind. Anything more exquisitely unserviceable as a chaperon I can't imagine. Absorbed in antiquity,
she ignores the babble of contemporaneous lovers. That any man could look at Kitty when he
could look at a cathedral passes her comprehension. I do not presume too greatly on her absent-mindedness,
however, lest she should turn unexpectedly and rend me. I always remember that inscription
on the backs of the little mechanical French toys: 'Quoiqu'elle soit très solidement montée,
il faut ne pas brutaliser la machine.'

And so my courtship progresses under Aunt Celia's very nose. I say 'progresses'; but it is
impossible to speak with any certainty of courting, for the essence of that gentle craft is
hope, rooted in labour and trained by love.

I set out to propose to her during service this afternoon by writing my feelings on the flyleaf
of the hymn-book, or something like that; but I knew that Aunt Celia would never forgive such
blasphemy, and I thought that Kitty herself might consider it wicked. Besides, if she should
chance to accept me, there was nothing I could do in a cathedral to relieve my feelings. No;
if she ever accepts me, I wish it to be in a large, vacant spot of the universe, peopled by
two only, and those two so indistinguishably blended, as it were, that they would appear as
one to the casual observer. So I practised repression, though the wall of my reserve is worn
to the thinness of thread-paper, and I tried to keep my mind on the droning minor canon, and
not to look at her, 'for that way madness lies.'

       *       *       *       *       *

She

    York, June 28,
        High Petergate Street.

My taste is so bad! I just begin to realize it, and I am feeling my 'growing pains,' like Gwendolen
in 'Daniel Deronda.' I admired the stained glass in the Lincoln Cathedral the other day, especially
the Nuremberg window. I thought Mr. Copley looked pained, but he said nothing. When I went
to my room, I consulted a book and found that all the glass in that cathedral is very modern
and very bad, and the Nuremberg window is the worst of all. Aunt Celia says she hopes that
it will be a warning to me to read before I speak; but Mr. Copley says no, that the world would
lose more in one way than it would gain in the other. I tried my quotations this morning, and
stuck fast in the middle of the first.

Mr. Copley thinks I have been feeing the vergers too liberally, so I wrote a song about it
called 'The Ballad of the Vergers and the Foolish Virgin,' which I sang to my guitar. Mr. Copley
thinks it is cleverer than anything he ever did with his pencil. Of course, he says that only
to be agreeable; but really, whenever he talks to me in that way, I can almost hear myself
purring with pleasure.

We go to two services a day in the minster, and sometimes I sit quite alone in the nave drinking
in the music as it floats out from behind the choir-screen. The Litany and the Commandments
are so beautiful heard in this way, and I never listen to the fresh, young voices chanting
'Write all these Thy laws in our hearts, we beseech Thee,' without wanting passionately to
be good. I love, too, the joyful burst of music in the Te Deum: 'Thou didst open the kingdom
of heaven to all believers.' I like that word 'all'; it takes in foolish me, as well as wise
Aunt Celia.

And yet, with all its pomp and magnificence, the service does not help me quite so much nor
stir up the deep places, in me so quickly as dear old Dr. Kyle's simpler prayers and talks
in the village meeting-house where I went as a child. Mr. Copley has seen it often, and made
a little picture of it for me, with its white steeple and the elm-tree branches hanging over
it. If I ever have a husband I should wish him to have memories like my own. It would be very
romantic to marry an Italian marquis or a Hungarian count, but must it not be a comfort to
two people to look back on the same past?

       *       *       *       *       *

We all went to an evening service last night. It was an 'occasion,' and a famous organist played
the Minster organ.

I wonder why choir-boys are so often playful and fidgety and uncanonical in behaviour? Does
the choirmaster advertise 'Naughty boys preferred,' or do musical voices commonly exist in
unregenerate bodies? With all the opportunities they must have outside of the cathedral to
exchange those objects of beauty and utility usually found in boys' pockets, there is seldom
a service where they do not barter penknives, old coins, or tops, generally during the Old
Testament reading. A dozen little black-surpliced 'probationers' sit together in a seat just
beneath the choir-boys, and one of them spent his time this evening in trying to pull a loose
tooth from its socket. The task not only engaged all his own powers, but made him the centre
of attraction for the whole probationary row.

Coming home, Aunt Celia walked ahead with Mrs. Benedict, who keeps turning up at the most unexpected
moments. She's going to build a Gothicky memorial chapel somewhere, and is making studies for
it. I don't like her in the least, but four is certainly a more comfortable number than three.
I scarcely ever have a moment alone with Mr. Copley, for, go where I will and do what I please,
as Aunt Celia has the most perfect confidence in my indiscretion, she is always en évidence.

Just as we were turning into the quiet little street where we are lodging, I said:

'Oh dear, I wish that I really knew something about architecture!'

'If you don't know anything about it, you are certainly responsible for a good deal of it,'
said Mr. Copley.

'I? How do you mean?' I asked quite innocently, because I couldn't see how he could twist such
a remark as that into anything like sentiment.

'I have never built so many castles in my life as since I've known you, Miss Schuyler,' he said.

'Oh,' I answered as lightly as I could, 'air-castles don't count.'

'The building of air-castles is an innocent amusement enough, I suppose,' he said; 'but I'm
committing the folly of living in mine. I--'

Then I was frightened. When, all at once, you find you have something precious that you only
dimly suspected was to be yours, you almost wish it hadn't come so soon. But just at that moment
Mrs. Benedict called to us, and came tramping back from the gate, and hooked her supercilious,
patronizing arm in Mr. Copley's, and asked him into the sitting-room to talk over the 'lady-chapel'
in her new memorial church. Then Aunt Celia told me they would excuse me, as I had had a wearisome
day; and there was nothing for me to do but to go to bed, like a snubbed child, and wonder
if I should ever know the end of that sentence. And I listened at the head of the stairs, shivering,
but all that I could hear was that Mrs. Benedict asked Mr. Copley to be her own architect.
Her architect, indeed! That woman ought not to be at large--so rich and good-looking and unconscientious!

       *       *       *       *       *

He

    York, July 5.

I had just established myself comfortably near to Miss Van Tyck's hotel, and found a landlady
after my own heart in Mrs. Pickles, No. 6, Micklegate, when Miss Van Tyck, aided and abetted,
I fear, by the romantic Miss Schuyler, elected to change her quarters, and I, of course, had
to change too. Mine is at present a laborious (but not unpleasant) life. The causes of Miss
Schuyler's removal, as I have been given to understand by the lady herself, were some particularly
pleasing window-boxes in a lodging in High Petergate Street; boxes overflowing with pink geraniums
and white field-daisies. No one (she explains) could have looked at this house without desiring
to live in it; and when she discovered, during a somewhat exhaustive study of the premises,
that the maid's name was Susan Strangeways, and that she was promised in marriage to a brewer's
apprentice called Sowerbutt, she went back to her conventional hotel and persuaded her aunt
to remove without delay. If Miss Schuyler were offered a room at the Punchbowl Inn in the Gillygate
and a suite at the Grand Royal Hotel in Broad Street, she would choose the former unhesitatingly;
just as she refused refreshment at the best caterer's this afternoon and dragged Mrs. Benedict
and me into 'The Little Snug,' where an alluring sign over the door announced 'A Homely Cup
of Tea for Twopence.' But she would outgrow all that; or, if she didn't, I have common-sense
enough for two; or if I hadn't, I shouldn't care a hang.

