                                             VILLA DI QUARTO, FLORENCE,
                                                  June 7, '04. (She had been chatting cheerfully a moment
before, and in an instant she was gone from us and we did not know it.
We were not alarmed, we did not know anything had happened.

     Howells wrote his words of sympathy, adding: "The character which
     now remains a memory was one of the most perfect ever formed on the
     earth," and again, after having received Clemens's letter: "I cannot
     speak of your wife's having kept that letter of mine where she did.
     You know how it must humiliate a man in his unworthiness to have
     anything of his so consecrated.  She hallowed what she touched, far
     beyond priests."

*****

To W. D. Howells, in New York:

                                        VILLA DI QUARTO, '04.
                                             June 12, 6 p. m.

DEAR HOWELLS,--We have to sit and hold our hands and wait--in the silence and solitude of this
prodigious house; wait until June 25, then we go to Naples and sail in the Prince Oscar the
26th. There is a ship 12 days earlier (but we came in that one.) I see Clara twice a day--morning
and evening--greeting--nothing more is allowed. She keeps her bed, and says nothing. She has
not cried yet. I wish she could cry. It would break Livy's heart to see Clara.

Think--in 3 hours it will be a week!--and soon a month; and by and by a year. How fast our
dead fly from us.

She loved you so, and was always as pleased as a child with any notice you took of her.

Soon your wife will be with you, oh fortunate man! And John, whom mine was so fond of. The
sight of him was such a delight to her. Lord, the old friends, how dear they are.

                                   S. L. C.

*****

To Rev. J. R. Twichell, in Hartford:

                                        VILLA DI QUARTO, FLORENCE,
                                                  June 18, '04.

DEAR JOE,--It is 13 days. I am bewildered and must remain so for a time longer. It was so sudden,
so unexpected. Imagine a man worth a hundred millions who finds himself suddenly penniless
and fifty million in debt in his old age.

I was richer than any other person in the world, and now I am that pauper without peer. Some
day I will tell you about it, not now.

                                                            MARK.

     A tide of condolence flowed in from all parts of the world.  It was
     impossible to answer all.  Only a few who had been their closest
     friends received a written line, but the little printed
     acknowledgment which was returned was no mere formality.  It was a
     heartfelt, personal word.

     They arrived in America in July, and were accompanied by Twichell to
     Elmira, and on the 14th Mrs. Clemens was laid to rest by the side of
     Susy and little Langdon.  R. W. Gilder had arranged for them to
     occupy, for the summer, a cottage on his place at Tyringham, in the
     Berkshire Hills.  By November they were at the Grosvenor, in New
     York, preparing to establish themselves in a house which they had
     taken on the corner of Ninth Street and Fifth Avenue--Number 21.

*****

To F. N. Doubleday, in New York:

DEAR DOUBLEDAY,--I did not know you were going to England: I would have freighted you with
such messages of homage and affection to Kipling. And I would have pressed his hand, through
you, for his sympathy with me in my crushing loss, as expressed by him in his letter to Gilder.
You know my feeling for Kipling and that it antedates that expression.

I was glad that the boys came here to invite me to the house-warming and I think they understood
why a man in the shadow of a calamity like mine could not go.

It has taken three months to repair and renovate our house--corner of 9th and 5th Avenue, but
I shall be in it in io or 15 days hence. Much of the furniture went into it today (from Hartford).
We have not seen it for 13 years.

Jean and my secretary and the servants whom we brought from Italy because Mrs. Clemens liked
them so well, are still keeping house in the Berkshire hills--and waiting. Clara (nervously
wrecked by her mother's death) is in the hands of a specialist in 69th St., and I shall not
be allowed to have any communication with her--even telephone--for a year. I am in this comfortable
little hotel, and still in bed--for I dasn't budge till I'm safe from my pet devil, bronchitis.

Isn't it pathetic? One hour and ten minutes before Mrs. Clemens died I was saying to her "To-day,
after five months search, I've found the villa that will content you: to-morrow you will examine
the plans and give it your consent and I will buy it." Her eyes danced with pleasure, for she
longed for a home of her own. And there, on that morrow, she lay white and cold. And unresponsive
to my reverent caresses--a new thing to me and a new thing to her; that had not happened before
in five and thirty years.

I am coming to see you and Mrs. Doubleday by and bye. She loved and honored Mrs. Doubleday
and her work.

                                   Always yours,
                                                  MARK.

     It was a presidential year and the air was thick with politics.
     Mark Twain was no longer actively interested in the political
     situation; he was only disheartened by the hollowness and pretense
     of office-seeking, and the methods of office-seekers in general.
     Grieved that Twichell should still pin his faith to any party when
     all parties were so obviously venal and time-serving, he wrote in
     outspoken and rather somber protest.

*****

To Rev. J. H. Twichell, in Hartford:

                                             THE GROSVENOR, Nov. 4, '04.

Oh, dear! get out of that sewer--party politics--dear Joe. At least with your mouth. We hail
only two men who could make speeches for their parties and preserve their honor and their dignity.
One of them is dead. Possibly there were four. I am sorry for John Hay; sorry and ashamed.
And yet I know he couldn't help it. He wears the collar, and he had to pay the penalty. Certainly
he had no more desire to stand up before a mob of confiding human incapables and debauch them
than you had. Certainly he took no more real pleasure in distorting history, concealing facts,
propagating immoralities, and appealing to the sordid side of human nature than did you; but
he was his party's property, and he had to climb away down and do it.

It is interesting, wonderfully interesting--the miracles which party-politics can do with a
man's mental and moral make-up. Look at McKinley, Roosevelt, and yourself: in private life
spotless in character; honorable, honest, just, humane, generous; scorning trickeries, treacheries,
suppressions of the truth, mistranslations of the meanings of facts, the filching of credit
earned by another, the condoning of crime, the glorifying of base acts: in public political
life the reverse of all this.

McKinley was a silverite--you concealed it. Roosevelt was a silverite--you concealed it. Parker
was a silverite--you publish it. Along with a shudder and a warning: "He was unsafe then. Is
he any safer now?"

Joe, even I could be guilty of such a thing as that--if I were in party-politics; I really
believe it.

Mr. Cleveland gave the country the gold standard; by implication you credit the matter to the
Republican party.

By implication you prove the whole annual pension-scoop, concealing the fact that the bulk
of the money goes to people who in no way deserve it. You imply that all the batteners upon
this bribery-fund are Republicans. An indiscreet confession, since about half of them must
have been Democrats before they were bought.

You as good as praise Order 78. It is true you do not shout, and you do not linger, you only
whisper and skip--still, what little you do in the matter is complimentary to the crime.

It means, if it means anything, that our outlying properties will all be given up by the Democrats,
and our flag hauled down. All of them? Not only the properties stolen by Mr. McKinley and Mr.
Roosevelt, but the properties honestly acquired? Joe, did you believe that hardy statement
when you made it? Yet you made it, and there it stands in permanent print. Now what moral law
would suffer if we should give up the stolen ones? But--

"You know our standard-bearer. He will maintain all that we have gained"--by whatever process.
Land, I believe you!

By George, Joe, you are as handy at the game as if you had been in training for it all your
life. Your campaign Address is built from the ground up upon the oldest and best models. There
isn't a paragraph in it whose facts or morals will wash--not even a sentence, I believe.

But you will soon be out of this. You didn't want to do it--that is sufficiently apparent,
thanks be!--but you couldn't well get out of it. In a few days you will be out of it, and then
you can fumigate yourself and take up your legitimate work again and resume your clean and
wholesome private character once more and be happy--and useful.

I know I ought to hand you some guff, now, as propitiation and apology for these reproaches,
but on the whole I believe I won't.

I have inquired, and find that Mitsikuri does not arrive here until to-morrow night. I shall
watch out, and telephone again, for I greatly want to see him.

                    Always Yours,
                                   MARK.

P. S.--Nov, 4. I wish I could learn to remember that it is unjust and dishonorable to put blame
upon the human race for any of its acts. For it did not make itself, it did not make its nature,
it is merely a machine, it is moved wholly by outside influences, it has no hand in creating
the outside influences nor in choosing which of them it will welcome or reject, its performance
is wholly automatic, it has no more mastership nor authority over its mind than it has over
its stomach, which receives material from the outside and does as it pleases with it, indifferent
to it's proprietor's suggestions, even, let alone his commands; wherefore, whatever the machine
does--so called crimes and infamies included--is the personal act of its Maker, and He, solely,
is responsible. I wish I could learn to pity the human race instead of censuring it and laughing
at it; and I could, if the outside influences of old habit were not so strong upon my machine.
It vexes me to catch myself praising the clean private citizen Roosevelt, and blaming the soiled
President Roosevelt, when I know that neither praise nor blame is due to him for any thought
or word or deed of his, he being merely a helpless and irresponsible coffee-mill ground by
the hand of God.

     Through a misunderstanding, Clemens, something more than a year
     earlier, had severed his connection with the Players' Club, of which
     he had been one of the charter members.  Now, upon his return to New
     York, a number of his friends joined in an invitation to him to
     return.  Mark
     Twain's reply was prompt and heartfelt.

                                                  S.  L.  C.

A year later, Mark Twain did "come back again," as an honorary life member, and was given a
dinner of welcome by those who had signed the lines urging his return.

XLIV. LETTERS OF 1905. TO TWICHELL, MR. DUNEKA AND OTHERS. POLITICS AND HUMANITY. A SUMMER
AT DUBLIN. MARK TWAIN AT 70.

     In 1884 Mark Twain had abandoned the Republican Party to vote for
     Cleveland.  He believed the party had become corrupt, and to his
     last day it was hard for him to see anything good in Republican
     policies or performance.  He was a personal friend of Theodore
     Roosevelt's but, as we have seen in a former letter, Roosevelt the
     politician rarely found favor in his eyes.  With or without
     justification, most of the President's political acts invited his
     caustic sarcasm and unsparing condemnation.  Another letter to
     Twichell of this time affords a fair example.

*****

To Rev. J. H. Twichell, in Hartford:

                                                       Feb. 16, '05. As per Order
78 and the appropriation of the Indian trust funds.

Do not throw these enlightenments aside, but study them, let them raise you to higher planes
and make you better. You taught me in my callow days, let me pay back the debt now in my old
age out of a thesaurus with wisdom smelted from the golden ores of experience.

                         Ever yours for sweetness and light
                                                            MARK.

     The next letter to Twichell takes up politics and humanity in
     general, in a manner complimentary to neither.  Mark Twain was never
     really a pessimist, but he had pessimistic intervals, such as come
     to most of us in life's later years, and at such times he let
     himself go without stint concerning "the damned human race," as he
     called it, usually with a manifest sense of indignation that he
     should be a member of it.  In much of his later writing
     --A Mysterious Stranger for example--he said his say with but small
     restraint, and certainly in his purely intellectual moments he was
     likely to be a pessimist of the most extreme type, capably damning
     the race and the inventor of it.  Yet, at heart, no man loved his
     kind more genuinely, or with deeper compassion, than Mark Twain,
     perhaps for its very weaknesses.  It was only that he had intervals
     --frequent intervals, and rather long ones--when he did not admire
     it, and was still more doubtful as to the ways of providence.

*****

To Rev. J. H. Twichell, in Hartford:

                                                       March 14, '05.

DEAR JOE,--I have a Puddn'head maxim:

"When a man is a pessimist before 48 he knows too much; if he is an optimist after it, he knows
too little."

It is with contentment, therefore, that I reflect that I am better and wiser than you. Joe,
you seem to be dealing in "bulks," now; the "bulk" of the farmers and U. S. Senators are "honest."
As regards purchase and sale with money? Who doubts it? Is that the only measure of honesty?
Aren't there a dozen kinds of honesty which can't be measured by the money-standard? Treason
is treason--and there's more than one form of it; the money-form is but one of them. When a
person is disloyal to any confessed duty, he is plainly and simply dishonest, and knows it;
knows it, and is privately troubled about it and not proud of himself. Judged by this standard--and
who will challenge the validity of it?--there isn't an honest man in Connecticut, nor in the
Senate, nor anywhere else. I do not even except myself, this time.

Am I finding fault with you and the rest of the populace? No--I assure you I am not. For I
know the human race's limitations, and this makes it my duty--my pleasant duty--to be fair
to it. Each person in it is honest in one or several ways, but no member of it is honest in
all the ways required by--by what? By his own standard. Outside of that, as I look at it, there
is no obligation upon him.

Am I honest? I give you my word of honor (private) I am not. Sometimes I feel lonely enough
in this lofty solitude.

