ESSAYS, FIRST SERIES

By Ralph Waldo Emerson

     HISTORY.

     There is no great and no small
     To the Soul that maketh all:
     And where it cometh, all things are
     And it cometh everywhere.

     I am owner of the sphere,
     Of the seven stars and the solar year,
     Of Caesar's hand, and Plato's brain,
     Of Lord Christ's heart, and Shakspeare's strain.

I. HISTORY.

THERE is one mind common to all individual men. Every man is an inlet to the same and to all
of the same. He that is once admitted to the right of reason is made a freeman of the whole
estate. What Plato has thought, he may think; what a saint has felt, he may feel; what at any
time has befallen any man, he can understand. Who hath access to this universal mind is a party
to all that is or can be done, for this is the only and sovereign agent.

Of the works of this mind history is the record. Its genius is illustrated by the entire series
of days. Man is explicable by nothing less than all his history. Without hurry, without rest,
the human spirit goes forth from the beginning to embody every faculty, every thought, every
emotion, which belongs to it, in appropriate events. But the thought is always prior to the
fact; all the facts of history preexist in the mind as laws. Each law in turn is made by circumstances
predominant, and the limits of nature give power to but one at a time. A man is the whole encyclopaedia
of facts. The creation of a thousand forests is in one acorn, and Egypt, Greece, Rome, Gaul,
Britain, America, lie folded already in the first man. Epoch after epoch, camp, kingdom, empire,
republic, democracy, are merely the application of his manifold spirit to the manifold world.

This human mind wrote history, and this must read it. The Sphinx must solve her own riddle.
If the whole of history is in one man, it is all to be explained from individual experience.
There is a relation between the hours of our life and the centuries of time. As the air I breathe
is drawn from the great repositories of nature, as the light on my book is yielded by a star
a hundred millions of miles distant, as the poise of my body depends on the equilibrium of
centrifugal and centripetal forces, so the hours should be instructed by the ages and the ages
explained by the hours. Of the universal mind each individual man is one more incarnation.
All its properties consist in him. Each new fact in his private experience flashes a light
on what great bodies of men have done, and the crises of his life refer to national crises.
Every revolution was first a thought in one man's mind, and when the same thought occurs to
another man, it is the key to that era. Every reform was once a private opinion, and when it
shall be a private opinion again it will solve the problem of the age. The fact narrated must
correspond to something in me to be credible or intelligible. We, as we read, must become Greeks,
Romans, Turks, priest and king, martyr and executioner; must fasten these images to some reality
in our secret experience, or we shall learn nothing rightly. What befell Asdrubal or Caesar
Borgia is as much an illustration of the mind's powers and depravations as what has befallen
us. Each new law and political movement has meaning for you. Stand before each of its tablets
and say, 'Under this mask did my Proteus nature hide itself.' This remedies the defect of our
too great nearness to ourselves. This throws our actions into perspective; and as crabs, goats,
scorpions, the balance and the waterpot lose their meanness when hung as signs in the zodiac,
so I can see my own vices without heat in the distant persons of Solomon, Alcibiades, and Catiline.

It is the universal nature which gives worth to particular men and things. Human life, as containing
this, is mysterious and inviolable, and we hedge it round with penalties and laws. All laws
derive hence their ultimate reason; all express more or less distinctly some command of this
supreme, illimitable essence. Property also holds of the soul, covers great spiritual facts,
and instinctively we at first hold to it with swords and laws and wide and complex combinations.
The obscure consciousness of this fact is the light of all our day, the claim of claims; the
plea for education, for justice, for charity; the foundation of friendship and love and of
the heroism and grandeur which belong to acts of self-reliance. It is remarkable that involuntarily
we always read as superior beings. Universal history, the poets, the romancers, do not in their
stateliest pictures,--in the sacerdotal, the imperial palaces, in the triumphs of will or of
genius,--anywhere lose our ear, anywhere make us feel that we intrude, that this is for better
men; but rather is it true that in their grandest strokes we feel most at home. All that Shakspeare
says of the king, yonder slip of a boy that reads in the corner feels to be true of himself.
We sympathize in the great moments of history, in the great discoveries, the great resistances,
the great prosperities of men;--because there law was enacted, the sea was searched, the land
was found, or the blow was struck, for us, as we ourselves in that place would have done or
applauded.

We have the same interest in condition and character. We honor the rich because they have externally
the freedom, power, and grace which we feel to be proper to man, proper to us. So all that
is said of the wise man by Stoic or Oriental or modern essayist, describes to each reader his
own idea, describes his unattained but attainable self. All literature writes the character
of the wise man. Books, monuments, pictures, conversation, are portraits in which he finds
the lineaments he is forming. The silent and the eloquent praise him and accost him, and he
is stimulated wherever he moves, as by personal allusions. A true aspirant therefore never
needs look for allusions personal and laudatory in discourse. He hears the commendation, not
of himself, but, more sweet, of that character he seeks, in every word that is said concerning
character, yea further in every fact and circumstance,--in the running river and the rustling
corn. Praise is looked, homage tendered, love flows, from mute nature, from the mountains and
the lights of the firmament.

These hints, dropped as it were from sleep and night, let us use in broad day. The student
is to read history actively and not passively; to esteem his own life the text, and books the
commentary. Thus compelled, the Muse of history will utter oracles, as never to those who do
not respect themselves. I have no expectation that any man will read history aright who thinks
that what was done in a remote age, by men whose names have resounded far, has any deeper sense
than what he is doing to-day.

The world exists for the education of each man. There is no age or state of society or mode
of action in history to which there is not somewhat corresponding in his life. Every thing
tends in a wonderful manner to abbreviate itself and yield its own virtue to him. He should
see that he can live all history in his own person. He must sit solidly at home, and not suffer
himself to be bullied by kings or empires, but know that he is greater than all the geography
and all the government of the world; he must transfer the point of view from which history
is commonly read, from Rome and Athens and London, to himself, and not deny his conviction
that he is the court, and if England or Egypt have any thing to say to him he will try the
case; if not, let them for ever be silent. He must attain and maintain that lofty sight where
facts yield their secret sense, and poetry and annals are alike. The instinct of the mind,
the purpose of nature, betrays itself in the use we make of the signal narrations of history.
Time dissipates to shining ether the solid angularity of facts. No anchor, no cable, no fences
avail to keep a fact a fact. Babylon, Troy, Tyre, Palestine, and even early Rome are passing
already into fiction. The Garden of Eden, the sun standing still in Gibeon, is poetry thenceforward
to all nations. Who cares what the fact was, when we have made a constellation of it to hang
in heaven an immortal sign? London and Paris and New York must go the same way. "What is history,"
said Napoleon, "but a fable agreed upon?" This life of ours is stuck round with Egypt, Greece,
Gaul, England, War, Colonization, Church, Court and Commerce, as with so many flowers and wild
ornaments grave and gay. I will not make more account of them. I believe in Eternity. I can
find Greece, Asia, Italy, Spain and the Islands,--the genius and creative principle of each
and of all eras, in my own mind.

We are always coming up with the emphatic facts of history in our private experience and verifying
them here. All history becomes subjective; in other words there is properly no history, only
biography. Every mind must know the whole lesson for itself,--must go over the whole ground.
What it does not see, what it does not live, it will not know. What the former age has epitomized
into a formula or rule for manipular convenience, it will lose all the good of verifying for
itself, by means of the wall of that rule. Somewhere, sometime, it will demand and find compensation
for that loss, by doing the work itself. Ferguson discovered many things in astronomy which
had long been known. The better for him.

History must be this or it is nothing. Every law which the state enacts indicates a fact in
human nature; that is all. We must in ourselves see the necessary reason of every fact,--see
how it could and must be. So stand before every public and private work; before an oration
of Burke, before a victory of Napoleon, before a martyrdom of Sir Thomas More, of Sidney, of
Marmaduke Robinson; before a French Reign of Terror, and a Salem hanging of witches; before
a fanatic Revival and the Animal Magnetism in Paris, or in Providence. We assume that we under
like influence should be alike affected, and should achieve the like; and we aim to master
intellectually the steps and reach the same height or the same degradation that our fellow,
our proxy has done.

All inquiry into antiquity, all curiosity respecting the Pyramids, the excavated cities, Stonehenge,
the Ohio Circles, Mexico, Memphis,--is the desire to do away this wild, savage, and preposterous
There or Then, and introduce in its place the Here and the Now. Belzoni digs and measures in
the mummy-pits and pyramids of Thebes, until he can see the end of the difference between the
monstrous work and himself. When he has satisfied himself, in general and in detail, that it
was made by such a person as he, so armed and so motived, and to ends to which he himself should
also have worked, the problem is solved; his thought lives along the whole line of temples
and sphinxes and catacombs, passes through them all with satisfaction, and they live again
to the mind, or are now.

A Gothic cathedral affirms that it was done by us and not done by us. Surely it was by man,
but we find it not in our man. But we apply ourselves to the history of its production. We
put ourselves into the place and state of the builder. We remember the forest-dwellers, the
first temples, the adherence to the first type, and the decoration of it as the wealth of the
nation increased; the value which is given to wood by carving led to the carving over the whole
mountain of stone of a cathedral. When we have gone through this process, and added thereto
the Catholic Church, its cross, its music, its processions, its Saints' days and image-worship,
we have as it were been the man that made the minster; we have seen how it could and must be.
We have the sufficient reason.

The difference between men is in their principle of association. Some men classify objects
by color and size and other accidents of appearance; others by intrinsic likeness, or by the
relation of cause and effect. The progress of the intellect is to the clearer vision of causes,
which neglects surface differences. To the poet, to the philosopher, to the saint, all things
are friendly and sacred, all events profitable, all days holy, all men divine. For the eye
is fastened on the life, and slights the circumstance. Every chemical substance, every plant,
every animal in its growth, teaches the unity of cause, the variety of appearance.

Upborne and surrounded as we are by this all-creating nature, soft and fluid as a cloud or
the air, why should we be such hard pedants, and magnify a few forms? Why should we make account
of time, or of magnitude, or of figure? The soul knows them not, and genius, obeying its law,
knows how to play with them as a young child plays with graybeards and in churches. Genius
studies the causal thought, and far back in the womb of things sees the rays parting from one
orb, that diverge, ere they fall, by infinite diameters. Genius watches the monad through all
his masks as he performs the metempsychosis of nature. Genius detects through the fly, through
the caterpillar, through the grub, through the egg, the constant individual; through countless
individuals the fixed species; through many species the genus; through all genera the steadfast
type; through all the kingdoms of organized life the eternal unity. Nature is a mutable cloud
which is always and never the same. She casts the same thought into troops of forms, as a poet
makes twenty fables with one moral. Through the bruteness and toughness of matter, a subtle
spirit bends all things to its own will. The adamant streams into soft but precise form before
it, and whilst I look at it its outline and texture are changed again. Nothing is so fleeting
as form; yet never does it quite deny itself. In man we still trace the remains or hints of
all that we esteem badges of servitude in the lower races; yet in him they enhance his nobleness
and grace; as Io, in Aeschylus, transformed to a cow, offends the imagination; but how changed
when as Isis in Egypt she meets Osiris-Jove, a beautiful woman with nothing of the metamorphosis
left but the lunar horns as the splendid ornament of her brows!

The identity of history is equally intrinsic, the diversity equally obvious. There is, at the
surface, infinite variety of things; at the centre there is simplicity of cause. How many are
the acts of one man in which we recognize the same character! Observe the sources of our information
in respect to the Greek genius. We have the civil history of that people, as Herodotus, Thucydides,
Xenophon, and Plutarch have given it; a very sufficient account of what manner of persons they
were and what they did. We have the same national mind expressed for us again in their literature,
in epic and lyric poems, drama, and philosophy; a very complete form. Then we have it once
more in their architecture, a beauty as of temperance itself, limited to the straight line
and the square,--a builded geometry. Then we have it once again in sculpture, the "tongue on
the balance of expression," a multitude of forms in the utmost freedom of action and never
transgressing the ideal serenity; like votaries performing some religious dance before the
gods, and, though in convulsive pain or mortal combat, never daring to break the figure and
decorum of their dance. Thus of the genius of one remarkable people we have a fourfold representation:
and to the senses what more unlike than an ode of Pindar, a marble centaur, the peristyle of
the Parthenon, and the last actions of Phocion?

Every one must have observed faces and forms which, without any resembling feature, make a
like impression on the beholder. A particular picture or copy of verses, if it do not awaken
the same train of images, will yet superinduce the same sentiment as some wild mountain walk,
although the resemblance is nowise obvious to the senses, but is occult and out of the reach
of the understanding. Nature is an endless combination and repetition of a very few laws. She
hums the old well-known air through innumerable variations.

Nature is full of a sublime family likeness throughout her works, and delights in startling
us with resemblances in the most unexpected quarters. I have seen the head of an old sachem
of the forest which at once reminded the eye of a bald mountain summit, and the furrows of
the brow suggested the strata of the rock. There are men whose manners have the same essential
splendor as the simple and awful sculpture on the friezes of the Parthenon and the remains
of the earliest Greek art. And there are compositions of the same strain to be found in the
books of all ages. What is Guido's Rospigliosi Aurora but a morning thought, as the horses
in it are only a morning cloud? If any one will but take pains to observe the variety of actions
to which he is equally inclined in certain moods of mind, and those to which he is averse,
he will see how deep is the chain of affinity.

A painter told me that nobody could draw a tree without in some sort becoming a tree; or draw
a child by studying the outlines of its form merely,--but, by watching for a time his motions
and plays, the painter enters into his nature and can then draw him at will in every attitude.
So Roos "entered into the inmost nature of a sheep." I knew a draughtsman employed in a public
survey who found that he could not sketch the rocks until their geological structure was first
explained to him. In a certain state of thought is the common origin of very diverse works.
It is the spirit and not the fact that is identical. By a deeper apprehension, and not primarily
by a painful acquisition of many manual skills, the artist attains the power of awakening other
souls to a given activity.

It has been said that "common souls pay with what they do, nobler souls with that which they
are." And why? Because a profound nature awakens in us by its actions and words, by its very
looks and manners, the same power and beauty that a gallery of sculpture or of pictures addresses.

Civil and natural history, the history of art and of literature, must be explained from individual
history, or must remain words. There is nothing but is related to us, nothing that does not
interest us,--kingdom, college, tree, horse, or iron shoe,--the roots of all things are in
man. Santa Croce and the Dome of St. Peter's are lame copies after a divine model. Strasburg
Cathedral is a material counterpart of the soul of Erwin of Steinbach. The true poem is the
poet's mind; the true ship is the ship-builder. In the man, could we lay him open, we should
see the reason for the last flourish and tendril of his work; as every spine and tint in the
sea-shell preexists in the secreting organs of the fish. The whole of heraldry and of chivalry
is in courtesy. A man of fine manners shall pronounce your name with all the ornament that
titles of nobility could ever add.

The trivial experience of every day is always verifying some old prediction to us and converting
into things the words and signs which we had heard and seen without heed. A lady with whom
I was riding in the forest said to me that the woods always seemed to her to wait, as if the
genii who inhabit them suspended their deeds until the wayfarer had passed onward; a thought
which poetry has celebrated in the dance of the fairies, which breaks off on the approach of
human feet. The man who has seen the rising moon break out of the clouds at midnight, has been
present like an archangel at the creation of light and of the world. I remember one summer
day in the fields my companion pointed out to me a broad cloud, which might extend a quarter
of a mile parallel to the horizon, quite accurately in the form of a cherub as painted over
churches,--a round block in the centre, which it was easy to animate with eyes and mouth, supported
on either side by wide-stretched symmetrical wings. What appears once in the atmosphere may
appear often, and it was undoubtedly the archetype of that familiar ornament. I have seen in
the sky a chain of summer lightning which at once showed to me that the Greeks drew from nature
when they painted the thunderbolt in the hand of Jove. I have seen a snow-drift along the sides
of the stone wall which obviously gave the idea of the common architectural scroll to abut a tower.

By surrounding ourselves with the original circumstances we invent anew the orders and the
ornaments of architecture, as we see how each people merely decorated its primitive abodes.
The Doric temple preserves the semblance of the wooden cabin in which the Dorian dwelt. The
Chinese pagoda is plainly a Tartar tent. The Indian and Egyptian temples still betray the mounds
and subterranean houses of their forefathers. "The custom of making houses and tombs in the
living rock," says Heeren in his Researches on the Ethiopians, "determined very naturally the
principal character of the Nubian Egyptian architecture to the colossal form which it assumed.
In these caverns, already prepared by nature, the eye was accustomed to dwell on huge shapes
and masses, so that when art came to the assistance of nature it could not move on a small
scale without degrading itself. What would statues of the usual size, or neat porches and wings
have been, associated with those gigantic halls before which only Colossi could sit as watchmen
or lean on the pillars of the interior?"

The Gothic church plainly originated in a rude adaptation of the forest trees, with all their
boughs, to a festal or solemn arcade; as the bands about the cleft pillars still indicate the
green withes that tied them. No one can walk in a road cut through pine woods, without being
struck with the architectural appearance of the grove, especially in winter, when the barrenness
of all other trees shows the low arch of the Saxons. In the woods in a winter afternoon one
will see as readily the origin of the stained glass window, with which the Gothic cathedrals
are adorned, in the colors of the western sky seen through the bare and crossing branches of
the forest. Nor can any lover of nature enter the old piles of Oxford and the English cathedrals,
without feeling that the forest overpowered the mind of the builder, and that his chisel, his
saw and plane still reproduced its ferns, its spikes of flowers, its locust, elm, oak, pine,
fir and spruce.

The Gothic cathedral is a blossoming in stone subdued by the insatiable demand of harmony in
man. The mountain of granite blooms into an eternal flower, with the lightness and delicate
finish as well as the aerial proportions and perspective of vegetable beauty.

In like manner all public facts are to be individualized, all private facts are to be generalized.
Then at once History becomes fluid and true, and Biography deep and sublime. As the Persian
imitated in the slender shafts and capitals of his architecture the stem and flower of the
lotus and palm, so the Persian court in its magnificent era never gave over the nomadism of
its barbarous tribes, but travelled from Ecbatana, where the spring was spent, to Susa in summer
and to Babylon for the winter.

In the early history of Asia and Africa, Nomadism and Agriculture are the two antagonist facts.
The geography of Asia and of Africa necessitated a nomadic life. But the nomads were the terror
of all those whom the soil or the advantages of a market had induced to build towns. Agriculture
therefore was a religious injunction, because of the perils of the state from nomadism. And
in these late and civil countries of England and America these propensities still fight out
the old battle, in the nation and in the individual. The nomads of Africa were constrained
to wander, by the attacks of the gad-fly, which drives the cattle mad, and so compels the tribe
to emigrate in the rainy season and to drive off the cattle to the higher sandy regions. The
nomads of Asia follow the pasturage from month to month. In America and Europe the nomadism
is of trade and curiosity; a progress, certainly, from the gad-fly of Astaboras to the Anglo
and Italo-mania of Boston Bay. Sacred cities, to which a periodical religious pilgrimage was
enjoined, or stringent laws and customs, tending to invigorate the national bond, were the
check on the old rovers; and the cumulative values of long residence are the restraints on
the itineracy of the present day. The antagonism of the two tendencies is not less active in
individuals, as the love of adventure or the love of repose happens to predominate. A man of
rude health and flowing spirits has the faculty of rapid domestication, lives in his wagon
and roams through all latitudes as easily as a Calmuc. At sea, or in the forest, or in the
snow, he sleeps as warm, dines with as good appetite, and associates as happily as beside his
own chimneys. Or perhaps his facility is deeper seated, in the increased range of his faculties
of observation, which yield him points of interest wherever fresh objects meet his eyes. The
pastoral nations were needy and hungry to desperation; and this intellectual nomadism, in its
excess, bankrupts the mind through the dissipation of power on a miscellany of objects. The
home-keeping wit, on the other hand, is that continence or content which finds all the elements
of life in its own soil; and which has its own perils of monotony and deterioration, if not
stimulated by foreign infusions.

Every thing the individual sees without him corresponds to his states of mind, and every thing
is in turn intelligible to him, as his onward thinking leads him into the truth to which that
fact or series belongs.

The primeval world,--the Fore-World, as the Germans say,--I can dive to it in myself as well
as grope for it with researching fingers in catacombs, libraries, and the broken reliefs and
torsos of ruined villas.

What is the foundation of that interest all men feel in Greek history, letters, art, and poetry,
in all its periods from the Heroic or Homeric age down to the domestic life of the Athenians
and Spartans, four or five centuries later? What but this, that every man passes personally
through a Grecian period. The Grecian state is the era of the bodily nature, the perfection
of the senses,--of the spiritual nature unfolded in strict unity with the body. In it existed
those human forms which supplied the sculptor with his models of Hercules, Phoebus, and Jove;
not like the forms abounding in the streets of modern cities, wherein the face is a confused
blur of features, but composed of incorrupt, sharply defined and symmetrical features, whose
eye-sockets are so formed that it would be impossible for such eyes to squint and take furtive
glances on this side and on that, but they must turn the whole head. The manners of that period
are plain and fierce. The reverence exhibited is for personal qualities; courage, address,
self-command, justice, strength, swiftness, a loud voice, a broad chest. Luxury and elegance
are not known. A sparse population and want make every man his own valet, cook, butcher and
soldier, and the habit of supplying his own needs educates the body to wonderful performances.
Such are the Agamemnon and Diomed of Homer, and not far different is the picture Xenophon gives
of himself and his compatriots in the Retreat of the Ten Thousand. "After the army had crossed
the river Teleboas in Armenia, there fell much snow, and the troops lay miserably on the ground
covered with it. But Xenophon arose naked, and taking an axe, began to split wood; whereupon
others rose and did the like." Throughout his army exists a boundless liberty of speech. They
quarrel for plunder, they wrangle with the generals on each new order, and Xenophon is as sharp-tongued
as any and sharper-tongued than most, and so gives as good as he gets. Who does not see that
this is a gang of great boys, with such a code of honor and such lax discipline as great boys have?

The costly charm of the ancient tragedy, and indeed of all the old literature, is that the
persons speak simply,--speak as persons who have great good sense without knowing it, before
yet the reflective habit has become the predominant habit of the mind. Our admiration of the
antique is not admiration of the old, but of the natural. The Greeks are not reflective, but
perfect in their senses and in their health, with the finest physical organization in the world.
Adults acted with the simplicity and grace of children. They made vases, tragedies, and statues,
such as healthy senses should,--that is, in good taste. Such things have continued to be made
in all ages, and are now, wherever a healthy physique exists; but, as a class, from their superior
organization, they have surpassed all. They combine the energy of manhood with the engaging
unconsciousness of childhood. The attraction of these manners is that they belong to man, and
are known to every man in virtue of his being once a child; besides that there are always individuals
who retain these characteristics. A person of childlike genius and inborn energy is still a
Greek, and revives our love of the Muse of Hellas. I admire the love of nature in the Philoctetes.
In reading those fine apostrophes to sleep, to the stars, rocks, mountains and waves, I feel
time passing away as an ebbing sea. I feel the eternity of man, the identity of his thought.
The Greek had it seems the same fellow-beings as I. The sun and moon, water and fire, met his
heart precisely as they meet mine. Then the vaunted distinction between Greek and English,
between Classic and Romantic schools, seems superficial and pedantic. When a thought of Plato
becomes a thought to me,--when a truth that fired the soul of Pindar fires mine, time is no
more. When I feel that we two meet in a perception, that our two souls are tinged with the
same hue, and do as it were run into one, why should I measure degrees of latitude, why should
I count Egyptian years?

The student interprets the age of chivalry by his own age of chivalry, and the days of maritime
adventure and circumnavigation by quite parallel miniature experiences of his own. To the sacred
history of the world he has the same key. When the voice of a prophet out of the deeps of antiquity
merely echoes to him a sentiment of his infancy, a prayer of his youth, he then pierces to
the truth through all the confusion of tradition and the caricature of institutions.

Rare, extravagant spirits come by us at intervals, who disclose to us new facts in nature.
I see that men of God have from time to time walked among men and made their commission felt
in the heart and soul of the commonest hearer. Hence evidently the tripod, the priest, the
priestess inspired by the divine afflatus.

Jesus astonishes and overpowers sensual people. They cannot unite him to history, or reconcile
him with themselves. As they come to revere their intuitions and aspire to live holily, their
own piety explains every fact, every word.

How easily these old worships of Moses, of Zoroaster, of Menu, of Socrates, domesticate themselves
in the mind. I cannot find any antiquity in them. They are mine as much as theirs.

I have seen the first monks and anchorets, without crossing seas or centuries. More than once
some individual has appeared to me with such negligence of labor and such commanding contemplation,
a haughty beneficiary begging in the name of God, as made good to the nineteenth century Simeon
the Stylite, the Thebais, and the first Capuchins.

The priestcraft of the East and West, of the Magian, Brahmin, Druid, and Inca, is expounded
in the individual's private life. The cramping influence of a hard formalist on a young child,
in repressing his spirits and courage, paralyzing the understanding, and that without producing
indignation, but only fear and obedience, and even much sympathy with the tyranny,--is a familiar
fact, explained to the child when he becomes a man, only by seeing that the oppressor of his
youth is himself a child tyrannized over by those names and words and forms of whose influence
he was merely the organ to the youth. The fact teaches him how Belus was worshipped and how
the Pyramids were built, better than the discovery by Champollion of the names of all the workmen
and the cost of every tile. He finds Assyria and the Mounds of Cholula at his door, and himself
has laid the courses.

Again, in that protest which each considerate person makes against the superstition of his
times, he repeats step for step the part of old reformers, and in the search after truth finds,
like them, new perils to virtue. He learns again what moral vigor is needed to supply the girdle
of a superstition. A great licentiousness treads on the heels of a reformation. How many times
in the history of the world has the Luther of the day had to lament the decay of piety in his
own household!

The advancing man discovers how deep a property he has in literature,--in all fable as well
as in all history. He finds that the poet was no odd fellow who described strange and impossible
situations, but that universal man wrote by his pen a confession true for one and true for
all. His own secret biography he finds in lines wonderfully intelligible to him, dotted down
before he was born. One after another he comes up in his private adventures with every fable
of Aesop, of Homer, of Hafiz, of Ariosto, of Chaucer, of Scott, and verifies them with his
own head and hands.

The beautiful fables of the Greeks, being proper creations of the imagination and not of the
fancy, are universal verities. What a range of meanings and what perpetual pertinence has the
story of Prometheus! Beside its primary value as the first chapter of the history of Europe,
(the mythology thinly veiling authentic facts, the invention of the mechanic arts and the migration
of colonies,) it gives the history of religion, with some closeness to the faith of later ages.
Prometheus is the Jesus of the old mythology. He is the friend of man; stands between the unjust
"justice" of the Eternal Father and the race of mortals, and readily suffers all things on
their account. But where it departs from the Calvinistic Christianity and exhibits him as the
defier of Jove, it represents a state of mind which readily appears wherever the doctrine of
Theism is taught in a crude, objective form, and which seems the self-defence of man against
this untruth, namely a discontent with the believed fact that a God exists, and a feeling that
the obligation of reverence is onerous. It would steal if it could the fire of the Creator,
and live apart from him and independent of him. The Prometheus Vinctus is the romance of skepticism.
Not less true to all time are the details of that stately apologue. Apollo kept the flocks
of Admetus, said the poets. When the gods come among men, they are not known. Jesus was not;
Socrates and Shakspeare were not. Antaeus was suffocated by the gripe of Hercules, but every
time he touched his mother earth his strength was renewed. Man is the broken giant, and in
all his weakness both his body and his mind are invigorated by habits of conversation with
nature. The power of music, the power of poetry, to unfix and as it were clap wings to solid
nature, interprets the riddle of Orpheus. The philosophical perception of identity through
endless mutations of form makes him know the Proteus. What else am I who laughed or wept yesterday,
who slept last night like a corpse, and this morning stood and ran? And what see I on any side
but the transmigrations of Proteus? I can symbolize my thought by using the name of any creature,
of any fact, because every creature is man agent or patient. Tantalus is but a name for you
and me. Tantalus means the impossibility of drinking the waters of thought which are always
gleaming and waving within sight of the soul. The transmigration of souls is no fable. I would
it were; but men and women are only half human. Every animal of the barn-yard, the field and
the forest, of the earth and of the waters that are under the earth, has contrived to get a
footing and to leave the print of its features and form in some one or other of these upright,
heaven-facing speakers. Ah! brother, stop the ebb of thy soul,--ebbing downward into the forms
into whose habits thou hast now for many years slid. As near and proper to us is also that
old fable of the Sphinx, who was said to sit in the road-side and put riddles to every passenger.
If the man could not answer, she swallowed him alive. If he could solve the riddle, the Sphinx
was slain. What is our life but an endless flight of winged facts or events? In splendid variety
these changes come, all putting questions to the human spirit. Those men who cannot answer
by a superior wisdom these facts or questions of time, serve them. Facts encumber them, tyrannize
over them, and make the men of routine, the men of sense, in whom a literal obedience to facts
has extinguished every spark of that light by which man is truly man. But if the man is true
to his better instincts or sentiments, and refuses the dominion of facts, as one that comes
of a higher race; remains fast by the soul and sees the principle, then the facts fall aptly
and supple into their places; they know their master, and the meanest of them glorifies him.

See in Goethe's Helena the same desire that every word should be a thing. These figures, he
would say, these Chirons, Griffins, Phorkyas, Helen and Leda, are somewhat, and do exert a
specific influence on the mind. So far then are they eternal entities, as real to-day as in
the first Olympiad. Much revolving them he writes out freely his humor, and gives them body
to his own imagination. And although that poem be as vague and fantastic as a dream, yet is
it much more attractive than the more regular dramatic pieces of the same author, for the reason
that it operates a wonderful relief to the mind from the routine of customary images,--awakens
the reader's invention and fancy by the wild freedom of the design, and by the unceasing succession
of brisk shocks of surprise.

The universal nature, too strong for the petty nature of the bard, sits on his neck and writes
through his hand; so that when he seems to vent a mere caprice and wild romance, the issue
is an exact allegory. Hence Plato said that "poets utter great and wise things which they do
not themselves understand." All the fictions of the Middle Age explain themselves as a masked
or frolic expression of that which in grave earnest the mind of that period toiled to achieve.
Magic and all that is ascribed to it is a deep presentiment of the powers of science. The shoes
of swiftness, the sword of sharpness, the power of subduing the elements, of using the secret
virtues of minerals, of understanding the voices of birds, are the obscure efforts of the mind
in a right direction. The preternatural prowess of the hero, the gift of perpetual youth, and
the like, are alike the endeavour of the human spirit "to bend the shows of things to the desires
of the mind."

In Perceforest and Amadis de Gaul a garland and a rose bloom on the head of her who is faithful,
and fade on the brow of the inconstant. In the story of the Boy and the Mantle even a mature
reader may be surprised with a glow of virtuous pleasure at the triumph of the gentle Venelas;
and indeed all the postulates of elfin annals,--that the fairies do not like to be named; that
their gifts are capricious and not to be trusted; that who seeks a treasure must not speak;
and the like,--I find true in Concord, however they might be in Cornwall or Bretagne.

Is it otherwise in the newest romance? I read the Bride of Lammermoor. Sir William Ashton is
a mask for a vulgar temptation, Ravenswood Castle a fine name for proud poverty, and the foreign
mission of state only a Bunyan disguise for honest industry. We may all shoot a wild bull that
would toss the good and beautiful, by fighting down the unjust and sensual. Lucy Ashton is
another name for fidelity, which is always beautiful and always liable to calamity in this world.

But along with the civil and metaphysical history of man, another history goes daily forward,--that
of the external world,--in which he is not less strictly implicated. He is the compend of time;
he is also the correlative of nature. His power consists in the multitude of his affinities,
in the fact that his life is intertwined with the whole chain of organic and inorganic being.
In old Rome the public roads beginning at the Forum proceeded north, south, east, west, to
the centre of every province of the empire, making each market-town of Persia, Spain and Britain
pervious to the soldiers of the capital: so out of the human heart go as it were highways to
the heart of every object in nature, to reduce it under the dominion of man. A man is a bundle
of relations, a knot of roots, whose flower and fruitage is the world. His faculties refer
to natures out of him and predict the world he is to inhabit, as the fins of the fish foreshow
that water exists, or the wings of an eagle in the egg presuppose air. He cannot live without
a world. Put Napoleon in an island prison, let his faculties find no men to act on, no Alps
to climb, no stake to play for, and he would beat the air, and appear stupid. Transport him
to large countries, dense population, complex interests and antagonist power, and you shall
see that the man Napoleon, bounded that is by such a profile and outline, is not the virtual
Napoleon. This is but Talbot's shadow;--

     "His substance is not here.
     For what you see is but the smallest part
     And least proportion of humanity;
     But were the whole frame here,
     It is of such a spacious, lofty pitch,
     Your roof were not sufficient to contain it."
     --Henry VI.

Columbus needs a planet to shape his course upon. Newton and Laplace need myriads of age and
thick-strewn celestial areas. One may say a gravitating solar system is already prophesied
in the nature of Newton's mind. Not less does the brain of Davy or of Gay-Lussac, from childhood
exploring the affinities and repulsions of particles, anticipate the laws of organization.
Does not the eye of the human embryo predict the light? the ear of Handel predict the witchcraft
of harmonic sound? Do not the constructive fingers of Watt, Fulton, Whittemore, Arkwright,
predict the fusible, hard, and temperable texture of metals, the properties of stone, water,
and wood? Do not the lovely attributes of the maiden child predict the refinements and decorations
of civil society? Here also we are reminded of the action of man on man. A mind might ponder
its thought for ages and not gain so much self-knowledge as the passion of love shall teach
it in a day. Who knows himself before he has been thrilled with indignation at an outrage,
or has heard an eloquent tongue, or has shared the throb of thousands in a national exultation
or alarm? No man can antedate his experience, or guess what faculty or feeling a new object
shall unlock, any more than he can draw to-day the face of a person whom he shall see to-morrow
for the first time.

I will not now go behind the general statement to explore the reason of this correspondency.
Let it suffice that in the light of these two facts, namely, that the mind is One, and that
nature is its correlative, history is to be read and written.

Thus in all ways does the soul concentrate and reproduce its treasures for each pupil. He too
shall pass through the whole cycle of experience. He shall collect into a focus the rays of
nature. History no longer shall be a dull book. It shall walk incarnate in every just and wise
man. You shall not tell me by languages and titles a catalogue of the volumes you have read.
You shall make me feel what periods you have lived. A man shall be the Temple of Fame. He shall
walk, as the poets have described that goddess, in a robe painted all over with wonderful events
and experiences;--his own form and features by their exalted intelligence shall be that variegated
vest. I shall find in him the Foreworld; in his childhood the Age of Gold, the Apples of Knowledge,
the Argonautic Expedition, the calling of Abraham, the building of the Temple, the Advent of
Christ, Dark Ages, the Revival of Letters, the Reformation, the discovery of new lands, the
opening of new sciences and new regions in man. He shall be the priest of Pan, and bring with
him into humble cottages the blessing of the morning stars, and all the recorded benefits of
heaven and earth.

Is there somewhat overweening in this claim? Then I reject all I have written, for what is
the use of pretending to know what we know not? But it is the fault of our rhetoric that we
cannot strongly state one fact without seeming to belie some other. I hold our actual knowledge
very cheap. Hear the rats in the wall, see the lizard on the fence, the fungus under foot,
the lichen on the log. What do I know sympathetically, morally, of either of these worlds of
life? As old as the Caucasian man,--perhaps older,--these creatures have kept their counsel
beside him, and there is no record of any word or sign that has passed from one to the other.
What connection do the books show between the fifty or sixty chemical elements and the historical
eras? Nay, what does history yet record of the metaphysical annals of man? What light does
it shed on those mysteries which we hide under the names Death and Immortality? Yet every history
should be written in a wisdom which divined the range of our affinities and looked at facts
as symbols. I am ashamed to see what a shallow village tale our so-called History is. How many
times we must say Rome, and Paris, and Constantinople! What does Rome know of rat and lizard?
What are Olympiads and Consulates to these neighboring systems of being? Nay, what food or
experience or succor have they for the Esquimaux seal-hunter, for the Kanaka in his canoe,
for the fisherman, the stevedore, the porter?

Broader and deeper we must write our annals,--from an ethical reformation, from an influx of
the ever new, ever sanative conscience,--if we would trulier express our central and wide-related
nature, instead of this old chronology of selfishness and pride to which we have too long lent
our eyes. Already that day exists for us, shines in on us at unawares, but the path of science
and of letters is not the way into nature. The idiot, the Indian, the child and unschooled
farmer's boy stand nearer to the light by which nature is to be read, than the dissector or
the antiquary.

*****

     SELF-RELIANCE.

     "Ne te quaesiveris extra."

     Epilogue to Beaumont and Fletcher's Honest Man's Fortune.

II. SELF-RELIANCE. Ah, that he could pass again into his neutrality! He who would gather immortal
palms must not be hindered by the name of goodness, but must explore if it be goodness. Nothing
is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind. But do your work, and I shall know you.
Well, most men have bound their eyes with one or another handkerchief, and attached themselves
to some one of these communities of opinion. And therefore a man must know how to estimate
a sour face.

But why should you keep your head over your shoulder? Honor is venerable to us because it is
no ephemera. Where he is, there is nature. He measures you and all men and all events. Is the
acorn better than the oak which is its fulness and completion? Is the parent better than the
child into whom he has cast his ripened being? Whence then this worship of the past? In Thebes,
in Palmyra, his will and mind have become old and dilapidated as they. He carries ruins to
ruins. Where is the master who could have instructed Franklin, or Washington, or Bacon, or
Newton? Every great man is a unique. The Scipionism of Scipio is precisely that part he could
not borrow. Shakspeare will never be made by the study of Shakspeare. For every thing that
is given something is taken. The solstice he does not observe; the equinox he knows as little;
and the whole bright calendar of the year is without a dial in his mind.

*****

     COMPENSATION.

III. COMPENSATION. For every thing you have missed, you have gained something else; and for
every thing you gain, you lose something. If riches increase, they are increased that use them.
Every thing in nature contains all the powers of nature. The microscope cannot find the animalcule
which is less perfect for being little. He is made as helpless as a king of England. Prometheus
knows one secret which Jove must bargain for; Minerva, another.

We cannot part with our friends.

*****

     SPIRITUAL LAWS.

     The living Heaven thy prayers respect,
     House at once and architect,
     Quarrying man's rejected hours,
     Builds therewith eternal towers;
     Sole and self-commanded works,
     Fears not undermining days,
     Grows by decays,
     And, by the famous might that lurks
     In reaction and recoil,
     Makes flame to freeze, and ice to boil;
     Forging, through swart arms of Offence,
     The silver seat of Innocence.

IV. SPIRITUAL LAWS.

When the act of reflection takes place in the mind, when we look at ourselves in the light
of thought, we discover that our life is embosomed in beauty. Behind us, as we go, all things
assume pleasing forms, as clouds do far off. Not only things familiar and stale, but even the
tragic and terrible are comely as they take their place in the pictures of memory. The river-bank,
the weed at the water-side, the old house, the foolish person, however neglected in the passing,
have a grace in the past. Even the corpse that has lain in the chambers has added a solemn
ornament to the house. The soul will not know either deformity or pain. If in the hours of
clear reason we should speak the severest truth, we should say that we had never made a sacrifice.
In these hours the mind seems so great that nothing can be taken from us that seems much. All
loss, all pain, is particular; the universe remains to the heart unhurt. Neither vexations
nor calamities abate our trust. No man ever stated his griefs as lightly as he might. Allow
for exaggeration in the most patient and sorely ridden hack that ever was driven. For it is
only the finite that has wrought and suffered; the infinite lies stretched in smiling repose.

The intellectual life may be kept clean and healthful if man will live the life of nature and
not import into his mind difficulties which are none of his. No man need be perplexed in his
speculations. Let him do and say what strictly belongs to him, and though very ignorant of
books, his nature shall not yield him any intellectual obstructions and doubts. Our young people
are diseased with the theological problems of original sin, origin of evil, predestination
and the like. These never presented a practical difficulty to any man,--never darkened across
any man's road who did not go out of his way to seek them. These are the soul's mumps and measles
and whooping-coughs, and those who have not caught them cannot describe their health or prescribe
the cure. A simple mind will not know these enemies. It is quite another thing that he should
be able to give account of his faith and expound to another the theory of his self-union and
freedom. This requires rare gifts. Yet without this self-knowledge there may be a sylvan strength
and integrity in that which he is. "A few strong instincts and a few plain rules" suffice us.

My will never gave the images in my mind the rank they now take. The regular course of studies,
the years of academical and professional education have not yielded me better facts than some
idle books under the bench at the Latin School. What we do not call education is more precious
than that which we call so. We form no guess, at the time of receiving a thought, of its comparative
value. And education often wastes its effort in attempts to thwart and balk this natural magnetism,
which is sure to select what belongs to it.

In like manner our moral nature is vitiated by any interference of our will. People represent
virtue as a struggle, and take to themselves great airs upon their attainments, and the question
is everywhere vexed when a noble nature is commended, whether the man is not better who strives
with temptation. But there is no merit in the matter. Either God is there or he is not there.
We love characters in proportion as they are impulsive and spontaneous. The less a man thinks
or knows about his virtues the better we like him. Timoleon's victories are the best victories,
which ran and flowed like Homer's verses, Plutarch said. When we see a soul whose acts are
all regal, graceful and pleasant as roses, we must thank God that such things can be and are,
and not turn sourly on the angel and say 'Crump is a better man with his grunting resistance
to all his native devils.'

Not less conspicuous is the preponderance of nature over will in all practical life. There
is less intention in history than we ascribe to it. We impute deep-laid far-sighted plans to
Caesar and Napoleon; but the best of their power was in nature, not in them. Men of an extraordinary
success, in their honest moments, have always sung, 'Not unto us, not unto us.' According to
the faith of their times they have built altars to Fortune, or to Destiny, or to St. Julian.
Their success lay in their parallelism to the course of thought, which found in them an unobstructed
channel; and the wonders of which they were the visible conductors seemed to the eye their
deed. Did the wires generate the galvanism? It is even true that there was less in them on
which they could reflect than in another; as the virtue of a pipe is to be smooth and hollow.
That which externally seemed will and immovableness was willingness and self-annihilation.
Could Shakspeare give a theory of Shakspeare? Could ever a man of prodigious mathematical genius
convey to others any insight into his methods? If he could communicate that secret it would
instantly lose its exaggerated value, blending with the daylight and the vital energy the power
to stand and to go.

The lesson is forcibly taught by these observations that our life might be much easier and
simpler than we make it; that the world might be a happier place than it is; that there is
no need of struggles, convulsions, and despairs, of the wringing of the hands and the gnashing
of the teeth; that we miscreate our own evils. We interfere with the optimism of nature; for
whenever we get this vantage-ground of the past, or of a wiser mind in the present, we are
able to discern that we are begirt with laws which execute themselves.

The face of external nature teaches the same lesson. Nature will not have us fret and fume.
She does not like our benevolence or our learning much better than she likes our frauds and
wars. When we come out of the caucus, or the bank, or the Abolition-convention, or the Temperance-meeting,
or the Transcendental club into the fields and woods, she says to us, 'So hot? my little Sir.'

We are full of mechanical actions. We must needs intermeddle and have things in our own way,
until the sacrifices and virtues of society are odious. Love should make joy; but our benevolence
is unhappy. Our Sunday-schools and churches and pauper-societies are yokes to the neck. We
pain ourselves to please nobody. There are natural ways of arriving at the same ends at which
these aim, but do not arrive. Why should all virtue work in one and the same way? Why should
all give dollars? It is very inconvenient to us country folk, and we do not think any good
will come of it. We have not dollars; merchants have; let them give them. Farmers will give
corn; poets will sing; women will sew; laborers will lend a hand; the children will bring flowers.
And why drag this dead weight of a Sunday-school over the whole Christendom? It is natural
and beautiful that childhood should inquire and maturity should teach; but it is time enough
to answer questions when they are asked. Do not shut up the young people against their will
in a pew and force the children to ask them questions for an hour against their will.

If we look wider, things are all alike; laws and letters and creeds and modes of living seem
a travesty of truth. Our society is encumbered by ponderous machinery, which resembles the
endless aqueducts which the Romans built over hill and dale and which are superseded by the
discovery of the law that water rises to the level of its source. It is a Chinese wall which
any nimble Tartar can leap over. It is a standing army, not so good as a peace. It is a graduated,
titled, richly appointed empire, quite superfluous when town-meetings are found to answer just
as well.

Let us draw a lesson from nature, which always works by short ways. When the fruit is ripe,
it falls. When the fruit is despatched, the leaf falls. The circuit of the waters is mere falling.
The walking of man and all animals is a falling forward. All our manual labor and works of
strength, as prying, splitting, digging, rowing and so forth, are done by dint of continual
falling, and the globe, earth, moon, comet, sun, star, fall for ever and ever.

The simplicity of the universe is very different from the simplicity of a machine. He who sees
moral nature out and out and thoroughly knows how knowledge is acquired and character formed,
is a pedant. The simplicity of nature is not that which may easily be read, but is inexhaustible.
The last analysis can no wise be made. We judge of a man's wisdom by his hope, knowing that
the perception of the inexhaustibleness of nature is an immortal youth. The wild fertility
of nature is felt in comparing our rigid names and reputations with our fluid consciousness.
We pass in the world for sects and schools, for erudition and piety, and we are all the time
jejune babes. One sees very well how Pyrrhonism grew up. Every man sees that he is that middle
point whereof every thing may be affirmed and denied with equal reason. He is old, he is young,
he is very wise, he is altogether ignorant. He hears and feels what you say of the seraphim,
and of the tin-peddler. There is no permanent wise man except in the figment of the Stoics.
We side with the hero, as we read or paint, against the coward and the robber; but we have
been ourselves that coward and robber, and shall be again,--not in the low circumstance, but
in comparison with the grandeurs possible to the soul.

A little consideration of what takes place around us every day would show us that a higher
law than that of our will regulates events; that our painful labors are unnecessary and fruitless;
that only in our easy, simple, spontaneous action are we strong, and by contenting ourselves
with obedience we become divine. Belief and love,--a believing love will relieve us of a vast
load of care. O my brothers, God exists. There is a soul at the centre of nature and over the
will of every man, so that none of us can wrong the universe. It has so infused its strong
enchantment into nature that we prosper when we accept its advice, and when we struggle to
wound its creatures our hands are glued to our sides, or they beat our own breasts. The whole
course of things goes to teach us faith. We need only obey. There is guidance for each of us,
and by lowly listening we shall hear the right word. Why need you choose so painfully your
place and occupation and associates and modes of action and of entertainment? Certainly there
is a possible right for you that precludes the need of balance and wilful election. For you
there is a reality, a fit place and congenial duties. Place yourself in the middle of the stream
of power and wisdom which animates all whom it floats, and you are without effort impelled
to truth, to right and a perfect contentment. Then you put all gainsayers in the wrong. Then
you are the world, the measure of right, of truth, of beauty. If we will not be mar-plots with
our miserable interferences, the work, the society, letters, arts, science, religion of men
would go on far better than now, and the heaven predicted from the beginning of the world,
and still predicted from the bottom of the heart, would organize itself, as do now the rose
and the air and the sun.

I say, do not choose; but that is a figure of speech by which I would distinguish what is commonly
called choice among men, and which is a partial act, the choice of the hands, of the eyes,
of the appetites, and not a whole act of the man. But that which I call right or goodness,
is the choice of my constitution; and that which I call heaven, and inwardly aspire after,
is the state or circumstance desirable to my constitution; and the action which I in all my
years tend to do, is the work for my faculties. We must hold a man amenable to reason for the
choice of his daily craft or profession. It is not an excuse any longer for his deeds that
they are the custom of his trade. What business has he with an evil trade? Has he not a calling
in his character?

Each man has his own vocation. The talent is the call. There is one direction in which all
space is open to him. He has faculties silently inviting him thither to endless exertion. This
talent and this call depend on his organization, or the mode in which the general soul incarnates
itself in him. He inclines to do something which is easy to him and good when it is done, but
which no other man can do. He has no rival. For the more truly he consults his own powers,
the more difference will his work exhibit from the work of any other. His ambition is exactly
proportioned to his powers. The height of the pinnacle is determined by the breadth of the
base. Every man has this call of the power to do somewhat unique, and no man has any other
call. The pretence that he has another call, a summons by name and personal election and outward
"signs that mark him extraordinary, and not in the roll of common men," is fanaticism, and
betrays obtuseness to perceive that there is one mind in all the individuals, and no respect
of persons therein.

By doing his work he makes the need felt which he can supply, and creates the taste by which
he is enjoyed. By doing his own work he unfolds himself. It is the vice of our public speaking
that it has not abandonment. Somewhere, not only every orator but every man should let out
all the length of all the reins; should find or make a frank and hearty expression of what
force and meaning is in him. The common experience is that the man fits himself as well as
he can to the customary details of that work or trade he falls into, and tends it as a dog
turns a spit. Then is he a part of the machine he moves; the man is lost. Until he can manage
to communicate himself to others in his full stature and proportion, he does not yet find his
vocation. He must find in that an outlet for his character, so that he may justify his work
to their eyes. If the labor is mean, let him by his thinking and character make it liberal.
Whatever he knows and thinks, whatever in his apprehension is worth doing, that let him communicate,
or men will never know and honor him aright. Foolish, whenever you take the meanness and formality
of that thing you do, instead of converting it into the obedient spiracle of your character
and aims.

We like only such actions as have already long had the praise of men, and do not perceive that
any thing man can do may be divinely done. We think greatness entailed or organized in some
places or duties, in certain offices or occasions, and do not see that Paganini can extract
rapture from a catgut, and Eulenstein from a jews-harp, and a nimble-fingered lad out of shreds
of paper with his scissors, and Landseer out of swine, and the hero out of the pitiful habitation
and company in which he was hidden. What we call obscure condition or vulgar society is that
condition and society whose poetry is not yet written, but which you shall presently make as
enviable and renowned as any. In our estimates let us take a lesson from kings. The parts of
hospitality, the connection of families, the impressiveness of death, and a thousand other
things, royalty makes its own estimate of, and a royal mind will. To make habitually a new
estimate,--that is elevation.

What a man does, that he has. What has he to do with hope or fear? In himself is his might.
Let him regard no good as solid but that which is in his nature and which must grow out of
him as long as he exists. The goods of fortune may come and go like summer leaves; let him
scatter them on every wind as the momentary signs of his infinite productiveness.

He may have his own. A man's genius, the quality that differences him from every other, the
susceptibility to one class of influences, the selection of what is fit for him, the rejection
of what is unfit, determines for him the character of the universe. A man is a method, a progressive
arrangement; a selecting principle, gathering his like to him wherever he goes. He takes only
his own out of the multiplicity that sweeps and circles round him. He is like one of those
booms which are set out from the shore on rivers to catch drift-wood, or like the loadstone
amongst splinters of steel. Those facts, words, persons, which dwell in his memory without
his being able to say why, remain because they have a relation to him not less real for being
as yet unapprehended. They are symbols of value to him as they can interpret parts of his consciousness
which he would vainly seek words for in the conventional images of books and other minds. What
attracts my attention shall have it, as I will go to the man who knocks at my door, whilst
a thousand persons as worthy go by it, to whom I give no regard. It is enough that these particulars
speak to me. A few anecdotes, a few traits of character, manners, face, a few incidents, have
an emphasis in your memory out of all proportion to their apparent significance if you measure
them by the ordinary standards. They relate to your gift. Let them have their weight, and do
not reject them and cast about for illustration and facts more usual in literature. What your
heart thinks great is great. The soul's emphasis is always right.

Over all things that are agreeable to his nature and genius the man has the highest right.
Everywhere he may take what belongs to his spiritual estate, nor can he take any thing else
though all doors were open, nor can all the force of men hinder him from taking so much. It
is vain to attempt to keep a secret from one who has a right to know it. It will tell itself.
That mood into which a friend can bring us is his dominion over us. To the thoughts of that
state of mind he has a right. All the secrets of that state of mind he can compel. This is
a law which statesmen use in practice. All the terrors of the French Republic, which held Austria
in awe, were unable to command her diplomacy. But Napoleon sent to Vienna M. de Narbonne, one
of the old noblesse, with the morals, manners and name of that interest, saying that it was
indispensable to send to the old aristocracy of Europe men of the same connection, which, in
fact, constitutes a sort of free-masonry. M. de Narbonne in less than a fortnight penetrated
all the secrets of the imperial cabinet.

Nothing seems so easy as to speak and to be understood. Yet a man may come to find that the
strongest of defences and of ties,--that he has been understood; and he who has received an
opinion may come to find it the most inconvenient of bonds.

If a teacher have any opinion which he wishes to conceal, his pupils will become as fully indoctrinated
into that as into any which he publishes. If you pour water into a vessel twisted into coils
and angles, it is vain to say, I will pour it only into this or that;--it will find its level
in all. Men feel and act the consequences of your doctrine without being able to show how they
follow. Show us an arc of the curve, and a good mathematician will find out the whole figure.
We are always reasoning from the seen to the unseen. Hence the perfect intelligence that subsists
between wise men of remote ages. A man cannot bury his meanings so deep in his book but time
and like-minded men will find them. Plato had a secret doctrine, had he? What secret can he
conceal from the eyes of Bacon? of Montaigne? of Kant? Therefore, Aristotle said of his works,
"They are published and not published."

No man can learn what he has not preparation for learning, however near to his eyes is the
object. A chemist may tell his most precious secrets to a carpenter, and he shall be never
the wiser,--the secrets he would not utter to a chemist for an estate. God screens us evermore
from premature ideas. Our eyes are holden that we cannot see things that stare us in the face,
until the hour arrives when the mind is ripened; then we behold them, and the time when we
saw them not is like a dream.

Not in nature but in man is all the beauty and worth he sees. The world is very empty, and
is indebted to this gilding, exalting soul for all its pride. "Earth fills her lap with splendors"
not her own. The vale of Tempe, Tivoli and Rome are earth and water, rocks and sky. There are
as good earth and water in a thousand places, yet how unaffecting!

People are not the better for the sun and moon, the horizon and the trees; as it is not observed
that the keepers of Roman galleries or the valets of painters have any elevation of thought,
or that librarians are wiser men than others. There are graces in the demeanor of a polished
and noble person which are lost upon the eye of a churl. These are like the stars whose light
has not yet reached us.

He may see what he maketh. Our dreams are the sequel of our waking knowledge. The visions of
the night bear some proportion to the visions of the day. Hideous dreams are exaggerations
of the sins of the day. We see our evil affections embodied in bad physiognomies. On the Alps
the traveller sometimes beholds his own shadow magnified to a giant, so that every gesture
of his hand is terrific. "My children," said an old man to his boys scared by a figure in the
dark entry, "my children, you will never see any thing worse than yourselves." As in dreams,
so in the scarcely less fluid events of the world every man sees himself in colossal, without
knowing that it is himself. The good, compared to the evil which he sees, is as his own good
to his own evil. Every quality of his mind is magnified in some one acquaintance, and every
emotion of his heart in some one. He is like a quincunx of trees, which counts five,--east,
west, north, or south; or an initial, medial, and terminal acrostic. And why not? He cleaves
to one person and avoids another, according to their likeness or unlikeness to himself, truly
seeking himself in his associates and moreover in his trade and habits and gestures and meats
and drinks, and comes at last to be faithfully represented by every view you take of his circumstances.

He may read what he writes. What can we see or acquire but what we are? You have observed a
skilful man reading Virgil. Well, that author is a thousand books to a thousand persons. Take
the book into your two hands and read your eyes out, you will never find what I find. If any
ingenious reader would have a monopoly of the wisdom or delight he gets, he is as secure now
the book is Englished, as if it were imprisoned in the Pelews' tongue. It is with a good book
as it is with good company. Introduce a base person among gentlemen, it is all to no purpose;
he is not their fellow. Every society protects itself. The company is perfectly safe, and he
is not one of them, though his body is in the room.

What avails it to fight with the eternal laws of mind, which adjust the relation of all persons
to each other by the mathematical measure of their havings and beings? Gertrude is enamored
of Guy; how high, how aristocratic, how Roman his mien and manners! to live with him were life
indeed, and no purchase is too great; and heaven and earth are moved to that end. Well, Gertrude
has Guy; but what now avails how high, how aristocratic, how Roman his mien and manners, if
his heart and aims are in the senate, in the theatre and in the billiard-room, and she has
no aims, no conversation that can enchant her graceful lord?

He shall have his own society. We can love nothing but nature. The most wonderful talents,
the most meritorious exertions really avail very little with us; but nearness or likeness of
nature,--how beautiful is the ease of its victory! Persons approach us, famous for their beauty,
for their accomplishments, worthy of all wonder for their charms and gifts; they dedicate their
whole skill to the hour and the company,--with very imperfect result. To be sure it would be
ungrateful in us not to praise them loudly. Then, when all is done, a person of related mind,
a brother or sister by nature, comes to us so softly and easily, so nearly and intimately,
as if it were the blood in our proper veins, that we feel as if some one was gone, instead
of another having come; we are utterly relieved and refreshed; it is a sort of joyful solitude.
We foolishly think in our days of sin that we must court friends by compliance to the customs
of society, to its dress, its breeding, and its estimates. But only that soul can be my friend
which I encounter on the line of my own march, that soul to which I do not decline and which
does not decline to me, but, native of the same celestial latitude, repeats in its own all
my experience. The scholar forgets himself and apes the customs and costumes of the man of
the world to deserve the smile of beauty, and follows some giddy girl, not yet taught by religious
passion to know the noble woman with all that is serene, oracular and beautiful in her soul.
Let him be great, and love shall follow him. Nothing is more deeply punished than the neglect
of the affinities by which alone society should be formed, and the insane levity of choosing
associates by others' eyes.

He may set his own rate. It is a maxim worthy of all acceptation that a man may have that allowance
he takes. Hero or driveller, it meddles not in the matter. It will certainly accept your own
measure of your doing and being, whether you sneak about and deny your own name, or whether
you see your work produced to the concave sphere of the heavens, one with the revolution of
the stars.

The same reality pervades all teaching. The man may teach by doing, and not otherwise. If he
can communicate himself he can teach, but not by words. He teaches who gives, and he learns
who receives. There is no teaching until the pupil is brought into the same state or principle
in which you are; a transfusion takes place; he is you and you are he; then is a teaching,
and by no unfriendly chance or bad company can he ever quite lose the benefit. But your propositions
run out of one ear as they ran in at the other. We see it advertised that Mr. Grand will deliver
an oration on the Fourth of July, and Mr. Hand before the Mechanics' Association, and we do
not go thither, because we know that these gentlemen will not communicate their own character
and experience to the company. If we had reason to expect such a confidence we should go through
all inconvenience and opposition. The sick would be carried in litters. But a public oration
is an escapade, a non-committal, an apology, a gag, and not a communication, not a speech,
not a man.

A like Nemesis presides over all intellectual works. We have yet to learn that the thing uttered
in words is not therefore affirmed. It must affirm itself, or no forms of logic or of oath
can give it evidence. The sentence must also contain its own apology for being spoken.

The effect of any writing on the public mind is mathematically measurable by its depth of thought.
How much water does it draw? If it awaken you to think, if it lift you from your feet with
the great voice of eloquence, then the effect is to be wide, slow, permanent, over the minds
of men; if the pages instruct you not, they will die like flies in the hour. The way to speak
and write what shall not go out of fashion is to speak and write sincerely. The argument which
has not power to reach my own practice, I may well doubt will fail to reach yours. But take
Sidney's maxim:--"Look in thy heart, and write." He that writes to himself writes to an eternal
public. That statement only is fit to be made public which you have come at in attempting to
satisfy your own curiosity. The writer who takes his subject from his ear and not from his
heart, should know that he has lost as much as he seems to have gained, and when the empty
book has gathered all its praise, and half the people say, 'What poetry! what genius!' it still
needs fuel to make fire. That only profits which is profitable. Life alone can impart life;
and though we should burst we can only be valued as we make ourselves valuable. There is no
luck in literary reputation. They who make up the final verdict upon every book are not the
partial and noisy readers of the hour when it appears, but a court as of angels, a public not
to be bribed, not to be entreated and not to be overawed, decides upon every man's title to
fame. Only those books come down which deserve to last. Gilt edges, vellum and morocco, and
presentation-copies to all the libraries will not preserve a book in circulation beyond its
intrinsic date. It must go with all Walpole's Noble and Royal Authors to its fate. Blackmore,
Kotzebue, or Pollok may endure for a night, but Moses and Homer stand for ever. There are not
in the world at any one time more than a dozen persons who read and understand Plato,--never
enough to pay for an edition of his works; yet to every generation these come duly down, for
the sake of those few persons, as if God brought them in his hand. "No book," said Bentley,
"was ever written down by any but itself." The permanence of all books is fixed by no effort,
friendly or hostile, but by their own specific gravity, or the intrinsic importance of their
contents to the constant mind of man. "Do not trouble yourself too much about the light on
your statue," said Michael Angelo to the young sculptor; "the light of the public square will
test its value."

In like manner the effect of every action is measured by the depth of the sentiment from which
it proceeds. The great man knew not that he was great. It took a century or two for that fact
to appear. What he did, he did because he must; it was the most natural thing in the world,
and grew out of the circumstances of the moment. But now, every thing he did, even to the lifting
of his finger or the eating of bread, looks large, all-related, and is called an institution.

These are the demonstrations in a few particulars of the genius of nature; they show the direction
of the stream. But the stream is blood; every drop is alive. Truth has not single victories;
all things are its organs,--not only dust and stones, but errors and lies. The laws of disease,
physicians say, are as beautiful as the laws of health. Our philosophy is affirmative and readily
accepts the testimony of negative facts, as every shadow points to the sun. By a divine necessity
every fact in nature is constrained to offer its testimony.

Human character evermore publishes itself. The most fugitive deed and word, the mere air of
doing a thing, the intimated purpose, expresses character. If you act you show character; if
you sit still, if you sleep, you show it. You think because you have spoken nothing when others
spoke, and have given no opinion on the times, on the church, on slavery, on marriage, on socialism,
on secret societies, on the college, on parties and persons, that your verdict is still expected
with curiosity as a reserved wisdom. Far otherwise; your silence answers very loud. You have
no oracle to utter, and your fellow-men have learned that you cannot help them; for oracles
speak. Doth not Wisdom cry and Understanding put forth her voice?

Dreadful limits are set in nature to the powers of dissimulation. Truth tyrannizes over the
unwilling members of the body. Faces never lie, it is said. No man need be deceived who will
study the changes of expression. When a man speaks the truth in the spirit of truth, his eye
is as clear as the heavens. When he has base ends and speaks falsely, the eye is muddy and
sometimes asquint.

I have heard an experienced counsellor say that he never feared the effect upon a jury of a
lawyer who does not believe in his heart that his client ought to have a verdict. If he does
not believe it his unbelief will appear to the jury, despite all his protestations, and will
become their unbelief. This is that law whereby a work of art, of whatever kind, sets us in
the same state of mind wherein the artist was when he made it. That which we do not believe
we cannot adequately say, though we may repeat the words never so often. It was this conviction
which Swedenborg expressed when he described a group of persons in the spiritual world endeavoring
in vain to articulate a proposition which they did not believe; but they could not, though
they twisted and folded their lips even to indignation.

A man passes for that he is worth. Very idle is all curiosity concerning other people's estimate
of us, and all fear of remaining unknown is not less so. If a man know that he can do any thing,--that
he can do it better than any one else,--he has a pledge of the acknowledgment of that fact
by all persons. The world is full of judgment-days, and into every assembly that a man enters,
in every action he attempts, he is gauged and stamped. In every troop of boys that whoop and
run in each yard and square, a new-comer is as well and accurately weighed in the course of
a few days and stamped with his right number, as if he had undergone a formal trial of his
strength, speed and temper. A stranger comes from a distant school, with better dress, with
trinkets in his pockets, with airs and pretensions; an older boy says to himself, 'It's of
no use; we shall find him out to-morrow.' 'What has he done?' is the divine question which
searches men and transpierces every false reputation. A fop may sit in any chair of the world
nor be distinguished for his hour from Homer and Washington; but there need never be any doubt
concerning the respective ability of human beings. Pretension may sit still, but cannot act.
Pretension never feigned an act of real greatness. Pretension never wrote an Iliad, nor drove
back Xerxes, nor christianized the world, nor abolished slavery.

As much virtue as there is, so much appears; as much goodness as there is, so much reverence
it commands. All the devils respect virtue. The high, the generous, the self-devoted sect will
always instruct and command mankind. Never was a sincere word utterly lost. Never a magnanimity
fell to the ground, but there is some heart to greet and accept it unexpectedly. A man passes
for that he is worth. What he is engraves itself on his face, on his form, on his fortunes,
in letters of light. Concealment avails him nothing, boasting nothing. There is confession
in the glances of our eyes, in our smiles, in salutations, and the grasp of hands. His sin
bedaubs him, mars all his good impression. Men know not why they do not trust him, but they
do not trust him. His vice glasses his eye, cuts lines of mean expression in his cheek, pinches
the nose, sets the mark of the beast on the back of the head, and writes O fool! fool! on the
forehead of a king.

If you would not be known to do any thing, never do it. A man may play the fool in the drifts
of a desert, but every grain of sand shall seem to see. He may be a solitary eater, but he
cannot keep his foolish counsel. A broken complexion, a swinish look, ungenerous acts and the
want of due knowledge,--all blab. Can a cook, a Chiffinch, an Iachimo be mistaken for Zeno
or Paul? Confucius exclaimed,--"How can a man be concealed? How can a man be concealed?"

On the other hand, the hero fears not that if he withhold the avowal of a just and brave act
it will go unwitnessed and unloved. One knows it,--himself,--and is pledged by it to sweetness
of peace and to nobleness of aim which will prove in the end a better proclamation of it than
the relating of the incident. Virtue is the adherence in action to the nature of things, and
the nature of things makes it prevalent. It consists in a perpetual substitution of being for
seeming, and with sublime propriety God is described as saying, I AM.

The lesson which these observations convey is, Be, and not seem. Let us acquiesce. Let us take
our bloated nothingness out of the path of the divine circuits. Let us unlearn our wisdom of
the world. Let us lie low in the Lord's power and learn that truth alone makes rich and great.

If you visit your friend, why need you apologize for not having visited him, and waste his
time and deface your own act? Visit him now. Let him feel that the highest love has come to
see him, in thee its lowest organ. Or why need you torment yourself and friend by secret self-reproaches
that you have not assisted him or complimented him with gifts and salutations heretofore? Be
a gift and a benediction. Shine with real light and not with the borrowed reflection of gifts.
Common men are apologies for men; they bow the head, excuse themselves with prolix reasons,
and accumulate appearances because the substance is not.

We are full of these superstitions of sense, the worship of magnitude. We call the poet inactive,
because he is not a president, a merchant, or a porter. We adore an institution, and do not
see that it is founded on a thought which we have. But real action is in silent moments. The
epochs of our life are not in the visible facts of our choice of a calling, our marriage, our
acquisition of an office, and the like, but in a silent thought by the way-side as we walk;
in a thought which revises our entire manner of life and says,--'Thus hast thou done, but it
were better thus.' And all our after years, like menials, serve and wait on this, and according
to their ability execute its will. This revisal or correction is a constant force, which, as
a tendency, reaches through our lifetime. The object of the man, the aim of these moments,
is to make daylight shine through him, to suffer the law to traverse his whole being without
obstruction, so that on what point soever of his doing your eye falls it shall report truly
of his character, whether it be his diet, his house, his religious forms, his society, his
mirth, his vote, his opposition. Now he is not homogeneous, but heterogeneous, and the ray
does not traverse; there are no thorough lights, but the eye of the beholder is puzzled, detecting
many unlike tendencies and a life not yet at one.

Why should we make it a point with our false modesty to disparage that man we are and that
form of being assigned to us? A good man is contented. I love and honor Epaminondas, but I
do not wish to be Epaminondas. I hold it more just to love the world of this hour than the
world of his hour. Nor can you, if I am true, excite me to the least uneasiness by saying,
'He acted and thou sittest still.' I see action to be good, when the need is, and sitting still
to be also good. Epaminondas, if he was the man I take him for, would have sat still with joy
and peace, if his lot had been mine. Heaven is large, and affords space for all modes of love
and fortitude. Why should we be busybodies and superserviceable? Action and inaction are alike
to the true. One piece of the tree is cut for a weathercock and one for the sleeper of a bridge;
the virtue of the wood is apparent in both.

I desire not to disgrace the soul. The fact that I am here certainly shows me that the soul
had need of an organ here. Shall I not assume the post? Shall I skulk and dodge and duck with
my unseasonable apologies and vain modesty and imagine my being here impertinent? less pertinent
than Epaminondas or Homer being there? and that the soul did not know its own needs? Besides,
without any reasoning on the matter, I have no discontent. The good soul nourishes me and unlocks
new magazines of power and enjoyment to me every day. I will not meanly decline the immensity
of good, because I have heard that it has come to others in another shape.

Besides, why should we be cowed by the name of Action? 'Tis a trick of the senses,--no more.
We know that the ancestor of every action is a thought. The poor mind does not seem to itself
to be any thing unless it have an outside badge,--some Gentoo diet, or Quaker coat, or Calvinistic
prayer-meeting, or philanthropic society, or a great donation, or a high office, or, any how,
some wild contrasting action to testify that it is somewhat. The rich mind lies in the sun
and sleeps, and is Nature. To think is to act.

Let us, if we must have great actions, make our own so. All action is of an infinite elasticity,
and the least admits of being inflated with the celestial air until it eclipses the sun and
moon. Let us seek one peace by fidelity. Let me heed my duties. Why need I go gadding into
the scenes and philosophy of Greek and Italian history before I have justified myself to my
benefactors? How dare I read Washington's campaigns when I have not answered the letters of
my own correspondents? Is not that a just objection to much of our reading? It is a pusillanimous
desertion of our work to gaze after our neighbors. It is peeping. Byron says of Jack Bunting,--

     "He knew not what to say, and so he swore."

I may say it of our preposterous use of books,--He knew not what to do, and so he read. I can
think of nothing to fill my time with, and I find the Life of Brant. It is a very extravagant
compliment to pay to Brant, or to General Schuyler, or to General Washington. My time should
be as good as their time,--my facts, my net of relations, as good as theirs, or either of theirs.
Rather let me do my work so well that other idlers if they choose may compare my texture with
the texture of these and find it identical with the best.

This over-estimate of the possibilities of Paul and Pericles, this under-estimate of our own,
comes from a neglect of the fact of an identical nature. Bonaparte knew but one merit, and
rewarded in one and the same way the good soldier, the good astronomer, the good poet, the
good player. The poet uses the names of Caesar, of Tamerlane, of Bonduca, of Belisarius; the
painter uses the conventional story of the Virgin Mary, of Paul, of Peter. He does not therefore
defer to the nature of these accidental men, of these stock heroes. If the poet write a true
drama, then he is Caesar, and not the player of Caesar; then the selfsame strain of thought,
emotion as pure, wit as subtle, motions as swift, mounting, extravagant, and a heart as great,
self-sufficing, dauntless, which on the waves of its love and hope can uplift all that is reckoned
solid and precious in the world,--palaces, gardens, money, navies, kingdoms,--marking its own
incomparable worth by the slight it casts on these gauds of men;--these all are his, and by
the power of these he rouses the nations. Let a man believe in God, and not in names and places
and persons. Let the great soul incarnated in some woman's form, poor and sad and single, in
some Dolly or Joan, go out to service, and sweep chambers and scour floors, and its effulgent
daybeams cannot be muffled or hid, but to sweep and scour will instantly appear supreme and
beautiful actions, the top and radiance of human life, and all people will get mops and brooms;
until, lo! suddenly the great soul has enshrined itself in some other form and done some other
deed, and that is now the flower and head of all living nature.

We are the photometers, we the irritable goldleaf and tinfoil that measure the accumulations
of the subtle element. We know the authentic effects of the true fire through every one of
its million disguises.

*****

     LOVE.

     "I was as a gem concealed;
     Me my burning ray revealed."
                            Koran.

V. LOVE.

Every promise of the soul has innumerable fulfilments; each of its joys ripens into a new want.
Nature, uncontainable, flowing, forelooking, in the first sentiment of kindness anticipates
already a benevolence which shall lose all particular regards in its general light. The introduction
to this felicity is in a private and tender relation of one to one, which is the enchantment
of human life; which, like a certain divine rage and enthusiasm, seizes on man at one period
and works a revolution in his mind and body; unites him to his race, pledges him to the domestic
and civic relations, carries him with new sympathy into nature, enhances the power of the senses,
opens the imagination, adds to his character heroic and sacred attributes, establishes marriage,
and gives permanence to human society.

The natural association of the sentiment of love with the heyday of the blood seems to require
that in order to portray it in vivid tints, which every youth and maid should confess to be
true to their throbbing experience, one must not be too old. The delicious fancies of youth
reject the least savor of a mature philosophy, as chilling with age and pedantry their purple
bloom. And therefore I know I incur the imputation of unnecessary hardness and stoicism from
those who compose the Court and Parliament of Love. But from these formidable censors I shall
appeal to my seniors. For it is to be considered that this passion of which we speak, though
it begin with the young, yet forsakes not the old, or rather suffers no one who is truly its
servant to grow old, but makes the aged participators of it not less than the tender maiden,
though in a different and nobler sort. For it is a fire that kindling its first embers in the
narrow nook of a private bosom, caught from a wandering spark out of another private heart,
glows and enlarges until it warms and beams upon multitudes of men and women, upon the universal
heart of all, and so lights up the whole world and all nature with its generous flames. It
matters not therefore whether we attempt to describe the passion at twenty, at thirty, or at
eighty years. He who paints it at the first period will lose some of its later, he who paints
it at the last, some of its earlier traits. Only it is to be hoped that by patience and the
Muses' aid we may attain to that inward view of the law which shall describe a truth ever young
and beautiful, so central that it shall commend itself to the eye, at whatever angle beholden.

And the first condition is, that we must leave a too close and lingering adherence to facts,
and study the sentiment as it appeared in hope and not in history. For each man sees his own
life defaced and disfigured, as the life of man is not, to his imagination. Each man sees over
his own experience a certain stain of error, whilst that of other men looks fair and ideal.
Let any man go back to those delicious relations which make the beauty of his life, which have
given him sincerest instruction and nourishment, he will shrink and moan. Alas! I know not
why, but infinite compunctions embitter in mature life the remembrances of budding joy and
cover every beloved name. Every thing is beautiful seen from the point of the intellect, or
as truth. But all is sour, if seen as experience. Details are melancholy; the plan is seemly
and noble. In the actual world--the painful kingdom of time and place--dwell care, and canker,
and fear. With thought, with the ideal, is immortal hilarity, the rose of joy. Round it all
the Muses sing. But grief cleaves to names, and persons, and the partial interests of to-day
and yesterday.

The strong bent of nature is seen in the proportion which this topic of personal relations
usurps in the conversation of society. What do we wish to know of any worthy person so much,
as how he has sped in the history of this sentiment? What books in the circulating libraries
circulate? How we glow over these novels of passion, when the story is told with any spark
of truth and nature! And what fastens attention, in the intercourse of life, like any passage
betraying affection between two parties? Perhaps we never saw them before, and never shall
meet them again. But we see them exchange a glance, or betray a deep emotion, and we are no
longer strangers. We understand them, and take the warmest interest in the development of the
romance. All mankind love a lover. The earliest demonstrations of complacency and kindness
are nature's most winning pictures. It is the dawn of civility and grace in the coarse and
rustic. The rude village boy teases the girls about the school-house door;--but to-day he comes
running into the entry, and meets one fair child disposing her satchel; he holds her books
to help her, and instantly it seems to him as if she removed herself from him infinitely, and
was a sacred precinct. Among the throng of girls he runs rudely enough, but one alone distances
him; and these two little neighbors, that were so close just now, have learned to respect each
other's personality. Or who can avert his eyes from the engaging, half-artful, half-artless
ways of school-girls who go into the country shops to buy a skein of silk or a sheet of paper,
and talk half an hour about nothing with the broad-faced, good-natured shop-boy. In the village
they are on a perfect equality, which love delights in, and without any coquetry the happy,
affectionate nature of woman flows out in this pretty gossip. The girls may have little beauty,
yet plainly do they establish between them and the good boy the most agreeable, confiding relations,
what with their fun and their earnest, about Edgar and Jonas and Almira, and who was invited
to the party, and who danced at the dancing-school, and when the singing-school would begin,
and other nothings concerning which the parties cooed. By and by that boy wants a wife, and
very truly and heartily will he know where to find a sincere and sweet mate, without any risk
such as Milton deplores as incident to scholars and great men.

I have been told that in some public discourses of mine my reverence for the intellect has
made me unjustly cold to the personal relations. But now I almost shrink at the remembrance
of such disparaging words. For persons are love's world, and the coldest philosopher cannot
recount the debt of the young soul wandering here in nature to the power of love, without being
tempted to unsay, as treasonable to nature, aught derogatory to the social instincts. For though
the celestial rapture falling out of heaven seizes only upon those of tender age, and although
a beauty overpowering all analysis or comparison and putting us quite beside ourselves we can
seldom see after thirty years, yet the remembrance of these visions outlasts all other remembrances,
and is a wreath of flowers on the oldest brows. But here is a strange fact; it may seem to
many men, in revising their experience, that they have no fairer page in their life's book
than the delicious memory of some passages wherein affection contrived to give a witchcraft,
surpassing the deep attraction of its own truth, to a parcel of accidental and trivial circumstances.
In looking backward they may find that several things which were not the charm have more reality
to this groping memory than the charm itself which embalmed them. But be our experience in
particulars what it may, no man ever forgot the visitations of that power to his heart and
brain, which created all things anew; which was the dawn in him of music, poetry, and art;
which made the face of nature radiant with purple light, the morning and the night varied enchantments;
when a single tone of one voice could make the heart bound, and the most trivial circumstance
associated with one form is put in the amber of memory; when he became all eye when one was
present, and all memory when one was gone; when the youth becomes a watcher of windows and
studious of a glove, a veil, a ribbon, or the wheels of a carriage; when no place is too solitary
and none too silent, for him who has richer company and sweeter conversation in his new thoughts
than any old friends, though best and purest, can give him; for the figures, the motions, the
words of the beloved object are not like other images written in water, but, as Plutarch said,
"enamelled in fire," and make the study of midnight:--

     "Thou art not gone being gone, where'er thou art,
      Thou leav'st in him thy watchful eyes, in him thy
        loving heart."

In the noon and the afternoon of life we still throb at the recollection of days when happiness
was not happy enough, but must be drugged with the relish of pain and fear; for he touched
the secret of the matter who said of love,--

     "All other pleasures are not worth its pains:"

and when the day was not long enough, but the night too must be consumed in keen recollections;
when the head boiled all night on the pillow with the generous deed it resolved on; when the
moonlight was a pleasing fever and the stars were letters and the flowers ciphers and the air
was coined into song; when all business seemed an impertinence, and all the men and women running
to and fro in the streets, mere pictures.

The passion rebuilds the world for the youth. It makes all things alive and significant. Nature
grows conscious. Every bird on the boughs of the tree sings now to his heart and soul. The
notes are almost articulate. The clouds have faces as he looks on them. The trees of the forest,
the waving grass and the peeping flowers have grown intelligent; and he almost fears to trust
them with the secret which they seem to invite. Yet nature soothes and sympathizes. In the
green solitude he finds a dearer home than with men:--

          "Fountain-heads and pathless groves,
           Places which pale passion loves,
           Moonlight walks, when all the fowls
           Are safely housed, save bats and owls,
           A midnight bell, a passing groan,--
           These are the sounds we feed upon."

Behold there in the wood the fine madman! He is a palace of sweet sounds and sights; he dilates;
he is twice a man; he walks with arms akimbo; he soliloquizes; he accosts the grass and the
trees; he feels the blood of the violet, the clover and the lily in his veins; and he talks
with the brook that wets his foot.

The heats that have opened his perceptions of natural beauty have made him love music and verse.
It is a fact often observed, that men have written good verses under the inspiration of passion,
who cannot write well under any other circumstances.

The like force has the passion over all his nature. It expands the sentiment; it makes the
clown gentle and gives the coward heart. Into the most pitiful and abject it will infuse a
heart and courage to defy the world, so only it have the countenance of the beloved object.
In giving him to another it still more gives him to himself. He is a new man, with new perceptions,
new and keener purposes, and a religious solemnity of character and aims. He does not longer
appertain to his family and society; he is somewhat; he is a person; he is a soul.

And here let us examine a little nearer the nature of that influence which is thus potent over
the human youth. Beauty, whose revelation to man we now celebrate, welcome as the sun wherever
it pleases to shine, which pleases everybody with it and with themselves, seems sufficient
to itself. The lover cannot paint his maiden to his fancy poor and solitary. Like a tree in
flower, so much soft, budding, informing loveliness is society for itself; and she teaches
his eye why Beauty was pictured with Loves and Graces attending her steps. Her existence makes
the world rich. Though she extrudes all other persons from his attention as cheap and unworthy,
she indemnifies him by carrying out her own being into somewhat impersonal, large, mundane,
so that the maiden stands to him for a representative of all select things and virtues. For
that reason the lover never sees personal resemblances in his mistress to her kindred or to
others. His friends find in her a likeness to her mother, or her sisters, or to persons not
of her blood. The lover sees no resemblance except to summer evenings and diamond mornings,
to rainbows and the song of birds.

The ancients called beauty the flowering of virtue. Who can analyze the nameless charm which
glances from one and another face and form? We are touched with emotions of tenderness and
complacency, but we cannot find whereat this dainty emotion, this wandering gleam, points.
It is destroyed for the imagination by any attempt to refer it to organization. Nor does it
point to any relations of friendship or love known and described in society, but, as it seems
to me, to a quite other and unattainable sphere, to relations of transcendent delicacy and
sweetness, to what roses and violets hint and foreshow. We cannot approach beauty. Its nature
is like opaline doves'-neck lustres, hovering and evanescent. Herein it resembles the most
excellent things, which all have this rainbow character, defying all attempts at appropriation
and use. What else did Jean Paul Richter signify, when he said to music, "Away! away! thou
speakest to me of things which in all my endless life I have not found, and shall not find."
The same fluency may be observed in every work of the plastic arts. The statue is then beautiful
when it begins to be incomprehensible, when it is passing out of criticism and can no longer
be defined by compass and measuring-wand, but demands an active imagination to go with it and
to say what it is in the act of doing. The god or hero of the sculptor is always represented
in a transition from that which is representable to the senses, to that which is not. Then
first it ceases to be a stone. The same remark holds of painting. And of poetry the success
is not attained when it lulls and satisfies, but when it astonishes and fires us with new endeavors
after the unattainable. Concerning it Landor inquires "whether it is not to be referred to
some purer state of sensation and existence."

In like manner, personal beauty is then first charming and itself when it dissatisfies us with
any end; when it becomes a story without an end; when it suggests gleams and visions and not
earthly satisfactions; when it makes the beholder feel his unworthiness; when he cannot feel
his right to it, though he were Caesar; he cannot feel more right to it than to the firmament
and the splendors of a sunset.

Hence arose the saying, "If I love you, what is that to you?" We say so because we feel that
what we love is not in your will, but above it. It is not you, but your radiance. It is that
which you know not in yourself and can never know.

This agrees well with that high philosophy of Beauty which the ancient writers delighted in;
for they said that the soul of man, embodied here on earth, went roaming up and down in quest
of that other world of its own out of which it came into this, but was soon stupefied by the
light of the natural sun, and unable to see any other objects than those of this world, which
are but shadows of real things. Therefore the Deity sends the glory of youth before the soul,
that it may avail itself of beautiful bodies as aids to its recollection of the celestial good
and fair; and the man beholding such a person in the female sex runs to her and finds the highest
joy in contemplating the form, movement, and intelligence of this person, because it suggests
to him the presence of that which indeed is within the beauty, and the cause of the beauty.

If however, from too much conversing with material objects, the soul was gross, and misplaced
its satisfaction in the body, it reaped nothing but sorrow; body being unable to fulfil the
promise which beauty holds out; but if, accepting the hint of these visions and suggestions
which beauty makes to his mind, the soul passes through the body and falls to admire strokes
of character, and the lovers contemplate one another in their discourses and their actions,
then they pass to the true palace of beauty, more and more inflame their love of it, and by
this love extinguishing the base affection, as the sun puts out the fire by shining on the
hearth, they become pure and hallowed. By conversation with that which is in itself excellent,
magnanimous, lowly, and just, the lover comes to a warmer love of these nobilities, and a quicker
apprehension of them. Then he passes from loving them in one to loving them in all, and so
is the one beautiful soul only the door through which he enters to the society of all true
and pure souls. In the particular society of his mate he attains a clearer sight of any spot,
any taint which her beauty has contracted from this world, and is able to point it out, and
this with mutual joy that they are now able, without offence, to indicate blemishes and hindrances
in each other, and give to each all help and comfort in curing the same. And beholding in many
souls the traits of the divine beauty, and separating in each soul that which is divine from
the taint which it has contracted in the world, the lover ascends to the highest beauty, to
the love and knowledge of the Divinity, by steps on this ladder of created souls.

Somewhat like this have the truly wise told us of love in all ages. The doctrine is not old,
nor is it new. If Plato, Plutarch and Apuleius taught it, so have Petrarch, Angelo and Milton.
It awaits a truer unfolding in opposition and rebuke to that subterranean prudence which presides
at marriages with words that take hold of the upper world, whilst one eye is prowling in the
cellar; so that its gravest discourse has a savor of hams and powdering-tubs. Worst, when this
sensualism intrudes into the education of young women, and withers the hope and affection of
human nature by teaching that marriage signifies nothing but a housewife's thrift, and that
woman's life has no other aim.

But this dream of love, though beautiful, is only one scene in our play. In the procession
of the soul from within outward, it enlarges its circles ever, like the pebble thrown into
the pond, or the light proceeding from an orb. The rays of the soul alight first on things
nearest, on every utensil and toy, on nurses and domestics, on the house and yard and passengers,
on the circle of household acquaintance, on politics and geography and history. But things
are ever grouping themselves according to higher or more interior laws. Neighborhood, size,
numbers, habits, persons, lose by degrees their power over us. Cause and effect, real affinities,
the longing for harmony between the soul and the circumstance, the progressive, idealizing
instinct, predominate later, and the step backward from the higher to the lower relations is
impossible. Thus even love, which is the deification of persons, must become more impersonal
every day. Of this at first it gives no hint. Little think the youth and maiden who are glancing
at each other across crowded rooms with eyes so full of mutual intelligence, of the precious
fruit long hereafter to proceed from this new, quite external stimulus. The work of vegetation
begins first in the irritability of the bark and leaf-buds. From exchanging glances, they advance
to acts of courtesy, of gallantry, then to fiery passion, to plighting troth and marriage.
Passion beholds its object as a perfect unit.

Romeo, if dead, should be cut up into little stars to make the heavens fine. Life, with this
pair, has no other aim, asks no more, than Juliet,--than Romeo. Night, day, studies, talents,
kingdoms, religion, are all contained in this form full of soul, in this soul which is all
form. The lovers delight in endearments, in avowals of love, in comparisons of their regards.
When alone, they solace themselves with the remembered image of the other. Does that other
see the same star, the same melting cloud, read the same book, feel the same emotion, that
now delight me? They try and weigh their affection, and adding up costly advantages, friends,
opportunities, properties, exult in discovering that willingly, joyfully, they would give all
as a ransom for the beautiful, the beloved head, not one hair of which shall be harmed. But
the lot of humanity is on these children. Danger, sorrow, and pain arrive to them, as to all.
Love prays. It makes covenants with Eternal Power in behalf of this dear mate. The union which
is thus effected and which adds a new value to every atom in nature--for it transmutes every
thread throughout the whole web of relation into a golden ray, and bathes the soul in a new
and sweeter element--is yet a temporary state. Not always can flowers, pearls, poetry, protestations,
nor even home in another heart, content the awful soul that dwells in clay. It arouses itself
at last from these endearments, as toys, and puts on the harness and aspires to vast and universal
aims. The soul which is in the soul of each, craving a perfect beatitude, detects incongruities,
defects and disproportion in the behavior of the other. Hence arise surprise, expostulation
and pain. Yet that which drew them to each other was signs of loveliness, signs of virtue;
and these virtues are there, however eclipsed. They appear and reappear and continue to attract;
but the regard changes, quits the sign and attaches to the substance. This repairs the wounded
affection. Meantime, as life wears on, it proves a game of permutation and combination of all
possible positions of the parties, to employ all the resources of each and acquaint each with
the strength and weakness of the other. For it is the nature and end of this relation, that
they should represent the human race to each other. All that is in the world, which is or ought
to be known, is cunningly wrought into the texture of man, of woman:--

          "The person love does to us fit,
           Like manna, has the taste of all in it."

The world rolls; the circumstances vary every hour. The angels that inhabit this temple of
the body appear at the windows, and the gnomes and vices also. By all the virtues they are
united. If there be virtue, all the vices are known as such; they confess and flee. Their once
flaming regard is sobered by time in either breast, and losing in violence what it gains in
extent, it becomes a thorough good understanding. They resign each other without complaint
to the good offices which man and woman are severally appointed to discharge in time, and exchange
the passion which once could not lose sight of its object, for a cheerful, disengaged furtherance,
whether present or absent, of each other's designs. At last they discover that all which at
first drew them together,--those once sacred features, that magical play of charms,--was deciduous,
had a prospective end, like the scaffolding by which the house was built; and the purification
of the intellect and the heart from year to year is the real marriage, foreseen and prepared
from the first, and wholly above their consciousness. Looking at these aims with which two
persons, a man and a woman, so variously and correlatively gifted, are shut up in one house
to spend in the nuptial society forty or fifty years, I do not wonder at the emphasis with
which the heart prophesies this crisis from early infancy, at the profuse beauty with which
the instincts deck the nuptial bower, and nature and intellect and art emulate each other in
the gifts and the melody they bring to the epithalamium.

Thus are we put in training for a love which knows not sex, nor person, nor partiality, but
which seeks virtue and wisdom everywhere, to the end of increasing virtue and wisdom. We are
by nature observers, and thereby learners. That is our permanent state. But we are often made
to feel that our affections are but tents of a night. Though slowly and with pain, the objects
of the affections change, as the objects of thought do. There are moments when the affections
rule and absorb the man and make his happiness dependent on a person or persons. But in health
the mind is presently seen again,--its overarching vault, bright with galaxies of immutable
lights, and the warm loves and fears that swept over us as clouds must lose their finite character
and blend with God, to attain their own perfection. But we need not fear that we can lose any
thing by the progress of the soul. The soul may be trusted to the end. That which is so beautiful
and attractive as these relations, must be succeeded and supplanted only by what is more beautiful,
and so on for ever.

*****

     FRIENDSHIP.

     A RUDDY drop of manly blood
     The surging sea outweighs;
     The world uncertain comes and goes,
     The lover rooted stays.
     I fancied he was fled,
     And, after many a year,
     Glowed unexhausted kindliness
     Like daily sunrise there.
     My careful heart was free again,--
     O friend, my bosom said,
     Through thee alone the sky is arched,
     Through thee the rose is red,
     All things through thee take nobler form
     And look beyond the earth,
     The mill-round of our fate appears
     A sun-path in thy worth.
     Me too thy nobleness has taught
     To master my despair;
     The fountains of my hidden life
     Are through thy friendship fair.

VI. FRIENDSHIP.

We have a great deal more kindness than is ever spoken. The heart knoweth.

Yet the systole and diastole of the heart are not without their analogy in the ebb and flow
of love. The law of nature is alternation for evermore. He is the child of all my foregoing
hours, the prophet of those to come, and the harbinger of a greater friend.

*****

     PRUDENCE.

     THEME no poet gladly sung,
     Fair to old and foul to young;
     Scorn not thou the love of parts,
     And the articles of arts.
     Grandeur of the perfect sphere
     Thanks the atoms that cohere.

VII. PRUDENCE. The Latin proverb says, "In battles the eye is first overcome."

*****

     HEROISM.

     "Paradise is under the shadow of swords."
                                   Mahomet.

VIII. HEROISM. In the Harleian Miscellanies there is an account of the battle of Lutzen which
deserves to be read. He lies very well where he is. Why not?

*****

     THE OVER-SOUL.

     "BUT souls that of his own good life partake,
     He loves as his own self; dear as his eye
     They are to Him: He'll never them forsake:
     When they shall die, then God himself shall die:
     They live, they live in blest eternity."
                                        Henry More.

     Space is ample, east and west,
     But two cannot go abreast,
     Cannot travel in it two:
     Yonder masterful cuckoo
     Crowds every egg out of the nest,
     Quick or dead, except its own;
     A spell is laid on sod and stone,
     Night and Day 've been tampered with,
     Every quality and pith
     Surcharged and sultry with a power
     That works its will on age and hour.

IX. THE OVER-SOUL.

THERE is a difference between one and another hour of life in their authority and subsequent
effect. Our faith comes in moments; our vice is habitual. Yet there is a depth in those brief
moments which constrains us to ascribe more reality to them than to all other experiences.
For this reason the argument which is always forthcoming to silence those who conceive extraordinary
hopes of man, namely the appeal to experience, is for ever invalid and vain. We give up the
past to the objector, and yet we hope. He must explain this hope. We grant that human life
is mean, but how did we find out that it was mean? What is the ground of this uneasiness of
ours; of this old discontent? What is the universal sense of want and ignorance, but the fine
innuendo by which the soul makes its enormous claim? Why do men feel that the natural history
of man has never been written, but he is always leaving behind what you have said of him, and
it becomes old, and books of metaphysics worthless? The philosophy of six thousand years has
not searched the chambers and magazines of the soul. In its experiments there has always remained,
in the last analysis, a residuum it could not resolve. Man is a stream whose source is hidden.
Our being is descending into us from we know not whence. The most exact calculator has no prescience
that somewhat incalculable may not balk the very next moment. I am constrained every moment
to acknowledge a higher origin for events than the will I call mine.

As with events, so is it with thoughts. When I watch that flowing river, which, out of regions
I see not, pours for a season its streams into me, I see that I am a pensioner; not a cause,
but a surprised spectator of this ethereal water; that I desire and look up and put myself
in the attitude of reception, but from some alien energy the visions come.

The Supreme Critic on the errors of the past and the present, and the only prophet of that
which must be, is that great nature in which we rest as the earth lies in the soft arms of
the atmosphere; that Unity, that Over-soul, within which every man's particular being is contained
and made one with all other; that common heart of which all sincere conversation is the worship,
to which all right action is submission; that overpowering reality which confutes our tricks
and talents, and constrains every one to pass for what he is, and to speak from his character
and not from his tongue, and which evermore tends to pass into our thought and hand and become
wisdom and virtue and power and beauty. We live in succession, in division, in parts, in particles.
Meantime within man is the soul of the whole; the wise silence; the universal beauty, to which
every part and particle is equally related; the eternal ONE. And this deep power in which we
exist and whose beatitude is all accessible to us, is not only self-sufficing and perfect in
every hour, but the act of seeing and the thing seen, the seer and the spectacle, the subject
and the object, are one. We see the world piece by piece, as the sun, the moon, the animal,
the tree; but the whole, of which these are the shining parts, is the soul. Only by the vision
of that Wisdom can the horoscope of the ages be read, and by falling back on our better thoughts,
by yielding to the spirit of prophecy which is innate in every man, we can know what it saith.
Every man's words who speaks from that life must sound vain to those who do not dwell in the
same thought on their own part. I dare not speak for it. My words do not carry its august sense;
they fall short and cold. Only itself can inspire whom it will, and behold! their speech shall
be lyrical, and sweet, and universal as the rising of the wind. Yet I desire, even by profane
words, if I may not use sacred, to indicate the heaven of this deity and to report what hints
I have collected of the transcendent simplicity and energy of the Highest Law.

If we consider what happens in conversation, in reveries, in remorse, in times of passion,
in surprises, in the instructions of dreams, wherein often we see ourselves in masquerade,--the
droll disguises only magnifying and enhancing a real element and forcing it on our distinct
notice,--we shall catch many hints that will broaden and lighten into knowledge of the secret
of nature. All goes to show that the soul in man is not an organ, but animates and exercises
all the organs; is not a function, like the power of memory, of calculation, of comparison,
but uses these as hands and feet; is not a faculty, but a light; is not the intellect or the
will, but the master of the intellect and the will; is the background of our being, in which
they lie,--an immensity not possessed and that cannot be possessed. From within or from behind,
a light shines through us upon things and makes us aware that we are nothing, but the light
is all. A man is the facade of a temple wherein all wisdom and all good abide. What we commonly
call man, the eating, drinking, planting, counting man, does not, as we know him, represent
himself, but misrepresents himself. Him we do not respect, but the soul, whose organ he is,
would he let it appear through his action, would make our knees bend. When it breathes through
his intellect, it is genius; when it breathes through his will, it is virtue; when it flows
through his affection, it is love. And the blindness of the intellect begins when it would
be something of itself. The weakness of the will begins when the individual would be something
of himself. All reform aims in some one particular to let the soul have its way through us;
in other words, to engage us to obey.

Of this pure nature every man is at some time sensible. Language cannot paint it with his colors.
It is too subtile. It is undefinable, unmeasurable; but we know that it pervades and contains
us. We know that all spiritual being is in man. A wise old proverb says, "God comes to see
us without bell;" that is, as there is no screen or ceiling between our heads and the infinite
heavens, so is there no bar or wall in the soul where man, the effect, ceases, and God, the
cause, begins. The walls are taken away. We lie open on one side to the deeps of spiritual
nature, to the attributes of God. Justice we see and know, Love, Freedom, Power. These natures
no man ever got above, but they tower over us, and most in the moment when our interests tempt
us to wound them.

The sovereignty of this nature whereof we speak is made known by its independency of those
limitations which circumscribe us on every hand. The soul circumscribes all things. As I have
said, it contradicts all experience. In like manner it abolishes time and space. The influence
of the senses has in most men overpowered the mind to that degree that the walls of time and
space have come to look real and insurmountable; and to speak with levity of these limits is,
in the world, the sign of insanity. Yet time and space are but inverse measures of the force
of the soul. The spirit sports with time,--

          "Can crowd eternity into an hour,
           Or stretch an hour to eternity."

We are often made to feel that there is another youth and age than that which is measured from
the year of our natural birth. Some thoughts always find us young, and keep us so. Such a thought
is the love of the universal and eternal beauty. Every man parts from that contemplation with
the feeling that it rather belongs to ages than to mortal life. The least activity of the intellectual
powers redeems us in a degree from the conditions of time. In sickness, in languor, give us
a strain of poetry or a profound sentence, and we are refreshed; or produce a volume of Plato
or Shakspeare, or remind us of their names, and instantly we come into a feeling of longevity.
See how the deep divine thought reduces centuries and millenniums and makes itself present
through all ages. Is the teaching of Christ less effective now than it was when first his mouth
was opened? The emphasis of facts and persons in my thought has nothing to do with time. And
so always the soul's scale is one, the scale of the senses and the understanding is another.
Before the revelations of the soul, Time, Space and Nature shrink away. In common speech we
refer all things to time, as we habitually refer the immensely sundered stars to one concave
sphere. And so we say that the Judgment is distant or near, that the Millennium approaches,
that a day of certain political, moral, social reforms is at hand, and the like, when we mean
that in the nature of things one of the facts we contemplate is external and fugitive, and
the other is permanent and connate with the soul. The things we now esteem fixed shall, one
by one, detach themselves like ripe fruit from our experience, and fall. The wind shall blow
them none knows whither. The landscape, the figures, Boston, London, are facts as fugitive
as any institution past, or any whiff of mist or smoke, and so is society, and so is the world.
The soul looketh steadily forwards, creating a world before her, leaving worlds behind her.
She has no dates, nor rites, nor persons, nor specialties nor men. The soul knows only the
soul; the web of events is the flowing robe in which she is clothed.

After its own law and not by arithmetic is the rate of its progress to be computed. The soul's
advances are not made by gradation, such as can be represented by motion in a straight line,
but rather by ascension of state, such as can be represented by metamorphosis,--from the egg
to the worm, from the worm to the fly. The growths of genius are of a certain total character,
that does not advance the elect individual first over John, then Adam, then Richard, and give
to each the pain of discovered inferiority,--but by every throe of growth the man expands there
where he works, passing, at each pulsation, classes, populations, of men. With each divine
impulse the mind rends the thin rinds of the visible and finite, and comes out into eternity,
and inspires and expires its air. It converses with truths that have always been spoken in
the world, and becomes conscious of a closer sympathy with Zeno and Arrian than with persons
in the house.

This is the law of moral and of mental gain. The simple rise as by specific levity not into
a particular virtue, but into the region of all the virtues. They are in the spirit which contains
them all. The soul requires purity, but purity is not it; requires justice, but justice is
not that; requires beneficence, but is somewhat better; so that there is a kind of descent
and accommodation felt when we leave speaking of moral nature to urge a virtue which it enjoins.
To the well-born child all the virtues are natural, and not painfully acquired. Speak to his
heart, and the man becomes suddenly virtuous.

Within the same sentiment is the germ of intellectual growth, which obeys the same law. Those
who are capable of humility, of justice, of love, of aspiration, stand already on a platform
that commands the sciences and arts, speech and poetry, action and grace. For whoso dwells
in this moral beatitude already anticipates those special powers which men prize so highly.
The lover has no talent, no skill, which passes for quite nothing with his enamoured maiden,
however little she may possess of related faculty; and the heart which abandons itself to the
Supreme Mind finds itself related to all its works, and will travel a royal road to particular
knowledges and powers. In ascending to this primary and aboriginal sentiment we have come from
our remote station on the circumference instantaneously to the centre of the world, where,
as in the closet of God, we see causes, and anticipate the universe, which is but a slow effect.

One mode of the divine teaching is the incarnation of the spirit in a form,--in forms, like
my own. I live in society, with persons who answer to thoughts in my own mind, or express a
certain obedience to the great instincts to which I live. I see its presence to them. I am
certified of a common nature; and these other souls, these separated selves, draw me as nothing
else can. They stir in me the new emotions we call passion; of love, hatred, fear, admiration,
pity; thence come conversation, competition, persuasion, cities and war. Persons are supplementary
to the primary teaching of the soul. In youth we are mad for persons. Childhood and youth see
all the world in them. But the larger experience of man discovers the identical nature appearing
through them all. Persons themselves acquaint us with the impersonal. In all conversation between
two persons tacit reference is made, as to a third party, to a common nature. That third party
or common nature is not social; it is impersonal; is God. And so in groups where debate is
earnest, and especially on high questions, the company become aware that the thought rises
to an equal level in all bosoms, that all have a spiritual property in what was said, as well
as the sayer. They all become wiser than they were. It arches over them like a temple, this
unity of thought in which every heart beats with nobler sense of power and duty, and thinks
and acts with unusual solemnity. All are conscious of attaining to a higher self-possession.
It shines for all. There is a certain wisdom of humanity which is common to the greatest men
with the lowest, and which our ordinary education often labors to silence and obstruct. The
mind is one, and the best minds, who love truth for its own sake, think much less of property
in truth. They accept it thankfully everywhere, and do not label or stamp it with any man's
name, for it is theirs long beforehand, and from eternity. The learned and the studious of
thought have no monopoly of wisdom. Their violence of direction in some degree disqualifies
them to think truly. We owe many valuable observations to people who are not very acute or
profound, and who say the thing without effort which we want and have long been hunting in
vain. The action of the soul is oftener in that which is felt and left unsaid than in that
which is said in any conversation. It broods over every society, and they unconsciously seek
for it in each other. We know better than we do. We do not yet possess ourselves, and we know
at the same time that we are much more. I feel the same truth how often in my trivial conversation
with my neighbors, that somewhat higher in each of us overlooks this by-play, and Jove nods
to Jove from behind each of us.

Men descend to meet. In their habitual and mean service to the world, for which they forsake
their native nobleness, they resemble those Arabian sheiks who dwell in mean houses and affect
an external poverty, to escape the rapacity of the Pacha, and reserve all their display of
wealth for their interior and guarded retirements.

As it is present in all persons, so it is in every period of life. It is adult already in the
infant man. In my dealing with my child, my Latin and Greek, my accomplishments and my money
stead me nothing; but as much soul as I have avails. If I am wilful, he sets his will against
mine, one for one, and leaves me, if I please, the degradation of beating him by my superiority
of strength. But if I renounce my will and act for the soul, setting that up as umpire between
us two, out of his young eyes looks the same soul; he reveres and loves with me.

The soul is the perceiver and revealer of truth. We know truth when we see it, let skeptic
and scoffer say what they choose. Foolish people ask you, when you have spoken what they do
not wish to hear, 'How do you know it is truth, and not an error of your own?' We know truth
when we see it, from opinion, as we know when we are awake that we are awake. It was a grand
sentence of Emanuel Swedenborg, which would alone indicate the greatness of that man's perception,--"It
is no proof of a man's understanding to be able to confirm whatever he pleases; but to be able
to discern that what is true is true, and that what is false is false,--this is the mark and
character of intelligence." In the book I read, the good thought returns to me, as every truth
will, the image of the whole soul. To the bad thought which I find in it, the same soul becomes
a discerning, separating sword, and lops it away. We are wiser than we know. If we will not
interfere with our thought, but will act entirely, or see how the thing stands in God, we know
the particular thing, and every thing, and every man. For the Maker of all things and all persons
stands behind us and casts his dread omniscience through us over things.

But beyond this recognition of its own in particular passages of the individual's experience,
it also reveals truth. And here we should seek to reinforce ourselves by its very presence,
and to speak with a worthier, loftier strain of that advent. For the soul's communication of
truth is the highest event in nature, since it then does not give somewhat from itself, but
it gives itself, or passes into and becomes that man whom it enlightens; or, in proportion
to that truth he receives, it takes him to itself.

We distinguish the announcements of the soul, its manifestations of its own nature, by the
term Revelation. These are always attended by the emotion of the sublime. For this communication
is an influx of the Divine mind into our mind. It is an ebb of the individual rivulet before
the flowing surges of the sea of life. Every distinct apprehension of this central commandment
agitates men with awe and delight. A thrill passes through all men at the reception of new
truth, or at the performance of a great action, which comes out of the heart of nature. In
these communications the power to see is not separated from the will to do, but the insight
proceeds from obedience, and the obedience proceeds from a joyful perception. Every moment
when the individual feels himself invaded by it is memorable. By the necessity of our constitution
a certain enthusiasm attends the individual's consciousness of that divine presence. The character
and duration of this enthusiasm varies with the state of the individual, from an ecstasy and
trance and prophetic inspiration,--which is its rarer appearance,--to the faintest glow of
virtuous emotion, in which form it warms, like our household fires, all the families and associations
of men, and makes society possible. A certain tendency to insanity has always attended the
opening of the religious sense in men, as if they had been "blasted with excess of light."
The trances of Socrates, the "union" of Plotinus, the vision of Porphyry, the conversion of
Paul, the aurora of Behmen, the convulsions of George Fox and his Quakers, the illumination
of Swedenborg, are of this kind. What was in the case of these remarkable persons a ravishment,
has, in innumerable instances in common life, been exhibited in less striking manner. Everywhere
the history of religion betrays a tendency to enthusiasm. The rapture of the Moravian and Quietist;
the opening of the internal sense of the Word, in the language of the New Jerusalem Church;
the revival of the Calvinistic churches; the experiences of the Methodists, are varying forms
of that shudder of awe and delight with which the individual soul always mingles with the universal
soul.

The nature of these revelations is the same; they are perceptions of the absolute law. They
are solutions of the soul's own questions. They do not answer the questions which the understanding
asks. The soul answers never by words, but by the thing itself that is inquired after.

Revelation is the disclosure of the soul. The popular notion of a revelation is that it is
a telling of fortunes. In past oracles of the soul the understanding seeks to find answers
to sensual questions, and undertakes to tell from God how long men shall exist, what their
hands shall do and who shall be their company, adding names and dates and places. But we must
pick no locks. We must check this low curiosity. An answer in words is delusive; it is really
no answer to the questions you ask. Do not require a description of the countries towards which
you sail. The description does not describe them to you, and to-morrow you arrive there and
know them by inhabiting them. Men ask concerning the immortality of the soul, the employments
of heaven, the state of the sinner, and so forth. They even dream that Jesus has left replies
to precisely these interrogatories. Never a moment did that sublime spirit speak in their patois.
To truth, justice, love, the attributes of the soul, the idea of immutableness is essentially
associated. Jesus, living in these moral sentiments, heedless of sensual fortunes, heeding
only the manifestations of these, never made the separation of the idea of duration from the
essence of these attributes, nor uttered a syllable concerning the duration of the soul. It
was left to his disciples to sever duration from the moral elements, and to teach the immortality
of the soul as a doctrine, and maintain it by evidences. The moment the doctrine of the immortality
is separately taught, man is already fallen. In the flowing of love, in the adoration of humility,
there is no question of continuance. No inspired man ever asks this question or condescends
to these evidences. For the soul is true to itself, and the man in whom it is shed abroad cannot
wander from the present, which is infinite, to a future which would be finite.

These questions which we lust to ask about the future are a confession of sin. God has no answer
for them. No answer in words can reply to a question of things. It is not in an arbitrary "decree
of God," but in the nature of man, that a veil shuts down on the facts of to-morrow; for the
soul will not have us read any other cipher than that of cause and effect. By this veil which
curtains events it instructs the children of men to live in to-day. The only mode of obtaining
an answer to these questions of the senses is to forego all low curiosity, and, accepting the
tide of being which floats us into the secret of nature, work and live, work and live, and
all unawares the advancing soul has built and forged for itself a new condition, and the question
and the answer are one.

By the same fire, vital, consecrating, celestial, which burns until it shall dissolve all things
into the waves and surges of an ocean of light, we see and know each other, and what spirit
each is of. Who can tell the grounds of his knowledge of the character of the several individuals
in his circle of friends? No man. Yet their acts and words do not disappoint him. In that man,
though he knew no ill of him, he put no trust. In that other, though they had seldom met, authentic
signs had yet passed, to signify that he might be trusted as one who had an interest in his
own character. We know each other very well,--which of us has been just to himself and whether
that which we teach or behold is only an aspiration or is our honest effort also.

We are all discerners of spirits. That diagnosis lies aloft in our life or unconscious power.
The intercourse of society, its trade, its religion, its friendships, its quarrels, is one
wide, judicial investigation of character. In full court, or in small committee, or confronted
face to face, accuser and accused, men offer themselves to be judged. Against their will they
exhibit those decisive trifles by which character is read. But who judges? and what? Not our
understanding. We do not read them by learning or craft. No; the wisdom of the wise man consists
herein, that he does not judge them; he lets them judge themselves and merely reads and records
their own verdict.

By virtue of this inevitable nature, private will is overpowered, and, maugre our efforts or
our imperfections, your genius will speak from you, and mine from me. That which we are, we
shall teach, not voluntarily but involuntarily. Thoughts come into our minds by avenues which
we never left open, and thoughts go out of our minds through avenues which we never voluntarily
opened. Character teaches over our head. The infallible index of true progress is found in
the tone the man takes. Neither his age, nor his breeding, nor company, nor books, nor actions,
nor talents, nor all together can hinder him from being deferential to a higher spirit than
his own. If he have not found his home in God, his manners, his forms of speech, the turn of
his sentences, the build, shall I say, of all his opinions will involuntarily confess it, let
him brave it out how he will. If he have found his centre, the Deity will shine through him,
through all the disguises of ignorance, of ungenial temperament, of unfavorable circumstance.
The tone of seeking is one, and the tone of having is another.

The great distinction between teachers sacred or literary,--between poets like Herbert, and
poets like Pope,--between philosophers like Spinoza, Kant and Coleridge, and philosophers like
Locke, Paley, Mackintosh and Stewart,--between men of the world who are reckoned accomplished
talkers, and here and there a fervent mystic, prophesying half insane under the infinitude
of his thought,--is that one class speak from within, or from experience, as parties and possessors
of the fact; and the other class from without, as spectators merely, or perhaps as acquainted
with the fact on the evidence of third persons. It is of no use to preach to me from without.
I can do that too easily myself. Jesus speaks always from within, and in a degree that transcends
all others. In that is the miracle. I believe beforehand that it ought so to be. All men stand
continually in the expectation of the appearance of such a teacher. But if a man do not speak
from within the veil, where the word is one with that it tells of, let him lowly confess it.

The same Omniscience flows into the intellect, and makes what we call genius. Much of the wisdom
of the world is not wisdom, and the most illuminated class of men are no doubt superior to
literary fame, and are not writers. Among the multitude of scholars and authors, we feel no
hallowing presence; we are sensible of a knack and skill rather than of inspiration; they have
a light and know not whence it comes and call it their own; their talent is some exaggerated
faculty, some overgrown member, so that their strength is a disease. In these instances the
intellectual gifts do not make the impression of virtue, but almost of vice; and we feel that
a man's talents stand in the way of his advancement in truth. But genius is religious. It is
a larger imbibing of the common heart. It is not anomalous, but more like and not less like
other men. There is in all great poets a wisdom of humanity which is superior to any talents
they exercise. The author, the wit, the partisan, the fine gentleman, does not take place of
the man. Humanity shines in Homer, in Chaucer, in Spenser, in Shakspeare, in Milton. They are
content with truth. They use the positive degree. They seem frigid and phlegmatic to those
who have been spiced with the frantic passion and violent coloring of inferior but popular
writers. For they are poets by the free course which they allow to the informing soul, which
through their eyes beholds again and blesses the things which it hath made. The soul is superior
to its knowledge, wiser than any of its works. The great poet makes us feel our own wealth,
and then we think less of his compositions. His best communication to our mind is to teach
us to despise all he has done. Shakspeare carries us to such a lofty strain of intelligent
activity as to suggest a wealth which beggars his own; and we then feel that the splendid works
which he has created, and which in other hours we extol as a sort of self-existent poetry,
take no stronger hold of real nature than the shadow of a passing traveller on the rock. The
inspiration which uttered itself in Hamlet and Lear could utter things as good from day to
day for ever. Why then should I make account of Hamlet and Lear, as if we had not the soul
from which they fell as syllables from the tongue?

This energy does not descend into individual life on any other condition than entire possession.
It comes to the lowly and simple; it comes to whomsoever will put off what is foreign and proud;
it comes as insight; it comes as serenity and grandeur. When we see those whom it inhabits,
we are apprised of new degrees of greatness. From that inspiration the man comes back with
a changed tone. He does not talk with men with an eye to their opinion. He tries them. It requires
of us to be plain and true. The vain traveller attempts to embellish his life by quoting my
lord and the prince and the countess, who thus said or did to him. The ambitious vulgar show
you their spoons and brooches and rings, and preserve their cards and compliments. The more
cultivated, in their account of their own experience, cull out the pleasing, poetic circumstance,--the
visit to Rome, the man of genius they saw, the brilliant friend They know; still further on
perhaps the gorgeous landscape, the mountain lights, the mountain thoughts they enjoyed yesterday,--and
so seek to throw a romantic color over their life. But the soul that ascends to worship the
great God is plain and true; has no rose-color, no fine friends, no chivalry, no adventures;
does not want admiration; dwells in the hour that now is, in the earnest experience of the
common day,--by reason of the present moment and the mere trifle having become porous to thought
and bibulous of the sea of light.

Converse with a mind that is grandly simple, and literature looks like word-catching. The simplest
utterances are worthiest to be written, yet are they so cheap and so things of course, that
in the infinite riches of the soul it is like gathering a few pebbles off the ground, or bottling
a little air in a phial, when the whole earth and the whole atmosphere are ours. Nothing can
pass there, or make you one of the circle, but the casting aside your trappings, and dealing
man to man in naked truth, plain confession, and omniscient affirmation.

Souls such as these treat you as gods would, walk as gods in the earth, accepting without any
admiration your wit, your bounty, your virtue even,--say rather your act of duty, for your
virtue they own as their proper blood, royal as themselves, and over-royal, and the father
of the gods. But what rebuke their plain fraternal bearing casts on the mutual flattery with
which authors solace each other and wound themselves! These flatter not. I do not wonder that
these men go to see Cromwell and Christina and Charles the Second and James the First and the
Grand Turk. For they are, in their own elevation, the fellows of kings, and must feel the servile
tone of conversation in the world. They must always be a godsend to princes, for they confront
them, a king to a king, without ducking or concession, and give a high nature the refreshment
and satisfaction of resistance, of plain humanity, of even companionship and of new ideas.
They leave them wiser and superior men. Souls like these make us feel that sincerity is more
excellent than flattery. Deal so plainly with man and woman as to constrain the utmost sincerity
and destroy all hope of trifling with you. It is the highest compliment you can pay. Their
"highest praising," said Milton, "is not flattery, and their plainest advice is a kind of praising."

Ineffable is the union of man and God in every act of the soul. The simplest person who in
his integrity worships God, becomes God; yet for ever and ever the influx of this better and
universal self is new and unsearchable. It inspires awe and astonishment. How dear, how soothing
to man, arises the idea of God, peopling the lonely place, effacing the scars of our mistakes
and disappointments! When we have broken our god of tradition and ceased from our god of rhetoric,
then may God fire the heart with his presence. It is the doubling of the heart itself, nay,
the infinite enlargement of the heart with a power of growth to a new infinity on every side.
It inspires in man an infallible trust. He has not the conviction, but the sight, that the
best is the true, and may in that thought easily dismiss all particular uncertainties and fears,
and adjourn to the sure revelation of time the solution of his private riddles. He is sure
that his welfare is dear to the heart of being. In the presence of law to his mind he is overflowed
with a reliance so universal that it sweeps away all cherished hopes and the most stable projects
of mortal condition in its flood. He believes that he cannot escape from his good. The things
that are really for thee gravitate to thee. You are running to seek your friend. Let your feet
run, but your mind need not. If you do not find him, will you not acquiesce that it is best
you should not find him? for there is a power, which, as it is in you, is in him also, and
could therefore very well bring you together, if it were for the best. You are preparing with
eagerness to go and render a service to which your talent and your taste invite you, the love
of men and the hope of fame. Has it not occurred to you that you have no right to go, unless
you are equally willing to be prevented from going? O, believe, as thou livest, that every
sound that is spoken over the round world, which thou oughtest to hear, will vibrate on thine
ear! Every proverb, every book, every byword that belongs to thee for aid or comfort, shall
surely come home through open or winding passages.

Let man then learn the revelation of all nature and all thought to his heart; this, namely;
that the Highest dwells with him; that the sources of nature are in his own mind, if the sentiment
of duty is there. But if he would know what the great God speaketh, he must 'go into his closet
and shut the door,' as Jesus said. God will not make himself manifest to cowards. He must greatly
listen to himself, withdrawing himself from all the accents of other men's devotion. Even their
prayers are hurtful to him, until he have made his own. Our religion vulgarly stands on numbers
of believers. Whenever the appeal is made,--no matter how indirectly,--to numbers, proclamation
is then and there made that religion is not. He that finds God a sweet enveloping thought to
him never counts his company. When I sit in that presence, who shall dare to come in? When
I rest in perfect humility, when I burn with pure love, what can Calvin or Swedenborg say?

It makes no difference whether the appeal is to numbers or to one. The faith that stands on
authority is not faith. The reliance on authority measures the decline of religion, the withdrawal
of the soul. The position men have given to Jesus, now for many centuries of history, is a
position of authority. It characterizes themselves. It cannot alter the eternal facts. Great
is the soul, and plain. It is no flatterer, it is no follower; it never appeals from itself.
It believes in itself. Before the immense possibilities of man all mere experience, all past
biography, however spotless and sainted, shrinks away. Before that heaven which our presentiments
foreshow us, we cannot easily praise any form of life we have seen or read of. We not only
affirm that we have few great men, but, absolutely speaking, that we have none; that we have
no history, no record of any character or mode of living that entirely contents us. The saints
and demigods whom history worships we are constrained to accept with a grain of allowance.
Though in our lonely hours we draw a new strength out of their memory, yet, pressed on our
attention, as they are by the thoughtless and customary, they fatigue and invade. The soul
gives itself, alone, original and pure, to the Lonely, Original and Pure, who, on that condition,
gladly inhabits, leads and speaks through it. Then is it glad, young and nimble. It is not
wise, but it sees through all things. It is not called religious, but it is innocent. It calls
the light its own, and feels that the grass grows and the stone falls by a law inferior to,
and dependent on, its nature. Behold, it saith, I am born into the great, the universal mind.
I, the imperfect, adore my own Perfect. I am somehow receptive of the great soul, and thereby
I do Overlook the sun and the stars and feel them to be the fair accidents and effects which
change and pass. More and more the surges of everlasting nature enter into me, and I become
public and human in my regards and actions. So come I to live in thoughts and act with energies
which are immortal. Thus revering the soul, and learning, as the ancient said, that "its beauty
is immense," man will come to see that the world is the perennial miracle which the soul worketh,
and be less astonished at particular wonders; he will learn that there is no profane history;
that all history is sacred; that the universe is represented in an atom, in a moment of time.
He will weave no longer a spotted life of shreds and patches, but he will live with a divine
unity. He will cease from what is base and frivolous in his life and be content with all places
and with any service he can render. He will calmly front the morrow in the negligency of that
trust which carries God with it and so hath already the whole future in the bottom of the heart.

*****

     CIRCLES.

     NATURE centres into balls,
     And her proud ephemerals,
     Fast to surface and outside,
     Scan the profile of the sphere;
     Knew they what that signified,
     A new genesis were here.

X. CIRCLES. Every thing looks permanent until its secret is known.

*****

     INTELLECT.

     GO, speed the stars of Thought
     On to their shining goals;--
     The sower scatters broad his seed,
     The wheat thou strew'st be souls.

XI. INTELLECT.

Every substance is negatively electric to that which stands above it in the chemical tables,
positively to that which stands below it. Water dissolves wood and iron and salt; air dissolves
water; electric fire dissolves air, but the intellect dissolves fire, gravity, laws, method,
and the subtlest unnamed relations of nature in its resistless menstruum. Intellect lies behind
genius, which is intellect constructive. Intellect is the simple power anterior to all action
or construction. Gladly would I unfold in calm degrees a natural history of the intellect,
but what man has yet been able to mark the steps and boundaries of that transparent essence?
The first questions are always to be asked, and the wisest doctor is gravelled by the inquisitiveness
of a child. How can we speak of the action of the mind under any divisions, as of its knowledge,
of its ethics, of its works, and so forth, since it melts will into perception, knowledge into
act? Each becomes the other. Itself alone is. Its vision is not like the vision of the eye,
but is union with the things known.

Intellect and intellection signify to the common ear consideration of abstract truth. The considerations
of time and place, of you and me, of profit and hurt tyrannize over most men's minds. Intellect
separates the fact considered, from you, from all local and personal reference, and discerns
it as if it existed for its own sake. Heraclitus looked upon the affections as dense and colored
mists. In the fog of good and evil affections it is hard for man to walk forward in a straight
line. Intellect is void of affection and sees an object as it stands in the light of science,
cool and disengaged. The intellect goes out of the individual, floats over its own personality,
and regards it as a fact, and not as I and mine. He who is immersed in what concerns person
or place cannot see the problem of existence. This the intellect always ponders. Nature shows
all things formed and bound. The intellect pierces the form, overleaps the wall, detects intrinsic
likeness between remote things and reduces all things into a few principles.

The making a fact the subject of thought raises it. All that mass of mental and moral phenomena
which we do not make objects of voluntary thought, come within the power of fortune; they constitute
the circumstance of daily life; they are subject to change, to fear, and hope. Every man beholds
his human condition with a degree of melancholy. As a ship aground is battered by the waves,
so man, imprisoned in mortal life, lies open to the mercy of coming events. But a truth, separated
by the intellect, is no longer a subject of destiny. We behold it as a god upraised above care
and fear. And so any fact in our life, or any record of our fancies or reflections, disentangled
from the web of our unconsciousness, becomes an object impersonal and immortal. It is the past
restored, but embalmed. A better art than that of Egypt has taken fear and corruption out of
it. It is eviscerated of care. It is offered for science. What is addressed to us for contemplation
does not threaten us but makes us intellectual beings.

The growth of the intellect is spontaneous in every expansion. The mind that grows could not
predict the times, the means, the mode of that spontaneity. God enters by a private door into
every individual. Long prior to the age of reflection is the thinking of the mind. Out of darkness
it came insensibly into the marvellous light of to-day. In the period of infancy it accepted
and disposed of all impressions from the surrounding creation after its own way. Whatever any
mind doth or saith is after a law; and this native law remains over it after it has come to
reflection or conscious thought. In the most worn, pedantic, introverted self-tormenter's life,
the greatest part is incalculable by him, unforeseen, unimaginable, and must be, until he can
take himself up by his own ears. What am I? What has my will done to make me that I am? Nothing.
I have been floated into this thought, this hour, this connection of events, by secret currents
of might and mind, and my ingenuity and wilfulness have not thwarted, have not aided to an
appreciable degree.

Our spontaneous action is always the best. You cannot with your best deliberation and heed
come so close to any question as your spontaneous glance shall bring you, whilst you rise from
your bed, or walk abroad in the morning after meditating the matter before sleep on the previous
night. Our thinking is a pious reception. Our truth of thought is therefore vitiated as much
by too violent direction given by our will, as by too great negligence. We do not determine
what we will think. We only open our senses, clear away as we can all obstruction from the
fact, and suffer the intellect to see. We have little control over our thoughts. We are the
prisoners of ideas. They catch us up for moments into their heaven and so fully engage us that
we take no thought for the morrow, gaze like children, without an effort to make them our own.
By and by we fall out of that rapture, bethink us where we have been, what we have seen, and
repeat as truly as we can what we have beheld. As far as we can recall these ecstasies we carry
away in the ineffaceable memory the result, and all men and all the ages confirm it. It is
called Truth. But the moment we cease to report and attempt to correct and contrive, it is
not truth.

If we consider what persons have stimulated and profited us, we shall perceive the superiority
of the spontaneous or intuitive principle over the arithmetical or logical. The first contains
the second, but virtual and latent. We want in every man a long logic; we cannot pardon the
absence of it, but it must not be spoken. Logic is the procession or proportionate unfolding
of the intuition; but its virtue is as silent method; the moment it would appear as propositions
and have a separate value it is worthless.

In every man's mind, some images, words and facts remain, without effort on his part to imprint
them, which others forget, and afterwards these illustrate to him important laws. All our progress
is an unfolding, like the vegetable bud. You have first an instinct, then an opinion, then
a knowledge, as the plant has root, bud and fruit. Trust the instinct to the end, though you
can render no reason. It is vain to hurry it. By trusting it to the end, it shall ripen into
truth and you shall know why you believe.

Each mind has its own method. A true man never acquires after college rules. What you have
aggregated in a natural manner surprises and delights when it is produced. For we cannot oversee
each other's secret. And hence the differences between men in natural endowment are insignificant
in comparison with their common wealth. Do you think the porter and the cook have no anecdotes,
no experiences, no wonders for you? Every body knows as much as the savant. The walls of rude
minds are scrawled all over with facts, with thoughts. They shall one day bring a lantern and
read the inscriptions. Every man, in the degree in which he has wit and culture, finds his
curiosity inflamed concerning the modes of living and thinking of other men, and especially
of those classes whose minds have not been subdued by the drill of school education.

This instinctive action never ceases in a healthy mind, but becomes richer and more frequent
in its informations through all states of culture. At last comes the era of reflection, when
we not only observe, but take pains to observe; when we of set purpose sit down to consider
an abstract truth; when we keep the mind's eye open whilst we converse, whilst we read, whilst
we act, intent to learn the secret law of some class of facts.

What is the hardest task in the world? To think. I would put myself in the attitude to look
in the eye an abstract truth, and I cannot. I blench and withdraw on this side and on that.
I seem to know what he meant who said, No man can see God face to face and live. For example,
a man explores the basis of civil government. Let him intend his mind without respite, without
rest, in one direction. His best heed long time avails him nothing. Yet thoughts are flitting
before him. We all but apprehend, we dimly forebode the truth. We say I will walk abroad, and
the truth will take form and clearness to me. We go forth, but cannot find it. It seems as
if we needed only the stillness and composed attitude of the library to seize the thought.
But we come in, and are as far from it as at first. Then, in a moment, and unannounced, the
truth appears. A certain wandering light appears, and is the distinction, the principle, we
wanted. But the oracle comes because we had previously laid siege to the shrine. It seems as
if the law of the intellect resembled that law of nature by which we now inspire, now expire
the breath; by which the heart now draws in, then hurls out the blood,--the law of undulation.
So now you must labor with your brains, and now you must forbear your activity and see what
the great Soul showeth.

The immortality of man is as legitimately preached from the intellections as from the moral
volitions. Every intellection is mainly prospective. Its present value is its least. Inspect
what delights you in Plutarch, in Shakspeare, in Cervantes. Each truth that a writer acquires
is a lantern, which he turns full on what facts and thoughts lay already in his mind, and behold,
all the mats and rubbish which had littered his garret become precious. Every trivial fact
in his private biography becomes an illustration of this new principle, revisits the day, and
delights all men by its piquancy and new charm. Men say, Where did he get this? and think there
was something divine in his life. But no; they have myriads of facts just as good, would they
only get a lamp to ransack their attics withal.

We are all wise. The difference between persons is not in wisdom but in art. I knew, in an
academical club, a person who always deferred to me; who, seeing my whim for writing, fancied
that my experiences had somewhat superior; whilst I saw that his experiences were as good as
mine. Give them to me and I would make the same use of them. He held the old; he holds the
new; I had the habit of tacking together the old and the new which he did not use to exercise.
This may hold in the great examples. Perhaps if we should meet Shakspeare we should not be
conscious of any steep inferiority; no, but of a great equality,--only that he possessed a
strange skill of using, of classifying, his facts, which we lacked. For notwithstanding our
utter incapacity to produce anything like Hamlet and Othello, see the perfect reception this
wit and immense knowledge of life and liquid eloquence find in us all.

If you gather apples in the sunshine, or make hay, or hoe corn, and then retire within doors
and shut your eyes and press them with your hand, you shall still see apples hanging in the
bright light with boughs and leaves thereto, or the tasselled grass, or the corn-flags, and
this for five or six hours afterwards. There lie the impressions on the retentive organ, though
you knew it not. So lies the whole series of natural images with which your life has made you
acquainted, in your memory, though you know it not; and a thrill of passion flashes light on
their dark chamber, and the active power seizes instantly the fit image, as the word of its
momentary thought.

It is long ere we discover how rich we are. Our history, we are sure, is quite tame: we have
nothing to write, nothing to infer. But our wiser years still run back to the despised recollections
of childhood, and always we are fishing up some wonderful article out of that pond; until by
and by we begin to suspect that the biography of the one foolish person we know is, in reality,
nothing less than the miniature paraphrase of the hundred volumes of the Universal History.

In the intellect constructive, which we popularly designate by the word Genius, we observe
the same balance of two elements as in intellect receptive. The constructive intellect produces
thoughts, sentences, poems, plans, designs, systems. It is the generation of the mind, the
marriage of thought with nature. To genius must always go two gifts, the thought and the publication.
The first is revelation, always a miracle, which no frequency of occurrence or incessant study
can ever familiarize, but which must always leave the inquirer stupid with wonder. It is the
advent of truth into the world, a form of thought now for the first time bursting into the
universe, a child of the old eternal soul, a piece of genuine and immeasurable greatness. It
seems, for the time, to inherit all that has yet existed and to dictate to the unborn. It affects
every thought of man and goes to fashion every institution. But to make it available it needs
a vehicle or art by which it is conveyed to men. To be communicable it must become picture
or sensible object. We must learn the language of facts. The most wonderful inspirations die
with their subject if he has no hand to paint them to the senses. The ray of light passes invisible
through space and only when it falls on an object is it seen. When the spiritual energy is
directed on something outward, then it is a thought. The relation between it and you first
makes you, the value of you, apparent to me. The rich inventive genius of the painter must
be smothered and lost for want of the power of drawing, and in our happy hours we should be
inexhaustible poets if once we could break through the silence into adequate rhyme. As all
men have some access to primary truth, so all have some art or power of communication in their
head, but only in the artist does it descend into the hand. There is an inequality, whose laws
we do not yet know, between two men and between two moments of the same man, in respect to
this faculty. In common hours we have the same facts as in the uncommon or inspired, but they
do not sit for their portraits; they are not detached, but lie in a web. The thought of genius
is spontaneous; but the power of picture or expression, in the most enriched and flowing nature,
implies a mixture of will, a certain control over the spontaneous states, without which no
production is possible. It is a conversion of all nature into the rhetoric of thought, under
the eye of judgment, with a strenuous exercise of choice. And yet the imaginative vocabulary
seems to be spontaneous also. It does not flow from experience only or mainly, but from a richer
source. Not by any conscious imitation of particular forms are the grand strokes of the painter
executed, but by repairing to the fountain-head of all forms in his mind. Who is the first
drawing-master? Without instruction we know very well the ideal of the human form. A child
knows if an arm or a leg be distorted in a picture; if the attitude be natural or grand or
mean; though he has never received any instruction in drawing or heard any conversation on
the subject, nor can himself draw with correctness a single feature. A good form strikes all
eyes pleasantly, long before they have any science on the subject, and a beautiful face sets
twenty hearts in palpitation, prior to all consideration of the mechanical proportions of the
features and head. We may owe to dreams some light on the fountain of this skill; for as soon
as we let our will go and let the unconscious states ensue, see what cunning draughtsmen we
are! We entertain ourselves with wonderful forms of men, of women, of animals, of gardens,
of woods and of monsters, and the mystic pencil wherewith we then draw has no awkwardness or
inexperience, no meagreness or poverty; it can design well and group well; its composition
is full of art, its colors are well laid on and the whole canvas which it paints is lifelike
and apt to touch us with terror, with tenderness, with desire and with grief. Neither are the
artist's copies from experience ever mere copies, but always touched and softened by tints
from this ideal domain.

The conditions essential to a constructive mind do not appear to be so often combined but that
a good sentence or verse remains fresh and memorable for a long time. Yet when we write with
ease and come out into the free air of thought, we seem to be assured that nothing is easier
than to continue this communication at pleasure. Up, down, around, the kingdom of thought has
no inclosures, but the Muse makes us free of her city. Well, the world has a million writers.
One would think then that good thought would be as familiar as air and water, and the gifts
of each new hour would exclude the last. Yet we can count all our good books; nay, I remember
any beautiful verse for twenty years. It is true that the discerning intellect of the world
is always much in advance of the creative, so that there are many competent judges of the best
book, and few writers of the best books. But some of the conditions of intellectual construction
are of rare occurrence. The intellect is a whole and demands integrity in every work. This
is resisted equally by a man's devotion to a single thought and by his ambition to combine
too many.

Truth is our element of life, yet if a man fasten his attention on a single aspect of truth
and apply himself to that alone for a long time, the truth becomes distorted and not itself
but falsehood; herein resembling the air, which is our natural element, and the breath of our
nostrils, but if a stream of the same be directed on the body for a time, it causes cold, fever,
and even death. How wearisome the grammarian, the phrenologist, the political or religious
fanatic, or indeed any possessed mortal whose balance is lost by the exaggeration of a single
topic. It is incipient insanity. Every thought is a prison also. I cannot see what you see,
because I am caught up by a strong wind and blown so far in one direction that I am out of
the hoop of your horizon.

Is it any better if the student, to avoid this offence, and to liberalize himself, aims to
make a mechanical whole of history, or science, or philosophy, by a numerical addition of all
the facts that fall within his vision? The world refuses to be analyzed by addition and subtraction.
When we are young we spend much time and pains in filling our note-books with all definitions
of Religion, Love, Poetry, Politics, Art, in the hope that in the course of a few years we
shall have condensed into our encyclopaedia the net value of all the theories at which the
world has yet arrived. But year after year our tables get no completeness, and at last we discover
that our curve is a parabola, whose arcs will never meet.

Neither by detachment neither by aggregation is the integrity of the intellect transmitted
to its works, but by a vigilance which brings the intellect in its greatness and best state
to operate every moment. It must have the same wholeness which nature has. Although no diligence
can rebuild the universe in a model by the best accumulation or disposition of details, yet
does the world reappear in miniature in every event, so that all the laws of nature may be
read in the smallest fact. The intellect must have the like perfection in its apprehension
and in its works. For this reason, an index or mercury of intellectual proficiency is the perception
of identity. We talk with accomplished persons who appear to be strangers in nature. The cloud,
the tree, the turf, the bird are not theirs, have nothing of them; the world is only their
lodging and table. But the poet, whose verses are to be spheral and complete, is one whom Nature
cannot deceive, whatsoever face of strangeness she may put on. He feels a strict consanguinity,
and detects more likeness than variety in all her changes. We are stung by the desire for new
thought; but when we receive a new thought it is only the old thought with a new face, and
though we make it our own we instantly crave another; we are not really enriched. For the truth
was in us before it was reflected to us from natural objects; and the profound genius will
cast the likeness of all creatures into every product of his wit.

But if the constructive powers are rare and it is given to few men to be poets, yet every man
is a receiver of this descending holy ghost, and may well study the laws of its influx. Exactly
parallel is the whole rule of intellectual duty to the rule of moral duty. A self-denial no
less austere than the saint's is demanded of the scholar. He must worship truth, and forego
all things for that, and choose defeat and pain, so that his treasure in thought is thereby
augmented.

God offers to every mind its choice between truth and repose. Take which you please,--you can
never have both. Between these, as a pendulum, man oscillates. He in whom the love of repose
predominates will accept the first creed, the first philosophy, the first political party he
meets,--most likely his father's. He gets rest, commodity, and reputation; but he shuts the
door of truth. He in whom the love of truth predominates will keep himself aloof from all moorings,
and afloat. He will abstain from dogmatism, and recognize all the opposite negations between
which, as walls, his being is swung. He submits to the inconvenience of suspense and imperfect
opinion, but he is a candidate for truth, as the other is not, and respects the highest law
of his being.

The circle of the green earth he must measure with his shoes to find the man who can yield
him truth. He shall then know that there is somewhat more blessed and great in hearing than
in speaking. Happy is the hearing man; unhappy the speaking man. As long as I hear truth I
am bathed by a beautiful element and am not conscious of any limits to my nature. The suggestions
are thousandfold that I hear and see. The waters of the great deep have ingress and egress
to the soul. But if I speak, I define, I confine and am less. When Socrates speaks, Lysis and
Menexenus are afflicted by no shame that they do not speak. They also are good. He likewise
defers to them, loves them, whilst he speaks. Because a true and natural man contains and is
the same truth which an eloquent man articulates; but in the eloquent man, because he can articulate
it, it seems something the less to reside, and he turns to these silent beautiful with the
more inclination and respect. The ancient sentence said, Let us be silent, for so are the gods.
Silence is a solvent that destroys personality, and gives us leave to be great and universal.
Every man's progress is through a succession of teachers, each of whom seems at the time to
have a superlative influence, but it at last gives place to a new. Frankly let him accept it
all. Jesus says, Leave father, mother, house and lands, and follow me. Who leaves all, receives
more. This is as true intellectually as morally. Each new mind we approach seems to require
an abdication of all our past and present possessions. A new doctrine seems at first a subversion
of all our opinions, tastes, and manner of living. Such has Swedenborg, such has Kant, such
has Coleridge, such has Hegel or his interpreter Cousin seemed to many young men in this country.
Take thankfully and heartily all they can give. Exhaust them, wrestle with them, let them not
go until their blessing be won, and after a short season the dismay will be overpast, the excess
of influence withdrawn, and they will be no longer an alarming meteor, but one more bright
star shining serenely in your heaven and blending its light with all your day.

But whilst he gives himself up unreservedly to that which draws him, because that is his own,
he is to refuse himself to that which draws him not, whatsoever fame and authority may attend
it, because it is not his own. Entire self-reliance belongs to the intellect. One soul is a
counterpoise of all souls, as a capillary column of water is a balance for the sea. It must
treat things and books and sovereign genius as itself also a sovereign. If Aeschylus be that
man he is taken for, he has not yet done his office when he has educated the learned of Europe
for a thousand years. He is now to approve himself a master of delight to me also. If he cannot
do that, all his fame shall avail him nothing with me. I were a fool not to sacrifice a thousand
Aeschyluses to my intellectual integrity. Especially take the same ground in regard to abstract
truth, the science of the mind. The Bacon, the Spinoza, the Hume, Schelling, Kant, or whosoever
propounds to you a philosophy of the mind, is only a more or less awkward translator of things
in your consciousness which you have also your way of seeing, perhaps of denominating. Say
then, instead of too timidly poring into his obscure sense, that he has not succeeded in rendering
back to you your consciousness. He has not succeeded; now let another try. If Plato cannot,
perhaps Spinoza will. If Spinoza cannot, then perhaps Kant. Anyhow, when at last it is done,
you will find it is no recondite, but a simple, natural, common state which the writer restores
to you.

But let us end these didactics. I will not, though the subject might provoke it, speak to the
open question between Truth and Love. I shall not presume to interfere in the old politics
of the skies;--"The cherubim know most; the seraphim love most." The gods shall settle their
own quarrels. But I cannot recite, even thus rudely, laws of the intellect, without remembering
that lofty and sequestered class of men who have been its prophets and oracles, the high-priesthood
of the pure reason, the Trismegisti, the expounders of the principles of thought from age to
age. When at long intervals we turn over their abstruse pages, wonderful seems the calm and
grand air of these few, these great spiritual lords who have walked in the world,--these of
the old religion,--dwelling in a worship which makes the sanctities of Christianity look parvenues
and popular; for "persuasion is in soul, but necessity is in intellect." This band of grandees,
Hermes, Heraclitus, Empedocles, Plato, Plotinus, Olympiodorus, Proclus, Synesius and the rest,
have somewhat so vast in their logic, so primary in their thinking, that it seems antecedent
to all the ordinary distinctions of rhetoric and literature, and to be at once poetry and music
and dancing and astronomy and mathematics. I am present at the sowing of the seed of the world.
With a geometry of sunbeams the soul lays the foundations of nature. The truth and grandeur
of their thought is proved by its scope and applicability, for it commands the entire schedule
and inventory of things for its illustration. But what marks its elevation and has even a comic
look to us, is the innocent serenity with which these babe-like Jupiters sit in their clouds,
and from age to age prattle to each other and to no contemporary. Well assured that their speech
is intelligible and the most natural thing in the world, they add thesis to thesis, without
a moment's heed of the universal astonishment of the human race below, who do not comprehend
their plainest argument; nor do they ever relent so much as to insert a popular or explaining
sentence, nor testify the least displeasure or petulance at the dulness of their amazed auditory.
The angels are so enamored of the language that is spoken in heaven that they will not distort
their lips with the hissing and unmusical dialects of men, but speak their own, whether there
be any who understand it or not.

*****

     ART.

     GIVE to barrows trays and pans
     Grace and glimmer of romance,
     Bring the moonlight into noon
     Hid in gleaming piles of stone;
     On the city's paved street
     Plant gardens lined with lilac sweet,
     Let spouting fountains cool the air,
     Singing in the sun-baked square.
     Let statue, picture, park and hall,
     Ballad, flag and festival,
     The past restore, the day adorn
     And make each morrow a new morn
     So shall the drudge in dusty frock
     Spy behind the city clock
     Retinues of airy kings,
     Skirts of angels, starry wings,
     His fathers shining in bright fables,
     His children fed at heavenly tables.
     'Tis the privilege of Art
     Thus to play its cheerful part,
     Man in Earth to acclimate
     And bend the exile to his fate,
     And, moulded of one element
     With the days and firmament,
     Teach him on these as stairs to climb
     And live on even terms with Time;
     Whilst upper life the slender rill
     Of human sense doth overfill.

XII. ART.

Because the soul is progressive, it never quite repeats itself, but in every act attempts the
production of a new and fairer whole. This appears in works both of the useful and the fine
arts, if we employ the popular distinction of works according to their aim either at use or
beauty. Thus in our fine arts, not imitation but creation is the aim. In landscapes the painter
should give the suggestion of a fairer creation than we know. The details, the prose of nature
he should omit and give us only the spirit and splendor. He should know that the landscape
has beauty for his eye because it expresses a thought which is to him good; and this because
the same power which sees through his eyes is seen in that spectacle; and he will come to value
the expression of nature and not nature itself, and so exalt in his copy the features that
please him. He will give the gloom of gloom and the sunshine of sunshine. In a portrait he
must inscribe the character and not the features, and must esteem the man who sits to him as
himself only an imperfect picture or likeness of the aspiring original within.

What is that abridgment and selection we observe in all spiritual activity, but itself the
creative impulse? for it is the inlet of that higher illumination which teaches to convey a
larger sense by simpler symbols. What is a man but nature's finer success in self-explication?
What is a man but a finer and compacter landscape than the horizon figures,--nature's eclecticism?
and what is his speech, his love of painting, love of nature, but a still finer success,--all
the weary miles and tons of space and bulk left out, and the spirit or moral of it contracted
into a musical word, or the most cunning stroke of the pencil?

But the artist must employ the symbols in use in his day and nation to convey his enlarged
sense to his fellow-men. Thus the new in art is always formed out of the old. The Genius of
the Hour sets his ineffaceable seal on the work and gives it an inexpressible charm for the
imagination. As far as the spiritual character of the period overpowers the artist and finds
expression in his work, so far it will retain a certain grandeur, and will represent to future
beholders the Unknown, the Inevitable, the Divine. No man can quite exclude this element of
Necessity from his labor. No man can quite emancipate himself from his age and country, or
produce a model in which the education, the religion, the politics, usages and arts of his
times shall have no share. Though he were never so original, never so wilful and fantastic,
he cannot wipe out of his work every trace of the thoughts amidst which it grew. The very avoidance
betrays the usage he avoids. Above his will and out of his sight he is necessitated by the
air he breathes and the idea on which he and his contemporaries live and toil, to share the
manner of his times, without knowing what that manner is. Now that which is inevitable in the
work has a higher charm than individual talent can ever give, inasmuch as the artist's pen
or chisel seems to have been held and guided by a gigantic hand to inscribe a line in the history
of the human race. This circumstance gives a value to the Egyptian hieroglyphics, to the Indian,
Chinese and Mexican idols, however gross and shapeless. They denote the height of the human
soul in that hour, and were not fantastic, but sprung from a necessity as deep as the world.
Shall I now add that the whole extant product of the plastic arts has herein its highest value,
as history; as a stroke drawn in the portrait of that fate, perfect and beautiful, according
to whose ordinations all beings advance to their beatitude?

Thus, historically viewed, it has been the office of art to educate the perception of beauty.
We are immersed in beauty, but our eyes have no clear vision. It needs, by the exhibition of
single traits, to assist and lead the dormant taste. We carve and paint, or we behold what
is carved and painted, as students of the mystery of Form. The virtue of art lies in detachment,
in sequestering one object from the embarrassing variety. Until one thing comes out from the
connection of things, there can be enjoyment, contemplation, but no thought. Our happiness
and unhappiness are unproductive. The infant lies in a pleasing trance, but his individual
character and his practical power depend on his daily progress in the separation of things,
and dealing with one at a time. Love and all the passions concentrate all existence around
a single form. It is the habit of certain minds to give an all-excluding fulness to the object,
the thought, the word, they alight upon, and to make that for the time the deputy of the world.
These are the artists, the orators, the leaders of society. The power to detach and to magnify
by detaching is the essence of rhetoric in the hands of the orator and the poet. This rhetoric,
or power to fix the momentary eminency of an object,--so remarkable in Burke, in Byron, in
Carlyle,--the painter and sculptor exhibit in color and in stone. The power depends on the
depth of the artist's insight of that object he contemplates. For every object has its roots
in central nature, and may of course be so exhibited to us as to represent the world. Therefore
each work of genius is the tyrant of the hour And concentrates attention on itself. For the
time, it is the only thing worth naming to do that,--be it a sonnet, an opera, a landscape,
a statue, an oration, the plan of a temple, of a campaign, or of a voyage of discovery. Presently
we pass to some other object, which rounds itself into a whole as did the first; for example
a well-laid garden; and nothing seems worth doing but the laying out of gardens. I should think
fire the best thing in the world, if I were not acquainted with air, and water, and earth.
For it is the right and property of all natural objects, of all genuine talents, of all native
properties whatsoever, to be for their moment the top of the world. A squirrel leaping from
bough to bough and making the Wood but one wide tree for his pleasure, fills the eye not less
than a lion,--is beautiful, self-sufficing, and stands then and there for nature. A good ballad
draws my ear and heart whilst I listen, as much as an epic has done before. A dog, drawn by
a master, or a litter of pigs, satisfies and is a reality not less than the frescoes of Angelo.
From this succession of excellent objects we learn at last the immensity of the world, the
opulence of human nature, which can run out to infinitude in any direction. But I also learn
that what astonished and fascinated me in the first work astonished me in the second work also;
that excellence of all things is one.

The office of painting and sculpture seems to be merely initial. The best pictures can easily
tell us their last secret. The best pictures are rude draughts of a few of the miraculous dots
and lines and dyes which make up the ever-changing "landscape with figures" amidst which we
dwell. Painting seems to be to the eye what dancing is to the limbs. When that has educated
the frame to self-possession, to nimbleness, to grace, the steps of the dancing-master are
better forgotten; so painting teaches me the splendor of color and the expression of form,
and as I see many pictures and higher genius in the art, I see the boundless opulence of the
pencil, the indifferency in which the artist stands free to choose out of the possible forms.
If he can draw every thing, why draw any thing? and then is my eye opened to the eternal picture
which nature paints in the street, with moving men and children, beggars and fine ladies, draped
in red and green and blue and gray; long-haired, grizzled, white-faced, black-faced, wrinkled,
giant, dwarf, expanded, elfish,--capped and based by heaven, earth and sea.

A gallery of sculpture teaches more austerely the same lesson. As picture teaches the coloring,
so sculpture the anatomy of form. When I have seen fine statues and afterwards enter a public
assembly, I understand well what he meant who said, "When I have been reading Homer, all men
look like giants." I too see that painting and sculpture are gymnastics of the eye, its training
to the niceties and curiosities of its function. There is no statue like this living man, with
his infinite advantage over all ideal sculpture, of perpetual variety. What a gallery of art
have I here! No mannerist made these varied groups and diverse original single figures. Here
is the artist himself improvising, grim and glad, at his block. Now one thought strikes him,
now another, and with each moment he alters the whole air, attitude and expression of his clay.
Away with your nonsense of oil and easels, of marble and chisels; except to open your eyes
to the masteries of eternal art, they are hypocritical rubbish.

The reference of all production at last to an aboriginal Power explains the traits common to
all works of the highest art,--that they are universally intelligible; that they restore to
us the simplest states of mind, and are religious. Since what skill is therein shown is the
reappearance of the original soul, a jet of pure light, it should produce a similar impression
to that made by natural objects. In happy hours, nature appears to us one with art; art perfected,--the
work of genius. And the individual, in whom simple tastes and susceptibility to all the great
human influences overpower the accidents of a local and special culture, is the best critic
of art. Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or
we find it not. The best of beauty is a finer charm than skill in surfaces, in outlines, or
rules of art can ever teach, namely a radiation from the work of art of human character,--a
wonderful expression through stone, or canvas, or musical sound, of the deepest and simplest
attributes of our nature, and therefore most intelligible at last to those souls which have
these attributes. In the sculptures of the Greeks, in the masonry of the Romans, and in the
pictures of the Tuscan and Venetian masters, the highest charm is the universal language they
speak. A confession of moral nature, of purity, love, and hope, breathes from them all. That
which we carry to them, the same we bring back more fairly illustrated in the memory. The traveller
who visits the Vatican, and passes from chamber to chamber through galleries of statues, vases,
sarcophagi and candelabra, through all forms of beauty cut in the richest materials, is in
danger of forgetting the simplicity of the principles out of which they all sprung, and that
they had their origin from thoughts and laws in his own breast. He studies the technical rules
on these wonderful remains, but forgets that these works were not always thus constellated;
that they are the contributions of many ages and many countries; that each came out of the
solitary workshop of one artist, who toiled perhaps in ignorance of the existence of other
sculpture, created his work without other model save life, household life, and the sweet and
smart of personal relations, of beating hearts, and meeting eyes; of poverty and necessity
and hope and fear. These were his inspirations, and these are the effects he carries home to
your heart and mind. In proportion to his force, the artist will find in his work an outlet
for his proper character. He must not be in any manner pinched or hindered by his material,
but through his necessity of imparting himself the adamant will be wax in his hands, and will
allow an adequate communication of himself, in his full stature and proportion. He need not
cumber himself with a conventional nature and culture, nor ask what is the mode in Rome or
in Paris, but that house and weather and manner of living which poverty and the fate of birth
have made at once so odious and so dear, in the gray unpainted wood cabin, on the corner of
a New Hampshire farm, or in the log-hut of the backwoods, or in the narrow lodging where he
has endured the constraints and seeming of a city poverty, will serve as well as any other
condition as the symbol of a thought which pours itself indifferently through all.

I remember when in my younger days I had heard of the wonders of Italian painting, I fancied
the great pictures would be great strangers; some surprising combination of color and form;
a foreign wonder, barbaric pearl and gold, like the spontoons and standards of the militia,
which play such pranks in the eyes and imaginations of school-boys. I was to see and acquire
I knew not what. When I came at last to Rome and saw with eyes the pictures, I found that genius
left to novices the gay and fantastic and ostentatious, and itself pierced directly to the
simple and true; that it was familiar and sincere; that it was the old, eternal fact I had
met already in so many forms,--unto which I lived; that it was the plain you and me I knew
so well,--had left at home in so many conversations. I had the same experience already in a
church at Naples. There I saw that nothing was changed with me but the place, and said to myself--'Thou
foolish child, hast thou come out hither, over four thousand miles of salt water, to find that
which was perfect to thee there at home?' That fact I saw again in the Academmia at Naples,
in the chambers of sculpture, and yet again when I came to Rome and to the paintings of Raphael,
Angelo, Sacchi, Titian, and Leonardo da Vinci. "What, old mole! workest thou in the earth so
fast?" It had travelled by my side; that which I fancied I had left in Boston was here in the
Vatican, and again at Milan and at Paris, and made all travelling ridiculous as a treadmill.
I now require this of all pictures, that they domesticate me, not that they dazzle me. Pictures
must not be too picturesque. Nothing astonishes men so much as common-sense and plain dealing.
All great actions have been simple, and all great pictures are.

The Transfiguration, by Raphael, is an eminent example of this peculiar merit. A calm benignant
beauty shines over all this picture, and goes directly to the heart. It seems almost to call
you by name. The sweet and sublime face of Jesus is beyond praise, yet how it disappoints all
florid expectations! This familiar, simple, home-speaking countenance is as if one should meet
a friend. The knowledge of picture-dealers has its value, but listen not to their criticism
when your heart is touched by genius. It was not painted for them, it was painted for you;
for such as had eyes capable of being touched by simplicity and lofty emotions.

Yet when we have said all our fine things about the arts, we must end with a frank confession,
that the arts, as we know them, are but initial. Our best praise is given to what they aimed
and promised, not to the actual result. He has conceived meanly of the resources of man, who
believes that the best age of production is past. The real value of the Iliad or the Transfiguration
is as signs of power; billows or ripples they are of the stream of tendency; tokens of the
everlasting effort to produce, which even in its worst estate the soul betrays. Art has not
yet come to its maturity if it do not put itself abreast with the most potent influences of
the world, if it is not practical and moral, if it do not stand in connection with the conscience,
if it do not make the poor and uncultivated feel that it addresses them with a voice of lofty
cheer. There is higher work for Art than the arts. They are abortive births of an imperfect
or vitiated instinct. Art is the need to create; but in its essence, immense and universal,
it is impatient of working with lame or tied hands, and of making cripples and monsters, such
as all pictures and statues are. Nothing less than the creation of man and nature is its end.
A man should find in it an outlet for his whole energy. He may paint and carve only as long
as he can do that. Art should exhilarate, and throw down the walls of circumstance on every
side, awakening in the beholder the same sense of universal relation and power which the work
evinced in the artist, and its highest effect is to make new artists.

Already History is old enough to witness the old age and disappearance of particular arts.
The art of sculpture is long ago perished to any real effect. It was originally a useful art,
a mode of writing, a savage's record of gratitude or devotion, and among a people possessed
of a wonderful perception of form this childish carving was refined to the utmost splendor
of effect. But it is the game of a rude and youthful people, and not the manly labor of a wise
and spiritual nation. Under an oak-tree loaded with leaves and nuts, under a sky full of eternal
eyes, I stand in a thoroughfare; but in the works of our plastic arts and especially of sculpture,
creation is driven into a corner. I cannot hide from myself that there is a certain appearance
of paltriness, as of toys and the trumpery of a theatre, in sculpture. Nature transcends all
our moods of thought, and its secret we do not yet find. But the gallery stands at the mercy
of our moods, and there is a moment when it becomes frivolous. I do not wonder that Newton,
with an attention habitually engaged on the paths of planets and suns, should have wondered
what the Earl of Pembroke found to admire in "stone dolls." Sculpture may serve to teach the
pupil how deep is the secret of form, how purely the spirit can translate its meanings into
that eloquent dialect. But the statue will look cold and false before that new activity which
needs to roll through all things, and is impatient of counterfeits and things not alive. Picture
and sculpture are the celebrations and festivities of form. But true art is never fixed, but
always flowing. The sweetest music is not in the oratorio, but in the human voice when it speaks
from its instant life tones of tenderness, truth, or courage. The oratorio has already lost
its relation to the morning, to the sun, and the earth, but that persuading voice is in tune
with these. All works of art should not be detached, but extempore performances. A great man
is a new statue in every attitude and action. A beautiful woman is a picture which drives all
beholders nobly mad. Life may be lyric or epic, as well as a poem or a romance.

A true announcement of the law of creation, if a man were found worthy to declare it, would
carry art up into the kingdom of nature, and destroy its separate and contrasted existence.
The fountains of invention and beauty in modern society are all but dried up. A popular novel,
a theatre, or a ball-room makes us feel that we are all paupers in the alms-house of this world,
without dignity, without skill or industry. Art is as poor and low. The old tragic Necessity,
which lowers on the brows even of the Venuses and the Cupids of the antique, and furnishes
the sole apology for the intrusion of such anomalous figures into nature,--namely, that they
were inevitable; that the artist was drunk with a passion for form which he could not resist,
and which vented itself in these fine extravagances,--no longer dignifies the chisel or the
pencil. But the artist and the connoisseur now seek in art the exhibition of their talent,
or an asylum from the evils of life. Men are not well pleased with the figure they make in
their own imaginations, and they flee to art, and convey their better sense in an oratorio,
a statue, or a picture. Art makes the same effort which a sensual prosperity makes; namely
to detach the beautiful from the useful, to do up the work as unavoidable, and, hating it,
pass on to enjoyment. These solaces and compensations, this division of beauty from use, the
laws of nature do not permit. As soon as beauty is sought, not from religion and love but for
pleasure, it degrades the seeker. High beauty is no longer attainable by him in canvas or in
stone, in sound, or in lyrical construction; an effeminate, prudent, sickly beauty, which is
not beauty, is all that can be formed; for the hand can never execute any thing higher than
the character can inspire.

The art that thus separates is itself first separated. Art must not be a superficial talent,
but must begin farther back in man. Now men do not see nature to be beautiful, and they go
to make a statue which shall be. They abhor men as tasteless, dull, and inconvertible, and
console themselves with color-bags and blocks of marble. They reject life as prosaic, and create
a death which they call poetic. They despatch the day's weary chores, and fly to voluptuous
reveries. They eat and drink, that they may afterwards execute the ideal. Thus is art vilified;
the name conveys to the mind its secondary and bad senses; it stands in the imagination as
somewhat contrary to nature, and struck with death from the first. Would it not be better to
begin higher up,--to serve the ideal before they eat and drink; to serve the ideal in eating
and drinking, in drawing the breath, and in the functions of life? Beauty must come back to
the useful arts, and the distinction between the fine and the useful arts be forgotten. If
history were truly told, if life were nobly spent, it would be no longer easy or possible to
distinguish the one from the other. In nature, all is useful, all is beautiful. It is therefore
beautiful because it is alive, moving, reproductive; it is therefore useful because it is symmetrical
and fair. Beauty will not come at the call of a legislature, nor will it repeat in England
or America its history in Greece. It will come, as always, unannounced, and spring up between
the feet of brave and earnest men. It is in vain that we look for genius to reiterate its miracles
in the old arts; it is its instinct to find beauty and holiness in new and necessary facts,
in the field and road-side, in the shop and mill. Proceeding from a religious heart it will
raise to a divine use the railroad, the insurance office, the joint-stock company; our law,
our primary assemblies, our commerce, the galvanic battery, the electric jar, the prism, and
the chemist's retort; in which we seek now only an economical use. Is not the selfish and even
cruel aspect which belongs to our great mechanical works, to mills, railways, and machinery,
the effect of the mercenary impulses which these works obey? When its errands are noble and
adequate, a steamboat bridging the Atlantic between Old and New England and arriving at its
ports with the punctuality of a planet, is a step of man into harmony with nature. The boat
at St. Petersburg, which plies along the Lena by magnetism, needs little to make it sublime.
When science is learned in love, and its powers are wielded by love, they will appear the supplements
and continuations of the material creation.

