Probably the man braved Mrs. Stewart at Hillside Gate. When she lived she was the wife of the
Protestant clergyman. "Her ghost was never known to harm any one," say the village people;
"it is only doing a penance upon the earth." Not far from Hillside Gate, where she haunted,
appeared for a short time a much more remarkable spirit. Its haunt was the bogeen, a green
lane leading from the western end of the village. I quote its history at length: a typical
village tragedy. In a cottage at the village end of the bogeen lived a house-painter, Jim Montgomery,
and his wife. They had several children. He was a little dandy, and came of a higher class
than his neighbours. His wife was a very big woman. Her husband, who had been expelled from
the village choir for drink, gave her a beating one day. Her sister heard of it, and came and
took down one of the window shutters--Montgomery was neat about everything, and had shutters
on the outside of every window--and beat him with it, being big and strong like her sister.
He threatened to prosecute her; she answered that she would break every bone in his body if
he did. She never spoke to her sister again, because she had allowed herself to be beaten by
so small a man. Jim Montgomery grew worse and worse: his wife soon began to have not enough
to eat. She told no one, for she was very proud. Often, too, she would have no fire on a cold
night. If any neighbours came in she would say she had let the fire out because she was just
going to bed. The people about often heard her husband beating her, but she never told any
one. She got very thin. At last one Saturday there was no food in the house for herself and
the children. She could bear it no longer, and went to the priest and asked him for some money.
He gave her thirty shillings. Her husband met her, and took the money, and beat her. On the
following Monday she got very W, and sent for a Mrs. Kelly. Mrs. Kelly, as soon as she saw
her, said, "My woman, you are dying," and sent for the priest and the doctor. She died in an
hour. After her death, as Montgomery neglected the children, the landlord had them taken to
the workhouse. A few nights after they had gone, Mrs. Kelly was going home through the bogeen
when the ghost of Mrs. Montgomery appeared and followed her. It did not leave her until she
reached her own house. She told the priest, Father R, a noted antiquarian, and could not get
him to believe her. A few nights afterwards Mrs. Kelly again met the spirit in the same place.
She was in too great terror to go the whole way, but stopped at a neighbour's cottage midway,
and asked them to let her in. They answered they were going to bed. She cried out, "In the
name of God let me in, or I will break open the door." They opened, and so she escaped from
the ghost. Next day she told the priest again. This time he believed, and said it would follow
her until she spoke to it.

She met the spirit a third time in the bogeen. She asked what kept it from its rest. The spirit
said that its children must be taken from the workhouse, for none of its relations were ever
there before, and that three masses were to be said for the repose of its soul. "If my husband
does not believe you," she said, "show him that," and touched Mrs. Kelly's wrist with three
fingers. The places where they touched swelled up and blackened. She then vanished. For a time
Montgomery would not believe that his wife had appeared: "she would not show herself to Mrs.
Kelly," he said--"she with respectable people to appear to." He was convinced by the three
marks, and the children were taken from the workhouse. The priest said the masses, and the
shade must have been at rest, for it has not since appeared. Some time afterwards Jim Montgomery
died in the workhouse, having come to great poverty through drink.

