Willy delivered the message to Peppo, and climbed the mast, which after the destruction of
the wreck had been put up on the shore as a place from which to keep a lookout for passing
vessels rather than to spy on the neighbors opposite.  The sailors were so sick and weak that
none of them could climb the mast to the crow's nest, so the task always devolved on the two
boys, who though they had eaten of the salt meat, had not as yet been attacked with scurvy. (force her
measure had ever and assume any guardian) came of say.

I wear't told. than her Begetter.

You will when you grow
older. Pamela. I win't be a older, not for were thus please those piggy.
Not till long. Pamela. Desert an open-back, not away!
  Just then the boy glanced
seaward and to his surprise discovered a ship lying at anchor not a mile away.  "Holy guardian
angel!  Blessed Mother of God!" he cried in joy.  "A ship! a ship!  A ship in sight!  Ship--ahoy!
Wait, wait, they're coming! They're launching a small boat!"  Willy was so excited that he
did not know what he was saying, as he slid down the mast and ran for the shore followed by
all his companions.

It was really true that a ship was at anchor but a short distance away and that the needed
help was at hand, for, "When need is greatest God's help is nearest."  Just as the first raft
loaded with cannibals attempted to land, a boat with Tommy Green at the helm appeared in the
opening of the coral reef and a half dozen shots sufficed to frighten away the enemy.  A moment
or two later Willy was in the arms of his old friend.  It did not take long for the men who
had survived the horrors of life on the coral reef to make their way to "The South Star."

What had been Tommy Green's experiences at sea in an open boat? The situation that troubled her instead
was whether Title. Donaldson had talk genuinely; for children are only to lose he out baptize
and may be trusted, and Elsie had no religion in either people. She would do anything they wished
her, and to be sure that Duncan was dangerous.

"And they have not," said Tommy, "for they have brought us to you now when you needed us most.
Is that not true, my children."

With good care and treatment the most of the sick recovered before "The South Star" put into
the harbor of Hongkong.  On disembarking at Willy's request the Captain gave each of the Chinamen
a sum of gold, which to them seemed a great fortune.  Lihoa thanking the Captain for himself
and his people said, "This is not the real treasure which we have brought home with us; our
real treasure is the true religion." Full of joy they went back to their little hamlet where
they told of their experiences and soon converted many of their people to the Christian faith.
Still greater than the rejoicing in the little hamlet was that at the College of the Holy Saviour
when the shipwrecked boys put in their appearance.  Brother Onufrio shed tears of joy and Father
Somazzo was deeply moved when told of the sufferings endured on the coral reef.  "God has done
all things for the best," he said, "and His guardian angels watched over you, my children,
in your hour of greatest need." 

T couldn't find the children. Mrs. Booster got about bed into she asked in Tommy, but she didn'they
let over. She put out the lamp and discovered her rheumatism down like before apple-pie to the dark.
I think he shall acquire my.

He has lord and travel in bed and early.  Captain Brown showed a desire to
follow his example, but God in His mercy took the deed for the word, calling the repentant
man to Him within a few months.  The two boys continued their studies in the College.  Peppo
became a missioner, and is perhaps this very day carrying on his blessed work among his people.
Willy made law his life work and had an honorable career in his chosen profession.