We were now at the end of our walk. As I set foot on the steps of the chateau, I was suddenly
filled with a feeling of devoutness; I clasped my hands and called upon Heaven in a sort of
terror. A vague, indefinable fear arose in me; I imagined all manner of things that might hinder
my happiness. I hesitated to cross the threshold of the house; then I rushed forward. A mist
came over my eyes, a buzzing filled my ears. I met Saint-Jean, who, not recognising me, gave
a loud cry and threw himself in my path to prevent me from entering without being announced.
I pushed him aside, and he sank down astounded on one of the hall chairs while I hastened to
the door of the drawing-room. But, just as I was about to throw it open, I was seized with
a new fear and checked myself; then I opened it so timidly that Edmee, who was occupied at
some embroidery on a frame, did not raise her eyes, thinking that in this slight noise she
recognised the respectful Saint-Jean. The chevalier was asleep and did not wake. This old man,
tall and thin like all the Mauprats, was sitting with his head sunk on his breast; and his
pale, wrinkled face, which seemed already wrapped in the torpor of the grave, resembled one
of those angular heads in carved oak which adorned the back of his big arm-chair. His feet
were stretched out in front of a fire of dried vine-branches, although the sun was warm and
a bright ray was falling on his white head and making it shine like silver. And how could I
describe to you my feelings on beholding Edmee? She was bending over her tapestry and glancing
from time to time at her father to notice his slightest movements. But what patience and resignation
were revealed in her whole attitude! Edmee was not fond of needlework; her mind was too vigorous
to attach much importance to the effect of one shade by the side of another shade, and to the
regularity of one stitch laid against another stitch. Besides, the blood flowed swiftly in
her veins, and when her mind was not absorbed in intellectual work she needed exercise in the
open air. But ever since her father, a prey to the infirmities of old age, had been almost
unable to leave his arm-chair, she had refused to leave him for a single moment; and, since
she could not always be reading and working her mind, she had felt the necessity of taking
up some of those feminine occupations which, as she said, "are the amusements of captivity."
She had conquered her nature then in truly heroic fashion. In one of those secret struggles
which often take place under our eyes without our suspecting the issue involved, she had done
more than subdue her nature, she had even changed the circulation of her blood. I found her
thinner; and her complexion had lost that first freshness of youth which, like the bloom that
the breath of morning spreads over fruit, disappears at the slightest shock from without, although
it may have been respected by the heat of the sun. Yet in this premature paleness and in this
somewhat unhealthy thinness there seemed to be an indefinable charm; her eyes, more sunken,
but inscrutable as ever, showed less pride and more melancholy than of old; her mouth had become
more mobile, and her smile was more delicate and less contemptuous. When she spoke to me, I
seemed to behold two persons in her, the old and the new; and I found that, so far from having
lost her beauty, she had attained ideal perfection. Still, I remember several persons at that
time used to declare that she had "changed very much," which with them meant that she had greatly
deteriorated. Beauty, however, is like a temple in which the profane see naught but the external
magnificence. The divine mystery of the artist's thought reveals itself only to profound sympathy,
and the inspiration in each detail of the sublime work remains unseen by the eyes of the vulgar.
One of your modern authors, I fancy, has said this in other words and much better. As for myself,
at no moment in her life did I find Edmee less beautiful than at any other. Even in the hours
of suffering, when beauty in its material sense seems obliterated, hers but assumed a divine
form in my eyes, and in her face I beheld the splendour of a new moral beauty. However, I am
but indifferently endowed with artistic feeling, and had I been a painter, I could not have
created more than a single type, that which filled my whole soul; for in the course of my long
life only one woman has seemed to me really beautiful; and that woman was Edmee.

For a few seconds I stood looking at her, so touchingly pale, sad yet calm, a living image
of filial piety, of power in thrall to affection. Then I rushed forward and fell at her feet
without being able to say a word. She uttered no cry, no exclamation of surprise, but took
my head in her two arms and held it for some time pressed to her bosom. In this strong pressure,
in this silent joy I recognised the blood of my race, I felt the touch of a sister. The good
chevalier, who had waked with a start, stared at us in astonishment, his body bent forward
and his elbow resting on his knee; then he said:

"Well, well! What is the meaning of this?"

He could not see my face, hidden as it was in Edmee's breast. She pushed me towards him; and
the old man clasped me in his feeble arms with a burst of generous affection that gave him
back for a moment the vigour of youth.

I leave you to imagine the questions with which I was overwhelmed, and the attentions that
were lavished on me. Edmee was a veritable mother to me. Her unaffected kindness and confidence
savoured so much of heaven that throughout the day I could not think of her otherwise than
if I had really been her son.

I was very much touched at the pleasure they took in preparing a big surprise for the abbe;
I saw in this a sure proof of the delight he would feel at my return. They made me hide under
Edmee's frame, and covered me with the large green cloth that was generally thrown over her
work. The abbe sat down quite close to me, and I gave a shout and seized him by the legs. This
was a little practical joke that I used to play on him in the old days. When, throwing aside
the frame, and sending the balls of wool rolling over the floor, I came out from my hiding-place,
the expression of terror and delight on his face was most quaint.

But I will spare you all these family scenes to which my memory goes back too readily.

XVII

An immense change had taken place in me during the course of six years. I had become a man
very much like other men; my instincts had managed to bring themselves into harmony with my
affections, my intuitions with my reason. This social education had been carried on quite naturally;
all I had to do was to accept the lessons of experience and the counsels of friendship. I was
far from being a learned man; but I had developed a power of acquiring solid learning very
rapidly. My notions of things in general were as clear as could be obtained at that time. Since
then I know that real progress has been made in human knowledge; I have watched it from afar
and have never thought of denying it. And as I notice that not all men of my age show themselves
as reasonable, it pleases me to think that I was put on a fairly right road early in life,
since I have never stopped in the blind alley of errors and prejudices.

The progress I had made intellectually seemed to satisfy Edmee.

"I am not astonished at it," she said. "I could see it in your letters; but I rejoice at it
with a mother's pride."

My good uncle was no longer strong enough to engage in the old stormy discussions; and I really
think that if he had retained his strength he would have been somewhat grieved to find that
I was no longer the indefatigable opponent who had formerly irritated him so persistently.
He even made a few attempts at contradiction to test me; but at this time I should have considered
it a crime to have gratified him. He showed a little temper at this, and seemed to think that
I treated him too much as an old man. To console him I turned the conversation to the history
of the past, to the years through which he himself had lived, and questioned him on many points
wherein his experience served him better than my knowledge. In this way I obtained many healthy
notions for the guidance of my own conduct, and at the same time I fully satisfied his legitimate
amour propre. He now conceived a friendship for me from genuine sympathy, just as formerly
he had adopted me from natural generosity and family pride. He did not disguise from me that
his great desire, before falling into the sleep that knows no waking, was to see me married
to Edmee; and when I told him that this was the one thought of my life, the one wish of my
soul, he said:

"I know, I know. Everything depends on her, and I think she can no longer have any reasons
for hesitation. . . . At all events," he added, after a moment's silence and with a touch of
peevishness, "I cannot see any that she could allege at present."

From these words, the first he had ever uttered on the subject which most interested me, I
concluded that he himself had long been favourable to my suit, and that the obstacle, if one
still existed, lay with Edmee. My uncle's last remark implied a doubt which I dared not try
to clear up, and which caused me great uneasiness. Edmee's sensitive pride inspired me with
such awe, her unspeakable goodness filled me with such respect that I dared not ask her point-blank
to decide my fate. I made up my mind to act as if I entertained no other hope than that she
would always let me be her brother and friend.

An event which long remained inexplicable afforded some distraction to my thoughts for a few
days. At first I had refused to go and take possession of Roche-Mauprat.

"You really must," my uncle had said, "go and see the improvements I have made in your property,
the lands which have been brought under cultivation, the cattle that I have put on each of
your metayer-farms. Now is the time for you to see how your affairs stand, and show your tenants
that you take an interest in their work. Otherwise, on my death, everything will go from bad
to worse and you will be obliged to let it, which may bring you in a larger income, perhaps,
but will diminish the value of the property. I am too old now to go and manage your estate.
For the last two years I have been unable to leave off this miserable dressing-gown; the abbe
does not understand anything about it; Edmee has an excellent head; but she cannot bring herself
to go to that place; she says she would be too much afraid, which is mere childishness."

"I know that I ought to display more courage," I replied; "and yet, uncle, what you are asking
me to do is for me the most difficult thing in the world. I have not set foot on that accursed
soil since the day I left it, bearing Edmee away from her captors. It is as if you were driving
me out of heaven to send me on a visit to hell."

The chevalier shrugged his shoulders; the abbe implored me to bring myself to do as he wished,
as the reluctance I showed was a veritable disappointment to my uncle. I consented, and with
a determination to conquer myself, I took leave of Edmee for two days. The abbe wanted to accompany
me, to drive away the gloomy thoughts which would no doubt besiege me; but I had scruples about
taking him from Edmee even for this short time; I knew how necessary he was to her. Tied as
she was to the chevalier's arm-chair, her life was so serious, so retired, that the least change
was acutely felt. Each year had increased her isolation, and it had become almost complete
since the chevalier's failing health had driven from his table those happy children of wine,
songs, and witticisms. He had been a great sportsman; and Saint Hubert's Day, which fell on
his birthday, had formerly brought all the nobility of the province to his house. Year after
year the courtyards had resounded with the howls of the pack; year after year the stables had
held their two long rows of spirited horses in their glistening stalls; year after year the
sound of the horn had echoed through the great woods around, or sent out its blast under the
windows of the big hall at each toast of the brilliant company. But those glorious days had
long disappeared; the chevalier had given up hunting; and the hope of obtaining his daughter's
hand no longer brought round his arm-chair young men, who were bored by his old age, his attacks
of gout, and the stories which he would repeat in the evening without remembering that he had
already told them in the morning. Edmee's obstinate refusals and the dismissal of M. de la
Marche had caused great astonishment, and given rise to many conjectures among the curious.
One young man who was in love with her, and had been rejected like the rest, was impelled by
a stupid and cowardly conceit to avenge himself on the only woman of his own class who, according
to him, had dared to repulse him. Having discovered that Edmee had been carried off by the
Hamstringers, he spread a report that she had spent a night of wild debauch at Roche-Mauprat.
At best, he only deigned to concede that she had yielded only to violence. Edmee commanded
too much respect and esteem to be accused of having shown complaisance to the brigands; but
she soon passed for having been a victim of their brutality. Marked with an indelible stain,
she was no longer sought in marriage by any one. My absence only served to confirm this opinion.
I had saved her from death, it was said, but not from shame, and it was impossible for me to
make her my wife; I was in love with her, and had fled lest I should yield to the temptation
to marry her. All this seemed so probable that it would have been difficult to make the public
accept the true version. They were the less ready to accept it from the fact that Edmee had
been unwilling to put an end to the evil reports by giving her hand to a man she could not
love. Such, then, were the causes of her isolation; it was not until later that I fully understood
them. But I could see the austerity of the chevalier's home and Edmee's melancholy calm, and
I was afraid to drop even a dry leaf in the sleeping waters. Thus I begged the abbe to remain
with them until my return. I took no one with me except my faithful sergeant Marcasse. Edmee
had declared that he must not leave me, and had arranged that henceforth he was to share Patience's
elegant hut and administrative life.

I arrived at Roche-Mauprat one foggy evening in the early days of autumn; the sun was hidden,
and all Nature was wrapped in silence and mist. The plains were deserted; the air alone seemed
alive with the noise of great flocks of birds of passage; cranes were drawing their gigantic
triangles across the sky, and storks at an immeasurable height were filling the clouds with
mournful cries, which fell upon the saddened country like the dirge of parting summer. For
the first time in the year I felt a chilliness in the air. I think that all men are filled
with an involuntary sadness at the approach of the inclement season. In the first hoar-frosts
there is something which bids man remember the approaching dissolution of his own being.

