There exist true heroes, not those who are now being fêted because, having wished to kill others,
they were not killed themselves, but true heroes, who are now confined in prisons and in the
province of Yakoutsk for having categorically refused to enter the ranks of murderers, and
who have preferred martyrdom to this departure from the law of Jesus. There are also such as
he who writes to me, who go, but who will not kill. But also that majority which goes without
thinking, and endeavors not to think of what it is doing, still in the depth of its soul does
now already feel that it is doing an evil deed by obeying authorities who tear men from labor
and from their families and send them to needless slaughter of men, repugnant to their soul
and their faith; and they go only because they are so entangled on all sides that--"Where can
one escape?"

Meanwhile those who remain at home not only feel this, but know and express it. Yesterday in
the high road I met some peasants returning from Toula. One of them was reading a leaflet as
he walked by the side of his cart.

I asked, "What is that--a telegram?"

"This is yesterday's,--but here is one of to-day." He took another out of his pocket. We stopped.
I read it.

"You should have seen what took place yesterday at the station," he said; "it was dreadful.
Wives, children, more than a thousand of them, weeping. They surrounded the train, but were
allowed no further. Strangers wept, looking on. One woman from Toula gasped and fell down dead.
Five children. They have since been placed in various institutions; but the father was driven
away all the same.... What do we want with this Manchuria, or whatever it is called? There
is sufficient land here. And what a lot of people and of property has been destroyed."

Yes, the relation of men to war is now quite different from that which formerly existed, even
so lately as the year '77. That which is now taking place never took place before.

The papers set forth that, during the receptions of the Tsar, who is travelling about Russia
for the purpose of hypnotizing the men who are being sent to murder, indescribable enthusiasm
is manifested amongst the people. As a matter of fact, something quite different is being manifested.
From all sides one hears reports that in one place three Reservists have hanged themselves;
in another spot, two more; in yet another, about a woman whose husband had been taken away
bringing her children to the conscription committee-room and leaving them there; while another
hanged herself in the yard of the military commander. All are dissatisfied, gloomy, exasperated.
The words, "For the Faith, the King, and the Fatherland," the National Anthem, and shouts of
"Hurrah" no longer act upon people as they once did. Another warfare of a different kind--the
struggling consciousness of the deceit and sinfulness of the work to which people are being
called--is more and more taking possession of the people.

Yes, the great strife of our time is not that now taking place between the Japanese and the
Russians, nor that which may blaze up between the white and yellow races, not that strife which
is carried on by mines, bombs, bullets, but that spiritual strife which without ceasing has
gone on and is now going on between the enlightened consciousness of mankind now waiting for
manifestation and that darkness and that burden which surrounds and oppresses mankind.

In His own time Jesus yearned in expectation, and said, "I came to cast fire upon the earth,
and how I wish that it were already kindled." Luke xii. 49.

That which Jesus longed for is being accomplished, the fire is being kindled. Then do not let
us check it, but let us spread and serve it.

13 May, 1904.

I should never finish this paper if I were to continue to add to it all that corroborates its
essential idea. Yesterday the news came in of the sinking of the Japanese ironclads; and in
the so-called higher circles of Russian fashionable, rich, intellectual society they are, without
the slightest conscientious scruples, rejoicing at the destruction of a thousand human lives.
Yet to-day I have received from a simple seaman, a man standing on the lowest plane of society,
the following letter:[3]

"Much respected Lyof Nikolaevitch, I greet you with a low bow, with love, much respected Lyof
Nikolaevitch. I have read your book. It was very pleasant reading for me. I have been a great
lover of reading your works. Well, Lyof Nikolaevitch, we are now in a state of war, please
write to me whether it is agreeable to God or not that our commanders compel us to kill. I
beg you, Lyof Nikolaevitch, write to me please whether or not the truth now exists on earth.
Tell me, Lyof Nikolaevitch. In church here a prayer is being read, the priest mentions the
Christ-loving army. Is it true or not that God loves war? I pray you, Lyof Nikolaevitch, have
you got any books from which I could see whether truth exists on earth or not? Send me such
books. What they cost, I will pay. I beg you, Lyof Nikolaevitch, do not neglect my request.
If there are no books then send me a letter. I will be very glad when I receive a letter from
you. I will await your letter with impatience. Good-by for the present. I remain alive and
well and wish the same to you from the Lord God. Good health and good success in your work."

  [3] The letter is written in a most illiterate way, filled with
      mistakes in orthography and punctuation.
                                                              (Trans.)