

     OFFICE OF "ALL THE YEAR ROUND."

     A WEEKLY JOURNAL CONDUCTED BY CHARLES DICKENS.

                     NO. 26 WELLINGTON STREET, STRAND, LONDON, W. C.
                                                 January 27, 1863.

 Mr. Charles Dickens begs to thank the writer of the paper entitled
 "A Battle Sunday" for having done him the favor to offer it as a
 contribution to these pages. He much regrets, however, that it is
 not suited to the requirements of "All the Year Round."

 The manuscript will be returned, under cover, if applied for as
 above.

The prices of miscellaneous articles in London are remunerative. Twenty-four shillings a magazine
page is the common valuation: but specially interesting papers rate higher. Literature as a
profession, in England, is more certain and more progressive than with us. It is not debased
with the heavy leaven of journalism. Among the many serial publications of London, ability,
tact, and industry should always find a liberal market. There is less of the vagrancy of letters,--Bohemianism,
Mohicanism, or what not,--in London than in either New York or Paris.

I think we have the cleverer fugitive writers in America, but those of England seemed to me
to have more self-respect and conscientiousness. The soul of the scribe need never be in pledge
if there are many masters.

While a good writer in any department can find work across the water, I would advise no one
to go abroad with this assurance solely. My success--if so that can be called which yielded
me life, not profit--was circumstantial, and cannot be repeated. I should be loth to try it
again upon purely literary merits.

After nine months of experiment I bade the insular metropolis adieu, and returned no more.
The Continent was close and beckoning; I heard the confusion of her tongues, and saw the shafts
of her Gothic Babels probing the clouds, and for another year I roamed among her cities, as
ardent and errant as when I went afield on my pony to win the spurs of a War Correspondent.

CHAPTER XXVII.

SPURS IN THE PICTURE GALLERIES.

Florence, city of my delight! how do I thrill at the recollection of the asylum afforded me
by thee in the Via Parione. The room was tiled, and cool, and high, and its single window looked
out upon a real palace, where the family of Corsini, presided over by a porter in cocked hat
and an exuberance of gold lace, gave me frequent glimpses of gauze dresses and glorious eyes,
whose owners sometimes came to the casement to watch the poor little foreigner, writing so
industriously.

Every young traveller has two or three subjects of unrest. Mine were girls and art. The copyists
in the galleries were more beautiful studies to me than the paintings. The next time I go to
Europe, I shall take enough money along to give all the pretty ones an order; this will be
an introduction, and I shall know how they live, and how much money they make, and what passions
have heaved their beautiful bosoms, to make their slow, quiet lives forever haunted and longing.

Love, love! There are only two grand, unsatiated passions, which keep us forever in freshness
and fever,--love and art.

In Italy I breathed the purest atmosphere; all the world was a landscape picture; all the skies
were spilling blueness and crimson upon the mountains; all the faces were Madonnas; all the
perspectives were storied architecture. Westward the star of Empire takes its way, but that
of art shines steadily in the East. Thither look our American young men, no matter at which
of its altars they make their devotions,--painting, sculpture, or architecture. And I, who
had known some fondness for the pencil till lured into the wider, wilder field of letters,
felt almost an artist's joy when I stood in the presence of those solemn masters whose works
are inspired and imperishable, like religion.

Having passed the first thrill and disappointment,--for pure art speaks only to the pure by
intuition or initiation, and I was yet a novice,--my old newspaper curiosity revived to learn
of the successful living rather than of the grand dead.

Correspondents, like poets, are born, not made: the venerable associations around me--monuments,
cloisters, palaces, the homes and graves of great men whom I revered, the aisles where every
canvas bore a spell name--could not wean me from that old, reportorial habit of asking questions,
peeping into private nooks, and making notes upon contemporary things, just as I had done for
three years, in cities, on routes, on battle-fields. And as the old world seemed to me only
a great art museum, I longed to look behind the tapestry at the Ghobelin weavers, pulling the
beautiful threads.

"Where dwell these gay and happy students, who quit our hard, bright skies, and land of angularities,
to inhale the dews of these sedative mosses, and, by attrition with masterpieces, glean something
of the spirit of the masters?"

Straightway the faery realm opened to me, and two months of Italian rambling were spent in
association with the folk I esteemed only less than my own exemplars.

Art, in all ages, is the flowery way. No pursuit gives so great joy in the achieving, none
achieved yields higher meed of competence, contentment, and repute. Its ambition is more genial
and subdued than that of literature, its rivalry more courteous and exalting; its daily life
should be pastoral and domestic, free from those feverish mutations and adventures which cross
the incipient author, and it is forever surrounded by bright and beautiful objects which linger
too long upon the eye to stir the mind to more than emulation.

Is it harsh to say that artists have been too well rewarded, and thinkers and writers too ill?
Vasari dines at the ducal table, while Galileo's pension is the rack; the mob which carries
Cimabue's canvas in triumph, drives Dante into exile; Rubens is a king's ambassador, and Grotius
is sent to jail; to Reynolds's levees, poor, bankrupt Goldsmith steals like an unwelcome guest,
and Apelles's gold is paid to him in measures, while Homer, singing immortal lines, goes blind
and begging.

Art students take rank in Italy among the best of travellers, but Bohemianism in art is at
one's peril. There are many wasted lives among the clever fellows who go abroad ostensibly
for study. I recall Jimman, who was an expert with the pencil, and who colored with excellent
discrimination. He went to Dusseldorf at first, and became known to Leutze, who praised his
sketches. He began to associate at once with students and tipplers, and dissipated less by
drinking than by talking. I have a theory that more men are lost to themselves and the age
by a love of "gabbing" than by drinking. It is not hard to eschew cognac and claret, but there
is no cure for "buzzing." There is a drunkenness of talk which takes possession of one, and
Jimman would have had the delirium tremens in a week, with nobody to listen to him. To my mind
the Trappiste takes the severest of monastic vows.

Jimman used to rise in the morning betimes, full of inflexible resolution. Having stretched
his canvas, and carefully prepared his pigments, he went to breakfast, pondering great achievements.
Here he fell in with a lot of Germans,--the most incurable race of gossipers in the world,--and
while they discussed, in a learned way, every subject under the sun, the meal extended into
the afternoon, and Jimman concluded that it was then too late to undertake anything. In this
way his ambition burnt away, his money was squandered, he lost facility of manipulation, and
came back to Paris at the age of twenty-eight, to pursue the same listless, garrulous existence;
debts and grisettes, buzzing and brandy, the utterance of resolves which expired in the utterance,
and Jimman finally became, perforce, a common apprentice to a moulder, that he might not entirely
starve.

I saw him, for the last time, in the Louvre, looking at Zurbaran's "Kneeling Monk."

"Ah, Townsend," he said, "I might have done something like that. All my zeal is gone."

And he began to chat in the same loose, familiar way. Dumbness and deafness would have been
endowments rather than deprivations for him.

I had rooms in Florence with Gypsum and Stagg. The former was a young, industrious fellow,
of German descent, who worked hard, but not wisely. He spent half a year in copying a face
by Paul Veronese, and the other half in sketching an old convent yard. But he did not visit,
and an artist, to get orders and take rank, must be seen as well as be earnest. He need not
be hail-fellow, but should keep well in the circle of respectable travellers; for these are
to be his patrons, if he pleases them. Gypsum was over-modest and too conscientious; he had
only a trifle of money, and was careless of his attire. So he disregarded society, and society
forgot him. Therefore, at dawn, he betook himself to the old convent-yard, and stood at his
easel bravely, never so unhappy as when one of the church's innumerable holy days arrived,
for then he was forbidden to work upon the convent premises. With all his conscientiousness
he received no orders; while Stagg, who was not more clever, proportioned to his longer experience,
was befriended on every hand, because he went to the American chapel regularly and wore a dress-coat
at the sociables.

Stagg used the old studio of Buchanan Read, just off the Via Seragli.

I stumbled upon him one morning, and saw more than I anticipated.

A young, plump girl, without so much as a fig-leaf upon her, was posing before his easel, so
motionless that she scarcely winked, one hand extended and clasping her loosened tresses, and
bending upon one white and dimpled knee.

She had the large dark eyes of the professional modello, and a bosom as ripe as Titian's Venus.
Her feet were small, and her hands very white and beautiful. But of me she took no more notice
than if I had been a bird alighting upon the window, or a mouse peeping at her from the edge
of his knot-hole.

Old Stagg, who was commonly grave as a clergyman, now and then left his easel to alter her
position, and when he was done, she gathered up her clothes, which had lain in a heap on the
floor, and took her few silver pieces with a "Mille grazie, Signore!" and went home to take
dinner with her little brothers.

A studio in Florence costs only fifteen or twenty francs a month,--seldom so much. There are
a series of excellent ones in the same Via Seragli, in a very large dismantled convent. There
is a well in the centre of its great courtyard, and innumerable ropes lead from it to the various
high windows of the building, on which buckets of water are forever ascending. All this of
which I speak refers to a year ago, when Florence was not a capital; doubtless, studios command
more at present.

The models at Florence were to me strange personages. There was a drawing-school which I sometimes
attended, where one old woman kept three daughters, aged respectively twenty, seventeen, and
thirteen years. They lived pretty much as they were born, and while they posed upon a high
platform, the old woman took her seat near the door and looked on with grim satisfaction. She
was very careful of their moral habits, but the second one she lost by an excess of greed.
She resolved to make them useful by day, as well as by night, and put them to work at the studios
of individual artists. But as no one artist wanted three models, the girls had to separate,
and, out of the mother's vigilance, the second one, Orsolo, went to the atelier of a wicked
and handsome fellow, and met with the usual romance of her class.

The oldest girl, Luigia, married a man-model, and their nuptials must have been of a most prosaic
character.

Among the many men who thus stood for the artists, was one old fellow, tall, and bearded, and
massively characterized, who used to remain motionless for hours; until he seemed to be dead.
He had been a model in every stage of life, from childhood to the grave, and represented every
subject from Garibaldi to Moses.

The walks in and around Florence occupied all my Sabbaths. Stagg and I used to stroll up to
Fiesole, by the villa where Boccaccio's party of story-tellers met, and look up old pictures
in the village church; we measured the proportions of the chapel on the hill of Saint Miniato,
and he endeavored in vain to imitate the hue of the light as it fell through the veined marble
of Serravezza; we spent contemplative afternoons in the house of Michael Angelo, and went up
to Vallambrosa, at the risk of our necks, to look at a Giotto no bigger than a tea-plate. In
Florence there is enough out-of-door statuary to make one of the finest galleries in the world.
The majesty of Donatello's "Saint George" arises before me when I would conceive of any noble
humanity, and the sweep of Orgagna's great arches give me an idea of vastness like the sea;
in the Pitti palace only giants should abide; the Campanile goes up to heaven as beautiful
as Jacob's ladder, and in the perpetual twilight of the Duomo I was not of half the stature
I believed when roaming under the loftier sky.

I saw a jail in Florence, and it troubled me; who in that beautiful city could do a crime?
How should old age, or bad passions, or sickness, or shame, exist in that limpid atmosphere,
in the shadow of such architecture, in the presence of those pictures?

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A CORRESPONDENT ONCE MORE.

Again on the way to Washington! I have made the trip more than sixty times. I saw the Gunpowder
Bridge in flames when Baltimore was in arms and the Capital cut off from the North. I saw from
Perryville the State flag of Maryland waving at Havre de Grace across the Susquehanna. I saw
at the Washington Navy Yard the blackened body of Ellsworth, manipulated by the surgeons. I
moved through the city with McClellan's onward army toward the transports which were to carry
it to the Peninsula. The awful tidings of the seven days' retreat came first through the Capital
in my haversack, and before Stonewall Jackson fell upon the flank of Pope, I crossed the Long
Bridge with the story of the disaster of Cedar Mountain. In like manner the crowning glory
of Five Forks made me its earliest emissary, and the murder of the President brought me hot
from Richmond to participate in the pursuit of Booth and chronicle his midnight expiation.

Again am I on the way to the city of centralization, to paint by electricity the closing scenes
of the conspirators, and, as I pass the Pennsylvania line, the recollection of those frequent
pilgrimages--pray God this be the last!--comes upon me like the sequences of delirium.

As I look abroad upon the thrifty fields and the rich glebe of the ploughman, I wonder if the
revolutions of peace are not as sweeping and sudden as those of war. He who wrote the certain
downfall of this Nation, did not keep his eye upon the steadily ascending dome of the capitol,
nor remark, during the thunders of Gettysburg, the as energetic stroke of the pile-drivers
upon the piers of the great Susquehanna bridge. We built while we desolated. No fatalist convert
to Mohammed had so sure faith in the eternity of his institutions. More masonry has been laid
along the border during the war than in any five previous years. We have finished the Treasury,
raised the bronze gates on the Capitol, double-railed all the roads between New York and the
Potomac, and gone on as if architecture were imperishable, while thrice the Rebels swept down
toward the Relay.

And we have done one strategic thing, which, I think, will compare with the passing of Vicksburg
or the raid of Sherman; we have turned Philadelphia.

This modern Pompeii used to be the stumbling-block on the great highway. It was to the direct
Washington route what Hell-gate was to the Sound Channel. We were forbidden the right of way
through it, on the ground that by retarding travel Philadelphia would gain trade, and had to
cross the Delaware on a scow, or lay up in some inn over night. New Jerseymen, I hear, pray
every morning for their daily stranger; Philadelphia has much sinned to entrap its daily customer.
But Maillefert--by which name I designate the inevitable sledge which spares the grand and
pulverizes the little--has built a road around the Quaker City. It is a very curious road,
going by two hypothenuses of about fifteen miles to make a base of three or four, so that we
lose an hour on the way to the Capital, all because of Philadelphia's overnight toil.

The bridge at Perryville will be one of the staunchest upon our continent: the forts around
Baltimore make the outlying landscapes scarcely recognizable to the returning Maryland Rebels.
At last,--woe be the necessity! we have garrisoned our cities. The Relay House is the most
picturesque spot between the two foci of the country. Wandering through the woods, I see the
dirty blouses of the remnant of "the boys" and the old abatis on the height looks sunburnt
and rusty; away through the gorge thunders the Baltimore and Ohio train, over what ruins and
resurrections, torn up a hundred times, and as obstinately relaid, until all its engineers
are veteran officers, and can stand fire both of the furnace and the musket. Everybody in the
country is a veteran; the contractor, who ran his schooner of fodder past the Rebel batteries;
the correspondent, whose lean horse slipped through the crevices of dropping shells; the teamster,
who whipped his mule out of the mud-hole, while his ammunition wagon behind grew hot with the
heaviness of battle; the old farmer, who took to his cellar while the fight raged in his chimneys,
but ventured out between the bayonet charges to secure his fatted calf.

Annapolis Junction has still the sterile guise of the campaign, where the hills are bare around
the hospitals, and the railway taverns are whittled to skeletons. I have really seen whole
houses, little more than shells, reduced to meagreness by the pocket-knife. The name of almost
everybody on the continent is cut somewhere in the South; Virginia has more than enough names
carved over her fireside altars to inscribe upon all her multitudinous graves.

There are close to the city fine bits of landscape, where the fields dip gracefully into fertile
basins, and rise in swells of tilled fields and orchard to some knoll, enthroning a porticoed
home. Two years ago all these fields were quagmires, where stranded wheels and the carcasses
of hybrids, looked as if a mud-geyser had opened near by. The grass has spread its covering,
as the birds spread their leaves over the poor babes in the wood, and we walk we know not where,
nor over what struggles, and shadows, and sorrows.

