On the 22nd of June. We invite and desire that the nobility, archbishops, bishops, abbeys,
convents, seignories, magistrates, and inhabitants of the republic of Poland, on the road to
Posnania, and beyond it, would repair in person or by deputies, in the course of this week,
or as soon after as possible, to the Prussian head-quarters, there to treat with the commander-in-chief,
or the commissary at war, for the delivery of forage and provisions for the subsistence of
the army, to be paid for with ready money.

We promise and assure ourselves that no person in Poland will attempt to seduce the Prussian
troops to desert; that no assistance will be given them in such perfidious practices; that
they will neither be sheltered, concealed, nor lodged; which would be followed by very disagreeable
consequences: we expect, on the contrary, that persons of all ranks and conditions will stop
any runaway or deserter, and deliver him up at the first advanced post, or at the head-quarters;
and all expenses attending the same shall be paid, and a reasonable gratification superadded.

If any one hath inclination to enter into the king of Prussia's service, with an intention
to behave well and faithfully, he may apply to the head-quarters, and be assured of a capitulation
for three or four years.

If any prince or member of the republic of Poland be disposed to assemble a body of men, and
to join in a troop or in a company of the Prussian army, to make a common cause with it, he
may depend on a gracious reception, and that due regard will be shown to his merit, &c.]

[Footnote 526: Note 4 E, p. 526. The obstinacy of the powers in opposition to Great Britain
and Prussia appeared still more remarkable in their slighting the following declaration, which
duke Louis of Brunswick delivered to their ministers at the Hague, in the month of December,
after Quebec was reduced, and the fleet of France totally defeated:

"Their Britannic and Prussian majesties, moved with compassion at the mischief which the war
that has been kindled for some years has already occasioned, and must necessarily produce,
would think themselves wanting to the duties of humanity, and particularly to their tender
concern for the preservation and well-being of their respective kingdoms and subjects, if they
neglected the proper means to put a stop to the progress of so severe a calamity, and to contribute
to the re-establishment of public tranquillity. In this view, and in order to manifest the
purity of their intentions in this respect, their said majesties have determined to make the
following declaration, viz.--

"That they are ready to send plenipotentiaries to the place which, shall be thought most proper,
in order there to treat, conjointly, of a solid and general peace with those whom the belligerent
parties should think fit to authorize, on their part, for the attaining so salutary an end."]

[Footnote 529: Note 4 F, p. 529. Abstract of the report made to his Catholic majesty by the
physicians appointed to examine the prince royal, his eldest son, in consequence of which his
royal highness was declared incapable of succeeding to the throne of Spain. Translated from
the original, published at Naples, Sept. 27.

1. Though his royal highness don Philip is thirteen years old, he is of low stature; and yet
the king his father, and the queen his mother, are both of a very proper height.

2. His royal highness has some contraction in his joints; though he can readily move, and make
use of them upon all occasions.

3. His royal highness is apt to stoop and to hold down his head as people of weak eyes often do.

4. The prince most evidently squints: and his eyes frequently water and are gummy, particularly
his left eye: though we cannot say he is blind, but are rather certain of the contrary, as
his royal highness can without doubt distinguish objects, both as to their colour and situation.

5. In his natural functions, and the most common sensations, he is sometimes indifferent to
things that are convenient for him, and at other times is too warm and impetuous. In general,
his passions are not restrained by reason.

6. The prince has an obstinate aversion to some kind of common food, such as fruits, sweetmeats,
&c.

7. All sorts of noise or sound disturb and disconcert him; and it has the same effect whether
it be soft and harmonious, or harsh and disagreeable.

8. The impressions that he receives from pain or pleasure are neither strong nor lasting; and
he is utterly unacquainted with all the punctilios of politeness and good-breeding.

9. As to facts and places, he sometimes remembers them, and sometimes not; but he seems not
to have the least idea of the mysteries of our holy religion.

10. He delights in childish amusements; and those which are the most boisterous please him
best. He is continually changing them, and shifting from one thing to another.

Signed by Don Francis Beniore, chief physician to the king and kingdom; Don Emmanuel de la
Rosa, physician to the queen; and the physicians Cæsar Ciribue, Don Thomas Pinto, Don Francis
Sarrao, and Don Dominique San Severino.]

[Footnote 535: Note 4 G, p. 535. For removing the grievance complained of in the above petition,
it is enacted, that where treasurers shall reimburse to overseers any money in pursuance of
this act, on account of the weekly allowance to the family of any militia-man serving in the
militia of any county or place other than that wherein such family shall dwell, they are to
transmit an account thereof, signed by some justice for the place where such family shall dwell,
to the treasurer of the county, &c. in the militia whereof such militia-man shall serve, who
is thereupon to pay him the sum so reimbursed to such overseers, and the same to be allowed
in his accounts.]

[Footnote 536: Note 4 H, p. 536. The openings to be made, and the passages to be improved and
enlarged, were ascertained by two schedules annexed to the act. With respect to the houses,
buildings, and grounds to be purchased, the mayor, aldermen, and commons of the city, in common
council assembled, or a committee appointed by them, were empowered to fix the price by agreement,
with the respective proprietors, or otherwise by a jury in the usual manner. With regard to
party-walls, the act ordains, that the proprietor of either adjoining house may compel the
proprietor of the other to agree to its being pulled down and rebuilt, and pay a moiety of
the expense even though it should not be necessary to pull down or rebuild either of their
houses: that all party-walls shall be at least two bricks and a half in thickness in the cellar,
and two bricks thick upwards to the top of the garret-floor. It enacts, that if any decayed
house belongs to several proprietors, any one of them, who is desirous to rebuild, may oblige
the others to concur, and join with him in the expense, or purchase their shares at a price
to be fixed by a jury. If any house should hereafter be presented by any inquest or grand jury
in London, as being in a ruinous condition, the court of mayor and aldermen is, by this act,
empowered to pull it down at the expense of the ground landlords. As to damaged pavements,
not sufficiently repaired by the proprietors of the water-works, any justice of the peace in
London is vested with power, upon their refusing or delaying to make it good, to cause it to
be effectually relaid with good materials at their expense.]

[Footnote 538: Note 4 I, p. 538. The following declaration made to the chiefs of the opposition
will render the memory of the late prince of Wales dear to latest posterity:--

His royal highness has authorized lord T. and sir F. D. to give the most positive assurances
to the gentlemen in the opposition, of his upright intentions; that he is thoroughly convinced
of the distresses and calamities that have befallen, and every day are more likely to befal
this country; and therefore invites all well wishers to this country and its constitution to
coalesce and unite with him, and upon the following principle only.--

His royal highness promises, and will declare it openly, that it is his intention totally to
abolish any distinctions for the future of parties; and as far as lies in his power, and as
soon as it does lie in his power, to take away for ever all proscription from any set of men
whatever who are friends to the constitution; and therefore will promote for the present, and
when it is in his power will immediately grant,--

First, A bill to empower all gentlemen to act as justices of the peace, paying land-tax for
£300 per annum in any county where he intends to serve.

Secondly, His royal highness promises, in like manner, to support, and forthwith grant, whenever
he shall have it in his power, a bill to create and establish a numerous and effectual militia
throughout the kingdom.

Thirdly, His royal highness promises, in like manner, to promote and support, and likewise
grant, when it is in his power, a bill to exclude all military officers in the land-service
under the degree of colonels of regiments, and in the sea-service under the degree of rear-admirals,
from sitting in the house of commons.

Fourthly, His royal highness promises that he will, when in his power, grant inquiries into
the great number of abuses in offices, and does not doubt of the assistance of all honest men,
to enable him to correct the same for the future.

Fifthly, His royal highness promises, and will openly declare, that he will make no agreement
with, or join in the support of, any administration whatever, without previously obtaining
the above-mentioned points in behalf of the people, and for the sake of good government. Upon
these conditions, and these conditions only, his royal highness thinks he has a right not to
doubt of having a most cordial support from all those good men who mean their country and this
constitution well, and that they will become his and his family's friends, and unite with him,
to promote the good government of this country, and that they will follow him, upon these principles,
both in court and out of court; and if he should live to form an administration, it should
be composed, without distinction, of men of dignity, knowledge, and probity. His royal highness
further promises to accept of no more, if offered to him, than £800,000 for his civil list,
by way of rent-charge.

Answer to the foregoing proposal.

The lords and gentlemen to whom a paper has been communicated, containing his royal highness
the prince's gracious intentions upon several weighty and important points, of the greatest
consequence to the honour and interest of his majesty's government, and absolutely necessary
for the restoring and perpetuating the true use and design of parliament, the purity of our
excellent constitution, and the happiness and welfare of the whole nation, do therein with
the greatest satisfaction observe, and most gratefully acknowledge, the uprightness and generosity
of his royal highness's noble sentiments and resolutions. And therefore beg leave to return
their most dutiful and humble thanks for the same: and to assure his royal highness that they
will constantly and steadily use their utmost endeavours to support those his wise and salutary
purposes, that the throne may be strengthened, religion and morality encouraged, faction and
corruption destroyed, the purity and essence of parliament restored, and the happiness and
welfare of our constitution preserved.

