Meanwhile, Guilleminot summoned about him the officers who, in this crowd, had mingled with
the soldiers. Several generals, colonels, and a great number of officers immediately started
forth and surrounded him; they concerted together, and accepting him for their leader, they
distributed into platoons all the men who had hitherto formed but one mass, and whom in that
state they had found it impossible to excite.

This organization was made under a sharp fire. Several superior officers went and placed themselves
proudly in the ranks, and became once more common soldiers. From a different species of pride,
some marines of the guard insisted on being commanded by one of their own officers, while each
of the other platoons was commanded by a general. Hitherto the Emperor himself had been their
colonel; now they were on the point of perishing they maintained their privilege, which nothing
could make them forget, and which was respected accordingly.

These brave men, in this order, proceeded on their march to Krasnoë: and they had already got
beyond the batteries of Miloradowitch, when the latter, rushing with his columns upon their
flanks, hemmed them in so closely, as to compel them to turn about, and seek a position in
which they could defend themselves. To the eternal glory of these warriors it should be told,
that these fifteen hundred French and Italians, one to ten, with nothing in their favour but
a determined countenance and very few fire-arms in a state fit for use, kept their enemies
at a respectful distance upwards of an hour.

But as there was still no appearance of the viceroy and the rest of his divisions, a longer
resistance was evidently impossible. They were again and again summoned to lay down their arms.
During these short pauses they heard the cannon rolling at a distance in their front and in
their rear. Thus, therefore, "the whole army was attacked at once, and from Smolensk to Krasnoë
it was but one engagement! If we wanted assistance, there could be none expected by waiting
for it; we must go and look for it; but on which side? At Krasnoë it was impossible; we were
too far from it; there was every reason to believe that our troops were beaten there. It would
besides become matter of necessity for us to retreat; and we were too near the Russians under
Miloradowitch, who were calling to us from their ranks to lay down our arms, to venture to
turn our backs upon them. It would therefore be a much better plan, as our faces were now turned
towards Smolensk, and as Prince Eugene was on that side, to form ourselves into one compact
mass, keep all its movements well connected, and rushing headlong, to re-enter Russia by cutting
our way through these Russians, and rejoin the viceroy; then to return together, to overthrow
Miloradowitch, and at last reach Krasnoë."

To this proposition of their leader, there was a loud and unanimous cry of assent. Instantly
the column formed into a mass, and rushed into the midst of ten thousand hostile muskets and
cannon. The Russians, at first seized with astonishment, opened their ranks and allowed this
handful of warriors, almost disarmed, to advance into the middle of them. Then, when they comprehended
their purpose, either from pity or admiration, the enemy's battalions, which lined both sides
of the road, called out to our men to halt; they entreated and conjured them to surrender;
but the only answer they received was a more determined march, a stern silence, and the point
of the bayonet. The whole of the enemy's fire was then poured upon them at once, at the distance
of a few yards, and the half of this heroic column was stretched wounded or lifeless on the ground.

The remainder proceeded without a single man quitting the body of his troop, which no Russian
was bold enough to venture near. Few of these unfortunate men again saw the viceroy and their
advancing divisions. Then only they separated; they ran and threw themselves into these feeble
ranks, which were opened to receive and protect them.

For more than an hour the Russian cannon had been thinning them. While one half of their forces
had pursued Guilleminot and compelled him to retreat, Miloradowitch, with the other half, had
stopped Prince Eugene. His right rested on a wood which was protected by heights entirely covered
with cannon; his left touched the great road, but more in the rear. This disposition dictated
that of Eugene. The royal column, by degrees, as it came up, deployed on the right of the road,
its right more forward than its left. The viceroy thus placed obliquely between him and the
enemy the great road, the possession of which was the subject of contest. Each of the two armies
occupied it by its left.

The Russians, placed in a position so offensive, kept entirely on the defensive; their bullets
alone attacked Eugene. A cannonade was kept up on both sides, on theirs most destructive, on
ours almost totally ineffective. Tired out with this firing, Eugene formed his resolution;
he called the 14th French division, drew it up on the left of the great road, pointed out to
it the woody height on which the enemy rested, and which formed his principal strength; that
was the decisive point, the centre of the action, and to make the rest fall, that must be carried.
He did not expect it would; but that effort would draw the attention and the strength of the
enemy on that side, the right of the great road would remain free, and he would endeavour to
take proper advantage of it.

Three hundred soldiers, formed into three troops, were all that could be found willing to mount
to this assault. These devoted men advanced resolutely against hostile thousands in a formidable
position. A battery of the Italian guard advanced to protect them, but the Russian batteries
immediately demolished it, and their cavalry took possession of it.

In spite of the grape-shot which was mowing them rapidly down, the three hundred French kept
moving on, and they had actually reached the enemy's position, when, suddenly from two sides
of the wood two masses of cavalry rushed forth, bore down upon, overwhelmed and massacred them.
Not one escaped; and with them perished all remains of discipline and courage in their division.

It was then that General Guilleminot again made his appearance. That in a position so critical,
Prince Eugene, with four thousand enfeebled troops, the remnant of forty-two thousand and upwards,
should not have despaired, that he should still have exhibited a bold countenance, may be conceived,
from the known character of that commander; but that the sight of our disaster and the ardour
of victory should not have urged the Russians to more than indecisive efforts, and that they
should have allowed the night to put an end to the battle, is with us, to this day, matter
of complete astonishment. Victory was so new to them, that even when they held it in their
hands, they knew not how to profit by it; they delayed its completion until the next day.

The viceroy saw that the greater part of the Russians, attracted by his demonstrations, had
collected on the left of the road, and he only waited until night, the sure ally of the weakest,
had chained all their movements. Then it was, that leaving his fires burning on that side,
to deceive the enemy, he quitted it, and marching entirely across the fields, he turned, and
silently got beyond the left of Miloradowitch's position, while that general, too certain of
his victory, was dreaming of the glory of receiving, next morning, the sword of the son of
Napoleon.

In the midst of this perilous march, there was an awful moment. At the most critical instant,
when these soldiers, the survivors of so many battles, were stealing along the side of the
Russian army, holding their breath and the noise of their steps; when their all depended on
a look or a cry of alarm; the moon all at once coming out of a thick cloud appeared to light
their movements. At the same moment a Russian sentinel called out to them to halt, and demanded
who they were? They gave themselves up for lost! but Klisky, a Pole, ran up to this Russian,
and speaking to him in his own language, said to him with the greatest composure, in a low
tone of voice, "Be silent, fellow! don't you see that we belong to the corps of Ouwarof, and
that we are going on a secret expedition?" The Russian, outwitted, held his tongue.

But the Cossacks were galloping up every moment to the flanks of the column, as if to reconnoitre
it, and then returned to the body of their troop. Their squadrons advanced several times as
if they were about to charge; but they did no more, either from doubt as to what they saw,
for they were still deceived, or from prudence, as it frequently halted, and presented a determined
front to them.

At last, after two hours most anxious march, they again reached the high road, and the viceroy
was actually in Krasnoë on the 17th of November, when Miloradowitch, descending from his heights
in order to seize him, found the field of battle occupied only by a few stragglers, whom no
effort could induce the night before to quit their fires.

CHAP. V.

The Emperor on his side had waited for the viceroy during the whole of the preceding day. The
noise of his engagement had irritated him. An effort to break through the enemy, in order to
join him, had been ineffectually attempted; and when night came on without his making his appearance,
the uneasiness of his adopted father was at the height. "Eugene and the army of Italy, and
this long day of baffled expectation, had they then terminated together?" Only one hope remained
to Napoleon; and that was, that the viceroy, driven back towards Smolensk, had there joined
Davoust and Ney, and that the following day they would, with united forces, attempt a decisive
effort.

In his anxiety, the Emperor assembled the marshals who remained with him. These were Berthier,
Bessières, Mortier, and Lefebvre; these were saved; they had cleared the obstacle; they had
only to continue their retreat through Lithuania, which was open to them; but would they abandon
their companions in the midst of the Russian army? No, certainly; and they determined once
more to enter Russia, either to deliver, or to perish with them.

When this resolution was taken, Napoleon coolly prepared the dispositions to carry it into
effect. He was not at all shaken by the great movements which the enemy were evidently making
around him. He saw that Kutusoff was advancing in order to surround and take him prisoner in
Krasnoë. The very night before, he had learned that Ojarowski, with a vanguard of Russian infantry,
had got beyond him, and taken a position at Maliewo, in a village in the rear of his left.
Irritated, instead of depressed, by misfortune, he called his aide-de-camp, Rapp, and exclaimed,
"that he must set out immediately, and proceed during the night and the darkness to attack
that body of infantry with the bayonet; that this was the first time of its exhibiting so much
audacity, and that he was determined to make it repent it, in such a way, that it should never
again dare to approach so near to his head-quarters." Then instantly recalling him, he continued,
"But, no! let Roguet and his division go alone! As for thee, remain where thou art, I don't
wish thee to be killed here, I shall have occasion for thee at Dantzic."

Rapp, while he was carrying this order to Roguet, could not help feeling astonished, that his
leader, surrounded by eighty thousand enemies, whom he was going to attack next day with nine
thousand, should have so little doubt about his safety, as to be thinking of what he should
have to do at Dantzic, a city from which he was separated by the winter, two other hostile
armies, famine, and a hundred and eighty leagues.

The nocturnal attack on Chirkowa and Maliewo was successful. Roguet formed his idea of the
enemy's position by the direction of their fires; they occupied two villages, connected by
a causeway, which was defended by a ravine. He disposed his troop into three columns of attack;
those on the right and left were to advance silently, as close as possible to the enemy; then
at the signal to charge, which he himself would give them from the centre, they were to rush
into the midst of the enemy without firing a shot, and making use only of their bayonets.

Immediately the two wings of the young guard commenced the action. While the Russians, taken
by surprise, and not knowing on which side to defend themselves, were wavering from their right
to their left, Roguet, with his column, rushed suddenly upon their centre and into the midst
of their camp, into which he entered pell-mell with them. Thus divided and thrown into confusion,
they had barely time to throw the best part of their great and small arms into a neighbouring
lake, and to set fire to their tents, the flames arising from which, instead of saving them,
only gave light to their destruction.

This check stopped the movement of the Russian army for four-and-twenty hours, put it in the
Emperor's power to remain at Krasnoë, and enabled Eugene to rejoin him during the following
night. He was received by Napoleon with the greatest joy; but the Emperor's uneasiness respecting
Davoust and Ney became shortly after proportionably greater.

Around us the camp of the Russians presented a spectacle similar to what it had done at Vinkowo,
Malo-Yaroslawetz, and Wiazma. Every evening, close to the general's tent, the relics of the
Russian saints, surrounded by an immense number of wax tapers, were exposed to the adoration
of the soldiers. While each of these was, according to custom, giving proofs of his devotion
by an endless repetition of crossings and genuflections, the priests were addressing them with
fanatical exhortations, which would appear barbarous and absurd to every civilized nation.

In spite, however, of the great power of such means, of the number of the Russians, and of
our weakness, Kutusoff, who was only at two leagues' distance from Miloradowitch, while the
latter was beating Prince Eugene, remained immoveable. During the following night, Beningsen,
urged on by the ardent Wilson, in vain attempted to animate the old Russian. Elevating the
faults of his age into virtues, he applied the names of wisdom, humanity, and prudence, to
his dilatoriness and strange circumspection; he was resolved to finish as he had begun. For
if we may be allowed to compare small things with great, his renown had been established on
a principle directly contrary to that of Napoleon, fortune having made the one, and the other
having created his fortune.

He made a boast of "advancing only by short marches; of allowing his soldiers to rest every
third day; he would blush, and halt immediately, if they wanted bread or spirits for a single
moment." Then, with great self-gratulation, he pretended that "all the way from Wiazma, he
had been escorting the French army as his prisoners; chastising them whenever they wished to
halt, or strike out of the high road; that it was useless to run any risks with captives; that
the Cossacks, a vanguard, and an army of artillery, were quite sufficient to finish them, and
make them pass successively under the yoke; and that in this plan, he was admirably seconded
by Napoleon himself. Why should he seek to purchase of Fortune what she was so generously giving
him? Was not the term of Napoleon's destiny already irrevocably marked? it was in the marshes
of the Berezina that this meteor would be extinguished, this colossus overthrown, in the midst
of Wittgenstein, Tchitchakof, and himself, and in the presence of the assembled Russian armies.
As for himself, he would have the glory of delivering him up to them, enfeebled, disarmed,
and dying; and to him that glory was sufficient."

To this discourse the English officer, still more active and eager, replied only by entreating
the field-marshal "to leave his head-quarters only for a few moments, and advance upon the
heights; there he would see that the last moment of Napoleon was already come. Would he allow
him even to get beyond the frontiers of Russia proper, which loudly called for the sacrifice
of this great victim? Nothing remained but to strike; let him only give the order, one charge
would be sufficient, and in two hours the face of Europe would be entirely changed!"

Then, gradually getting warmer at the coolness with which Kutusoff listened to him, Wilson,
for the third time, threatened him with the general indignation. "Already, in his army, at
the sight of the straggling, mutilated, and dying column, which was about to escape from him,
he might hear the Cossacks exclaiming, what a shame it was to allow these skeletons to escape
in this manner out of their tomb!" But Kutusoff, whom old age, that misfortune without hope,
rendered indifferent, became angry at the attempts made to rouse him, and by a short and violent
answer, shut the indignant Englishman's mouth.

It is asserted that the report of a spy had represented to him Krasnoë as filled with an enormous
mass of the imperial guard, and that the old marshal was afraid of compromising his reputation
by attacking it. But the sight of our distress emboldened Beningsen; this chief of the staff
prevailed upon Strogonof, Gallitzin, and Miloradowitch, with a force of more than fifty thousand
Russians, and one hundred pieces of cannon, to venture to attack at daylight, in spite of Kutusoff,
fourteen thousand famished, enfeebled, and half-frozen French and Italians.

This was a danger, the imminence of which Napoleon fully comprehended. He might escape from
it; daylight had not yet appeared. He was at liberty to avoid this fatal engagement; to gain
Orcha and Borizof by rapid marches along with Eugene and his guard; there he could rally his
forces with thirty thousand French under Victor and Oudinôt, with Dombrowski, with Regnier,
with Schwartzenberg, and with all his depôts, and be might again, the following year, make
his appearance as formidable as ever.

On the 17th, before daylight, he issued his orders, armed himself, and going out on foot, at
the head of his old guard, began his march. But it was not towards Poland, his ally, that it
was directed, nor towards France, where he would be still received as the head of a rising
dynasty, and the Emperor of the West. His words on taking up his sword on this occasion, were
"I have sufficiently acted the emperor; it is time that I should become the general." He turned
back into the midst of eighty thousand enemies, plunged into the thickest of them, in order
to draw all their efforts against himself, to make a diversion in favour of Davoust and Ney,
and to tear them from a country, the gates of which had been closed upon them.

Daylight at last appeared, exhibiting on one side the Russian battalions and batteries, which
on three sides, in front, on our right, and in our rear, bounded the horizon, and on the other,
Napoleon with his six thousand guards advancing with a firm step, and proceeding to take his
place in the middle of that terrible circle. At the same time Mortier, a few yards in front
of his Emperor, displayed in the face of the whole Russian army, the five thousand men which
still remained to him.

Their object was to defend the right flank of the great road from Krasnoë to the great ravine
in the direction of Stachowa. A battalion of chasseurs of the old guard, formed in a square
like a fortress, was planted close to the high road, and acted as a support to the left wing
of our young soldiers. On their right, in the snowy plains which surrounded Krasnoë, the remains
of the cavalry of the guard, a few cannon, and the four hundred cavalry of Latour-Maubourg
(as, since they left Smolensk, the cold had killed or dispersed fourteen hundred of them) occupied
the place of the battalions and batteries which the French army no longer possessed.

The artillery of the Duke of Treviso was reinforced by a battery commanded by Drouot; one of
those men who are endowed with the whole strength of virtue, who think that duty embraces every
thing, and are capable of making the noblest sacrifices simply and without the least effort.

Claparede remained at Krasnoë, where, with a few soldiers, he protected the wounded, the baggage,
and the retreat. Prince Eugene continued his retreat towards Liady. His engagement of the preceding
day and his night march had entirely broken up his corps; his divisions only retained sufficient
unity to drag themselves along, and to perish, but not to fight.

Meantime Roguet had been recalled to the field of battle from Maliewo. The enemy kept pushing
columns across that village, and was extending more and more beyond our right in order to surround
us. The battle then commenced. But what kind of battle? The Emperor had here no sudden illumination
to trust to, no flashes of momentary inspiration, none of these great strokes so unforeseen
from their boldness, which ravish fortune, extort a victory, and by which he had so often disconcerted,
stunned, and crushed his enemies. All their movements were now free, all ours enchained, and
this genius of attack was reduced to defend himself.

Here therefore it became perfectly evident that renown is not a vain shadow, that she is real
strength, and doubly powerful by the inflexible pride which she imparts to her favourites,
and the timid precautions which she suggests to them who venture to attack her. The Russians
had only to march forward without manoeuvring, even without firing: their mass was sufficient,
they might have crushed Napoleon and his feeble troop: but they did not dare to come to close
quarters with him. They were awed by the presence of the conqueror of Egypt and of Europe.
The Pyramids, Marengo, Austerlitz, Friedland, an army of victories, seemed to rise between
him and the whole of the Russians. We might almost fancy that, in the eyes of that submissive
and superstitious people, a renown so extraordinary appeared like some thing supernatural;
that they regarded it as beyond their reach; that they believed they could only attack and
demolish it from a distance; and in short, that against that old guard, that living fortress,
that column of granite, as it had been styled by its leader, human efforts were impotent, and
that cannon alone could demolish it.

These made wide and deep breaches in the ranks of Roguet and the young guard, but they killed
without vanquishing. These young soldiers, one half of whom had never before been in an engagement,
received the shock of death during three hours without retreating one step, without making
a single movement to escape it, and without being able to return it, their artillery having
been broken, and the Russians keeping beyond the reach of their musketry.

But every instant strengthened the enemy and weakened Napoleon. The noise of the cannon as
well as Claparede apprised him, that in the rear of Krasnoë and his army, Beningsen was proceeding
to take possession of the road to Liady, and cut off his retreat. The east, the west, and the
south were sparkling with the enemy's fires; one side only remained open, that of the north
and the Dnieper, towards an eminence, at the foot of which were the high road and the Emperor.
We fancied we saw the enemy covering this eminence with his cannon: in that situation they
were just over Napoleon's head, and might have crushed him at a few yards' distance. He was
apprised of his danger, cast his eyes for an instant upon it, and uttered merely these words,
"Very well, let a battalion of my chasseurs take possession of it!" Immediately afterwards,
without paying farther attention to it, his whole looks and attention reverted to the perilous
situation of Mortier.

Then at last Davoust made his appearance, forcing his way through a swarm of Cossacks, whom
he drove away by a precipitate march. At the sight of Krasnoë, this marshal's troops disbanded
themselves, and ran across the fields to get beyond the right of the enemy's line, in the rear
of which they had come up. Davoust and his generals could only rally them at Krasnoë.

The first corps was thus preserved, but we learned at the same time, that our rear-guard could
no longer defend itself at Krasnoë; that Ney was probably still at Smolensk, and that we must
give up waiting for him any longer. Napoleon, however, still hesitated; he could not determine
on making this great sacrifice.

But at last, as all were likely to perish, his resolution was fixed. He called Mortier, and
squeezing his hand sorrowfully, told him, "that he had not a moment to lose; that the enemy
were overwhelming him in all directions; that Kutusoff might already reach Liady, perhaps Orcha,
and the last winding of the Boristhenes before him; that he would therefore proceed thither
rapidly with his old guard, in order to occupy that passage. Davoust would relieve Mortier;
but both of them must endeavour to hold out in Krasnoë until night, after which they must come
and rejoin him." Then with his heart full of Ney's misfortune, and of despair at abandoning
him, he withdrew slowly from the field of battle, traversed Krasnoë, where he again halted,
and then cleared his way to Liady.

Mortier was anxious to obey, but at that moment the Dutch troops of the guard had lost, along
with a third part of their number, an important post which they were defending, which the enemy
immediately after covered with his artillery. Roguet, feeling the destructive effects of its
fire, fancied he was able to extinguish it. A regiment which he sent against the Russian battery
was repulsed; a second (the 1st of the voltigeurs) got into the middle of the Russians, and
stood firm against two charges of their cavalry. It continued to advance, torn to pieces by
their grape-shot, when a third charge overwhelmed it. Fifty soldiers and eleven officers were
all of it that Roguet was able to preserve.

That general had lost the half of his men. It was now two o'clock, and his unshaken fortitude
still kept the Russians in astonishment, when at last, emboldened by the Emperor's departure,
they began to press upon him so closely, that the young guard was nearly hemmed in, and very
soon in a situation in which it could neither hold out, nor retreat.

Fortunately, some platoons which Davoust had rallied, and the appearance of another troop of
his stragglers, attracted the enemy's attention. Mortier availed himself of it. He gave orders
to the three thousand men he had still remaining to retreat slowly in the face of their fifty
thousand enemies. "Do you hear, soldiers?" cried General Laborde, "the marshal orders ordinary
time! Ordinary time, soldiers!" And this brave and unfortunate troop, dragging with them some
of their wounded, under a shower of balls and grape-shot, retired as slowly from this field
of carnage, as they would have done from a field of manoeuvre.

CHAP. VI.

As soon as Mortier had succeeded in placing Krasnoë between him and Beningsen, he was in safety.
The communication between that town and Liady was only interrupted by the fire of the enemy's
batteries, which flanked the left side of the great road. Colbert and Latour-Maubourg kept
them in check upon their heights. In the course of this march a most singular accident occurred.
A howitzer shell entered the body of a horse, burst there, and blew him to pieces without wounding
his rider, who fell upon his legs, and went on.

The Emperor, meanwhile, halted at Liady, four leagues from the field of battle. When night
came on, he learned that Mortier, who he thought was in his rear, had got before him. Melancholy
and uneasy, he sent for him, and with an agitated voice, said to him, "that he had certainly
fought gloriously, and suffered greatly. But why had he placed his Emperor between him and
the enemy? why had he exposed himself to be cut off?"

The marshal had got the start of Napoleon without being aware of it. He exclaimed, "that he
had at first left Davoust in Krasnoë, again endeavouring to rally his troops, and that he himself
had halted, not far from that: but that the first corps, having been driven back upon him,
had obliged him to retrograde. That besides, Kutusoff did not follow up his victory with vigour,
and appeared to hang upon our flank with all his army with no other view than to feast his
eyes with our distress, and gather up our fragments."

Next day the march was continued with hesitation. The impatient stragglers took the lead, and
all of them got the start of Napoleon; he was on foot, with a stick in his hand, walking with
difficulty and repugnance, and halting every quarter of an hour, as if unwilling to tear himself
from that old Russia, whose frontier he was then passing, and in which he had left his unfortunate
companions in arms.

In the evening he reached Dombrowna, a wooden town, with a population like Liady; a novel sight
for an army, which had for three months seen nothing but ruins. We had at last emerged from
old Russia and her deserts of snow and ashes, and entered into a friendly and inhabited country,
whose language we understood. The weather just then became milder, a thaw had begun, and we
received some provisions.

Thus the winter, the enemy, solitude, and with some famine and bivouacs, all ceased at once;
but it was too late. The Emperor saw that his army was destroyed; every moment the name of
Ney escaped from his lips, with exclamations of grief. That night particularly he was heard
groaning and exclaiming, "That the misery of his poor soldiers cut him to the heart, and yet
that he could not succour them without fixing himself in some place: but where was it possible
for him to rest, without ammunition, provisions, or artillery? He was no longer strong enough
to halt; he must reach Minsk as quickly as possible."

He had hardly spoken the words, when a Polish officer arrived with the news, that Minsk itself,
his magazine, his retreat, his only hope, had just fallen into the hands of the Russians, Tchitchakof
having entered it on the 16th. Napoleon, at first, was mute and overpowered at this last blow;
but immediately afterwards, elevating himself in proportion to his danger, he coolly replied,
"Very well! we have now nothing to do, but to clear ourselves a passage with our bayonets."

But in order to reach this new enemy, who had escaped from Schwartzenberg, or whom Schwartzenberg
had perhaps allowed to pass, (for we knew nothing of the circumstances,) and to escape from
Kutusoff and Wittgenstein, we must cross the Berezina at Borizof. With that view Napoleon (on
the 19th of November, from Dombrowna) sent orders to Dombrowski to give up all idea of fighting
Hoertel, and proceed with all haste to occupy that passage. He wrote to the Duke of Reggio,
to march rapidly to the same point, and to hasten to recover Minsk; the Duke of Belluno would
cover his march. After giving these orders, his agitation was appeased, and his mind, worn
out with suffering, sunk into depression.

It was still far from daylight, when a singular noise drew him out of his lethargy. Some say
that shots were at first heard, which had been fired by our own people, in order to draw out
of the houses such as had taken shelter in them, that they might take their places; others
assert, that from a disorderly practice, too common in our bivouacs, of vociferating to each
other, the name of Hausanne, a grenadier, being suddenly called out loudly, in the midst of
a profound silence, was mistaken for the alert cry of aux armes, which announced a surprise
by the enemy.

Whatever might be the cause, every one immediately saw, or fancied he saw, the Cossacks, and
a great noise of war and of alarm surrounded Napoleon. Without disturbing himself, he said
to Rapp, "Go and see, it is no doubt some rascally Cossacks, determined to disturb our rest!"
But it became very soon a complete tumult of men running to fight or to flee, and who, meeting
in the dark, mistook each other for enemies.

Napoleon for a moment imagined that a serious attack had been made. As an embanked stream of
water ran through the town, he inquired if the remaining artillery had been placed behind that
ravine, and being informed that the precaution had been neglected, he himself immediately ran
to the bridge, and caused his cannon to be hurried over to the other side.

He then returned to his old guard, and stopping in front of each battalion: "Grenadiers!" said
he to them, "we are retreating without being conquered by the enemy, let us not be vanquished
by ourselves! Set an example to the army! Several of you have already deserted their eagles,
and even thrown away their arms. I have no wish to have recourse to military laws to put a
stop to this disorder, but appeal entirely to yourselves! Do justice among yourselves. To your
own honour I commit the support of your discipline!"

The other troops he harangued in a similar style. These few words were quite sufficient to
the old grenadiers, who probably had no occasion for them. The others received them with acclamation,
but an hour afterwards, when the march was resumed, they were quite forgotten. As to his rear-guard,
throwing the greatest part of the blame of this hot alarm upon it, he sent an angry message
to Davoust on the subject.

At Orcha we found rather an abundant supply of provisions, a bridge equipage of sixty boats,
with all its appurtenances, which were entirely burnt, and thirty-six pieces of cannon, with
their horses, which were distributed between Davoust, Eugene, and Latour-Maubourg.

Here for the first time we again met with the officers and gendarmes, who had been sent for
the purpose of stopping on the two bridges of the Dnieper the crowd of stragglers, and making
them rejoin their columns. But those eagles, which formerly promised every thing, were now
looked upon as of fatal omen, and deserted accordingly.

Disorder was already regularly organized, and had enlisted in its ranks men who showed their
ability in its service. When an immense crowd had been collected, these wretches called out
"the Cossacks!" with a view to quicken the march of those who preceded them and to increase
the tumult. They then took advantage of it, to carry off the provisions and cloaks of those
whom they had thrown off their guard.

The gendarmes, who again saw this army for the first time since its disaster, were astonished
at the sight of such misery, terrified at the great confusion, and became discouraged. This
friendly frontier was entered tumultuously; it would have been given up to pillage, had it
not been for the guard, and a few hundred men who remained, with Prince Eugene.

Napoleon entered Orcha with six thousand guards, the remains of thirty-five thousand! Eugene,
with eighteen hundred soldiers, the remains of forty-two thousand! Davoust, with four thousand,
the remains of seventy thousand!

This marshal had lost every thing, was actually without linen, and emaciated with hunger. He
seized upon a loaf which was offered him by one of his comrades, and, voraciously devoured
it. A handkerchief was given him to wipe his face, which was covered with rime. He exclaimed,
"that none but men of iron constitutions could support such trials, that it was physically
impossible to resist them; that there were limits to human strength, the utmost of which had
been exceeded."

He it was who at first supported the retreat as far as Wiazma. He was still, according to his
custom, halting at all the defiles, and remaining there the very last, sending every one to
his ranks, and constantly struggling with the disorder. He urged his soldiers to insult and
strip of their booty such of their comrades as threw away their arms; the only means of retaining
the first and punishing the last. Nevertheless, his methodical and severe genius, so much out
of its element in that scene of universal confusion, has been accused of being too much intimidated
at it.

The Emperor made fruitless attempts to check this discouragement. When alone, he was heard
compassionating the sufferings of his soldiers; but in their presence, even upon that point,
he wished to appear inflexible. He issued a proclamation, "ordering every one to return to
their ranks; if they did not, he would strip the officers of their grades, and put the soldiers
to death."

A threat like this produced neither good nor bad impression upon men who had become insensible,
or were reduced to despair, fleeing not from danger, but from suffering, and less apprehensive
of the death with which they were threatened than of the life that was offered to them.

But Napoleon's confidence increased with his peril; in his eyes, and in the midst of these
deserts of mud and ice, this handful of men was still the grand army! and himself the conqueror
of Europe! and there was no infatuation in this firmness; we were certain of it, when, in this
very town, we saw him burning with his own hands every thing belonging to him, which might
serve as trophies to the enemy, in the event of his fall.

There also were unfortunately consumed all the papers which he had collected in order to write
the history of his life, for such was his intention when he set out for this fatal war. He
had then determined to halt as a threatening conqueror on the borders of the Düna and the Boristhenes,
to which he now returned as a disarmed fugitive. At that time he regarded the ennui of six
winter months, which he would have been detained on these rivers, as his greatest enemy, and
to overcome it, this second Cæsar intended there to have dictated his Commentaries.

CHAP. VII.

Every thing, however, was now changed; two hostile armies were cutting off his retreat. The
question to decide was, through which of them he must attempt to force his way: and as he knew
nothing of the Lithuanian forests into which he was about to penetrate, he summoned such of
his officers as had passed through them in order to reach him.

The Emperor began by telling them, that "Too much familiarity with great victories was frequently
the precursor of great disasters, but that recrimination was now out of the question." He then
mentioned the capture of Minsk, and after admitting the skilfulness of Kutusoff's persevering
manoeuvres on his right flank, declared "that he meant to abandon his line of operations on
the Minsk, unite with the Dukes of Belluno and Reggio, cut his way through Wittgenstein's army,
and regain Wilna by turning the sources of the Berezina."

Jomini combated this plan. That Swiss general described the position of Wittgenstein as a series
of long defiles, in which his resistance might be either obstinate or flexible, but in either
way sufficiently long to consummate our destruction. He added, that in this season, and in
such a state of disorder, a change of route would complete the destruction of the army; that
it would lose itself in the cross-roads of these barren and marshy forests; he maintained that
the high road alone could keep it in any degree of union. Borizof, and its bridge over the
Berezina, were still open; and it would be sufficient to reach it.

He then stated that he knew of a road to the right of that town, constructed on wooden bridges,
and passing across the marshes of Lithuania. This was the only road, by his account, by which
the army could reach Wilna by Zembin and Malodeczno, leaving Minsk on the left, its road a
day's journey longer, its fifty broken bridges rendering a passage impracticable, and Tchitchakof
in possession of it. In this manner we should pass between the two hostile armies, avoiding
them both.

The Emperor was staggered; but as his pride revolted at the appearance of avoiding an engagement,
and he was anxious to signalize his departure from Russia by a victory, he sent for General
Dodde, of the engineers. As soon as he saw him he called out to him, "Whether shall we retreat
by Zembin, or go and beat Wittgenstein at Smoliantzy?" and knowing that Dodde had just come
from the latter position, he asked him if it was approachable?

His reply was, that Wittgenstein occupied a height which entirely commanded that miry country;
that it would be necessary for us to tack about, within his sight and within his reach, by
following the windings and turnings of the road, in order to ascend to the Russian camp; that
thus our column of attack would be long exposed to their fire, first its left and then its
right flank; that this position was therefore unapproachable in front, and that to turn it,
it would be necessary to retrograde towards Witepsk, and take too long a circuit.

Disappointed in this last hope of glory, Napoleon then decided for Borizof. He ordered General
Eblé to proceed with eight companies of sappers and pontonniers to secure the passage of the
Berezina, and General Jomini to act as his guide. But he said at the same time, "that it was
cruel to retreat without fighting, to have the appearance of flight. If he had any magazine,
any point of support, which would allow him to halt, he would still prove to Europe that he
always knew how to fight and to conquer."

All these illusions were now destroyed. At Smolensk, where he arrived first, and from which
he was the first to depart, he had rather been informed of, than witnessed his disaster. At
Krasnoë, where our miseries had successively been unrolled before his eyes, the peril had distracted
his attention; but at Orcha he could contemplate, at once and leisurely, the full extent of
his misfortunes.

At Smolensk, thirty-six thousand combatants, one hundred and fifty cannon, the army-chest,
and the hope of life and breathing at liberty on the other side of the Berezina, still remained;
here, there were scarcely ten thousand soldiers, almost without clothing or shoes, entangled
amidst a crowd of dying men, with a few cannon, and a pillaged army-chest.

In five days, every evil had been aggravated; destruction and disorganization had made frightful
progress; Minsk had been taken. He had no longer to look for rest and abundance on the other
side of the Berezina, but fresh contests with a new enemy. Finally, the defection of Austria
from his alliance seemed to be declared, and perhaps it was a signal given to all Europe.

Napoleon was even uncertain whether he should reach Borizof in time to meet the new peril,
which Schwartzenberg's hesitation seemed to have prepared for him. We have seen that a third
Russian army, that of Wittgenstein, menaced, on his right, the interval which separated him
from that town; that he had sent the Duke of Belluno against him, and had ordered that marshal
to retrieve the opportunity he had lost on the 1st of November, and to resume the offensive.

In obedience to these orders, on the 14th of November, the very day Napoleon quitted Smolensk,
the Dukes of Belluno and of Reggio had attacked and driven back the out-posts of Wittgenstein
towards Smoliantzy, preparing, by this engagement, for a battle which they agreed should take
place on the following day.

The French were thirty thousand against forty thousand; there, as well as at Wiazma, the soldiers
were sufficiently numerous, if they had not had too many leaders.

The two Marshals disagreed. Victor wished to manoeuvre on the enemy's left wing, to overthrow
Wittgenstein with the two French corps, and march by Botscheikowo on Kamen, and from Kamen
by Pouichna on Berezina. Oudinôt warmly disapproved of this plan, saying that it would separate
them from the grand army, which required their assistance.

Thus, one of the leaders wishing to manoeuvre, and the other to attack in front, they did neither
the one nor the other. Oudinôt retired during the night to Czereïa, and Victor, discovering
this retreat at daybreak, was compelled to follow him.

He halted within a day's march of the Lukolmlia, near Sienno, where Wittgenstein did not much
disturb him; but the Duke of Reggio having at last received the order dated from Dombrowna,
which directed him to recover Minsk, Victor was about to be left alone before the Russian general.
It was possible that the latter would then become aware of his superiority: and the Emperor,
who at Orcha, on the 20th of November, saw his rear-guard, lost, his left flank menaced by
Kutusoff, and his advance column stopped at the Berezina by the army of Volhynia, learned that
Wittgenstein and forty thousand more enemies, far from being beaten and repulsed, were ready
to fall upon his right, and that he had no time to lose.

But Napoleon was long before he could determine to quit the Boristhenes. It appeared to him
that this was like a second abandonment of the unfortunate Ney, and casting off for ever his
intrepid companion in arms. There, as he had done at Liady and Dombrowna, he was calling every
hour of the day and night, and sending to inquire if no tidings had been heard of that marshal;
but not a trace of his existence had transpired through the Russian army; four days this mortal
silence had lasted, and yet the Emperor still continued to hope.

At last, being compelled, on the 20th of November, to quit Orcha, he still left there Eugene,
Mortier, and Davoust, and halted at two leagues from thence, inquiring for Ney, and still expecting
him. The same feeling of grief pervaded the whole army, of which Orcha then contained the remains.
As soon as the most pressing wants allowed a moment's rest, the thoughts and looks of every
one were directed towards the Russian bank. They listened for any warlike noise which might
announce the arrival of Ney, or rather his last sighs; but nothing was to be seen but enemies
who were already menacing the bridges of the Boristhenes! One of the three leaders then wished
to destroy them, but the others refused their consent, on the ground, that this would be again
separating them from their companion in arms, and a confession that they despaired of saving
him, an idea to which, from their dread of so great a misfortune, they could not reconcile
themselves.

But with the fourth day all hope at last vanished. Night only brought with it a wearisome repose.
They blamed themselves for Ney's misfortune, forgetting that it was utterly impossible to wait
longer for the third corps in the plains of Krasnoë, where they must have fought for another
twenty-eight hours, when they had merely strength and ammunition left for one.

Already, as is the case in all cruel losses, they began to treasure up recollections. Davoust
was the last who had quitted the unfortunate marshal, and Mortier and the viceroy were inquiring
of him what were his last words! At the first reports of the cannonade opened on the 15th on
Napoleon, Ney was anxious immediately to evacuate Smolensk in the suite of the viceroy; Davoust
refused, pleading the orders of the Emperor, and the obligation to destroy the ramparts of
the town. The two chiefs became warm, and Davoust persisting to remain until the following
day, Ney, who had been appointed to bring up the rear, was compelled to wait for him.

It is true, that on the 16th, Davoust sent to warn him of his danger; but Ney, either from
a change of opinion, or from an angry feeling against Davoust, then returned him for answer,
"That all the Cossacks in the universe should not prevent him from executing his instructions."

After exhausting these recollections and all their conjectures, they again relapsed into a
more gloomy silence, when suddenly they heard the steps of several horses, and then the joyful
cry, "Marshal Ney is safe! here are some Polish cavalry come to announce his approach!" One
of his officers then galloped in, and informed them that the marshal was advancing on the right
bank of the Boristhenes, and had sent him to ask for assistance.

Night had just set in; Davoust, Eugene, and Mortier had only its short duration to revive and
animate the soldiers, who had hitherto always bivouacked. For the first time since they left
Moscow, these poor fellows had received a sufficient quantum of provisions; they were about
to prepare them and to take their rest, warm and under cover: how was it possible to make them
resume their arms, and turn them from their asylums during that night of rest, whose inexpressible
sweets they had just begun to taste? Who could persuade them to interrupt it, to retrace their
steps, and return once more into the darkness and frozen deserts of Russia?

Eugene and Mortier disputed the honour of this sacrifice, and the first only carried it in
right of his superior rank. Shelter and the distribution of provisions had effected that which
threats had failed to do. The stragglers were rallied, the viceroy again found himself at the
head of four thousand men; all were ready to march at the news of Ney's danger; but it was
their last effort.

They proceeded in the darkness, by unknown roads, and had marched two leagues at random, halting
every few minutes to listen. Their anxiety was already increased. Had they lost their way?
were they too late? had their unfortunate comrades fallen? was it the victorious Russian army
they were about to meet? In this uncertainty, Prince Eugene directed some cannon shot to be
fired. Immediately after they fancied they heard signals of distress on that sea of snow; they
proceeded from the third corps, which, having lost all its artillery, answered the cannon of
the fourth by some volleys of platoon firing.

The two corps were thus directed towards their meeting. Ney and Eugene were the first to recognize
each other; they ran up, Eugene more precipitately, and threw themselves into each other's
arms. Eugene wept, Ney let some angry words escape him. The first was delighted, melted, and
elevated by the warlike heroism which his chivalrous heroism had just saved! The latter, still
heated from the combat, irritated at the dangers which the honour of the army had run in his
person, and blaming Davoust, whom he wrongfully accused of having deserted him.

Some hours afterwards, when the latter wished to excuse himself, he could draw nothing from
Ney but a severe look, and these words, "Monsieur le Maréchal, I have no reproaches to make
to you; God is our witness and your judge!"

When the two corps had fairly recognized each other, they no longer kept their ranks. Soldiers,
officers, generals, all ran towards each other. Those of Eugene shook hands with those of Ney;
they touched them with a joyful mixture of astonishment and curiosity, and pressed them to
their bosoms with the tenderest compassion. The refreshments and brandy which they had just
received they lavished upon them; they overwhelmed them with questions. They then all proceeded
together in company, towards Orcha, all impatient, Eugene's soldiers to hear, and Ney's to
tell their story.

CHAP. VIII.

They stated, that on the 17th of November they had quitted Smolensk with twelve cannon, six
thousand infantry, and three hundred cavalry, leaving there five thousand sick at the mercy
of the enemy; and that had it not been for the noise of Platof's cannon, and the explosion
of the mines, their marshal would never have been able to bring away from the ruins of that
city seven thousand unarmed stragglers who had taken shelter in them. They dwelt upon the attentions
which their leader had shown to the wounded, and to the women and their children, proving upon
this occasion that the bravest was again the most humane.

At the gates of the city an unnatural action struck them with a degree of horror which was
still undiminished. A mother had abandoned her little son, only five years old; in spite of
his cries and tears she had driven him away from her sledge which was too heavily laden. She
herself cried out with a distracted air, "that he had never seen France! that he would not
regret it! as for her, she knew France! she was resolved to see France once more!" Twice did
Ney himself replace the unfortunate child in the arms of his mother, twice did she cast him
off on the frozen snow.

This solitary crime, amidst a thousand instances of the most devoted and sublime tenderness,
they did not leave unpunished. The unnatural mother was herself abandoned to the same snow
from which her infant was snatched, and entrusted to another mother; this little orphan was
exhibited in their ranks; he was afterwards seen at the Berezina, then at Wilna, even at Kowno,
and finally escaped from all the horrors of the retreat.

The officers of Ney continued, in answer to the pressing questions of those of Eugene; they
depicted themselves advancing towards Krasnoë, with their marshal at their head, completely
across our immense wrecks, dragging after them one afflicted multitude, and preceded by another,
whose steps were quickened by hunger.

They described how they found the bottom of each ravine filled with helmets, hussar-caps, trunks
broken open, scattered garments, carriages and cannon, some overturned, others with the horses
still harnessed, and the poor animals worn out, expiring and half devoured.

How, near Korythinia, at the end of their first day's march, a violent cannonading and the
whistling of several bullets over their heads, had led them to imagine that a battle had just
commenced. This discharge appeared to proceed from before and quite close to them even upon
the road, and yet they could not get sight of a single enemy. Ricard and his division advanced
with a view to discover them, but they only found, in a turn of the road, two French batteries
abandoned, with their ammunition, and in the neighbouring field a horde of wretched Cossacks,
who immediately fled, terrified at their audacity in setting fire to them, and at the noise
they had made.

Ney's officers here interrupted their narrative to inquire in their turn what had passed? What
was the cause of the general discouragement? why had the cannon been abandoned to the enemy
untouched? Had they not had time to spike them, or at least to spoil their ammunition?

In continuation, they said they had hitherto only discovered the traces of a disastrous march.
But next morning there was a complete change, and they confessed their unlucky presentiments
when they arrived at that field of snow reddened with blood, sprinkled with broken cannon and
mutilated corses. The dead bodies still marked the ranks and places of battle; they pointed
them out to each other. There had been the 14th division; there were still to be seen, on the
broken plates of their caps, the numbers of its regiments. There had been the Italian guard;
there were its dead, whose uniforms were still distinguishable! But where were its living remnants?
Vainly did they interrogate that field of blood, these lifeless forms, the motionless and frozen
silence of the desert and the grave! they could neither penetrate into the fate of their companions,
nor into that which awaited themselves.

Ney hurried them rapidly over all these ruins, and they had advanced without impediment to
a part of the road, where it descends into a deep ravine, from which it rises into a broad
and level height. It was that of Katova, and the same field of battle, where, three months
before, in their triumphant march, they had beat Newerowskoi, and saluted Napoleon with the
cannon which they had taken the day before from his enemies. They said they recollected the
situation, notwithstanding the different appearance given to it by the snow.

Mortier's officers here exclaimed, "that it was in that very position that the Emperor and
they had waited for them on the 17th, fighting all the time." Very well, replied those of Ney,
Kutusoff, or rather Miloradowitch, occupied Napoleon's place, for the old Russian general had
not yet quitted Dobroé.

Their disbanded men were already retrograding, pointing to the snowy plains completely black
with the enemy's troops, when a Russian, detaching himself from their army, descended the hill;
he presented himself alone to their marshal, and either from an affectation of extreme politeness,
respect for the misfortune of their leader, or dread of the effects of his despair, covered
with honied words the summons to surrender.

It was Kutusoff who had sent him. "That field-marshal would not have presumed to make so cruel
a proposal to so great a general, to a warrior so renowned, if there remained a single chance
of safety for him. But there were eighty thousand Russians before and around him, and if he
had any doubt of it, Kutusoff offered to let him send a person to go through his ranks, and
count his forces."

The Russian had not finished his speech, when suddenly forty discharges of grape shot, proceeding
from the right of his army, and cutting our ranks to pieces, struck him with amazement, and
interrupted what he had to say. At the same moment a French officer darted forward, seized,
and was about to kill him as a traitor, when Ney, checking this fury, called to him angrily,
"A marshal never surrenders; there is no parleying under an enemy's fire; you are my prisoner."
The unfortunate officer was disarmed, and placed in a situation of exposure to the fire of
his own army. He was not released until we reached Kowno, after twenty-six days captivity,
sharing all our miseries, at liberty to escape, but restrained by his parole.

At the same time the enemy's fire became still hotter, and, as they said, all the hills, which
but an instant before looked cold and silent, became like so many volcanoes in eruption, but
that Ney became still more elevated at it: then with a burst of enthusiasm that seemed to return
every time they had occasion to mention his name in their narrative, they added, that in the
midst of all this fire that ardent man seemed to breathe an element exclusively his own.

Kutusoff had not deceived him. On the one side, there were eighty thousand men in complete
ranks, full, deep, well-fed, and in double lines, a numerous cavalry, an immense artillery
occupying a formidable position, in short, every thing, and fortune to boot, which alone is
equal to all the rest. On the other side, five thousand soldiers, a straggling and dismembered
column, a wavering and languishing march, arms defective and dirty, the greatest part mute
and tottering in enfeebled hands.

And yet the French leader had no thought of yielding, nor even of dying, but of penetrating
and cutting his way through the enemy; and that without the least idea that he was attempting
a sublime effort. Alone, and looking no where for support, while all were supported by him,
he followed the impulse of a strong natural temperament, and the pride of a conqueror, whom
the habit of gaining improbable victories had impressed with the belief that every thing was
possible.

But what most astonished them, was, that they had been all so docile; for all had shown themselves
worthy of him, and they added, that it was there they clearly saw that it is not merely great
obstinacy, great designs, or great temerity which constitute the great man, but principally
the power of influencing and supporting others.

Ricard and his fifteen hundred soldiers were in front. Ney impelled them against the enemy,
and prepared the rest of his army to follow them. That division descended with the road into
the ravine, but in ascending, was driven back into it, overwhelmed by the first Russian line.

The marshal, without being intimidated, or allowing others to be so, collected the survivors,
placed them in reserve, and proceeded forward in their place; Ledru, Razont, and Marchand seconded
him. He ordered four hundred Illyrians to take the enemy on their left flank, and with three
thousand men, he himself mounted in front to the assault. He made no harangue; he marched at
their head, setting the example, which, in a hero, is the most eloquent of all oratorical movements,
and the most imperious of all orders. All followed him. They attacked, penetrated, and overturned
the first Russian line, and without halting were precipitating themselves upon the second;
but before they could reach it, a volley of artillery and grape shot poured down upon them.
In an instant Ney saw all his generals wounded, the greatest part of his soldiers killed; their
ranks were empty, their shapeless column whirled round, tottered, fell back, and drew him along
with it.

Ney found that he had attempted an impossibility, and he waited until the flight of his men
had once more placed the ravine between them and the enemy, that ravine which was now his sole
resource; there, equally hopeless and fearless, he halted and rallied them. He drew up two
thousand men against eighty thousand; he returned the fire of two hundred cannon with six pieces,
and made fortune blush that she should ever betray such courage.

She it was, doubtless, who then struck Kutusoff with the palsy of inertness. To their infinite
surprise, they saw this Russian Fabius running into extremes like all imitators, persisting
in what he called his humanity and prudence, remaining upon his heights with his pompous virtues,
without allowing himself, or daring to conquer, as if he was astonished at his own superiority.
Seeing that Napoleon had been conquered by his rashness, he pushed his horror of that fault
to the very extreme of the opposite vice.

It required, however, but a transport of indignation in any one of the Russian corps to have
completely extinguished them; but all were afraid to make a decisive movement; they remained
clinging to their soil with the immobility of slaves, as if they had no boldness but in their
watchword, or energy but in their obedience. This discipline, which formed their glory in their
retreat, was their disgrace in ours.

They were for a long time uncertain, not knowing which enemy they were fighting with; for they
had imagined that Ney had retreated from Smolensk by the right bank of the Dnieper; they were
mistaken, as is frequently the case, from supposing that their enemy had done what he ought
to have done.

At the same time, the Illyrians had returned completely in disorder; they had had a most singular
adventure. In their advance to the left flank of the enemy's position, these four hundred men
had met with five thousand Russians returning from a partial engagement, with a French eagle,
and several of our soldiers prisoners.

These two hostile troops, the one returning to its position, the other going to attack it,
advanced in the same direction, side by side, measuring each other with their eyes, but neither
of them venturing to commence the engagement. They marched so close to each other, that from
the middle of the Russian ranks the French prisoners stretched out their arms towards their
friends, conjuring them to come and deliver them. The latter called out to them to come to
them, and they would receive and defend them; but no one moved on either side. Just then Ney
was overthrown, and they retreated along with him.

Kutusoff, however, relying more on his artillery than his soldiers, sought only to conquer
at a distance. His fire so completely commanded all the ground occupied by the French, that
the same bullet which prostrated a man in the first rank proceeded to deal destruction in the
last of the train of carriages, among the women who had fled from Moscow.

Under this murderous hail, Ney's soldiers remained astonished, motionless, looking at their
chief, waiting his decision to be satisfied that they were lost, hoping they knew not why,
or rather, according to the remark of one of their officers, because in the midst of this extreme
peril they saw his spirit calm and tranquil, like any thing in its place. His countenance became
silent and devout; he was watching the enemy's army, which, becoming more suspicious since
the successful artifice of Prince Eugene, extended itself to a great distance on his flanks,
in order to shut him out from all means of preservation.

The approach of night began to render objects indistinct; winter, which in that sole point
was favourable to our retreat, brought it on quickly. Ney had been waiting for it, but the
advantage he took of the respite was to order his men to return to Smolensk. They all said
that at these words they remained frozen with astonishment. Even his aide-de-camp could not
believe his ears; he remained silent like one who did not understand what he heard, and looked
at his general with amazement. But the marshal repeated the same order; in his brief and imperious
tone, they recognized a resolution taken, a resource discovered, that self-confidence which
inspires others with the same quality, and a spirit which commands his position, however strong
that may be. They immediately obeyed, and without hesitation turned their backs on their own
army, on Napoleon, and on France! They returned once more into that fatal Russia. Their retrograde
march lasted an hour; they passed again over the field of battle marked by the remains of the
army of Italy; there they halted, and their marshal, who had remained alone in the rear-guard,
then rejoined them.

Their eyes followed his every movement. What was he going to do; and whatever might be his
plan, whither would he direct his steps, without a guide, in an unknown country? But he, with
his warlike instinct, halted on the edge of a ravine of such depth, as to make it probable
that a rivulet ran through it. He made them clear away the snow and break the ice; then consulting
his map, he exclaimed "That this was one of the streams which flowed into the Dnieper! this
must be our guide, and we must follow it; that it would lead us to that river, which we must
cross, and that on the other side we should be safe!" He immediately proceeded in that direction.

However at a little distance from the high road which he had abandoned, he again halted in
a village, the name of which they knew not, but believed that it was either Fomina, or Danikowa.
There he rallied his troops, and made them light their fires, as if he intended to take up
his quarters in it for the night. Some Cossacks who followed him took it for granted, and no
doubt sent immediately to apprise Kutusoff of the spot where, next day, a French marshal would
surrender his arms to him; for shortly after the noise of their cannon was heard.

Ney listened: "Is this Davoust at last," he exclaimed, "who has recollected me?" and he listened
a second time. But there were regular intervals between the firing; it was a salvo. Being then
fully satisfied that the Russian army was triumphing by anticipation over his captivity, he
swore he would give the lie to their joy, and immediately resumed his march.

At the same time his Poles ransacked the country. A lame peasant was the only inhabitant they
had discovered; this was an unlooked-for piece of good fortune. He informed them that they
were within the distance of a league from the Dnieper, but that it was not fordable there,
and could not yet be frozen over. "It will be so," was the marshal's remark; but when it was
observed to him that the thaw had just commenced, he added "that it did not signify, we must
pass, as there was no other resource."

At last, about eight o'clock, after passing through a village, the ravine terminated, and the
lame Russian, who walked first, halted and pointed to the river. They imagined that this must
have been between Syrokorenia and Gusinoé. Ney, and those immediately behind him, ran up to
it. They found the river sufficiently frozen to bear their weight, the course of the flakes
which it bore along to that point, being counteracted by a sudden turn in its banks, was there
suspended; the winter had completely frozen it over only in that single spot; both above and
below it, its surface was still moveable.

This observation was sufficient to make their first sensation of joy give way to uneasiness.
This hostile river might only offer them a treacherous appearance. One officer devoted himself
for the rest; he crossed to the other side with great difficulty. He returned and reported,
that the men, and perhaps some of the horses might pass over, but that the rest must be abandoned,
and there was no time to lose, as the ice was beginning to give way in consequence of the thaw.

But in this nocturnal and silent march across fields, of a column composed of weakened and
wounded men, and women with their children, they had been unable to keep close enough, to prevent
their extending, separating, and losing the traces of each other in the darkness. Ney perceived
that only a part of his people had come up; nevertheless, he might have always surmounted the
obstacle, thereby secured his own safety, and waited on the other side. The idea never once
entered his mind; some one proposed it to him, but he rejected it instantly. He allowed three
hours for the rallying; and without suffering himself to be agitated by impatience, or the
danger of waiting so long, he wrapped himself up in his cloak, and passed these three dangerous
hours in a profound sleep on the bank of the river. So much did he possess of the temperament
of great men, a strong mind in a robust body, and that vigorous health, without which no man
can ever expect to be a hero.

CHAP. IX.

At last, about midnight, the passage began; but the first persons who ventured on the ice,
called out that the ice was bending under them, that it was sinking, that they were up to their
knees in water; immediately after which that frail support was heard splitting with frightful
cracks, which were prolonged in the distance, as in the breaking up of a frost. All halted
in consternation.

Ney ordered them to pass only one at a time; they proceeded with caution, not knowing sometimes
in the darkness if they were putting their feet on the flakes or into a chasm; for there were
places where they were obliged to clear large crevices, and jump from one piece of ice to another,
at the risk of falling between them and disappearing for ever. The first hesitated, but those
who were behind kept calling to them to make haste.

When at last, after several of these dreadful panics, they reached the opposite bank and fancied
themselves saved, a perpendicular steep, entirely covered with rime, again opposed their landing.
Many were thrown back upon the ice which they broke in their fall, or which bruised them. By
their account, this Russian river and its banks appeared only to have contributed with regret,
by surprise, and as it were by compulsion, to their escape.

But what seemed to affect them with the greatest horror in their relation, was the trouble
and distraction of the females and the sick, when it became necessary to abandon, along with
the baggage, the remains of their fortune, their provisions, and in short, their whole resources
against the present and the future. They saw them stripping themselves, selecting, throwing
away, taking up again, and falling with exhaustion and grief upon the frozen bank of the river.
They seemed to shudder again at the recollection of the horrible sight of so many men scattered
over that abyss, the continual noise of persons falling, the cries of such as sunk in, and,
above all, of the wailing and despair of the wounded, who, from their carts, which durst not
venture on this weak support, stretched out their hands to their companions, and intreated
not to be left behind.

Their leader then determined to attempt the passage of several waggons, loaded with these poor
creatures; but in the middle of the river, the ice sunk down and separated. Then were heard,
on the opposite bank, proceeding from the gulf, first, cries of anguish long and piercing,
then stifled and feeble groans, and last of all an awful silence. All had disappeared!

Ney was looking stedfastly at the abyss with an air of consternation, when through the darkness,
he imagined he saw an object still moving; it turned out to be one of those unfortunate persons,
an officer, named Briqueville, whom a deep wound in the groin had disabled from standing upright.
A large piece of ice had borne him up. He was soon distinctly seen, dragging himself from one
piece to another on his knees and hands, and on his getting near enough to the side, the marshal
himself caught hold of, and saved him.

The losses since the preceding day amounted to four thousand stragglers and three thousand
soldiers, either killed, dead, or missing; the cannon and the whole of the baggage were lost;
there remained to Ney scarcely three thousand soldiers, and about as many disbanded men. Finally,
when all these sacrifices were consummated, and all that had been able to cross the river were
collected, they resumed their march, and the vanquished river became once more their friend
and their guide.

They proceeded at random and uncertain, when one of them happening to fall, recognised a beaten
road; it was but too much so, for those who were marching first, stooping and using their hands,
as well as their eyes, halted in alarm, exclaiming, "that they saw the marks quite fresh of
a great quantity of cannon and horses." They had, therefore, only avoided one hostile army
to fall into the midst of another; at a time when they could scarcely walk, they must be again
obliged to fight! The war was therefore everywhere! But Ney made them push on, and without
disturbing himself, continued to follow these menacing traces.

They brought them to a village called Gusinoé, into which they entered suddenly, and seized
every thing; they found in it all that they had been in want of since they left Moscow, inhabitants,
provisions, repose, warm dwellings, and a hundred Cossacks, who awoke to find themselves prisoners.
Their reports, and the necessity of taking some refreshment to enable him to proceed, detained
the marshal there a few minutes.

About ten o'clock, they reached two other villages, and were resting themselves there, when
suddenly they saw the surrounding forests filled with movements. They had scarcely time to
call to each other, to look about, and to concentrate themselves in the village which was nearest
to the Boristhenes, when thousands of Cossacks came pouring out from between the trees, and
surrounded the unfortunate troop with their lances and their cannon.

These were Platof, and his hordes, who were following the right bank of the Dnieper. They might
have burnt the village, discovered the weakness of Ney's force, and exterminated it; but for
three hours they remained motionless, without even firing; for what reason, is not known. The
account since given by themselves is, that they had no orders; that at that moment their leader
was not in a state to give any: and that in Russia no one dares to take upon himself a responsibility
that does not belong to him.

The bold countenance of Ney kept them in check. He himself and a few soldiers were sufficient;
he even ordered the rest of his people to continue their repast till night came on. He then
caused the order to be circulated to decamp in silence, to give notice to each other in a low
tone of voice, and to march as compact as possible. Afterwards, they all began their march
together; but their very first step was like a signal given to the enemy, who immediately discharged
the whole of his artillery at them: all his squadrons also put themselves in movement at once.

At the noise occasioned by this, the disarmed stragglers, of whom there were yet between three
and four thousand, took the alarm. This flock of men wandered here and there; the great mass
of them kept reeling about in uncertainty, sometimes attempting to throw themselves into the
ranks of the soldiers, who drove them back. Ney contrived to keep them between him and the
Russians, whose fire was principally absorbed by these useless beings. The most timid, therefore,
in this instance, served as a covering to the bravest.

At the same time that the marshal made a rampart of these poor wretches to cover his right
flank, he regained the banks of the Dnieper, and by that covered his left flank; he marched
on thus between the two, proceeding from wood to wood, from one turning to another, taking
advantage of all the windings, and of the least accidents of the soil. Whenever he ventured
to any distance from the river, which he was frequently obliged to do, Platof then surrounded
him on all sides.

In this manner, for two days and a distance of twenty leagues, did six thousand Cossacks keep
constantly buzzing about the flanks of their column, now reduced to fifteen hundred men in
arms, keeping it in a state of siege, disappearing before its sallies, and returning again
instantly, like their Scythian ancestors; but with this fatal difference, that they managed
their cannon mounted on sledges, and discharged their bullets in their flight, with the same
agility which their forefathers exhibited in the management of their bows and the discharge
of their arrows.

The night brought some relief, and at first they plunged into the darkness with a degree of
joy; but then, if any one halted for a moment to bid a last adieu to some worn out or wounded
comrade, who sunk to rise no more, he ran the risk of losing the traces of his column. Under
such circumstances there were many cruel moments, and not a few instances of despair. At last,
however, the enemy slackened his pursuit.

This unfortunate column was proceeding more tranquilly, groping its way through a thick wood,
when all at once, a few paces before it, a brilliant light and several discharges of cannon
flashed in the faces of the men in the first rank. Seized with terror, they fancied that there
was an end of them, that they were cut off, that their end was now come, and they fell down
terrified; those who were behind, got entangled among them, and were brought to the ground.
Ney, who saw that all was lost, rushed forward, ordered the charge to be beat, and, as if he
had foreseen the attack, called out, "Comrades, now is your time: forward! They are our prisoners!"
At these words, his soldiers, who but a minute before were in consternation, and fancied themselves
surprised, believed they were about to surprise their foes; from being vanquished, they rose
up conquerors; they rushed upon the enemy, who had already disappeared, and whose precipitate
flight through the forest they heard at a distance.

They passed quickly through this wood; but about ten o'clock at night, they met with a small
river embanked in a deep ravine, which they were obliged to cross one by one, as they had done
the Dnieper. Intent on the pursuit of these poor fellows, the Cossacks again got sight of them,
and tried to take advantage of that moment: but Ney, by a few discharges of his musketry, again
repulsed them. They surmounted this obstacle with difficulty, and in an hour after reached
a large village, where hunger and exhaustion compelled them to halt for two hours longer.

The next day, the 19th of Nov., from midnight till ten o'clock in the morning, they kept marching
on, without meeting any other enemy than a hilly country; about that time Platof's columns
again made their appearance, and Ney halted and faced them, under the protection of the skirts
of a wood. As long as the day lasted, his soldiers were obliged to resign themselves to see
the enemy's bullets overturning the trees which served to shelter them, and furrowing their
bivouacs; for they had now nothing but small arms, which could not keep the Cossack artillery
at a sufficient distance.

On the return of night, the marshal gave the usual signal, and they proceeded on their march
to Orcha. During the preceding day, he had already despatched thither Pchébendowski with fifty
horse, to require assistance; they must already have arrived there, unless the enemy had already
gained possession of that town.

Ney's officers concluded their narrative by saying, that during the rest of their march, they
had met with several formidable obstacles, but that they did not think them worth relating.
They continued, however, speaking enthusiastically of their marshal, and making us sharers
of their admiration of him; for even his equals had no idea of being jealous of him. He had
been too much regretted, and his preservation had excited too agreeable emotions, to allow
envy to have any part in them; besides, Ney had placed himself completely beyond its reach.
As to himself, in all this heroism, he had gone so little beyond his natural disposition, that
had it not been for the éclat of his glory in the eyes, the gestures, and the acclamations
of every one, he would never have imagined that he had done a sublime action.

And this was not an enthusiasm of surprise. Each of the latter days had had its remarkable
men; amongst others, that of the 16th had Eugene, that of the 17th Mortier; but from this time,
Ney was universally proclaimed the hero of the retreat.

The distance between Smolensk and Orcha is hardly five days' march. In that short passage,
what a harvest of glory had been reaped! how little space and time are required to establish
an immortal renown! Of what nature then are these great inspirations, that invisible and impalpable
germ of great devotion, produced in a few moments, issuing from a single heart, and which must
fill time and eternity?

When Napoleon, who was two leagues farther on, heard that Ney had just re-appeared, he leaped
and shouted for joy, and exclaimed, "I have then saved my eagles! I would have given three
hundred millions from my treasury, sooner than have lost such a man."

BOOK XI.

CHAP. I.

The army had thus for the third and last time repassed the Dnieper, a river half Russian and
half Polish, but of Russian origin. It runs from east to west as far as Orcha, where it appears
as if it would penetrate into Poland; but there the heights of Lithuania oppose its farther
progress, and compel it to turn towards the south, and to become the frontier of the two countries.

Kutusoff and his eighty thousand Russians halted before this feeble obstacle. Hitherto they
had been rather the spectators than the authors of our calamities; we saw them no more; our
army was released from the punishment of their joy.

In this war, and as always happens, the character of Kutusoff availed him more than his talents.
So long as it was necessary to deceive and temporize, his crafty spirit, his indolence, and
his great age, acted of themselves; he was the creature of circumstances, which he ceased to
be as soon as it became necessary to march rapidly, to pursue, to anticipate, and to attack.

But after passing Smolensk, Platof passed over to the right flank of the road, in order to
join Wittgenstein. The war was then entirely transferred to that side.

On the 22d of November, the army had a disagreeable march from Orcha to Borizof, on a wide
road, (skirted by a double row of large birch trees,) in which the snow had melted, and through
a deep and liquid mud. The weakest were drowned in it; it detained and delivered to the Cossacks
such of our wounded, as, under the idea of a continuance of the frost, had exchanged their
waggons for sledges.

In the midst of this gradual decay, an action was witnessed exhibiting something of antique
energy. Two marines of the guard were cut off from their column by a band of Cossacks, who
seemed determined to take them. One became discouraged, and wished to surrender; the other
continued to fight, and called out to him, that if he was coward enough to do so, he would
certainly shoot him. In fact, seeing his companion throw away his musket, and stretching out
his arms to the enemy, he brought him to the ground just as he fell into the hands of the Cossacks;
then profiting by their surprise, he quickly reloaded his musket, with which he threatened
the most forward. He kept them thus at bay, retreated from tree to tree, gained ground upon
them, and succeeded in rejoining his troop.

It was during the first days of the march to Borizof, that the news of the fall of Minsk became
generally known in the army. The leaders themselves began then to look around them with consternation;
their imagination, tormented with such a long continuance of frightful spectacles, gave them
glimpses of a still more fatal futurity. In their private conversations, several exclaimed,
that, "like Charles XII. in the Ukraine, Napoleon had carried his army to Moscow only to destroy
it."

Others would not agree in attributing the calamities we at present suffered to that incursion.
Without wishing to excuse the sacrifices to which we had submitted, by the hope of terminating
the war in a single campaign, they asserted, "that that hope had been well founded; that in
pushing his line of operation as far as Moscow, Napoleon had given to that lengthened column
a base sufficiently broad and solid."

They showed "the trace of this base marked out by the Düna, the Dnieper, the Ula, and the Berezina,
from Riga to Bobruisk; they said that Macdonald, Saint Cyr and De Wrede, Victor and Dombrowski
were there waiting for them; there were thus, including Schwartzenberg, and even Augereau,
(who protected the interval between the Elbe and the Niemen with fifty thousand men,) nearly
two hundred and eighty thousand soldiers on the defensive, who, from the north to the south,
supported the attack of one hundred and fifty thousand men upon the east; and from thence they
argued, that this point upon Moscow, however hazardous it might appear, had been both sufficiently
prepared, and was worthy of the genius of Napoleon, and that its success was possible; in fact,
its failure had been entirely occasioned by errors of detail."

They then brought to mind our useless waste of lives before Smolensk, Junot's inaction at Valoutina,
and they maintained, "that in spite of all these losses, Russia would have been completely
conquered on the field of battle of the Moskwa, if Marshal Ney's first successes had been followed
up.

"Even at the last, although the expedition had failed in a military point of view, by the indecision
of that day, and politically by the burning of Moscow, the army might still have returned from
it safe and sound. From the time of our entrance into that capital, had not the Russian general
and the Russian winter allowed us, the one forty, and the other fifty days, to recover ourselves,
and to make our retreat?"

Deploring afterwards the rash obstinacy of losing so much time at Moscow, and the fatal hesitation
at Malo-Yaroslawetz, they proceeded to reckon up their losses. Since their leaving Moscow,
they had lost all their baggage, five hundred cannon, thirty-one eagles, twenty-seven generals,
forty thousand prisoners, sixty thousand dead: all that remained were forty thousand stragglers,
unarmed, and eight thousand effective soldiers.

Last of all, when their column of attack had been destroyed, they asked, "by what fatality
it had happened, that the remains of this column, when collected at its base, which had been
vigorously supported, were left without knowing where to halt, or to take breath? Why could
they not even concentrate themselves at Minsk and at Wilna, behind the marshes of the Berezina,
and there keep back the enemy, at least for some time, take advantage of the winter and recruit
themselves?

"But no, all is lost by another side, by the fault of entrusting an Austrian to guard the magazines,
and cover the retreat of all these brave armies, and not placing a military leader at Wilna
or Minsk, with a force sufficient either to supply the insufficiency of the Austrian army to
meet the combined armies of Moldavia and Volhynia, or to prevent its betraying us."

Those who made such complaints were not unaware of the presence of the Duke of Bassano at Wilna;
but notwithstanding the talents of that minister, and the great confidence the Emperor placed
in him, they considered that being a stranger to the art of war, and overloaded with the cares
of a great administration, and of every thing political, the direction of military affairs
should not have been left to him. Such were the complaints of those, whose sufferings left
them the leisure necessary for observation. That a fault had been committed, it was impossible
to deny; but to say how it might have been avoided, to weigh the value of the motives which
had occasioned it, in so great a crisis, and in the presence of so great a man, is more than
one would venture to undertake. Who is there besides that does not know, that in these hazardous
and gigantic enterprises, every thing becomes a fault, when the object of them has failed?

Although the treachery of Schwartzenberg was by no means so evident, it is certain, that, with
the exception of the three French generals who were with him, the whole of the grand army considered
it as beyond a doubt. They said, "that Walpole's only object at Vienna was to act as a secret
agent of England; that he and Metternich composed between them the perfidious instructions
which were sent to Schwartzenberg. Hence it was that ever since the 20th of September, the
day when the arrival of Tchitchakof and the battle of Lutsk closed the victorious career of
Schwartzenberg, that marshal had repassed the Bug, and covered Warsaw by uncovering Minsk;
hence his perseverance in that false manoeuvre: hence, after a feeble effort towards Bresk-litowsky
on the 10th of October, his neglect to avail himself of Tchitchakof's inaction by getting between
him and Minsk, and hence his losing his time in military promenades, and insignificant marches
towards Briansk, Bialystok, and Volkowitz.

"He had thus allowed the admiral to take rest, and rally his sixty thousand men, to divide
them into two, to leave one half with Sacken to oppose him, and to set out on the 27th of October
with the other half to take possession of Minsk, of Borizof, of the magazine, of the passage
of Napoleon, and of his winter quarters. Then only did Schwartzenberg put himself in the rear
of this hostile movement, instead of anticipating it, as he had orders to do, leaving Regnier
in the presence of Sacken, and marching so slowly, that from the very first the admiral had
got five marches the start of him.

"On the 14th of November, at Volkowitz, Sacken attacked Regnier, separated him from the Austrians,
and pressed him so closely, that he was obliged to call Schwartzenberg to his aid. Immediately,
the latter, as if he had been expecting the summons, retrograded, leaving Minsk to its fate.
It is true that he released Regnier, that he beat Sacken and destroyed half his army, pursuing
him as far as the Bug; but on the 16th of November, the very day of his victory, Minsk was
taken by Tchitchakof: this was a double victory for Austria. Thus all appearances were preserved;
the new field-marshal satisfied the wishes of his government, which was equally the enemy of
the Russians whom he had just weakened on one side, and of Napoleon, whom on the other he had
betrayed to them."

Such was the language of almost the whole of the grand army; its leader was silent, either
because he expected no more zeal on the part of an ally, or from policy, or because he believed
that Schwartzenberg had acted with sufficient honour, in sending him the sort of notice which
he did six weeks before, when he was at Moscow.

However, he did address some reproaches to the field-marshal. To these the latter replied,
by complaining bitterly, first, of the double and contradictory instructions which he had received,
to cover Warsaw and Minsk at the same time; and second, of the false news which had been transmitted
to him by the Duke of Bassano.

He said, "that minister had constantly represented to him that the grand army was retreating
safe and sound, in good order, and always formidable. Why had he been trifled with, by sending
him bulletins made to deceive the idlers of the capital? His only reason for not making greater
efforts to join the grand army was, because he believed that it was fully able to protect itself."

He also alleged his own weakness. "How could it be expected that with twenty-eight thousand
men he could so long keep sixty thousand in check? In that situation, if Tchitchakof stole
a few marches on him, was it at all wonderful? Had he then hesitated to follow him, to leave
Gallicia, his point of departure, his magazines, and his depôt? If he ceased his pursuit, it
was only because Regnier and Durutte, the two French generals, summoned him in the most urgent
manner to come to their assistance. Both they and he had reason to expect that Maret, Oudinôt,
or Victor, would provide for the safety of Minsk."

CHAP. II.

In fact, no one had any right to accuse another of treachery, when we had betrayed ourselves,
for all had been wanting in the time of need.

At Wilna, they appeared to have had no suspicion of the real state of affairs; and at a time
when the garrisons, the depôts, the marching battalions, and the divisions of Durutte, Loison,
and Dombrowski, between the Berezina and the Vistula, might have formed at Minsk an army of
thirty thousand men, three thousand men, headed by a general of no reputation, were the only
forces which Tchitchakof found there to oppose him. It was a known fact that this handful of
young soldiers was exposed in front of a river, into which they were precipitated by the admiral,
whereas, if they had been placed on the other side, that obstacle would have protected them
for some time.

For thus, as frequently happens, the faults of the general plan had led to faults of detail.
The governor of Minsk had been negligently chosen. He was, it was said, one of those men who
undertake every thing, who promise every thing, and who do nothing. On the 16th of November,
he lost that capital, and with it four thousand seven hundred sick, the warlike ammunition,
and two million rations of provisions. It was five days since the news of this loss had reached
Dombrowna, and the news of a still greater calamity came on the heels of it.

This same governor had retreated towards Borizof. There he neglected to inform Oudinôt, who
was only at the distance of two marches, to come to his assistance; and failed to support Dombrowski,
who made a hasty march thither from Bobruisk and Igumen. The latter did not arrive, however,
in the night of the 20th and 21st, at the tête-du-pont, until after the enemy had taken possession
of it; notwithstanding, he expelled Tchitchakof's vanguard, took possession of it, and defended
himself gallantly there until the evening of the 21st; but being then overwhelmed by the fire
of the Russian artillery, which took him in flank, and attacked by a force more than double
his own, he was driven across the river, and out of the town, as far as the road to Moscow.

Napoleon was wholly unprepared for this disaster; he fancied that he had completely prevented
it by the instructions he had sent to Victor from Moscow, on the 6th of October. These instructions
"anticipated a warm attack from Wittgenstein or Tchitchakof; they recommended Victor to keep
within reach of Polotsk and of Minsk; to have a prudent, discreet, and intelligent officer
about Schwartzenberg; to keep up a regular correspondence with Minsk, and to send other agents
in different directions."

But Wittgenstein having made his attack before Tchitchakof, the nearer and more pressing danger
had attracted every one's attention; the wise instructions of the 6th of October had not been
repeated by Napoleon, and they appeared to have been entirely forgotten by his lieutenant.
Finally, when the Emperor learned at Dombrowna the loss of Minsk, he had no idea that Borizof
was in such imminent danger, as when he passed the next day through Orcha, he had the whole
of his bridge-equipage burnt.

His correspondence also of the 20th of November with Victor proved his security; it supposed
that Oudinôt would have nearly arrived on the 25th at Borizof, while that place had been taken
possession of by Tchitchakof on the 21st.

It was on the day immediately subsequent to that fatal catastrophe, at the distance of three
marches from Borizof, and upon the high road, that an officer arrived and announced to Napoleon
this fresh disaster. The Emperor, striking the ground with his stick, and darting a furious
look to heaven, pronounced these words, "It is then written above that we shall now commit
nothing but faults!"

Meanwhile Marshal Oudinôt, who was already marching towards Minsk, totally ignorant of what
had happened, halted on the 21st between Bobr and Kroupki, when in the middle of the night
General Brownikowski arrived to announce to him his own defeat, as well as that of General
Dombrowski; that Borizof was taken, and that the Russians were following hard at his heels.

On the 22d the marshal marched to meet them, and rallied the remains of Dombrowski's force.

On the 23d, at three leagues on the other side of Borizof, he came in contact with the Russian
vanguard, which he overthrew, taking from it nine hundred men and fifteen hundred carriages,
and drove back by the united force of his artillery, infantry, and cavalry, as far as the Berezina;
but the remains of Lambert's force, on repassing Borizof and that river, destroyed the bridge.

Napoleon was then at Toloczina: he made them describe to him the position of Borizof. They
assured him that at that point the Berezina was not merely a river but a lake of moving ice;
that the bridge was three hundred fathoms in length; that it had been irreparably destroyed,
and the passage by it rendered completely impracticable.

At that moment arrived a general of engineers, who had just returned from the Duke of Belluno's
corps. Napoleon interrogated him; the general declared "that he saw no means of escape but
through the middle of Wittgenstein's army." The Emperor replied, "that he must find a direction
in which he could turn his back to all the enemy's generals, to Kutusoff, to Wittgenstein,
to Tchitchakof;" and he pointed with his finger on the map to the course of the Berezina below
Borizof; it was there he wished to cross the river. But the general objected to him the presence
of Tchitchakof on the right bank; the Emperor then pointed to another passage below the first,
and then to a third, still nearer to the Dnieper. Recollecting, however, that he was then approaching
the country of the Cossacks, he stopped short, and exclaimed, "Oh yes! Pultawa! that is like
Charles XII.!"

In fact, every disaster which Napoleon could anticipate had occurred; the melancholy conformity,
therefore, of his situation with that of the Swedish conqueror, threw his mind into such a
state of agitation, that his health became still more seriously affected than it had been at
Malo-Yaroslawetz. Among the expressions he made use of, loud enough to be overheard, was this:
"See what happens when we heap faults on faults!"

Nevertheless, these first movements were the only ones that had escaped him, and the valet-de-chambre
who assisted him, was the only person that witnessed his agitation. Duroc, Daru, and Berthier
have all said, that they knew nothing of it, that they saw him unshaken; this was very true,
humanly speaking, as he retained sufficient command over himself to avoid betraying his anxiety,
and as the strength of man most frequently consists in concealing his weakness.

A remarkable conversation, which was overheard the same night, will show better than any thing
else, how critical was his position, and how well he bore it. It was getting late; Napoleon
had gone to bed. Duroc and Daru, who remained in his chamber, fancying that he was asleep,
were giving way, in whispers, to the most gloomy conjectures; he overheard them, however, and
the word "prisoner of state," coming to his ear, "How!" exclaimed he, "do you believe they
would dare?" Daru, after his first surprise, immediately answered, "that if we were compelled
to surrender, we must be prepared for every thing; that he had no reliance on an enemy's generosity;
that we knew too well that great state-policy considered itself identified with morality, and
was regulated by no law." "But France," said the Emperor, "what would France say?" "Oh, as
to France," continued Daru, "we are at liberty to make a thousand conjectures more or less
disagreeable, but none of us can know what will take place there." And he then added, "that
for the sake of the Emperor's chief officers, as well as the Emperor himself, the most fortunate
thing would be, if by the air or otherwise, as the earth was closed upon us, the Emperor could
reach France, from whence he could much more certainly provide for their safety, than by remaining
among them!" "Then I suppose I am in your way?" replied the Emperor, smiling. "Yes, Sire."
"And you have no wish to be a prisoner of state?" Daru replied in the same tone, "that it was
enough for him to be a prisoner of war." On which the Emperor remained for some time in a profound
silence; then with a more serious air: "Are all the reports of my ministers burnt?" "Sire,
hitherto you would not allow that to be done." "Very well, go and destroy them; for it must
be confessed, we are in a most melancholy position." This was the sole avowal which it wrested
from him, and on that idea he went to sleep, knowing, when it was necessary, how to postpone
every thing to the next day.

His orders displayed equal firmness. Oudinôt had just sent to inform him of his determination
to overthrow Lambert; this he approved of, and he also urged him to make himself master of
a passage, either above or below Borizof. He expressed his anxiety, that by the 24th this passage
should be fixed on, and the preparations begun, and that he should be apprised of it, in order
to make his march correspond. Far from thinking of making his escape through the midst of these
three hostile armies, his only idea now was, that of beating Tchitchakof, and retaking Minsk.

It is true, that eight hours afterwards, in a second letter to the Duke of Reggio, he resigned
himself to cross the Berezina near Veselowo, and to retreat directly upon Wilna by Vileika,
avoiding the Russian admiral.

But on the 24th he learned that the passage could only be attempted near Studzianka; that at
that spot the river was only fifty-four fathoms wide, and six feet deep; that they would land
on the other side, in a marsh, under the fire of a commanding position strongly occupied by
the enemy.

CHAP. III.

All hope of passing between the Russian armies was thus lost; driven by the armies of Kutusoff
and Wittgenstein upon the Berezina, there was no alternative but to cross that river in the
teeth of the army of Tchitchakof, which lined its banks.

Ever since the 23d, Napoleon had been preparing for it, as for a desperate action. And first
he had the eagles of all the corps brought to him, and burnt. He formed into two battalions,
eighteen hundred dismounted cavalry of his guard, of whom only eleven hundred and fifty-four
were armed with muskets and carbines.

The cavalry of the army of Moscow was so completely destroyed, that Latour-Maubourg had not
now remaining under his command more than one hundred and fifty men on horseback. The Emperor
collected around his person all the officers of that arm who were still mounted; he styled
this troop, of about five hundred officers, his sacred squadron. Grouchy and Sebastiani had
the command of them; generals of division served in it as captains.

Napoleon ordered further that all the useless carriages should be burnt; that no officer should
keep more than one; that half the waggons and carriages of all the corps should also be burnt,
and that the horses should be given to the artillery of the guard. The officers of that arm
had orders to take all the draught-cattle within their reach, even the horses of the Emperor
himself, sooner than abandon a single cannon, or ammunition waggon.

After giving these orders, he plunged into the gloomy and immense forest of Minsk, in which
a few hamlets and wretched habitations have scarcely cleared a few open spots. The noise of
Wittgenstein's artillery filled it with its echo. That Russian general came rushing from the
north upon the right flank of our expiring column; he brought back with him the winter which
had quitted us at the same time with Kutusoff; the news of his threatening march quickened
our steps. From forty to fifty thousand men, women, and children, glided through this forest
as precipitately as their weakness and the slipperiness of the ground, from the frost beginning
again to set in, would allow.

These forced marches, commenced before daylight, and which did not finish at its close, dispersed
all that had remained together. They lost themselves in the darkness of these great forests
and long nights. They halted at night and resumed their march in the morning, in darkness,
at random, and without hearing the signal; the dissolution of the remains of the corps was
then completed; all were mixed and confounded together.

In this last stage of weakness and confusion, as we were approaching Borizof, we heard loud
cries before us. Some ran forward fancying it was an attack. It was Victor's army, which had
been feebly driven back by Wittgenstein to the right side of our road, where it remained waiting
for the Emperor to pass by. Still quite complete and full of animation, it received the Emperor,
as soon as he made his appearance, with the customary but now long forgotten acclamations.

Of our disasters it knew nothing; they had been carefully concealed even from its leaders.
When therefore, instead of that grand column which had conquered Moscow, its soldiers perceived
behind Napoleon only a train of spectres covered with rags, with female pelisses, pieces of
carpet, or dirty cloaks, half burnt and holed by the fires, and with nothing on their feet
but rags of all sorts, their consternation was extreme. They looked terrified at the sight
of those unfortunate soldiers, as they defiled before them, with lean carcasses, faces black
with dirt, and hideous bristly beards, unarmed, shameless, marching confusedly, with their
heads bent, their eyes fixed on the ground and silent, like a troop of captives.

But what astonished them more than all, was to see the number of colonels and generals scattered
about and isolated, who seemed only occupied about themselves, and to think of nothing but
saving the wrecks of their property or their persons; they were marching pell-mell with the
soldiers, who did not notice them, to whom they had no longer any commands to give, and of
whom they had nothing to expect, all ties between them being broken, and all ranks effaced
by the common misery.

The soldiers of Victor and Oudinôt could not believe their eyes. Moved with compassion, their
officers, with tears in their eyes, detained such of their companions as they recognised in
the crowd. They first supplied them with clothes and provisions, and then asked them where
were their corps d'armée? And when the others pointed them out, seeing, instead of so many
thousand men, only a weak platoon of officers and non-commissioned officers round a commanding
officer, their eyes still kept on the look out.

The sight of so great a disaster struck the second and the ninth corps with discouragement,
from the very first day. Disorder, the most contagious of all evils, attacked them; for it
would seem as if order was an effort against nature. And yet the disarmed, and even the dying,
although they were now fully aware that they had to fight their way across a river, and through
a fresh enemy, never doubted of their being victorious.

It was now merely the shadow of an army, but it was the shadow of the grand army. It felt conscious
that nature alone had vanquished it. The sight of its Emperor revived it. It had been long
accustomed not to look to him for its means of support, but solely to lead it to victory. This
was its first unfortunate campaign, and it had had so many fortunate ones! it only required
to be able to follow him. He alone, who had elevated his soldiers so high, and now sunk them
so low, was yet able to save them. He was still, therefore, cherished in the heart of his army,
like hope in the heart of man.

Thus, amid so many beings who might have reproached him with their misfortunes, he marched
on without the least fear, speaking to one and all without affectation, certain of being respected
as long as glory could command our respect. Knowing perfectly that he belonged to us, as much
as we to him, his renown being a species of national property, we should have sooner turned
our arms against ourselves, (which was the case with many,) than against him, and it was a
minor suicide.

Some of them fell and died at his feet, and though in the most frightful delirium, their sufferings
never gave its wanderings the turn of reproach, but of entreaty. And in fact did not he share
the common danger? Which of them all risked so much as he? Who suffered the greatest loss,
in this disaster?

If any imprecations were uttered, it was not in his presence; it seemed, that of all misfortunes,
that of incurring his displeasure was still the greatest; so rooted were their confidence in,
and submission to that man who had subjected the world to them; whose genius, hitherto uniformly
victorious and infallible, had assumed the place of their free-will, and who having so long
in his hands the book of pensions, of rank, and of history, had found wherewithal to satisfy
not only covetous spirits, but also every generous heart.

CHAP. IV.

We were now approaching the most critical moment; Victor was in the rear with 15,000 men; Oudinôt
in front with 5,000, and already on the Berezina; the Emperor, between them, with 7,000 men,
40,000 stragglers, and an enormous quantity of baggage and artillery, the greatest part of
which belonged to the second and the ninth corps.

On the 25th, as he was about to reach the Berezina, he appeared to linger on his march. He
halted every instant on the high road, waiting for night to conceal his arrival from the enemy,
and to allow the Duke of Reggio time to evacuate Borizof.

This marshal, when he entered that town upon the 23d, found the bridge, which was 300 fathoms
in length, destroyed at three different points, and that the vicinity of the enemy rendered
it impossible to repair it. He had ascertained, that on his left, two miles lower down the
river, there was, near Oukoholda, a deep and unsafe ford; that at the distance of a mile above
Borizof, namely, at Stadhof, there was another, but of difficult approach. Finally, he had
learned within the last two days, that at Studzianka, two leagues above Stadhof, there was
a third passage;--for the knowledge of this he was indebted to Corbineau's brigade.

This was the same brigade which the Bavarian general, De Wrede, had taken from the second corps,
in his march to Smoliantzy. He had retained it until he reached Dokszitzi, from whence he sent
it back to the second corps by way of Borizof. When Corbineau arrived there, he found Tchitchakof
already in possession of it, and was compelled to make his retreat by ascending the Berezina,
and concealing his force in the forests which border that river. Not knowing at what point
to cross it, he accidentally saw a Lithuanian peasant, whose horse seemed to be quite wet,
as if he had just come through it. He laid hold of this man, and made him his guide; he got
up behind him, and crossed the river at a ford opposite to Studzianka. He immediately rejoined
Oudinôt, and informed him of the discovery he had made.

As Napoleon's intention was to retreat directly upon Wilna, the marshal saw at once that this
passage was the most direct, as well as the least dangerous. It was also observed, that even
if our infantry and artillery should be too closely pressed by Wittgenstein and Kutusoff, and
prevented from crossing the river on bridges, there was at least a certainty, from the ford
having been tried, that the Emperor and the cavalry would be able to pass; that all would not
then be lost, both peace and war, as if Napoleon himself remained in the enemy's hands. The
marshal therefore did not hesitate. In the night of the 23d, the general of artillery, a company
of pontonniers, a regiment of infantry, and the brigade Corbineau, took possession of Studzianka.

At the same time the other two passages were reconnoitred, and both found to be strongly observed.
The object therefore was to deceive and displace the enemy. As force could do nothing, recourse
was had to stratagem; in furtherance of which, on the 24th, three hundred men and several hundred
stragglers were sent towards Oukoholda, with instructions to collect there, with as much noise
as possible, all the necessary materials for the construction of a bridge; the whole division
of the cuirassiers was also made to promenade on that side within view of the enemy.

In addition to this, Major General Lorencé had several Jews sought out and brought to him;
he interrogated them with great apparent minuteness relative to that ford, and the roads leading
from it to Minsk. Then, affecting to be mightily pleased with their answers, and to be satisfied
that there was no better passage to be found, he retained some of these rascals as guides,
and had the others conveyed beyond our out-posts. But to make still more sure of the latter
not keeping their word with him, he made them swear that they would return to meet us, in the
direction of lower Berezina, in order to inform us of the enemy's movements.

While these attempts were making to draw Tchitchakof's attention entirely to the left, the
means of effecting a passage were secretly preparing at Studzianka. It was only on the 25th,
at five in the evening, that Eblé arrived there, followed only by two field forges, two waggons
of coal, six covered waggons of utensils and nails, and some companies of pontonniers. At Smolensk
he had made each workman provide himself with a tool and some cramp-irons.

But the tressels, which had been made the day before, out of the beams of the Polish cabins,
were found to be too weak. The work was all to do over again. It was found to be quite impossible
to finish the bridge during the night; it could only be fixed during the following day, the
26th, in full daylight, and under the enemy's fire; but there was no room for hesitation.

On the first approach of that decisive night, Oudinôt ceded to Napoleon the occupation of Borizof,
and went to take position with the rest of his corps at Studzianka. They marched in the most
profound obscurity, without making the least noise, and mutually recommending to each other
the deepest silence.

By eight o'clock at night Oudinôt and Dombrowski had taken possession of the heights commanding
the passage, while General Eblé descended from them. That general placed himself on the borders
of the river, with his pontonniers and a waggon-load of the irons of abandoned wheels, which
at all hazards he had made into cramp-irons. He had sacrificed every thing to preserve that
feeble resource, and it saved the army.

At the close of the night of the 25th he made them sink the first tressel in the muddy bed
of the river. But to crown our misfortunes, the rising of the waters had made the traces of
the ford entirely disappear. It required the most incredible efforts on the part of our unfortunate
sappers, who were plunged in the water up to their mouths, and had to contend with the floating
pieces of ice which were carried along by the stream. Many of them perished from the cold,
or were drowned by the ice flakes, which a violent wind drove against them.

They had every thing to conquer but the enemy. The rigour of the atmosphere was just at the
degree necessary to render the passage of the river more difficult, without suspending its
course, or sufficiently consolidating the moving ground upon which we were about to venture.
On this occasion the winter showed itself more Russian than even the Russians themselves. The
latter were wanting to their season, which never failed them.

The French laboured during the whole night by the light of the enemy's fires, which shone on
the heights of the opposite bank, and within reach of the artillery and musketry of the division
Tchaplitz. The latter, having no longer any doubt of our intentions, sent to apprise his commander-in-chief.

CHAP. V.

The presence of a hostile division deprived us of all hope of deceiving the Russian admiral.
We were expecting every instant to hear the whole fire of his artillery directed upon our workmen;
and even if he did not discover them until daylight, their labours would not then be sufficiently
advanced; and the opposite bank, being low and marshy, was too much commanded by Tchaplitz's
positions to make it at all possible for us to force a passage.

When he quitted Borizof, therefore, at ten o'clock at night, Napoleon imagined that he was
setting out for a most desperate contest. He settled himself for the night, with the 6,400
guards which still remained to him, at Staroi-Borizof, a chateau belonging to Prince Radzivil,
situated on the right of the road from Borizof to Studzianka, and equidistant from these two
points.

He passed the remainder of that night on his feet, going out every moment, either to listen,
or to repair to the passage where his destiny was accomplishing; for the magnitude of his anxieties
so completely filled his hours, that as each revolved, he fancied that it was morning. Several
times he was reminded of his mistake by his attendants.

Darkness had scarcely disappeared when he joined Oudinôt. The sight of danger tranquillized
him, as it always did; but on seeing the Russian fires and their position, his most determined
generals, such as Rapp, Mortier, and Ney, exclaimed, "that if the Emperor escaped this danger,
they must absolutely believe in the influence of his star!" Murat himself thought it was now
time to think of nothing but saving Napoleon. Some of the Poles proposed it to him.

The Emperor was waiting for the approach of daylight in one of the houses on the borders of
the river, on a steep bank which was crowned with Oudinôt's artillery. Murat obtained access
to him; he declared to his brother-in-law, "that he looked upon the passage as impracticable;
he urged him to save his person while it was yet time. He informed him that he might, without
any danger, cross the Berezina a few leagues above Studzianka; that in five days he would reach
Wilna; that some brave and determined Poles, perfectly acquainted with all the roads, had offered
themselves for his guards, and to be responsible for his safety."

But Napoleon rejected this proposition as an infamous plan, as a cowardly flight, and was indignant
that any one should dare to think for a moment that he would abandon his army, so long as it
was in danger. He was not, however, at all displeased with Murat, probably because that prince
had afforded him an opportunity of showing his firmness, or rather because he saw nothing in
his proposal but a mark of devotion, and because the first quality in the eyes of sovereigns
is attachment to their persons.

At that moment the appearance of daylight made the Russian fires grow pale and disappear. Our
troops stood to their arms, the artillerymen placed themselves by their pieces, the generals
were observing, and the looks of all were steadily directed to the opposite bank, preserving
that silence which betokens great expectation, and is the forerunner of great danger.

Since the day before, every blow struck by our pontonniers, echoing among the woody heights,
must, we concluded, have attracted the whole attention of the enemy. The first dawn of the
26th was therefore expected to display to us his battalions and artillery, drawn up, in front
of the weak scaffolding, to the construction of which Eblé had yet to devote eight hours more.
Doubtless they were only waiting for daylight to enable them to point their cannon with better
aim. When day appeared, we saw their fires abandoned, the bank deserted, and upon the heights,
thirty pieces of artillery in full retreat. A single bullet of theirs would have been sufficient
to annihilate the only plank of safety, which we were about to fix, in order to unite the two
banks; but that artillery retreated exactly as ours was placed in battery.

Farther off, we perceived the rear of a long column, which was moving off towards Borizof without
ever looking behind it; one regiment of infantry, however, and twelve cannon remained, but
without taking up any position; we also saw a horde of Cossacks wandering about the skirts
of the wood: they formed the rear-guard of Tchaplitz's division, six thousand strong, which
was thus retiring, as if for the purpose of delivering up the passage to us.

The French, at first could hardly venture to believe their eyes. At last, transported with
joy, they clapped their hands, and uttered loud shouts. Rapp and Oudinôt rushed precipitately
into the house where the Emperor was. "Sire," they said to him, "the enemy has just raised
his camp, and quitted his position!"--"It is not possible!" he replied; but Ney and Murat just
then entered and confirmed this report. Napoleon immediately darted out; he looked, and could
just see the last files of Tchaplitz's column getting farther off and disappearing in the woods.
Transported with joy, he exclaimed, "I have outwitted the admiral!"

During this first movement, two of the enemy's pieces re-appeared, and fired. An order was
given to remove them by a discharge of our artillery.

One salvo was enough; it was an act of imprudence which was not repeated, for fear of its recalling
Tchaplitz. The bridge was as yet scarcely begun; it was eight o'clock, and the first tressels
were only then fixing.

The Emperor, however, impatient to get possession of the opposite bank, pointed it out to the
bravest. Jacqueminot, aide-de-camp to the Duke of Reggio, and the Lithuanian count Predziecski,
were the first who threw themselves into the river, and in spite of the pieces of ice, which
cut and bled the chests and sides of their horses, succeeded in reaching the other side. Sourd,
chief of the squadron, and fifty chasseurs of the 7th, each carrying a voltigeur en croupe,
followed them, as well as two frail rafts which transported four hundred men in twenty trips.
The Emperor having expressed a wish to have a prisoner to interrogate, Jacqueminot, who overheard
him, had scarcely crossed the river, when he saw one of Tchaplitz's soldiers; he rushed after,
attacked, and disarmed him; then seizing and placing him on the bow of his saddle, he brought
him through the river and the ice to Napoleon.

About one o'clock the bank was entirely cleared of the Cossacks, and the bridge for the infantry
finished. The division Legrand crossed it rapidly with its cannon, the men shouting "Vive l'Empereur!"
in the presence of their sovereign, who was himself actively pressing the passage of the artillery,
and encouraged his brave soldiers by his voice and example.

He exclaimed, when he saw them fairly in possession of the opposite bank, "Behold my star again
appear!" for he was a believer in fatality, like all conquerors, those men, who, having the
largest accounts with Fortune, are fully aware how much they are indebted to her, and who,
moreover, having no intermediate power between themselves and heaven, feel themselves more
immediately under its protection.

CHAP. VI.

At that moment, a Lithuanian nobleman, disguised as a peasant, arrived from Wilna with the
news of Schwartzenberg's victory over Sacken. Napoleon appeared pleased in proclaiming it aloud,
with the addition, that "Schwartzenberg had immediately returned upon the heels of Tchitchakof,
and that he was coming to our assistance." A conjecture, to which the disappearance of Tchaplitz
gave considerable probability.

Meantime, as the first bridge which was just finished had only been made for the infantry,
a second was begun immediately after, a hundred fathoms higher up, for the artillery and baggage,
which was not finished until four o'clock in the afternoon. During that interval, the Duke
of Reggio, with the rest of the second corps, and Dombrowski's division, followed General Legrand
to the other side; they formed about seven thousand men.

The marshal's first care was to secure the road to Zembin, by a detachment which chased some
Cossacks from it; to push the enemy towards Borizof, and to keep him as far back as possible
from the passage of Studzianka.

Tchaplitz, in obedience to the admiral's orders, proceeded as far as Stakhowa, a village close
to Borizof, he then turned back, and encountered the first troops of Oudinôt commanded by Albert.
Both sides halted. The French, finding themselves rather too far off from their main body,
only wanted to gain time, and the Russian general waited for orders.

Tchitchakof had found himself in one of those difficult situations, in which prepossession,
being compelled to fluctuate in uncertainty between several points at once, has no sooner determined
and fixed upon one side, than it removes and gets overturned upon another.

His march from Minsk to Borizof in three columns, not only by the high road, but by the roads
of Antonopolia, Logoïsk, and Zembin, showed that his whole attention was at first directed
to that part of the Berezina, above Borizof. Feeling himself then so strong upon his left,
he felt only that his right was weakened, and in consequence, his anxiety was entirely transferred
to that side.

The error which led him into that false direction had other and stronger foundations. Kutusoff's
instructions directed his responsibility to that point. Ertell, who commanded twelve thousand
men near Bobruisk, refused to quit his cantonments, to follow Dombrowski, and to come and defend
that part of the river. He alleged, as his justification for refusal, the danger of a distemper
among the cattle, a pretext unheard of and improbable, but perfectly true, as Tchitchakof himself
has admitted.

The admiral adds further, that information sent to him by Wittgenstein directed his anxiety
towards Lower Berezino, as well as the supposition, natural enough, that the presence of that
general on the right flank of the grand army and above Borizof, would push Napoleon below that
town.

The recollection of the passages of Charles XII. and of Davoust at Berezino, might also be
another of his motives. By taking that direction, Napoleon would not only escape Wittgenstein,
but he might retake Minsk, and form a junction with Schwartzenberg. This last was a serious
consideration with Tchitchakof, Minsk being his conquest, and Schwartzenberg his first adversary.
Lastly, and principally, Oudinôt's demonstration near Ucholoda, and probably the report of
the Jews, determined him.

The admiral, completely deceived, had therefore resolved, on the evening of the 25th, to descend
the Berezina, at the very moment that Napoleon had determined to re-ascend it. It might almost
be said that the French Emperor dictated the Russian general's resolution, the time for adopting
it, the precise moment, and every detail of its execution. Both started at the same time from
Borizof, Napoleon for Studzianka, Tchitchakof for Szabaszawiczy, turning their backs to each
other as if by mutual agreement, and the admiral recalling all the troops which he had above
Borizof, with the exception of a small body of light troops, and without even taking the precaution
of breaking up the roads.

Notwithstanding, at Szabaszawiczy, he was not more than five or six leagues from the passage
which was effectuating. On the morning of the 26th he must have been informed of it. The bridge
of Borizof was only three hours' march from the point of attack. He had left fifteen thousand
men before that bridge; he might therefore have returned in person to that point, rejoined
Tchaplitz at Stakhowa, on the same day made an attack, or at least made preparations for it,
and on the following day, the 27th, overthrown with eighteen thousand men the seven thousand
soldiers of Oudinôt and Dombrowski; and finally resumed, in front of the Emperor and of Studzianka,
the position which Tchaplitz had quitted the day before.

But great errors are seldom repaired with the same readiness with which they are committed;
either because it is in our nature to be at first doubtful of them, and that no one is disposed
to admit them until they are completely certain; or because they confuse, and in the distrust
of our own judgment, we hesitate, and require the support of other opinions.

Thus it was, that the admiral lost the remainder of the 26th and the whole of the 27th in consultations,
in feeling his way, and in preparations. The presence of Napoleon and his grand army, of the
weakness of which it was impossible for him to have any idea, dazzled him. He saw the Emperor
every where; before his right, in the simulated preparations for a passage; opposite his centre
at Borizof, because in fact the arrival of the successive portions of our army filled that
place with movements; and finally, at Studzianka before his left, where the Emperor really was.

On the 27th, so little had he recovered from his error that he made his chasseurs reconnoitre
and attack Borizof; they crossed over upon the beams of the burnt bridge, but were repulsed
by the soldiers of Partouneaux's division.

On the same day, while he was thus irresolute, Napoleon, with about five thousand guards, and
Ney's corps, now reduced to six hundred men, crossed the Berezina about two o'clock in the
afternoon; he posted himself in reserve to Oudinôt, and secured the outlet from the bridges
against Tchitchakof's future efforts.

He had been preceded by a crowd of baggage and stragglers. Numbers of them continued to cross
the river after him as long as daylight lasted. The army of Victor, at the same time, succeeded
the guard in its position on the heights of Studzianka.

CHAP. VII.

Hitherto all had gone on well. But Victor, in passing through Borizof, had left there Partouneaux
with his division. That general had orders to stop the enemy in the rear of that town, to drive
before him the numerous stragglers who had taken shelter there, and to rejoin Victor before
the close of the day. It was the first time that Partouneaux had seen the disorder of the grand
army. He was anxious, like Davoust at the beginning of the retreat, to hide the traces of it
from the Cossacks of Kutusoff, who were at his heels. This fruitless attempt, the attacks of
Platof by the high road of Orcha, and those of Tchitchakof by the burnt bridge of Borizof,
detained him in that place until the close of the day.

He was preparing to quit it, when an order reached him from the Emperor himself, to remain
there all night. Napoleon's idea, no doubt, was, in that manner to direct the whole attention
of the three Russian generals upon Borizof, and that Partouneaux's keeping them back upon that
point, would allow him sufficient time to operate the passage of his whole army.

But Wittgenstein left Platof to pursue the French army along the high road, and directed his
own march more to the right. He debouched the same evening on the heights which border the
Berezina, between Borizof and Studzianka, intercepted the road between these two points, and
captured all that was found there. A crowd of stragglers, who were driven back on Partouneaux,
apprised him that he was separated from the rest of the army.

Partouneaux did not hesitate: although he had no more than three cannon with him, and three
thousand five hundred soldiers, he determined to cut his way through, made his dispositions
accordingly, and began his march. He had at first to march along a slippery road, crowded with
baggage and runaways; with a violent wind blowing directly in his face, and in a dark and icy-cold
night. To these obstacles were shortly added the fire of several thousand enemies, who lined
the heights upon his right. As long as he was only attacked in flank, he proceeded; but shortly
after, he had to meet it in front from numberless troops well posted, whose bullets traversed
his column through and through.

This unfortunate division then got entangled in a shallow; a long file of five or six hundred
carriages embarrassed all its movements; seven thousand terrified stragglers, howling with
terror and despair, rushed into the midst of its feeble lines. They broke through them, caused
its platoons to waver, and were every moment involving in their disorder fresh soldiers who
got disheartened. It became necessary to retreat, in order to rally, and take a better position,
but in falling back, they encountered Platof's cavalry.

Half of our combatants had already perished, and the fifteen hundred soldiers who remained
found themselves surrounded by three armies and by a river.

In this situation, a flag of truce came, in the name of Wittgenstein and fifty thousand men,
to order the French to surrender. Partouneaux rejected the summons. He recalled into his ranks
such of his stragglers as yet retained their arms; he wanted to make a last effort, and clear
a sanguinary passage to the bridge of Studzianka; but these men, who were formerly so brave,
were now so degraded by their miseries, that they would no longer make use of their arms.

At the same time, the general of his vanguard apprised him that the bridges of Studzianka were
burnt; an aide-de-camp, named Rochex, who had just brought the report, pretended that he had
seen them burning. Partouneaux believed this false intelligence, for, in regard to calamities,
misfortune is credulous.

He concluded that he was abandoned and sacrificed; and as the night, the incumbrances, and
the necessity of facing the enemy on three sides, separated his weak brigades, he desired each
of them to be told to try and steal off, under favour of the darkness, along the flanks of
the enemy. He himself, with one of these brigades, reduced to four hundred men, ascended the
steep and woody heights on his right, with the hope of passing through Wittgenstein's army
in the darkness, of escaping him, and rejoining Victor; or, at all events, of getting round
by the sources of the Berezina.

But at every point where he attempted to pass, he encountered the enemy's fires, and he turned
again; he wandered about for several hours quite at random, in plains of snow, in the midst
of a violent hurricane. At every step he saw his soldiers transfixed by the cold, emaciated
with hunger and fatigue, falling half dead into the hands of the Russian cavalry, who pursued
him without intermission.

This unfortunate general was still struggling with the heavens, with men, and with his own
despair, when he felt even the earth give way under his feet. In fact, being deceived by the
snow, he had fallen into a lake, which was not frozen sufficiently hard to bear him, and in
which he would have been drowned. Then only he yielded and gave up his arms.

While this catastrophe was accomplishing, his other three brigades, being more and more hemmed
in upon the road, lost all power of movement. They delayed their surrender till the next morning,
first by fighting, and then by parleying; they then all fell in their turn; a common misfortune
again united them with their general.

Of the whole division, a single battalion only escaped: it had been left the last in Borizof.
It quitted it in the midst of the Russians of Platof and of Tchitchakof, who were effecting
in that town, and at that very moment, the junction of the armies of Moscow and of Moldavia.
This battalion, being alone and separated from its division, might have been expected to be
the first to fall, but that very circumstance saved it. Several long trains of equipages and
disbanded soldiers were flying towards Studzianka in different directions; drawn aside by one
of these crowds, mistaking his road, and leaving on his right that which had been taken by
the army, the leader of this battalion glided to the borders of the river, followed all its
windings and turnings, and protected by the combat of his less fortunate comrades, by the darkness,
and the very difficulties of the ground, moved off in silence, escaped from the enemy, and
brought to Victor the confirmation of Partouneaux's surrender.

When Napoleon heard the news, he was struck with grief, and exclaimed, "How unfortunate it
was, that when all appeared to be saved, as if miraculously, this defection had happened, to
spoil all!" The expression was improper, but grief extorted it from him, either because he
anticipated that Victor, being thus weakened, would be unable to hold out long enough next
day; or because he had made it a point of honour to have left nothing during the whole of his
retreat in the hands of the enemy, but stragglers, and no armed and organised corps. In fact,
this division was the first and the only one which laid down its arms.

CHAP. VIII.

This success encouraged Wittgenstein. At the same time, after two days feeling his way, the
report of a prisoner, and the recapture of Borizof by Platof had opened Tchitchakof's eyes.
From that moment the three Russian armies of the north, east, and south, felt themselves united;
their commanders had mutual communications. Wittgenstein and Tchitchakof were jealous of each
other, but they detested us still more; hatred, and not friendship, was their bond of union.
These generals were therefore prepared to attack in conjunction the bridges of Studzianka,
on both sides of the river.

This was on the 28th of November. The grand army had had two days and two nights to effect
its passage; it ought to have been too late for the Russians. But the French were in a state
of complete disorder, and materials were deficient for two bridges. Twice during the night
of the 26th, the one for the carriages had broke down, and the passage had been retarded by
it for seven hours: it broke a third time on the 27th, about four in the afternoon. On the
other hand, the stragglers, who had been dispersed in the woods and surrounding villages, had
not taken advantage of the first night, and on the 27th, when daylight appeared, they all presented
themselves at once in order to cross the bridges.

This was particularly the case when the guard, by whose movements they regulated themselves,
began its march. Its departure was like a signal; they rushed in from all parts, and crowded
upon the bank. Instantly there was seen a deep, broad, and confused mass of men, horses, and
chariots, besieging the narrow entrance of the bridge, and overwhelming it. The first, pushed
forward by those behind them, and driven back by the guards and pontonniers, or stopped by
the river, were crushed, trod underfoot, or precipitated among the floating ices of the Berezina.
From this immense and horrible rabble-rout there arose at times a confused buzzing noise, at
others a loud clamour, mingled with groans and fearful imprecations.

The efforts of Napoleon and his lieutenants to save these desperate men by restoring order
among them, were for a long time completely fruitless. The disorder was so great, that, about
two o'clock, when the Emperor presented himself in his turn, it was necessary to employ force
to open a passage for him. A corps of grenadiers of the guard, and Latour-Maubourg, out of
pure compassion, declined clearing themselves a way through these poor wretches.

The imperial head-quarters were established at the hamlet of Zaniwki, which is situated in
the midst of the woods, within a league of Studzianka. Eblé had just then made a survey of
the baggage with which the bank was covered; he apprised the Emperor that six days would not
be sufficient to enable so many carriages to pass over. Ney, who was present, immediately called
out, "that in that case they had better be burnt immediately." But Berthier, instigated by
the demon of courts, opposed this; he assured the Emperor that the army was far from being
reduced to that extremity, and the Emperor was led to believe him, from a preference for the
opinion which flattered him the most, and from a wish to spare so many men, whose misfortunes
he reproached himself as the cause of, and whose provisions and little all these carriages
contained.

In the night of the 27th the disorder ceased by the effect of an opposite disorder. The bridges
were abandoned, and the village of Studzianka attracted all these stragglers; in an instant,
it was pulled to pieces, disappeared, and was converted into an infinite number of bivouacs.
Cold and hunger kept these wretched people fixed around them; it was found impossible to tear
them from them. The whole of that night was again lost for their passage.

Meantime Victor, with six thousand men, was defending them against Wittgenstein. But with the
first dawn of the 28th, when they saw that marshal preparing for a battle, when they heard
the cannon of Wittgenstein thundering over their heads, and that of Tchitchakof at the same
time on the opposite bank, they rose all at once, they descended, precipitated themselves tumultuously,
and returned to besiege the bridges.

Their terror was not without foundation; the last day of numbers of these unfortunate persons
was come. Wittgenstein and Platof, with forty thousand Russians of the armies of the north
and east, attacked the heights on the left bank, which Victor, with his small force, defended.
On the right bank, Tchitchakof, with his twenty-seven thousand Russians of the army of the
south, debouched from Stachowa against Oudinôt, Ney, and Dombrowski. These three could hardly
reckon eight thousand men in their ranks, which were supported by the sacred squadron, as well
as by the old and young guard, who then consisted of three thousand eight hundred infantry
and nine hundred cavalry.

The two Russian armies attempted to possess themselves at once of the two outlets from the
bridges, and of all who had been unable to push forward beyond the marshes of Zembin. More
than sixty thousand men, well clothed, well fed, and completely armed, attacked eighteen thousand
half-naked, badly armed, dying of hunger, separated by a river, surrounded by morasses, and
additionally encumbered with more than fifty thousand stragglers, sick or wounded, and by an
enormous mass of baggage. During the last two days, the cold and misery had been such that
the old guard had lost two-thirds, and the young guard one-half of their effective men.

This fact, and the calamity which had fallen upon Partouneaux's division, sufficiently explain
the frightful diminution of Victor's corps, and yet that marshal kept Wittgenstein in check
during the whole of that day, the 28th. As to Tchitchakof, he was beaten. Marshal Ney, with
his eight thousand French, Swiss, and Poles, was a match for twenty-seven thousand Russians.

The admiral's attack was tardy and feeble. His cannon cleared the road, but he durst not venture
to follow his bullets, and penetrate by the chasm which they made in our ranks. Opposite to
his right, however, the legion of the Vistula gave way to the attack of a strong column. Oudinôt,
Albert, Dombrowski, Claparede, and Kosikowski were then wounded; some uneasiness began to be
felt. But Ney hastened forward; he made Doumerc and his cavalry dash quite across the woods
upon the flank of that Russian column; they broke through it, took two thousand prisoners,
cut the rest to pieces, and by this vigorous charge decided the fate of the battle, which was
dragging on in uncertainty. Tchitchakof, thus defeated, was driven back into Stachowa.

On our side, most of the generals of the second corps were wounded; for the less troops they
had, the more they were obliged to expose their persons. Many officers on this occasion took
the muskets and the places of their wounded men. Among the losses of the day, that of young
Noailles, Berthier's aide-de-camp, was remarkable. He was struck dead by a ball. He was one
of those meritorious but too ardent officers, who are incessantly exposing themselves, and
are considered sufficiently rewarded by being employed.

During this combat, Napoleon, at the head of his guard, remained in reserve at Brilowa, covering
the outlet of the bridges, between the two armies, but nearer to that of Victor. That marshal,
although attacked in a very dangerous position, and by a force quadruple his own, lost very
little ground. The right of his corps d'armée, mutilated by the capture of Partouneaux's division,
was protected by the river, and supported by a battery which the Emperor had erected on the
opposite bank. His front was defended by a ravine, but his left was in the air, without support,
and in a manner lost, in the elevated plain of Studzianka.

Wittgenstein's first attack was not made until ten o'clock in the morning of the 28th, across
the road of Borizof, and along the Berezina, which he endeavoured to ascend as far as the passage,
but the French right wing stopped him, and kept him back for a considerable time, out of reach
of the bridges. He then deployed, and extended the engagement with the whole front of Victor,
but without effect. One of his attacking columns attempted to cross the ravine, but it was
attacked and destroyed.

At last, about the middle of the day, the Russian discovered the point where his superiority
lay: he overwhelmed the French left wing. Every thing would then have been lost had it not
been for an effort of Fournier, and the devotion of Latour-Maubourg. That general was passing
the bridges with his cavalry; he perceived the danger, retraced his steps, and the enemy was
again stopped by a most sanguinary charge. Night came on before Wittgenstein's forty thousand
men had made any impression on the six thousand of the Duke of Belluno. That marshal remained
in possession of the heights of Studzianka, and still preserved the bridges from the attacks
of the Russian infantry, but he was unable to conceal them from the artillery of their left wing.

CHAP. IX.

During the whole of that day, the situation of the ninth corps was so much more critical, as
a weak and narrow bridge was its only means of retreat; in addition to which its avenues were
obstructed by the baggage and the stragglers. By degrees, as the action got warmer, the terror
of these poor wretches increased their disorder. First of all they were alarmed by the rumours
of a serious engagement, then by seeing the wounded returning from it, and last of all by the
batteries of the Russian left wing, some bullets from which began to fall among their confused
mass.

They had all been already crowding one upon the other, and the immense multitude heaped upon
the bank pell-mell with the horses and carriages, there formed a most alarming incumbrance.
It was about the middle of the day that the first Russian bullets fell in the midst of this
chaos; they were the signal of universal despair.

Then it was, as in all cases of extremity, that dispositions exhibited themselves without disguise,
and actions were witnessed, most base, and others most sublime. According to their different
characters, some furious and determined, with sword in hand, cleared for themselves a horrible
passage. Others, still more cruel, opened a way for their carriages by driving them without
mercy over the crowd of unfortunate persons who stood in the way, whom they crushed to death.
Their detestable avarice made them sacrifice their companions in misfortune to the preservation
of their baggage. Others, seized with a disgusting terror, wept, supplicated, and sunk under
the influence of that passion, which completed the exhaustion of their strength. Some were
observed, (and these were principally the sick and wounded,) who, renouncing life, went aside
and sat down resigned, looking with a fixed eye on the snow which was shortly to be their tomb.

Numbers of those who started first among this crowd of desperadoes missed the bridge, and attempted
to scale it by the sides, but the greater part were pushed into the river. There were seen
women in the midst of the ice, with their children in their arms, raising them as they felt
themselves sinking, and even when completely immerged, their stiffened arms still held them
above them.

In the midst of this horrible disorder, the artillery bridge burst and broke down. The column,
entangled in this narrow passage, in vain attempted to retrograde. The crowds of men who came
behind, unaware of the calamity, and not hearing the cries of those before them, pushed them
on, and threw them into the gulf, into which they were precipitated in their turn.

Every one then attempted to pass by the other bridge. A number of large ammunition waggons,
heavy carriages, and cannon crowded to it from all parts. Directed by their drivers, and carried
along rapidly over a rough and unequal declivity, in the midst of heaps of men, they ground
to powder the poor wretches who were unlucky enough to get between them; after which, the greater
part, driving violently against each other and getting overturned, killed in their fall those
who surrounded them. Whole rows of these desperate creatures being pushed against these obstacles,
got entangled among them, were thrown down and crushed to pieces by masses of other unfortunates
who succeeded each other uninterruptedly.

Crowds of them were rolling in this way, one over the other, nothing was heard but cries of
rage and suffering. In this frightful medley, those who were trod under and stifled, struggled
under the feet of their companions, whom they laid hold of with their nails and teeth, and
by whom they were repelled without mercy, as if they had been enemies.

Among them were wives and mothers, calling in vain, and in tones of distraction, for their
husbands and their children, from whom they had been separated but a moment before, never more
to be united: they stretched out their arms and entreated to be allowed to pass in order to
rejoin them; but being carried backwards and forwards by the crowd, and overcome by the pressure,
they sunk under without being even remarked. Amidst the tremendous noise of a furious hurricane,
the firing of cannon, the whistling of the storm and of the bullets, the explosion of shells,
vociferations, groans, and the most frightful oaths, this infuriated and disorderly crowd heard
not the complaints of the victims whom it was swallowing up.

The more fortunate gained the bridge by scrambling over heaps of wounded, of women and children
thrown down and half suffocated, and whom they again trod down in their attempts to reach it.
When at last they got to the narrow defile, they fancied they were safe, but the fall of a
horse, or the breaking or displacing of a plank again stopped all.

There was also, at the outlet of the bridge, on the other side, a morass, into which many horses
and carriages had sunk, a circumstance which again embarrassed and retarded the clearance.
Then it was, that in that column of desperadoes, crowded together on that single plank of safety,
there arose an internal struggle, in which the weakest and worst situated were thrown into
the river by the strongest. The latter, without turning their heads, and carried away by the
instinct of self-preservation, pushed on toward the goal with fury, regardless of the imprecations
of rage and despair, uttered by their companions or their officers, whom they had thus sacrificed.

But on the other hand, how many noble instances of devotion! and why are time and space denied
me to relate them? There were seen soldiers, and even officers, harnessing themselves to sledges,
to snatch from that fatal bank their sick or wounded comrades. Farther off, and out of reach
of the crowd, were seen soldiers motionless, watching over their dying officers, who had entrusted
themselves to their care; the latter in vain conjured them to think of nothing but their own
preservation, they refused, and, sooner than abandon their leaders, were contented to wait
the approach of slavery or death.

Above the first passage, while the young Lauriston threw himself into the river, in order to
execute the orders of his sovereign more promptly, a little boat, carrying a mother and her
two children, was overset and sunk under the ice; an artilleryman, who was struggling like
the others on the bridge to open a passage for himself, saw the accident; all at once, forgetting
himself, he threw himself into the river, and by great exertion, succeeded in saving one of
the three victims. It was the youngest of the two children; the poor little thing kept calling
for its mother with cries of despair, and the brave artilleryman was heard telling it, "not
to cry; that he had not preserved it from the water merely to desert it on the bank; that it
should want for nothing; that he would be its father, and its family."

The night of the 28th added to all these calamities. Its darkness was insufficient to conceal
its victims from the artillery of the Russians. Amidst the snow, which covered every thing,
the course of the river, the thorough black mass of men, horses, carriages, and the noise proceeding
from them, were sufficient to enable the enemy's artillerymen, to direct their fire.

About nine o'clock at night there was a still farther increase of desolation, when Victor began
his retreat, and his divisions came and opened themselves a horrible breach through these unhappy
wretches, whom they had till then been protecting. A rear-guard, however, having been left
at Studzianka, the multitude, benumbed with cold, or too anxious to preserve their baggage,
refused to avail themselves of the last night for passing to the opposite side. In vain were
the carriages set fire to, in order to tear them from them. It was only the appearance of daylight,
which brought them all at once, but too late, to the entrance of the bridge, which they again
besieged. It was half-past eight in the morning, when Eblé, seeing the Russians approaching,
at last set fire to it.

The disaster had reached its utmost bounds. A multitude of carriages, three cannon, several
thousand men and women, and some children, were abandoned on the hostile bank. They were seen
wandering in desolate troops on the borders of the river. Some threw themselves into it in
order to swim across; others ventured themselves on the pieces of ice which were floating along:
some there were also who threw themselves headlong into the flames of the burning bridge, which
sunk under them; burnt and frozen at one and the same time, they perished under two opposite
punishments. Shortly after, the bodies of all sorts were perceived collecting together and
the ice against the tressels of the bridge. The rest awaited the Russians. Wittgenstein did
not show himself upon the heights until an hour after Eblé's departure, and, without having
gained a victory, reaped all the fruits of one.

CHAP. X.

While this catastrophe was accomplishing, the remains of the grand army on the opposite bank
formed nothing but a shapeless mass, which unravelled itself confusedly, as it took the road
to Zembin. The whole of this country is a high and woody plain of great extent, where the waters,
flowing in uncertainty between different inclinations of the ground, form one vast morass.
Three consecutive bridges, of three hundred fathoms in length, are thrown over it; along these
the army passed, with a mingled feeling of astonishment, fear, and delight.

These magnificent bridges, made of resinous fir, began at the distance of a few wersts from
the passage. Tchaplitz had occupied them for several days. An abatis and heaps of bavins of
combustible wood, already dry, were laid at their entrance, as if to remind him of the use
he had to make of them. It would not have required more than the fire from one of the Cossacks'
pipes to set these bridges on fire. In that case all our efforts and the passage of the Berezina
would have been entirely useless. Caught between the morass and the river, in a narrow space,
without provisions, without shelter, in the midst of a tremendous hurricane, the grand army
and its Emperor must have been compelled to surrender without striking a blow.

In this desperate situation, in which all France seemed destined to be taken prisoner in Russia,
where every thing was against us and in favour of the Russians, the latter did nothing but
by halves. Kutusoff did not reach the Dnieper, at Kopis, until the very day that Napoleon approached
the Berezina. Wittgenstein allowed himself to be kept in check during the time that the former
required for his passage. Tchitchakof was defeated; and of eighty thousand men, Napoleon succeeded
in saving sixty thousand.

He remained till the last moment on these melancholy banks, near the ruins of Brilowa, unsheltered,
and at the head of his guards, one-third of whom were destroyed by the storm. During the day
they stood to arms, and were drawn up in order of battle; at night, they bivouacked in a square
round their leader; there the old grenadiers incessantly kept feeding their fires. They sat
upon their knapsacks, with their elbows planted on their knees, and their hands supporting
their head; slumbering in this manner doubled upon themselves, in order that one limb might
warm the other, and that they should feel less the emptiness of their stomachs.

During these three days and three nights, spent in the midst of them, Napoleon, with his looks
and his thoughts wandering on three sides at once, supported the second corps by his orders
and his presence, protected the ninth corps and the passage with his artillery, and united
his efforts with those of Eblé in saving as many fragments as possible from the wreck. He at
last directed the remains to Zembin, where Prince Eugene had preceded him.

It was remarked that he still gave orders to his marshals, who had no soldiers to command,
to take up positions on that road, as if they had still armies at their beck. One of them made
the observation to him with some degree of asperity, and was beginning an enumeration of his
losses; but Napoleon, determined to reject all reports, lest they should degenerate into complaints,
warmly interrupted him with these words: "why then do you wish to deprive me of my tranquillity?"
and as the other was persisting, he shut his mouth at once, by repeating, in a reproachful
manner, "I ask you, sir, why do you wish to deprive me of my tranquillity?" An expression,
which in his adversity, explained the attitude which he imposed upon himself, and that which
he exacted of others.

Around him during these mortal days, every bivouac was marked by a heap of dead bodies. There
were collected men of all classes, of all ranks, of all ages; ministers, generals, administrators.
Among them was remarked an elderly nobleman of the times long passed, when light and brilliant
graces held sovereign sway. This general officer of sixty was seen sitting on the snow-covered
trunk of a tree, occupying himself with unruffled gaiety every morning with the details of
his toilette; in the midst of the hurricane, he had his hair elegantly dressed, and powdered
with the greatest care, amusing himself in this manner with all the calamities, and with the
fury of the combined elements which assailed him.

Near him were officers of the scientific corps still finding subjects of discussion. Imbued
with the spirit of an age, which a few discoveries have encouraged to find explanations for
every thing, the latter, amidst the acute sufferings which were inflicted upon them by the
north wind, were endeavouring to ascertain the cause of its constant direction. According to
them, since his departure for the antarctic pole, the sun, by warming the southern hemisphere,
converted all its emanations into vapour, elevated them, and left on the surface of that zone
a vacuum, into which the vapours of our hemisphere, which were lower, on account of being less
rarefied, rushed with violence. From one to another, and from a similar cause, the Russian
pole, completely surcharged with vapours which it had emanated, received, and cooled since
the last spring, greedily followed that direction. It discharged itself from it by an impetuous
and icy current, which swept the Russian territory quite bare, and stiffened or destroyed every
thing which it encountered in its passage.

Several others of these officers remarked with curious attention the regular hexagonal crystallization
of each of the flakes of snow which covered their garments.

The phenomenon of parhelias, or simultaneous appearances of several images of the sun, reflected
to their eyes by means of icicles suspended in the atmosphere, was also the subject of their
observations, and occurred several times to divert them from their sufferings.

CHAP. XI.

On the 29th the Emperor quitted the banks of the Berezina, pushing on before him the crowd
of disbanded soldiers, and marching with the ninth corps, which was already disorganized. The
day before, the second and the ninth corps, and Dombrowski's division presented a total of
fourteen thousand men; and now, with the exception of about six thousand, the rest had no longer
any form of division, brigade, or regiment.

Night, hunger, cold, the fall of a number of officers, the loss of the baggage on the other
side of the river, the example of so many runaways, and the much more forbidding one of the
wounded, who had been abandoned on both sides of the river, and were left rolling in despair
on the snow, which was covered with their blood--every thing; in short, had contributed to
discourage them; they were confounded in the mass of disbanded men who had come from Moscow.

The whole still formed sixty thousand men, but without the least order or unity. All marched
pell-mell, cavalry, infantry, artillery, French and Germans; there was no longer either wing
or centre. The artillery and carriages drove on through this disorderly crowd, with no other
instructions than to proceed as quickly as possible.

On this narrow and hilly causeway, many were crushed to death in crowding together through
the defiles, after which there was a general dispersion to every point where either shelter
or provisions were likely to be found. In this manner did Napoleon reach Kamen, where he slept,
along with the prisoners made on the preceding day, who were put into a fold like sheep. These
poor wretches, after devouring even the dead bodies of their fellows, almost all perished of
cold and hunger.

On the 30th he reached Pleszezenitzy. Thither the Duke of Reggio, after being wounded, had
retired the day before, with about forty officers and soldiers. He fancied himself in safety,
when all at once the Russian partizan, Landskoy, with one hundred and fifty hussars, four hundred
Cossacks, and two cannon, penetrated, into the village, and filled all the streets of it.

Oudinôt's feeble escort was dispersed. The marshal saw himself reduced to defend himself with
only seventeen others, in a wooden house, but he did so with such audacity and success, that
the enemy was astonished, quitted the village, and took position on a height, from which he
attacked it with his cannon. The relentless destiny of this brave marshal so ordered it, that
in this skirmish he was again wounded by a splinter of wood.

Two Westphalian battalions, which preceded the Emperor, at last made their appearance and disengaged
him, but not till late, and not until these Germans and the marshal's escort (who at first
did not recognize each other as friends) had taken a long and anxious survey of each other.

On the 3d of December, Napoleon arrived in the morning at Malodeczno, which was the last point
where Tchitchakof was likely to have got the start of him. Some provisions were found there,
the forage was abundant, the day beautiful, the sun shining, and the cold bearable. There also
the couriers, who had been so long in arrears arrived all at once. The Poles were immediately
directed forward to Warsaw through Olita, and the dismounted cavalry by Merecz to the Niemen;
the rest of the army was to follow the high road, which they had again regained.

Up to that time, Napoleon seemed to have entertained no idea of quitting his army. But about
the middle of that day, he suddenly informed Daru and Duroc of his determination to set off
immediately for Paris.

Daru did not see the necessity of it. He objected, "that the communication with France was
again opened, and the most dangerous crisis passed; that at every retrograde step he would
now be meeting the reinforcements sent him from Paris and from Germany." The Emperor's reply
was, "that he no longer felt himself sufficiently strong to leave Prussia between him and France.
What necessity was there for his remaining at the head of a routed army? Murat and Eugene would
be sufficient to direct it, and Ney to cover its retreat.

"That his return to France was become indispensable, in order to secure her tranquillity, and
to summon her to arms; to take measures there for keeping the Germans steady in their fidelity
to him; and finally, to return with new and sufficient forces to the assistance of his grand army.

"But, in order to attain that object, it was necessary that he should travel alone over four
hundred leagues of the territories of his allies; and to do so without danger, that his resolution
should be there unforeseen, his passage unknown, and the rumour of his disastrous retreat still
uncertain; that he should precede the news of it, and anticipate the effect which it might
produce on them, and all the defections to which it might give rise. He had, therefore, no
time to lose, and the moment of his departure was now arrived."

He only hesitated in the choice of the leader whom he should leave in command of the army;
he wavered between Murat and Eugene. He liked the prudence and devotedness of the latter; but
Murat had greater celebrity, which would give him more weight. Eugene would remain with that
monarch; his youth and his inferior rank would be a security for his obedience, and his character
for his zeal. He would set an example of it to the other marshals.

Finally, Berthier, the channel, to which they had been so long accustomed, of all the imperial
orders and rewards, would remain with them; there would consequently be no change in the form
or the organization of the army; and this arrangement, at the same time that it would be a
proof of the certainty of his speedy return, would serve both to keep the most impatient of
his own officers in their duty, and the most ardent of his enemies in a salutary dread.

Such were the motives assigned by Napoleon. Caulaincourt immediately received orders to make
secret preparations for their departure. The rendezvous was fixed at Smorgoni, and the time,
the night of the 5th of December.

Although Daru was not to accompany Napoleon, who left him the heavy charge of the administration
of the army, he listened in silence, having nothing to urge in reply to motives of such weight;
but it was quite otherwise with Berthier. This enfeebled old man, who had for sixteen years
never quitted the side of Napoleon, revolted at the idea of this separation.

The private scene which took place was most violent. The Emperor was indignant at his resistance.
In his rage he reproached him with all the favours with which he had loaded him; the army,
he told him, stood in need of the reputation which he had made for him, and which was only
a reflection of his own; but to cut the matter short, he allowed him four-and-twenty hours
to decide; and if he then persisted in his disobedience, he might depart for his estates, where
he should order him to remain, forbidding him ever again to enter Paris or his presence. Next
day, the 4th of December, Berthier, excusing himself for his previous refusal by his advanced
age and impaired health, resigned himself sorrowfully to his sovereign's pleasure.

CHAP. XII.

But at the very moment that Napoleon determined on his departure, the winter became terrible,
as if the Russian atmosphere, seeing him about to escape from it, had redoubled its severity
in order to overwhelm him and destroy us. On the 4th of December, when we reached Bienitza,
the thermometer was at 26 degrees.

The Emperor had left Count Lobau and several hundred men of his old guard at Malodeczno, at
which place the road to Zembin rejoins the high-road from Minsk to Wilna. It was necessary
to guard this point until the arrival of Victor, who in his turn would defend it until that of Ney.

For it was still to this marshal, and to the second corps commanded by Maison, that the rear-guard
was entrusted. On the night of the 29th of November, when Napoleon quitted the banks of the
Berezina, Ney, and the second and third corps, now reduced to three thousand soldiers, passed
the long bridges leading to Zembin, leaving at their entrance Maison, and a few hundred men
to defend and to burn them.

Tchitchakof made a late but warm attack, and not only with musketry, but with the bayonet:
but he was repulsed. Maison at the same time caused these long bridges to be loaded with the
bavins, of which Tchaplitz, some days before, had neglected to make use. When every thing was
ready, the enemy completely sickened of fighting, and night and the bivouacs well advanced,
he rapidly passed the defile, and set fire to them. In a few minutes these long causeways were
burnt to ashes, and fell into the morasses, which the frost had not yet rendered passable.

These quagmires stopped the enemy and compelled him to make a detour. During the following
day, therefore, the march of Ney and of Maison was unmolested. But on the day after, the 1st
of December, as they came in sight of Pleszezenitzy, lo and behold! the whole of the Russian
cavalry were seen rushing forward impetuously, and pushing Doumerc and his cuirassiers on their
right. In an instant they were attacked and overwhelmed on all sides.

At the same time, Maison saw that the village through which he had to retreat, was entirely
filled with stragglers. He sent to warn them to flee directly; but these unfortunate and famished
wretches, not seeing the enemy, refused to leave their meals which they had just begun; Maison
was driven back upon them into the village. Then only, at the sight of the enemy, and the noise
of the shells, the whole of them started up at once, rushed out, and crowded and encumbered
every part of the principal street.

Maison and his troop found themselves all at once in a manner lost in the midst of this terrified
crowd, which pressed upon them, almost stifled them, and deprived them of the use of their
arms. This general had no other remedy than to desire his men to remain close together and
immoveable, and wait till the crowd had dispersed. The enemy's cavalry then came up with this
mass, and got entangled with it, but it could only penetrate slowly and by cutting down. The
crowd having at last dispersed, discovered to the Russians, Maison and his soldiers waiting
for them with a determined countenance. But in its flight, the crowd had drawn along with it
a portion of our combatants. Maison, in an open plain, and with seven or eight hundred men
against thousands of enemies, lost all hope of safety; he was already seeking only to gain
a wood not far off, in order to sell their lives more dearly, when he saw coming out of it
eighteen hundred Poles, a troop quite fresh, which Ney had met with and brought to his assistance.
This reinforcement stopped the enemy, and secured the retreat as far as Malodeczno.

On the 4th of December, about four o'clock in the afternoon, Ney and Maison got within sight
of that village, which Napoleon had quitted in the morning. Tchaplitz followed them close.
Ney had now only six hundred men remaining with him. The weakness of this rear-guard, the approach
of night, and the prospect of a place of shelter, excited the ardour of the Russian general;
he made a warm attack. Ney and Maison, perfectly certain that they would die of cold on the
high-road, if they allowed themselves to be driven beyond that cantonment, preferred perishing
in defending it.

They halted at its entrance, and as their artillery horses were dying, they gave up all idea
of saving their cannon; determined however that it should do its duty for the last time in
crushing the enemy, they formed every piece they possessed into a battery, and made a tremendous
fire. Tchaplitz's attacking column was entirely broken by it, and halted. But that general,
availing himself of his superior forces, diverted a part of them to another entrance, and his
first troops had already crossed the inclosures of Malodeczno, when all at once, they there
encountered a fresh enemy.

As good luck would have it, Victor, with about four thousand men, the remains of the ninth
corps, still occupied this village. The fury on both sides was extreme; the first houses were
several times taken and retaken. The combat on both sides was much less for glory than to keep
or acquire a refuge against the destructive cold. It was not until half-past eleven at night
that the Russians gave up the contest, and went from it half frozen, to seek for another in
the surrounding villages.

The following day, December 5th, Ney and Maison had expected that the Duke of Belluno would
replace them at the rear-guard; but they found that that marshal had retired, according to
his instructions, and that they were left alone in Malodeczno with only sixty men. All the
rest had fled; the rigour of the climate had completely knocked up their soldiers, whom the
Russians to the very last moment were unable to conquer; their arms fell from their hands,
and they themselves fell at a few paces distance from their arms.

Maison, who united great vigour of mind with a very strong constitution, was not intimidated;
he continued his retreat to Bienitza, rallying at every step men who were incessantly escaping
from him, but still continuing to give proofs of the existence of a rear-guard, with a few
foot-soldiers. This was all that was required; for the Russians themselves were frozen, and
obliged to disperse before night into the neighbouring habitations, which they durst not quit
until it was completely daylight. They then recommenced their pursuit of us, but without making
any attack; for with the exception of some numb efforts, the violence of the temperature was
such as not to allow either party to halt with the view of making an attack, or of defending
themselves.

In the mean time, Ney, being surprised at Victor's departure, went after him, overtook him,
and tried to prevail upon him to halt; but the Duke of Belluno, having orders to retreat, refused.
Ney then wanted him to give him up his soldiers, offering to take the command of them; but
Victor would neither consent to do that, nor to take the rear-guard without express orders.
In the altercation which arose in consequence between these two, the Prince of the Moskwa gave
way to his passion in a most violent manner, without producing any effect on the coolness of
Victor. At last an order of the Emperor arrived; Victor was instructed to support the retreat,
and Ney was summoned to Smorgoni.

CHAP. XIII.

Napoleon had just arrived there amidst a crowd of dying men, devoured with chagrin, but not
allowing the least emotion to exhibit itself in his countenance, at the sight of these unhappy
men's sufferings, who, on the other hand, had allowed no murmurs to escape them in his presence.
It is true that a seditious movement was impossible; it would have required an additional effort,
as the strength of every man was fully occupied in struggling with hunger, cold, and fatigue;
it would have required union, agreement, and mutual understanding, while famine and so many
evils separated and isolated them, by concentrating every man's feelings completely in himself.
Far from exhausting themselves in provocations or complaints, they marched along silently,
exerting all their efforts against a hostile atmosphere, and diverted from every other idea
by a state of continual action and suffering. Their physical wants absorbed their whole moral
strength; they thus lived mechanically in their sensations, continuing in their duty from recollection,
from the impressions which they had received in better times, and in no slight degree from
that sense of honour and love of glory which had been inspired by twenty years of victory,
and the warmth of which still survived and struggled within them.

The authority of the commanders also remained complete and respected, because it had always
been eminently paternal, and because the dangers, the triumphs, and the calamities had always
been shared in common. It was an unhappy family, the head of which was perhaps the most to
be pitied. The Emperor and the grand army, therefore, preserved towards each other a melancholy
and noble silence; they were both too proud to utter complaints, and too experienced not to
feel the inutility of them.

Meantime, however, Napoleon had entered precipitately into his last imperial head-quarters;
he there finished his final instructions, as well as the 29th and last bulletin of his expiring
army. Precautions were taken in his inner apartment, that nothing of what was about to take
place there should transpire until the following day.

But the presentiment of a last misfortune seized his officers; all of them would have wished
to follow him. Their hearts yearned after France, to be once more in the bosom of their families,
and to flee from this horrible climate; but not one of them ventured to express a wish of the
kind; duty and honour restrained them.

While they affected a tranquillity which they were far from tasting, the night and the moment
which the Emperor had fixed for declaring his resolution to the commanders of the army arrived.
All the marshals were summoned. As they successively entered, he took each of them aside in
private, and first of all gained their approbation of his plan, of some by his arguments, and
of others by confidential effusions.

Thus it was, that on perceiving Davoust, he ran forward to meet him, and asked him why it was
that he never saw him, and if he had entirely deserted him? And upon Davoust's reply that he
fancied he had incurred his displeasure, the Emperor explained himself mildly, received his
answers favourably, confided to him the road he meant to travel, and took his advice, respecting
its details.

His manner was kind and flattering to them all; afterwards, having assembled them at his table,
he complimented them for their noble actions during the campaign. As to himself, the only confession
he made of his temerity was couched in these words: "If I had been born to the throne, if I
had been a Bourbon, it would have been easy for me not to have committed any faults."

When their entertainment was over, he made Prince Eugene read to them his twenty-ninth bulletin;
after which, declaring aloud what he had already confided to each of them, he told them, "that
he was about to depart that very night with Duroc, Caulaincourt, and Lobau, for Paris. That
his presence there was indispensable for France as well as for the remains of his unfortunate
army. It was there only he could take measures for keeping the Austrians and Prussians in check.
These nations would certainly pause before they declared war against him, when they saw him
at the head of the French nation, and a fresh army of twelve hundred thousand men."

He added, that "he had ordered Ney to proceed to Wilna, there to reorganise the army. That
Rapp would second him, and afterwards go to Dantzic, Lauriston to Warsaw, and Narbonne to Berlin;
that his household would remain with the army; but that it would be necessary to strike a blow
at Wilna, and stop the enemy there. There they would find Loison, De Wrede, reinforcements,
provisions, and ammunition of all sorts; afterwards they would go into winter-quarters on the
other side of the Niemen; that he hoped the Russians would not pass the Vistula before his return."

In conclusion, "I leave the King of Naples to command the army. I hope that you will yield
him the same obedience as you would to myself, and that the greatest harmony will prevail among
you."

As it was now ten o'clock at night, he then rose, squeezed their hands affectionately, embraced
them, and departed.

BOOK XII.

CHAP. I.

Comrades! I must confess that my spirit, discouraged, refused to penetrate farther into the
recollection of so many horrors. Having arrived at the departure of Napoleon, I had flattered
myself that my task was completed. I had announced myself as the historian of that great epoch,
when we were precipitated from the highest summit of glory to the deepest abyss of misfortune;
but now that nothing remains for me to retrace but the most frightful miseries, why should
we not spare ourselves, you the pain of reading them, and myself that of tasking a memory which
has now only to rake up embers, nothing but disasters to reckon, and which can no longer write
but upon tombs?

But as it was our fate to push bad as well as good fortune to the utmost verge of improbability,
I will endeavour to keep the promise I have made you to the conclusion. Moreover, when the
history of great men relates even their last moments, how can I conceal the last sighs of the
grand army when it was expiring? Every thing connected with it appertains to renown, its dying
groans as well as its cries of victory. Every thing in it was grand; it will be our lot to
astonish future ages with our glory and our sorrow. Melancholy consolation! but the only one
that remains to us; for doubt it not, comrades, the noise of so great a fall will echo in that
futurity, in which great misfortunes immortalize as much as great glory.

Napoleon passed through the crowd of his officers, who were drawn up in an avenue as he passed,
bidding them adieu merely by forced and melancholy smiles; their good wishes, equally silent,
and expressed only by respectful gestures, he carried with him. He and Caulaincourt shut themselves
up in a carriage; his Mameluke, and Wonsowitch, captain of his guard, occupied the box; Duroc
and Lobau followed in a sledge.

His escort at first consisted only of Poles; afterwards of the Neapolitans of the royal guard.
This corps consisted of between six and seven hundred men, when it left Wilna to meet the Emperor;
it perished entirely in that short passage; the winter was its only adversary. That very night
the Russians surprised and afterwards abandoned Youpranoui, (or, as others say, Osmiana,) a
town through which the escort had to pass. Napoleon was within an hour of falling into that affray.

He met the Duke of Bassano at Miedniki. His first words to him were, "that he had no longer
an army; that for several days past he had been marching in the midst of a troop of disbanded
men wandering to and fro in search of subsistence; that they might still be rallied by giving
them bread, shoes, clothing, and arms; but that the Duke's military administration had anticipated
nothing, and his orders had not been executed." But upon Maret replying, by showing him a statement
of the immense magazines collected at Wilna, he exclaimed, "that he gave him fresh life! that
he would give him an order to transmit to Murat and Berthier to halt for eight days in that
capital, there to rally the army, and infuse into it sufficient heart and strength to continue
the retreat less deplorably."

The subsequent part of Napoleon's journey was effected without molestation. He went round Wilna
by its suburbs, crossed Wilkowiski, where he exchanged his carriage for a sledge, stopped during
the 10th at Warsaw, to ask the Poles for a levy of ten thousand Cossacks, to grant them some
subsidies, and to promise them he would speedily return at the head of three hundred thousand
men. From thence he rapidly crossed Silesia, visited Dresden, and its monarch, passed through
Hanau, Mentz, and finally got to Paris, where he suddenly made his appearance on the 19th of
December, two days after the appearance of his twenty-ninth bulletin.

From Malo-Yaroslawetz to Smorgoni, this master of Europe had been no more than the general
of a dying and disbanded army. From Smorgoni to the Rhine, he was an unknown fugitive, travelling
through a hostile country; beyond the Rhine he again found himself the master and the conqueror
of Europe. A last breeze of the wind of prosperity once more swelled his sails.

Meanwhile, his generals, whom he left at Smorgoni, approved of his departure, and, far from
being discouraged, placed all their hopes in it. The army had now only to flee, the road was
open, and the Russian frontier at a very short distance. They were getting within reach of
a reinforcement of eighteen thousand men, all fresh troops, of a great city, and immense magazines.
Murat and Berthier, left to themselves, fancied themselves able to regulate the flight. But
in the midst of the extreme disorder, it required a colossus for a rallying point, and he had
just disappeared. In the great chasm which he left, Murat was scarcely perceptible.

It was then too clearly seen that a great man is not replaced, either because the pride of
his followers can no longer stoop to obey another, or that having always thought of, foreseen,
and ordered every thing himself, he had only formed good instruments, skilful lieutenants,
but no commanders.

The very first night, a general refused to obey. The marshal who commanded the rear-guard was
almost the only one who returned to the royal head-quarters. Three thousand men of the old
and young guard were still there. This was the whole of the grand army, and of that gigantic
body there remained nothing but the head. But at the news of Napoleon's departure, these veterans,
spoiled by the habit of being commanded only by the conqueror of Europe, being no longer supported
by the honour of serving him, and scorning to act as guards to another, gave way in their turn,
and voluntarily fell into disorder.

Most of the colonels of the army, who had hitherto been such subjects of admiration, and had
marched on, with only four or five officers or soldiers around their eagle, preserving their
place of battle, now followed no orders but their own; each of them fancied himself entrusted
with his own safety, and looked only to himself for it. Men there were who marched two hundred
leagues without even looking round. It was an almost general sauve-qui-peut.

The Emperor's disappearance and Murat's incapacity were not, however, the only causes of this
dispersion; the principal certainly was the severity of the winter, which at that moment became
extreme. It aggravated every thing, and seemed to have planted itself completely between Wilna
and the army.

Till we arrived at Malodeczno, and up to the 4th of December, the day when it set in upon us
with such violence, the march, although painful, had been marked by a smaller number of deaths
than before we reached the Berezina. This respite was partly owing to the vigorous efforts
of Ney and Maison, which had kept the enemy in check, to the then milder temperature, to the
supplies which were obtained from a less ravaged country, and, finally, to the circumstance
that they were the strongest men who had escaped from the passage of the Berezina.

The partial organization which had been introduced into the disorder was kept up. The mass
of runaways kept on their way, divided into a number of petty associations of eight or ten
men. Many of these bands still possessed a horse, which carried their provisions, and was himself
finally destined to be converted to that purpose. A covering of rags, some utensils, a knapsack,
and a stick, formed the accoutrements and the armour of these poor fellows. They no longer
possessed either the arms or the uniform of a soldier, nor the desire of combating any other
enemies than hunger and cold; but they still retained perseverance, firmness, the habit of
danger and suffering, and a spirit always ready, pliant, and quick in making the most of their
situation. Finally, among the soldiers still under arms, the dread of a nickname, by which
they themselves ridiculed their comrades who had fallen into disorder, retained some influence.

But after leaving Malodeczno, and the departure of Napoleon, when winter with all its force,
and doubled in severity, attacked each of us, there was a complete dissolution of all those
associations against misfortune. It was no longer any thing but a multitude of isolated and
individual struggles. The best no longer respected themselves; nothing stopped them; no speaking
looks detained them; misfortune was hopeless of assistance, and even of regret; discouragement
had no longer judges to condemn, or witnesses to prove it; all were its victims.

Henceforward there was no longer fraternity in arms, there was an end to all society, to all
ties; the excess of evils had brutified them. Hunger, devouring hunger, had reduced these unfortunate
men to the brutal instinct of self-preservation, all which constitutes the understanding of
the most ferocious animals, and which is ready to sacrifice every thing to itself; a rough
and barbarous nature seemed to have communicated to them all its fury. Like savages, the strongest
despoiled the weakest; they rushed round the dying, and frequently waited not for their last
breath. When a horse fell, you might have fancied you saw a famished pack of hounds; they surrounded
him, they tore him to pieces, for which they quarrelled among themselves like ravenous dogs.

The greater number, however, preserved sufficient moral strength to consult their own safety
without injuring others; but this was the last effort of their virtue. If either leader or
comrade fell by their side, or under the wheels of the cannon, in vain did they call for assistance,
in vain did they invoke the names of a common country, religion, and cause; they could not
even obtain a passing look. The cold inflexibility of the climate had completely passed into
their hearts; its rigour had contracted their feelings equally with their countenances. With
the exception of a few of the commanders, all were absorbed by their sufferings, and terror
left no room for compassion.

Thus it was that the same egotism with which excessive prosperity has been reproached, was
produced by the excess of misfortune, but much more excusable in the latter; the first being
voluntary, and the last compulsive; the first a crime of the heart, and the other an impulse
of instinct entirely physical; and certainly it was hazarding one's life to stop for an instant.
In this universal shipwreck, the stretching forth one's hand to a dying leader or comrade was
a wonderful act of generosity. The least movement of humanity became a sublime action.

There were a few, however, who stood firm against both heaven and earth; these protected and
assisted the weakest; but these were indeed rare.

CHAP. II.

On the 6th of December, the very day after Napoleon's departure, the sky exhibited a still
more dreadful appearance. You might see icy particles floating in the air; the birds fell from
it quite stiff and frozen. The atmosphere was motionless and silent; it seemed as if every
thing which possessed life and movement in nature, the wind itself, had been seized, chained,
and as it were frozen by an universal death. Not the least word or murmur was then heard: nothing
but the gloomy silence of despair and the tears which proclaimed it.

We flitted along in this empire of death like unhappy spirits. The dull and monotonous sound
of our steps, the cracking of the snow, and the feeble groans of the dying, were the only interruptions
to this vast and doleful silence. Anger and imprecations there were none, nor any thing which
indicated a remnant of heat; scarcely did strength enough remain to utter a prayer; most of
them even fell without complaining, either from weakness or resignation, or because people
only complain when they look for kindness, and fancy they are pitied.

Such of our soldiers as had hitherto been the most persevering, here lost heart entirely. Sometimes
the snow opened under their feet, but more frequently its glassy surface affording them no
support, they slipped at every step, and marched from one fall to another. It seemed as if
this hostile soil refused to carry them, that it escaped under their efforts, that it led them
into snares, as if to embarrass and slacken their march, and deliver them to the Russians who
were in pursuit of them, or to their terrible climate.

And really, whenever they halted for a moment from exhaustion, the winter, laying his heavy
and icy hand upon them, was ready to seize upon his prey. In vain did these poor unfortunates,
feeling themselves benumbed, raise themselves, and already deprived of the power of speech
and plunged into a stupor, proceed a few steps like automatons; their blood freezing in their
veins, like water in the current of rivulets, congealed their heart, and then flew back to
their head; these dying men then staggered as if they had been intoxicated. From their eyes,
which were reddened and inflamed by the continual aspect of the snow, by the want of sleep,
and the smoke of bivouacs, there flowed real tears of blood; their bosom heaved heavy sighs;
they looked at heaven, at us, and at the earth, with an eye dismayed, fixed and wild; it expressed
their farewell, and perhaps their reproaches to the barbarous nature which tortured them. They
were not long before they fell upon their knees, and then upon their hands; their heads still
wavered for a few minutes alternately to the right and left, and from their open mouth some
agonizing sounds escaped; at last it fell in its turn upon the snow, which it reddened immediately
with livid blood; and their sufferings were at an end.

Their comrades passed by them without moving a step out of their way, for fear of prolonging
their journey, or even turning their head, for their beards and their hair were stiffened with
the ice, and every moment was a pain. They did not even pity them; for, in short, what had
they lost by dying? what had they left behind them? They suffered so much; they were still
so far from France; so much divested of feelings of country by the surrounding aspect, and
by misery; that every dear illusion was broken, and hope almost destroyed. The greater number,
therefore, were become careless of dying, from necessity, from the habit of seeing it, and
from fashion, sometimes even treating it contemptuously; but more frequently, on seeing these
unfortunates stretched out, and immediately stiffened, contenting themselves with the thought
that they had no more wishes, that they were at rest, that their sufferings were terminated!
And, in fact, death, in a situation quiet, certain, and uniform, may be always a strange event,
a frightful contrast, a terrible revolution; but in this tumult and violent and continual movement
of a life of constant action, danger, and suffering, it appeared nothing more than a transition,
a slight change, an additional removal, and which excited little alarm.

Such, were the last days of the grand army. Its last nights were still more frightful; those
whom they surprised marching together, far from every habitation, halted on the borders of
the woods; there they lighted their fires, before which they remained the whole night, erect
and motionless like spectres. They seemed as if they could never have enough of the heat; they
kept so close to it as to burn their clothes, as well as the frozen parts of their body, which
the fire decomposed. The most dreadful pain then compelled them to stretch themselves, and
the next day they attempted in vain to rise.

In the mean time, such as the winter had almost wholly spared, and who still retained some
portion of courage, prepared their melancholy meal. It consisted, ever since they had left
Smolensk, of some slices of horse-flesh broiled, and some rye-meal diluted into a bouillie
with snow water, or kneaded into muffins, which they seasoned, for want of salt, with the powder
of their cartridges.

The sight of these fires was constantly attracting fresh spectres, who were driven back by
the first comers. These poor wretches wandered about from one bivouac to another, until they
were struck by the frost and despair together, and gave themselves up for lost. They then laid
themselves down upon the snow, behind their more fortunate comrades, and there expired. Many
of them, devoid of the means and the strength necessary to cut down the lofty fir trees, made
vain attempts to set fire to them at the trunk; but death speedily surprised them around these
trees in every sort of attitude.

Under the vast pent-houses which are erected by the sides of the high road in some parts of
the way, scenes of still greater horror were witnessed. Officers and soldiers all rushed precipitately
into them, and crowded together in heaps. There, like so many cattle, they squeezed against
each other round the fires, and as the living could not remove the dead from the circle, they
laid themselves down upon them, there to expire in their turn, and serve as a bed of death
to some fresh victims. In a short time additional crowds of stragglers presented themselves,
and being unable to penetrate into these asylums of suffering, they completely besieged them.

It frequently happened that they demolished their walls, which were formed of dry wood, in
order to feed their fires; at other times, repulsed and disheartened, they were contented to
use them as shelters to their bivouacs, the flames of which very soon communicated to these
habitations, and the soldiers whom they contained, already half dead with the cold, were completely
killed by the fire. Such of us as these places of shelter preserved, found next day our comrades
lying frozen and in heaps around their extinguished fires. To escape from these catacombs,
a horrible effort was required to enable them to climb over the heaps of these poor wretches,
many of whom were still breathing.

At Youpranoui, the same village where the Emperor only missed by an hour being taken by the
Russian partizan Seslawin, the soldiers burnt the houses completely as they stood, merely to
warm themselves for a few minutes. The light of these fires attracted some of these miserable
wretches, whom the excessive severity of the cold and their sufferings had rendered delirious;
they ran to them like madmen, and gnashing their teeth and laughing like demons, they threw
themselves into these furnaces, where they perished in the most horrible convulsions. Their
famished companions regarded them undismayed; there were even some who drew out these bodies,
disfigured and broiled by the flames, and it is but too true, that they ventured to pollute
their mouths with this loathsome food!

This was the same army which had been formed from the most civilized nation in Europe; that
army, formerly so brilliant, which was victorious over men to its last moment, and whose name
still reigned in so many conquered capitals. Its strongest and bravest warriors, who had recently
been proudly traversing so many scenes of their victories, had lost their noble countenance;
covered with rags, their feet naked and torn, supporting themselves on branches of fir tree,
they dragged themselves along; all the strength and perseverance which they had hitherto put
forth in order to conquer, they now made use of to flee.

Then it was, that, like superstitious nations, we also had our prognostications, and heard
talk of prophecies. Some pretended that a comet had enlightened our passage across the Berezina
with its ill-omened fire; it is true that they added, "that doubtless these stars did not foretel
the great events of this world, but that they might certainly contribute to modify them; at
least, if we admitted their material influence upon our globe, and all the consequences which
that influence may exercise upon the human mind, so far as it is dependant on the matter which
it animates."

There were others who quoted ancient predictions, which, they said, "had announced for that
period, an invasion of the Tartars as far as the banks of the Seine. And, behold! they were
already at liberty to pass over the overthrown French army, and in a fair way to accomplish
that prediction."

Some again there were, who were reminding each other of the awful and destructive storm which
had signalized our entrance on the Russian territory. "Then it was heaven itself that spoke!
Behold the calamity which it predicted! Nature had made an effort to prevent this catastrophe!
Why had we been obstinately deaf to her voice?" So much did this simultaneous fall of four
hundred thousand men (an event which was not in fact more extraordinary than the host of epidemical
disorders and of revolutions which are constantly ravaging the globe) appear to them an extraordinary
and unique event, which must have occupied all the powers of heaven and earth; so much is our
understanding led to bring home every thing to itself; as if Providence, in compassion to our
weakness, and from the fear of its annihilating itself at the prospect of eternity, had so
ordered it, that every man, a mere point in space, should act and feel as if he himself was
the centre of immensity.

CHAP. III.

The army was in this last state of physical and moral distress, when its first fugitives reached
Wilna. Wilna! their magazine, their depôt, the first rich and inhabited city which they had
met with since their entrance into Russia. Its name alone, and its proximity, still supported
the courage of a few.

On the 9th of December, the greatest part of these poor soldiers at last arrived within sight
of that capital. Instantly, some dragging themselves along, others rushing forward, they all
precipitated themselves headlong into its suburbs, pushing obstinately before them, and crowding
together so fast, that they formed but one mass of men, horses, and chariots, motionless, and
deprived of the power of movement.

The clearing away of this crowd by a narrow passage became almost impossible. Those who came
behind, guided by a stupid instinct, added to the incumbrance, without the least idea of entering
the city by its other entrances, of which there were several. But there was such complete disorganization,
that during the whole of that fatal day, not a single staff-officer made his appearance to
direct these men to them.

For the space of ten hours, with the cold at 27 and even at 28 degrees, thousands of soldiers
who fancied themselves in safety, died either from cold or suffocation, just as had happened
at the gates of Smolensk, and at the bridges across the Berezina. Sixty thousand men had crossed
that river, and twenty thousand recruits had since joined them; of these eighty thousand, half
had already perished, the greater part within the last four days, between Malodeczno and Wilna.

The capital of Lithuania was still ignorant of our disasters, when, all at once, forty thousand
famished soldiers filled it with groans and lamentations. At this unexpected sight, its inhabitants
became alarmed, and shut their doors. Deplorable then was it to see these troops of wretched
wanderers in the streets, some furious and others desperate, threatening or entreating, endeavouring
to break open the doors of the houses and the magazines, or dragging themselves to the hospitals.
Everywhere they were repulsed; at the magazines, from most unseasonable formalities, as, from
the dissolution of the corps and the mixture of the soldiers, all regular distribution had
become impossible.

There had been collected there sufficient flour and bread to last for forty days, and butcher's
meat for thirty-six days, for one hundred thousand men. Not a single commander ventured to
step forward and give orders for distributing these provisions to all that came for them. The
administrators who had them in charge were afraid of being made responsible for them; and the
others dreaded the excesses to which the famished soldiers would give themselves up, when every
thing was at their discretion. These administrators besides were ignorant of our desperate
situation, and when there was scarcely time for pillage, had they been so inclined, our unfortunate
comrades were left for several hours to die of hunger at the very doors of these immense magazines
of provisions, all of which fell into the enemy's hands the following day.

At the barracks and the hospitals they were equally repulsed, but not by the living, for there
death held sway supreme. The few who still breathed complained that for a long time they had
been without beds, even without straw, and almost deserted. The courts, the passages, and even
the apartments were filled with heaps of dead bodies; they were so many charnel houses of infection.

At last, the exertions of several of the commanders, such as Eugene and Davoust, the compassion
of the Lithuanians, and the avarice of the Jews, opened some places of refuge. Nothing could
be more remarkable than the astonishment which these unfortunate men displayed at finding themselves
once more in inhabited houses. How delicious did a loaf of leavened bread appear to them, and
how inexpressible the pleasure of eating it seated! and afterwards, with what admiration were
they struck at seeing a scanty battalion still under arms, in regular order, and uniformly
dressed! They seemed to have returned from the very extremities of the earth; so much had the
violence and continuity of their sufferings torn and cast them from all their habits, so deep
had been the abyss from which they had escaped!

But scarcely had they begun to taste these sweets, when the cannon of the Russians commenced
thundering over their heads and upon the city. These threatening sounds, the shouts of the
officers, the drums beating to arms, and the wailings and clamour of an additional multitude
of unfortunates, which had just arrived, filled Wilna with fresh confusion. It was the vanguard
of Kutusoff and Tchaplitz, commanded by O'Rourke, Landskoy, and Seslawin, which had attacked
Loison's division, which was protecting the city, as well as the retreat of a column of dismounted
cavalry, on its way to Olita, by way of Novoï-Troky.

At first an attempt was made to resist. De Wrede and his Bavarians had also just rejoined the
army by Naroc-Zwiransky and Niamentchin. They were pursued by Wittgenstein, who from Kamen
and Vileika hung upon our right flank, at the same time that Kutusoff and Tchitchakof pursued
us. De Wrede had not two thousand men left under his command. As to Loison's division and the
garrison of Wilna, which had come to meet us as far as Smorgoni, and render us assistance,
the cold had reduced them from fifteen thousand men to three thousand in the space of three days.

De Wrede defended Wilna on the side of Rukoni; he was obliged to fall back after a gallant
resistance. Loison and his division, on his side, which was nearer to Wilna, kept the enemy
in check. They had succeeded in making a Neapolitan division take arms, and even to go out
of the city, but the muskets actually slipped from the hands of these "children of the sun"
transplanted to a region of ice. In less than an hour they all returned disarmed, and the best
part of them maimed.

At the same time, the générale was ineffectually beat in the streets; the old guard itself,
now reduced to a few platoons, remained dispersed. Every one thought much more of disputing
his life with famine and the cold than with the enemy. But when the cry of "Here are the Cossacks"
was heard, (which for a long time had been the only signal which the greater number obeyed,)
it echoed immediately throughout the whole city, and the rout again began.

De Wrede presented himself unexpectedly before the king of Naples. He said, "the enemy were
close at his heels! the Bavarians had been driven back into Wilna, which they could no longer
defend." At the same time, the noise of the tumult reached the king's ears. Murat was astonished;
fancying himself no longer master of the army, he lost all command of himself. He instantly
quitted his palace on foot, and was seen forcing his way through the crowd. He seemed to be
afraid of a skirmish, in the midst of a crowd similar to that of the day before. He halted,
however, at the last house in the suburbs, from whence he despatched his orders, and where
he waited for daylight and the army, leaving Ney in charge of the rest.

Wilna might have been defended for twenty-four hours longer, and many men might have been saved.
This fatal city retained nearly twenty thousand, including three hundred officers and seven
generals. Most of them had been wounded by the winter more than by the enemy, who had the merit
of the triumph. Several others were still in good health, to all appearance at least, but their
moral strength was completely exhausted. After courageously battling with so many difficulties,
they lost heart when they were near the port, at the prospect of four more days' march. They
had at last found themselves once more in a civilized city, and sooner than make up their minds
to return to the desert, they placed themselves at the mercy of Fortune; she treated them cruelly.

It is true that the Lithuanians, although we had compromised them so much, and were now abandoning
them, received into their houses and succoured several; but the Jews, whom we had protected,
repelled the others. They did even more; the sight of so many sufferers excited their cupidity.
Had their detestable avarice been contented with speculating upon our miseries, and selling
us some feeble succours for their weight in gold, history would scorn to sully her pages with
the disgusting detail; but they enticed our unhappy wounded men into their houses, stripped
them, and afterwards, on seeing the Russians, threw the naked bodies of these dying victims
from the doors and windows of their houses into the streets, and there unmercifully left them
to perish of cold; these vile barbarians even made a merit in the eyes of the Russians of torturing
them there; such horrible crimes as these must be denounced to the present and to future ages.
Now that our hands are become impotent, it is probable that our indignation against these monsters
may be their sole punishment in this world; but a day will come, when the assassins will again
meet their victims, and there certainly, divine justice will avenge us!

On the 10th of December, Ney, who had again voluntarily taken upon himself the command of the
rear-guard, left that city, which was immediately after inundated by the Cossacks of Platof,
who massacred all the poor wretches whom the Jews threw in their way. In the midst of this
butchery, there suddenly appeared a piquet of thirty French, coming from the bridge of the
Vilia, where they had been left and forgotten. At sight of this fresh prey, thousands of Russian
horsemen came hurrying up, besetting them with loud cries, and assailing them on all sides.

But the officer commanding this piquet had already drawn up his soldiers in a circle. Without
hesitation, he ordered them to fire, and then, making them present bayonets, proceeded at the
pas de charge. In an instant all fled before him; he remained in possession of the city; but
without feeling more surprise about the cowardice of the Cossacks, than he had done at their
attack, he took advantage of the moment, turned sharply round, and succeeded in rejoining the
rear-guard without any loss.

The latter was engaged with Kutusoff's vanguard, which it was endeavouring to drive back; for
another catastrophe, which it vainly attempted to cover, detained it at a short distance from
Wilna.

There, as well as at Moscow, Napoleon had given no regular order for retreat; he was anxious
that our defeat should have no forerunner, but that it should proclaim itself, and take our
allies and their ministers by surprise, and that, taking advantage of their first astonishment,
it might be able to pass through those nations before they were prepared to join the Russians
and overpower us.

This was the reason why the Lithuanians, foreigners, and every one at Wilna, even to the minister
himself, had been deceived. They did not believe our disaster until they saw it; and in that,
the almost superstitious belief of Europe in the infallibility of the genius of Napoleon was
of use to him against his allies. But the same confidence had buried his own officers in a
profound security; at Wilna, as well as at Moscow, not one of them was prepared for a movement
of any description.

This city contained a large proportion of the baggage of the army, and of its treasures, its
provisions, a crowd of enormous waggons, loaded with the Emperor's equipage, a large quantity
of artillery, and a great number of wounded men. Our retreat had come upon them like an unexpected
storm, almost like a thunderbolt. Some were terrified and thrown into confusion, while consternation
kept others motionless. Orders, men, horses, and carriages, were running about in all directions,
crossing and overturning each other.

In the midst of this tumult, several of the commanders pushed forward out of the city, towards
Kowno, with every thing they could contrive to carry with them; but at the distance of a league
from the latter place this heavy and frightened column had encountered the height and the defile
of Ponari.

During our conquering march, this woody hillock had only appeared to our hussars a fortunate
accident of the ground, from which they could discover the whole plain of Wilna, and take a
survey of their enemies. Besides, its rough but short declination had scarcely been remarked.
During a regular retreat it would have presented an excellent position for turning round and
stopping the enemy: but in a disorderly flight, where every thing that might be of service
became injurious, where in our precipitation and disorder, every thing was turned against ourselves,
this hill and its defile became an insurmountable obstacle, a wall of ice, against which all
our efforts were powerless. It detained every thing, baggage, treasure, and wounded. The evil
was sufficiently great in this long series of disasters to form an epoch.

Here, in fact, it was, that money, honour, and every remains of discipline and strength were
completely lost. After fifteen hours of fruitless efforts, when the drivers and the soldiers
of the escort saw the King of Naples and the whole column of fugitives passing them by the
sides of the hill, when turning their eyes at the noise of the cannon and musquetry which was
coming nearer them every instant they saw Ney himself retreating with three thousand men (the
remains of De Wrede's corps and Loison's division); when at last turning their eyes back to
themselves, they saw the hill completely covered with cannon and carriages, broken or overturned,
men and horses fallen to the ground, and expiring one upon the other,--then it was, that they
gave up all idea of saving any thing, and determined only to anticipate the enemy by plundering
themselves.

One of the covered waggons of treasure, which burst open of itself, served as a signal; every
one rushed to the others; they were immediately broken, and the most valuable effects taken
from them. The soldiers of the rear-guard, who were passing at the time of this disorder, threw
away their arms to join in the plunder; they were so eagerly engaged in it as neither to hear
nor to pay attention to the whistling of the balls and the howling of the Cossacks in pursuit
of them.

It is even said that the Cossacks got mixed among them without being observed. For some minutes,
French and Tartars, friends and foes, were confounded in the same greediness. French and Russians,
forgetting they were at war, were seen pillaging together the same treasure-waggons. Ten millions
of gold and silver then disappeared.

But amidst all these horrors, there were noble acts of devotion. Some there were, who abandoned
every thing to save some unfortunate wounded by carrying them on their shoulders; several others,
being unable to extricate their half-frozen comrades from this medley, lost their lives in
defending them from the attacks of their countrymen, and the blows of their enemies.

On the most exposed part of the hill, an officer of the Emperor, Colonel the Count de Turenne,
repulsed the Cossacks, and in defiance of their cries of rage and their fire, he distributed
before their eyes the private treasure of Napoleon to the guards whom he found within his reach.
These brave men, fighting with one hand and collecting the spoils of their leader with the
other, succeeded in saving them. Long afterwards, when they were out of all danger, each man
faithfully restored the depôt which had been entrusted to him. Not a single piece of money
was lost.

CHAP. IV.

This catastrophe at Ponari was the more disgraceful, as it was easy to foresee, and equally
easy to prevent it; for the hill could have been turned by its sides. The fragments which we
abandoned, however, were at least of some use in arresting the pursuit of the Cossacks. While
these were busy in collecting their prey, Ney, at the head of a few hundred French and Bavarians,
supported the retreat as far as Evé. As this was his last effort, we must not omit the description
of his method of retreat which he had followed ever since he left Wiazma, on the 3d of November,
during thirty-seven days and thirty-seven nights.

Every day, at 5 o'clock in the evening, he took his position, stopped the Russians, allowed
his soldiers to eat and take some rest, and resumed his march at 10 o'clock. During the whole
of the night, he pushed the mass of the stragglers before him, by dint of cries, of entreaties,
and of blows. At daybreak, which was about 7 o'clock, he halted, again took position, and rested
under arms and on guard until 10 o'clock; the enemy then made his appearance, and he was compelled
to fight until the evening, gaining as much or as little ground in the rear as possible. That
depended at first on the general order of march, and at a later period upon circumstances.

For a long time this rear-guard did not consist of more than two thousand, then of one thousand,
afterwards about five hundred, and finally of sixty men; and yet Berthier, either designedly
or from mere routine, made no change in his instructions. These were always addressed to the
commander of a corps of thirty-five thousand men; in them he coolly detailed all the different
positions, which were to be taken up and guarded until the next day, by divisions and regiments
which no longer existed. And every night, when, in consequence of Ney's urgent warnings, he
was obliged to go and awake the King of Naples, and compel him to resume his march, he testified
the same astonishment.

In this manner did Ney support the retreat from Wiazma to Evé, and a few wersts beyond it.
There, according to his usual custom, he had stopped the Russians, and was giving the first
hours of the night to rest, when, about ten o'clock, he and De Wrede perceived that they had
been left alone. Their soldiers had deserted them, as well as their arms, which they saw shining
and piled together close to their abandoned fires.

Fortunately the intensity of the cold, which had just completed the discouragement of our people,
had also benumbed their enemies. Ney overtook his column with some difficulty; it was now only
a band of fugitives; a few Cossacks chased it before them; without attempting either to take
or to kill them; either from compassion, for one gets tired of every thing in time, or that
the enormity of our misery had terrified even the Russians themselves, and they believed themselves
sufficiently revenged, and many of them behaved generously; or, finally, that they were satiated
and overloaded with booty. It might be also, that in the darkness, they did not perceive that
they had only to do with unarmed men.

Winter, that terrible ally of the Muscovites, had sold them his assistance dearly. Their disorder
pursued our disorder. We often saw prisoners who had escaped several times from their frozen
hands and looks. They had at first marched in the middle of their straggling column without
being noticed by it. There were some of them, who, taking advantage of a favourable moment,
ventured to attack the Russian soldiers when isolated, and strip them of their provisions,
their uniforms, and even their arms, with which they covered themselves. Under this disguise,
they mingled with their conquerors; and such was the disorganization, the stupid carelessness;
and the numbness into which their army had fallen, that these prisoners marched for a whole
month in the midst of them without being recognised. The hundred and twenty thousand men of
Kutusoff's army were then reduced to thirty-five thousand. Of Wittgenstein's fifty thousand,
scarcely fifteen thousand remained. Wilson asserts, that of a reinforcement of ten thousand
men, sent from the interior of Russia with all the precautions which they know how to take
against the winter, not more than seventeen hundred arrived at Wilna. But a head of a column
was quite sufficient against our disarmed soldiers. They attempted in vain to tally a few of
them, and he who had hitherto been almost the only one whose commands had been obeyed in the
rout, was now compelled to follow it.

He arrived along with it at Kowno, which was the last town of the Russian empire. Finally,
on the 13th of December, after marching forty-six days under a terrible yoke, they once more
came in sight of a friendly country. Instantly, without halting or looking behind them, the
greater part plunged into, and dispersed themselves, in the forests of Prussian Poland. Some
there were, however, who, on their arrival on the allied bank of the Niemen, turned round.
There, when they, cast a last look on that land of suffering from which they were escaping,
when they found themselves on the same spot, whence five months previously their countless
eagles had taken their victorious flight, it is said that tears flowed from their eyes, and
that they uttered exclamations of grief.

"This then was the bank which they had studded with their bayonets! this the allied country
which had disappeared only five months before, under the steps of their immense united army,
and seemed to them then to be metamorphosed into moving hills and valleys of men and horses!
These were the same valleys, from which, under the rays of a burning sun, poured forth the
three long columns of dragoons and cuirassiers, resembling three rivers of glittering iron
and brass. And now men, arms, eagles, horses, the sun itself, and even this frontier river,
which they had crossed replete with ardour and hope, all have disappeared. The Niemen is now
only a long mass of flakes of ice, caught and chained to each other by the increasing severity
of the winter. Instead of the three French bridges, brought from a distance of five hundred
leagues, and thrown across it with such audacious promptitude, a Russian bridge is alone standing.
Finally, in the room of these innumerable warriors, of their four hundred thousand comrades,
who had been so often their partners in victory, and who had dashed forward with such joy and
pride into the territory of Russia, they saw issuing from these pale and frozen deserts, only
a thousand infantry and horsemen still under arms, nine cannon, and twenty thousand miserable
wretches covered with rags, with downcast looks, hollow eyes, earthy and livid complexions,
long beards matted with the frost; some disputing in silence the narrow passage of the bridge,
which, in spite of their small number was not sufficient to the eagerness of their flight;
others fleeing dispersed over the asperities of the river, labouring and dragging themselves
from one point of ice to another; and this was the whole grand army! Besides, many of these
fugitives were recruits who had just joined it."

Two kings, one prince, eight marshals followed by a few officers, generals on foot, dispersed,
and without any attendants; finally, a few hundred men of the old guard, still armed, were
its remains; they alone represented it.

Or rather, I should say, it still breathed completely and entirely in Marshal Ney. Comrades!
allies! enemies! here I invoke your testimony; let us pay the homage which is due to the memory
of an unfortunate hero: the facts will be sufficient.

All were flying, and Murat himself, traversing Kowno as he had done Wilna, first gave, and
then withdrew the order to rally at Tilsit, and subsequently fixed upon Gumbinnen. Ney then
entered Kowno, accompanied only by his aides-de-camp, for all besides had given way, or fallen
around him. From the time of his leaving Wiazma, this was the fourth rear-guard which had been
worn out and melted in his hands. But winter and famine, still more than the Russians, had
destroyed them. For the fourth time, he remained alone before the enemy, and still unshaken,
he sought for a fifth rear-guard.

At Kowno the marshal found a company of artillery, three hundred German soldiers who formed
its garrison, and General Marchand with four hundred men; of these he took the command. He
first walked over the town to reconnoitre its position, and to rally some additional forces,
but he found only some sick and wounded, who were endeavouring, in tears, to follow our retreat.
For the eighth time since we left Moscow, we were obliged to abandon these en masse in their
hospitals, as they had been abandoned singly along the whole march, on all our fields of battle,
and at all our bivouacs.

Several thousand soldiers covered the marketplace and the neighbouring streets; but they were
laid out stiff before the magazines of spirits which they had broken open, and where they drank
the cup of death, from which they fancied they were to inhale fresh life. These were the only
succours which Murat had left him; Ney found himself left alone in Russia, with seven hundred
foreign recruits. At Kowno, as it had been after the disasters of Wiazma, of Smolensk, of the
Berezina, and of Wilna, it was to him that the honour of our arms and all the peril of the
last steps of our retreat were again confided.

On the 14th, at daybreak, the Russians commenced their attack. One of their columns made a
hasty advance from the Wilna road, while another crossed the Niemen on the ice above the town,
landed on the Prussian territory, and, proud of being the first to cross its frontier, marched
to the bridge of Kowno, to close that outlet upon Ney, and completely cut off his retreat.

The first firing was heard at the Wilna gate; Ney ran thither, with a view to drive away Platof's
artillery with his own; but he found his cannon had been already spiked, and that his artillerymen
had fled! Enraged, he darted forward, and elevating his sword, would have killed the officer
who commanded them, had it not been for his aide-de-camp, who warded off the blow, and enabled
this miserable fellow to make his escape.

Ney then summoned his infantry, but only one of the two feeble battalions of which it was composed
had taken up arms; it consisted of the three hundred Germans of the garrison. He drew them
up, encouraged them, and as the enemy was approaching, was just about to give them the order
to fire, when a Russian cannon ball, grazing the palisade, came and broke the thigh of their
commanding officer. He fell, and without the least hesitation, finding that his wound was mortal,
he coolly drew out his pistols and blew out his brains before his troop. Terrified at this
act of despair, his soldiers were completely scared, all of them at once threw down their arms,
and fled in disorder.

Ney, abandoned by all, neither deserted himself nor his post. After vain efforts to detain
these fugitives, he collected their muskets, which were still loaded, became once more a common
soldier, and with only four others, kept facing thousands of the Russians. His audacity stopped
them; it made some of his artillerymen ashamed, who imitated their marshal; it gave time to
his aide-de-camp Heymès, and to General Gérard to embody thirty soldiers, bring forward two
or three light pieces, and to Generals Ledru and Marchand to collect the only battalion which
remained.

But at that moment the second attack of the Russians commenced on the other side of the Niemen,
and near the bridge of Kowno; it was then half-past two o'clock. Ney sent Ludru, Marchand,
and their four hundred men forward to retake and secure that passage. As to himself, without
giving way, or disquieting himself farther as to what was passing in his rear, he kept on fighting
at the head of his thirty men, and maintained himself until night at the Wilna gate. He then
traversed the town and crossed the Niemen, constantly fighting, retreating but never flying,
marching after all the others, supporting to the last moment the honour of our arms, and for
the hundredth time during the last forty days and forty nights, putting his life and liberty
in jeopardy to save a few more Frenchmen. Finally, he was the last of the grand army who quitted
that fatal Russia, exhibiting to the world the impotence of fortune against great courage,
and proving that with heroes every thing turns to glory, even the greatest disasters.

It was eight o'clock at night when he reached the allied bank. Then it was, that seeing the
completion of the catastrophe, Marchand repulsed to the entrance of the bridge, and the road
of Wilkowiski which Murat had taken, completely covered with the enemy's troops, he darted
off to the right, plunged into the woods, and disappeared.

CHAP. V.

When Murat reached Gumbinnen, he was exceedingly surprised to find Ney already there, and to
find, that since it had left Kowno, the army was marching without a rear-guard. Fortunately,
the pursuit of the Russians, after they had reconquered their own territory, became slackened.
They seemed to hesitate on the Prussian frontier, not knowing whether they should enter it
as allies or as enemies. Murat took advantage of their uncertainty to halt a few days at Gumbinnen,
and to direct the remains of the different corps to the towns on the borders of the Vistula.

Previous to this dislocation of the army, he assembled the commanders of it. I know not what
evil genius it was that inspired him at this council. One would fain believe that it was the
embarrassment he felt before these warriors for his precipitate flight, and spite against the
Emperor, who had left him with the responsibility of it; or it might be shame at appearing
again, vanquished, in the midst of the nations whom our victories had most oppressed; but as
his language bore a much more mischievous character, which his subsequent actions did not belie,
and as they were the first symptoms of his defection, history must not pass over them in silence.

This warrior, who had been elevated to the throne solely by the right of victory, now returned
discomfited. From the first step he took upon vanquished territory, he fancied he felt it everywhere
trembling under his feet, and that his crown was tottering on his head. A thousand times during
the campaign, he had exposed himself to the greatest dangers; but he, who, as a king, had shown
as little fear of death as the meanest soldier of the vanguard, could not bear the apprehension
of living without a crown. Behold him then, in the midst of the commanders, whom his brother
had placed under his direction, accusing that brother's ambition, which he had shared, in order
to free himself from the responsibility which its gratification had involved.

He exclaimed, "that it was no longer possible to serve such a madman! that there was no safety
in supporting his cause; that no monarch in Europe could now place any reliance on his word,
or in treaties concluded with him. He himself was in despair for having rejected the propositions
of the English; had it not been for that, he would still be a great monarch, such as the Emperor
of Austria, and the King of Prussia."

Davoust abruptly cut him short. "The King of Prussia, the Emperor of Austria," said he to him,
"are monarchs by the grace of God, of time, and the custom of nations. But as to you, you are
only a king by the grace of Napoleon, and of the blood of Frenchmen; you cannot remain so but
through Napoleon, and by continuing united to France. You are led away by the blackest ingratitude!"
And he declared to him that he would immediately denounce his treachery to his Emperor; the
other marshals remained silent. They made allowance for the violence of the king's grief, and
attributed solely to his inconsiderate heat, the expressions which the hatred and suspicious
character of Davoust had but too clearly comprehended.

Murat was put entirely out of countenance; he felt himself guilty. Thus was stifled the first
spark of treachery, which at a later period was destined to ruin France. It is with regret
that history commemorates it, as repentance and misfortune have atoned for the crime.

We were soon obliged to carry our humiliation to Königsberg. The grand army, which, during
the last twenty years, had shown itself successively triumphant in all the capitals of Europe,
now, for the first time, re-appeared mutilated, disarmed, and fugitive, in one of those which
had been most humiliated by its glory. Its population crowded on our passage to count our wounds,
and to estimate, by the extent of our disasters, that of the hopes they might venture to entertain;
we were compelled to feast their greedy looks with our miseries, to pass under the yoke of
their hope, and while dragging our misfortunes through the midst of their odious joy, to march
under the insupportable weight of hated calamity.

The feeble remnant of the grand army did not bend under this burden. Its shadow, already almost
dethroned, still exhibited itself imposing; it preserved its royal air; although vanquished
by the elements, it kept up, in the presence of men, its victorious and commanding attitude.

On their side, the Germans, either from slowness or fear, received us docilely; their hatred
restrained itself under an appearance of coolness; and as they scarcely ever act from themselves,
they were obliged to relieve our miseries, during the time that they were looking for a signal.
Königsberg was soon unable to contain them. Winter, which had followed us thither, deserted
us there all at once; in one night the thermometer fell twenty degrees.

This sudden change was fatal to us. A great number of soldiers and generals, whom the tension
of the atmosphere had hitherto supported by a continued irritation, sunk and fell into decomposition.
Lariboissière, general-in-chief of the artillery, fell a sacrifice; Eblé, the pride of the
army, followed him. Every day and every hour, our consternation was increased by fresh deaths.

In the midst of this general mourning, a sudden insurrection, and a letter from Macdonald,
contributed to convert all these sorrows into despair. The sick could no longer cherish the
expectation of dying free; the friend was either compelled to desert his expiring friend, the
brother his brother, or to drag them in that state to Elbing. The insurrection was only alarming
as a symptom; it was put down; but the intelligence transmitted by Macdonald was decisive.

CHAP. VI.

On the side where that marshal commanded, the whole of the war had been only a rapid march
from Tilsit to Mittau, a display of force from the mouth of the Aa to Dünaburg, and finally,
a long defensive position in front of Riga; the composition of that army being almost entirely
Prussian, its position and Napoleon's orders so willed it.

It was a piece of great audacity in the Emperor to entrust his left wing, as well as his right
and his retreat, to Prussians and Austrians. It was observed, that at the same time he had
dispersed the Poles throughout the whole army; many persons thought that it would have been
preferable to collect in one point the zeal of the latter, and to have divided the hatred of
the former. But we everywhere required natives as interpreters, scouts, or guides, and felt
the value of their audacious ardour on the true points of attack. As to the Prussians and Austrians,
it is probable that they would not have allowed themselves to be dispersed. On the left, Macdonald,
with seven thousand Bavarians, Westphalians, and Poles, mixed with twenty-two thousand Prussians,
appeared sufficient to answer for the latter, as well as for the Russians.

