Luther, I'm going to run down to Letty's. We think the twins are going to have measles; it's
the only thing they haven't had, and Letty's spirits are not up to concert pitch. You look
like a blessed old prophet to-night, my dear! What's the text?"

The minister pushed back his spectacles and ruffled his gray hair.

"Isaiah VI, 8: 'And I heard the voice of the Lord, saying whom shall I send?... Then said I,
Here am I, send me!'"

"It doesn't sound a bit like Christmas, somehow."

"It has the spirit, if it hasn't the sound," said the minister. "There is always so little
spare money in the village that we get less and less accustomed to sharing what we have with
others. I want to remind the people that there are different ways of giving, and that the bestowing
of one's self in service and good deeds can be the best of all gifts. Letty Boynton won't need
the sermon!--Don't be late, Reba."

"Of course not. When was I ever late? It has just struck seven and I'll be back by eight to
choose the hymns. And oh! Luther, I have some fresh ideas for Christmas cards and I am going
to try my luck with them in the marts of trade. There are hundreds of thousands of such things
sold nowadays; and if the 'Boston Banner' likes my verses well enough to send me the paper
regularly, why shouldn't the people who make cards like them too, especially when I can draw
and paint my own pictures?"

"I've no doubt they'll like them; who wouldn't? If the parish knew what a ready pen you have,
they'd suspect that you help me in my sermons! The question is, will the publishers send you
a check, or only a copy of your card?"

"I should relish a check, I confess; but oh! I should like almost as well a beautifully colored
card, Luther, with a picture of my own inventing on it, my own verse, and R. L. in tiny letters
somewhere in the corner! It would make such a lovely Christmas present! And I should be so
proud; inside of course, not outside! I would cover my halo with my hat so that nobody in the
congregation would ever notice it!"

The minister laughed.

"Consult Letty, my dear. David used to be in some sort of picture business in Boston. She will
know, perhaps, where to offer your card!"

At the introduction of a new theme into the conversation Mrs. Larrabee slipped into a chair
by the door, her lantern swinging in her hand.

"David can't be as near as Boston or we should hear of him sometimes. A pretty sort of brother
to be meandering foot-loose over the earth, and Letty working her fingers to the bone to support
his children--twins at that! It was just like David Gilman to have twins! Doesn't it seem incredible
that he can let Christmas go by without a message? I dare say he doesn't even remember that
his babies were born on Christmas eve. To be sure he is only Letty's half-brother, but after
all they grew up together and are nearly the same age."

"You always judged David a little severely, Reba. Don't despair of reforming any man till you
see the grass growing over his bare bones. I always have a soft spot in my heart for him when
I remember his friendship for my Dick; but that was before your time.--Oh! these boys, these
boys!" The minister's voice quavered. "We give them our very life-blood. We love them, cherish
them, pray over them, do our best to guide them, yet they take the path that leads from home.
In some way, God knows how, we fail to call out the return love, or even the filial duty and
respect!--Well, we won't talk about it, Reba; my business is to breathe the breath of life
into my text: 'Here am I, Lord, send me!' Letty certainly continues to say it heroically, whatever
her troubles."

"Yes, Letty is so ready for service that she will always be sent, till the end of time; but
if David ever has an interview with his Creator I can hear him say: 'Here am I, Lord; send Letty!'"

