"I am no out o' my mind," said she, "and sink or swim, I am determined to gang to Lunnon, if
I suld beg my way frae door to door--and so I maun, unless ye wad lend me a small sum to pay
my expenses--little thing will do it; and ye ken my father's a man of substance, and wad see
nae man, far less you, Laird, come to loss by me."

Dumbiedikes, on comprehending the nature of this application, could scarce trust his ears--he
made no answer whatever, but stood with his eyes rivetted on the ground.

"I see ye are no for assisting me, Laird," said Jeanie, "sae fare ye weel--and gang and see
my poor father as aften as ye can--he will be lonely eneugh now."

"Where is the silly bairn gaun?" said Dumbiedikes; and, laying hold of her hand, he led her
into the house. "It's no that I didna think o't before," he said, "but it stack in my throat."

Thus speaking to himself, he led her into an old-fashioned parlour, shut the door behind them,
and fastened it with a bolt. While Jeanie, surprised at this manoeuvre, remained as near the
door as possible, the Laird quitted her hand, and pressed upon a spring lock fixed in an oak
panel in the wainscot, which instantly slipped aside. An iron strong-box was discovered in
a recess of the wall; he opened this also, and pulling out two or three drawers, showed that
they were filled with leathern bags full of gold and silver coin.

"This is my bank, Jeanie lass," he said, looking first at her and then at the treasure, with
an air of great complacency,--"nane o' your goldsmith's bills for me,--they bring folk to ruin."

Then, suddenly changing his tone, he resolutely said,--"Jeanie, I will make ye Lady Dumbiedikes
afore the sun sets and ye may ride to Lunnon in your ain coach, if ye like."

"Na, Laird," said Jeanie, "that can never be--my father's grief--my sister's situation--the
discredit to you"

"That's my business," said Dumbiedikes; "ye wad say naething about that if ye werena a fule--and
yet I like ye the better for't--ae wise body's eneugh in the married state. But if your heart's
ower fu', take what siller will serve ye, and let it be when ye come back again--as gude syne
as sune."

"But, Laird," said Jeanie, who felt the necessity of being explicit with so extraordinary a
lover, "I like another man better than you, and I canna marry ye."

"Another man better than me, Jeanie!" said Dumbiedikes; "how is that possible? It's no possible,
woman--ye hae ken'd me sae lang."

"Ay but, Laird," said Jeanie, with persevering simplicity, "I hae ken'd him langer."

"Langer! It's no possible!" exclaimed the poor Laird. "It canna be; ye were born on the land.
O Jeanie woman, ye haena lookit--ye haena seen the half o' the gear." He drew out another drawer--"A'
gowd, Jeanie, and there's bands for siller lent--And the rental book, Jeanie--clear three hunder
sterling--deil a wadset, heritable band, or burden--Ye haena lookit at them, woman--And then
my mother's wardrobe, and my grandmother's forby--silk gowns wad stand on their ends, their
pearline-lace as fine as spiders' webs, and rings and ear-rings to the boot of a' that--they
are a' in the chamber of deas--Oh, Jeanie, gang up the stair and look at them!"

But Jeanie held fast her integrity, though beset with temptations, which perhaps the Laird
of Dumbiedikes did not greatly err in supposing were those most affecting to her sex.

"It canna be, Laird--I have said it--and I canna break my word till him, if ye wad gie me the
haill barony of Dalkeith, and Lugton into the bargain."

"Your word to him," said the Laird, somewhat pettishly; "but wha is he, Jeanie?--wha is he?--I
haena heard his name yet--Come now, Jeanie, ye are but queering us--I am no trowing that there
is sic a ane in the warld--ye are but making fashion--What is he?--wha is he?"

"Just Reuben Butler, that's schulemaster at Liberton," said Jeanie.

"Reuben Butler! Reuben Butler!" echoed the Laird of Dumbiedikes, pacing the apartment in high
disdain,--"Reuben Butler, the dominie at Liberton--and a dominie depute too!--Reuben, the son
of my cottar!--Very weel, Jeanie lass, wilfu' woman will hae her way--Reuben Butler! he hasna
in his pouch the value o' the auld black coat he wears--But it disna signify." And as he spoke,
he shut successively and with vehemence the drawers of his treasury. "A fair offer, Jeanie,
is nae cause of feud--Ae man may bring a horse to the water, but twenty winna gar him drink--And
as for wasting my substance on other folk's joes"

There was something in the last hint that nettled Jeanie's honest pride.-- "I was begging nane
frae your honour," she said; "least of a' on sic a score as ye pit it on.--Gude morning to
ye, sir; ye hae been kind to my father, and it isna in my heart to think otherwise than kindly
of you."

So saying, she left the room without listening to a faint "But, Jeanie--Jeanie--stay, woman!"
and traversing the courtyard with a quick step, she set out on her forward journey, her bosom
glowing with that natural indignation and shame, which an honest mind feels at having subjected
itself to ask a favour, which had been unexpectedly refused. When out of the Laird's ground,
and once more upon the public road, her pace slackened, her anger cooled, and anxious anticipations
of the consequence of this unexpected disappointment began to influence her with other feelings.
Must she then actually beg her way to London? for such seemed the alternative; or must she
turn back, and solicit her father for money? and by doing so lose time, which was precious,
besides the risk of encountering his positive prohibition respecting the journey! Yet she saw
no medium between these alternatives; and, while she walked slowly on, was still meditating
whether it were not better to return.

While she was thus in an uncertainty, she heard the clatter of a horse's hoofs, and a well-known
voice calling her name. She looked round, and saw advancing towards her on a pony, whose bare
back and halter assorted ill with the nightgown, slippers, and laced cocked-hat of the rider,
a cavalier of no less importance than Dumbiedikes himself. In the energy of his pursuit, he
had overcome even the Highland obstinacy of Rory Bean, and compelled that self-willed palfrey
to canter the way his rider chose; which Rory, however, performed with all the symptoms of
reluctance, turning his head, and accompanying every bound he made in advance with a sidelong
motion, which indicated his extreme wish to turn round,--a manoeuvre which nothing but the
constant exercise of the Laird's heels and cudgel could possibly have counteracted.

When the Laird came up with Jeanie, the first words he uttered were,--"Jeanie, they say ane
shouldna aye take a woman at her first word?"

"Ay, but ye maun take me at mine, Laird," said Jeanie, looking on the ground, and walking on
without a pause.--"I hae but ae word to bestow on ony body, and that's aye a true ane."

"Then," said Dumbiedikes, "at least ye suldna aye take a man at his first word. Ye maunna gang
this wilfu' gate sillerless, come o't what like."--He put a purse into her hand. "I wad gie
you Rory too, but he's as wilfu' as yoursell, and he's ower weel used to a gate that maybe
he and I hae gaen ower aften, and he'll gang nae road else."

"But, Laird," said Jeanie, "though I ken my father will satisfy every penny of this siller,
whatever there's o't, yet I wadna like to borrow it frae ane that maybe thinks of something
mair than the paying o't back again."

"There's just twenty-five guineas o't," said Dumbiedikes, with a gentle sigh, "and whether
your father pays or disna pay, I make ye free till't without another word. Gang where ye like--do
what ye like--and marry a' the Butlers in the country gin ye like--And sae, gude morning to
you, Jeanie."

"And God bless you, Laird, wi' mony a gude morning!" said Jeanie, her heart more softened by
the unwonted generosity of this uncouth character, than perhaps Butler might have approved,
had he known her feelings at that moment; "and comfort, and the Lord's peace, and the peace
of the world, be with you, if we suld never meet again!"

Dumbiedikes turned and waved his hand; and his pony, much more willing to return than he had
been to set out, hurried him homeward so fast, that, wanting the aid of a regular bridle, as
well as of saddle and stirrups, he was too much puzzled to keep his seat to permit of his looking
behind, even to give the parting glance of a forlorn swain. I am ashamed to say, that the sight
of a lover, ran away with in nightgown and slippers and a laced hat, by a bare-backed Highland
pony, had something in it of a sedative, even to a grateful and deserved burst of affectionate
esteem. The figure of Dumbiedikes was too ludicrous not to confirm Jeanie in the original sentiments
she entertained towards him.

"He's a gude creature," said she, "and a kind--it's a pity he has sae willyard a powny." And
she immediately turned her thoughts to the important journey which she had commenced, reflecting
with pleasure, that, according to her habits of life and of undergoing fatigue, she was now
amply or even superfluously provided with the means of encountering the expenses of the road,
up and down from London, and all other expenses whatever.

CHAPTER THIRD

                     What strange and wayward thoughts will slide
                         Into a lover's head;
                     "O mercy!" to myself I cried,
                        "If Lucy should be dead!"
                                              Wordsworth.

In pursuing her solitary journey, our heroine, soon after passing the house of Dumbiedikes,
gained a little eminence, from which, on looking to the eastward down a prattling brook, whose
meanders were shaded with straggling widows and alder trees, she could see the cottages of
Woodend and Beersheba, the haunts and habitation of her early life, and could distinguish the
common on which she had so often herded sheep, and the recesses of the rivulet where she had
pulled rushes with Butler, to plait crowns and sceptres for her sister Effie, then a beautiful
but spoiled child, of about three years old. The recollections which the scene brought with
them were so bitter, that, had she indulged them, she would have sate down and relieved her
heart with tears.

"But I ken'd," said Jeanie, when she gave an account of her pilgrimage, "that greeting would
do but little good, and that it was mair beseeming to thank the Lord, that had showed me kindness
and countenance by means of a man, that mony ca'd a Nabal, and churl, but wha was free of his
gudes to me, as ever the fountain was free of the stream. And I minded the Scripture about
the sin of Israel at Meribah, when the people murmured, although Moses had brought water from
the dry rock that the congregation might drink and live. Sae, I wad not trust mysell with another
look at puir Woodend, for the very blue reek that came out of the lum-head pat me in mind of
the change of market days with us."

In this resigned and Christian temper she pursued her journey until she was beyond this place
of melancholy recollections, and not distant from the village where Butler dwelt, which, with
its old-fashioned church and steeple, rises among a tuft of trees, occupying the ridge of an
eminence to the south of Edinburgh. At a quarter of a mile's distance is a clumsy square tower,
the residence of the Laird of Liberton, who, in former times, with the habits of the predatory
chivalry of Germany, is said frequently to have annoyed the city of Edinburgh, by intercepting
the supplies and merchandise which came to the town from the southward.

This village, its tower, and its church, did not lie precisely in Jeanie's road towards England;
but they were not much aside from it, and the village was the abode of Butler. She had resolved
to see him in the beginning of her journey, because she conceived him the most proper person
to write to her father concerning her resolution and her hopes. There was probably another
reason latent in her affectionate bosom. She wished once more to see the object of so early
and so sincere an attachment, before commencing a pilgrimage, the perils of which she did not
disguise from herself, although she did not allow them so to press upon her mind as to diminish
the strength and energy of her resolution. A visit to a lover from a young person in a higher
rank of life than Jeanie's, would have had something forward and improper in its character.
But the simplicity of her rural habits was unacquainted with these punctilious ideas of decorum,
and no notion, therefore, of impropriety crossed her imagination, as, setting out upon a long
journey, she went to bid adieu to an early friend.

There was still another motive that pressed upon her mind with additional force as she approached
the village. She had looked anxiously for Butler in the courthouse, and had expected that,
certainly, in some part of that eventful day, he would have appeared to bring such countenance
and support as he could give to his old friend, and the protector of his youth, even if her
own claims were laid aside.

She know, indeed, that he was under a certain degree of restraint; but she still had hoped
that he would have found means to emancipate himself from it, at least for one day. In short,
the wild and wayward thoughts which Wordsworth has described as rising in an absent lover's
imagination, suggested, as the only explanation of his absence, that Butler must be very ill.
And so much had this wrought on her imagination, that when she approached the cottage where
her lover occupied a small apartment, and which had been pointed out to her by a maiden with
a milk-pail on her head, she trembled at anticipating the answer she might receive on inquiring
for him.

Her fears in this case had, indeed, only hit upon the truth. Butler, whose constitution was
naturally feeble, did not soon recover the fatigue of body and distress of mind which he had
suffered, in consequence of the tragical events with which our narrative commenced. The painful
idea that his character was breathed on by suspicion, was an aggravation to his distress.

But the most cruel addition was the absolute prohibition laid by the magistrates on his holding
any communication with Deans or his family. It had unfortunately appeared likely to them, that
some intercourse might be again attempted with that family by Robertson, through the medium
of Butler, and this they were anxious to intercept, or prevent if possible. The measure was
not meant as a harsh or injurious severity on the part of the magistrates; but, in Butler's
circumstances, it pressed cruelly hard. He felt he must be suffering under the bad opinion
of the person who was dearest to him, from an imputation of unkind desertion, the most alien
to his nature.

This painful thought, pressing on a frame already injured, brought on a succession of slow
and lingering feverish attacks, which greatly impaired his health, and at length rendered him
incapable even of the sedentary duties of the school, on which his bread depended. Fortunately,
old Mr. Whackbairn, who was the principal teacher of the little parochial establishment, was
sincerely attached to Butler. Besides that he was sensible of his merits and value as an assistant,
which had greatly raised the credit of his little school, the ancient pedagogue, who had himself
been tolerably educated, retained some taste for classical lore, and would gladly relax, after
the drudgery of the school was over, by conning over a few pages of Horace or Juvenal with
his usher. A similarity of taste begot kindness, and accordingly he saw Butler's increasing
debility with great compassion, roused up his own energies to teaching the school in the morning
hours, insisted upon his assistant's reposing himself at that period, and, besides, supplied
him with such comforts as the patient's situation required, and his own means were inadequate
to compass.

Such was Butler's situation, scarce able to drag himself to the place where his daily drudgery
must gain his daily bread, and racked with a thousand fearful anticipations concerning the
fate of those who were dearest to him in the world, when the trial and condemnation of Effie
Deans put the copestone upon his mental misery.

He had a particular account of these events, from a fellow-student who resided in the same
village, and who, having been present on the melancholy occasion, was able to place it in all
its agony of horrors before his excruciated imagination. That sleep should have visited his
eyes after such a curfew-note, was impossible. A thousand dreadful visions haunted his imagination
all night, and in the morning he was awaked from a feverish slumber, by the only circumstance
which could have added to his distress,--the visit of an intrusive ass.

This unwelcome visitant was no other than Bartoline Saddletree. The worthy and sapient burgher
had kept his appointment at MacCroskie's with Plumdamas and some other neighbours, to discuss
the Duke of Argyle's speech, the justice of Effie Deans's condemnation, and the improbability
of her obtaining a reprieve. This sage conclave disputed high and drank deep, and on the next
morning Bartoline felt, as he expressed it, as if his head was like a "confused progress of writs."

To bring his reflective powers to their usual serenity, Saddle-tree resolved to take a morning's
ride upon a certain hackney, which he, Plumdamas, and another honest shopkeeper, combined to
maintain by joint subscription, for occasional jaunts for the purpose of business or exercise.
As Saddletree had two children boarded with Whackbairn, and was, as we have seen, rather fond
of Butler's society, he turned his palfrey's head towards Liberton, and came, as we have already
said, to give the unfortunate usher that additional vexation, of which Imogene complains so
feelingly, when she says,--

                      "I'm sprighted with a fool--
                     Sprighted and anger'd worse."

If anything could have added gall to bitterness, it was the choice which Saddletree made of
a subject for his prosing harangues, being the trial of Effie Deans, and the probability of
her being executed. Every word fell on Butler's ear like the knell of a death-bell, or the
note of a screech-owl.

Jeanie paused at the door of her lover's humble abode upon hearing the loud and pompous tones
of Saddletree sounding from the inner apartment, "Credit me, it will be sae, Mr. Butler. Brandy
cannot save her. She maun gang down the Bow wi' the lad in the pioted coat* at her heels.--

* The executioner, in livery of black or dark grey and silver, likened by low wit to a magpie.

I am sorry for the lassie, but the law, sir, maun hae its course--

                              Vivat Rex,
                              Currat Lex,

as the poet has it, in whilk of Horace's odes I know not."

Here Butler groaned, in utter impatience of the brutality and ignorance which Bartoline had
contrived to amalgamate into one sentence. But Saddletree, like other prosers, was blessed
with a happy obtuseness of perception concerning the unfavourable impression which he sometimes
made on his auditors. He proceeded to deal forth his scraps of legal knowledge without mercy,
and concluded by asking Butler, with great self-complacency, "Was it na a pity my father didna
send me to Utrecht? Havena I missed the chance to turn out as clarissimus an ictus, as auld
Grunwiggin himself?--Whatfor dinna ye speak, Mr. Butler? Wad I no hae been a clarissimus ictus?--Eh,
man?"

"I really do not understand you, Mr. Saddletree," said Butler, thus pushed hard for an answer.
His faint and exhausted tone of voice was instantly drowned in the sonorous bray of Bartoline.

"No understand me, man? Ictus is Latin for a lawyer, is it not?"

"Not that ever I heard of," answered Butler in the same dejected tone.

"The deil ye didna!--See, man, I got the word but this morning out of a memorial of Mr. Crossmyloof's--see,
there it is, ictus clarissimus et perti--peritissimus--it's a' Latin, for it's printed in the
Italian types."

"O, you mean juris-consultus--Ictus is an abbreviation for juris-consultus."

"Dinna tell me, man," persevered Saddletree, "there's nae abbreviates except in adjudications;
and this is a' about a servitude of water-drap--that is to say, tillicidian* (maybe ye'll say
that's no Latin neither), in Mary King's Close in the High Street."

* He meant, probably, stillicidium.

"Very likely," said poor Butler, overwhelmed by the noisy perseverance of his visitor. "Iam
not able to dispute with you."

"Few folk are--few folk are, Mr. Butler, though I say it that shouldna say it," returned Bartoline
with great delight. "Now, it will be twa hours yet or ye're wanted in the schule, and as ye
are no weel, I'll sit wi' you to divert ye, and explain t'ye the nature of a tillicidian. Ye
maun ken, the petitioner, Mrs. Crombie, a very decent woman, is a friend of mine, and I hae
stude her friend in this case, and brought her wi' credit into the court, and I doubtna that
in due time she will win out o't wi' credit, win she or lose she. Ye see, being an inferior
tenement or laigh house, we grant ourselves to be burdened wi' the tillicide, that is, that
we are obligated to receive the natural water-drap of the superior tenement, sae far as the
same fa's frae the heavens, or the roof of our neighbour's house, and from thence by the gutters
or eaves upon our laigh tenement. I am the second keyring and yesterday was not on duty. See M. Warden
in the book.

- The warden is closed.

- That is that the warden has gone to chow.

Will the gentleman to wait until tomorrow.

Because I only await the bell of the Force to deliver the jail official
seal and yaw.

- Who is that black holding a lively conversation with
other prisoners in the yard?

- What says the Lord?

Does the white sucks?

- Yes, the same.

- A Jaruco call it that.

-
Name of course, right?

- Well, his real name is not Jaruco is stuck,
but asina was put in the book and asina be called while in the Royal
Prison.

Dende gayola entered before yesterday.

Do you know the Lord?

- I think so. You call him at the gate, if there is no objection.

- No pregnancy, because while being held incommunicado, we have no Bartolinas for many prisoners.
Jaruco Eh! cried the keychain from his position.

And word is repeated by other prisoners in the same tone of voice,
came Jaruco, recognizing easily the master and slave.

Entrol to it so strong convulsive shudder, which was to grab with
both hands at the gate.

- Sumerced I take the blessing, bathed in
tears faltered.

- Why are you crying?, Leonardo asked angrily.

-
Wow, Leonardite child, remembering the hard time that I have given
the family in my absence.

- With your absence, dog?

With your flight.

- Boy, I'm not fled.

I left home Christmas Eve was designed to assist a dance for people of color out there. Around
the city had a tragedy a mulatto. I was wounded in the chest, I picked up an acquaintance in
the street and took me to the room in which he lived. As I spent the time healing. After this
misfortune befell me.

- What misfortune?

- The of the unjust imprisonment. All men are exposed to a stroke of bad luck.

- From bad luck, not bad head.

Is seen, Dionisio, you do not want blacks for good but for evil.

If Mom had dispatched to you when you did that wit dog of yore, there now you'd be in jail.
What crime you are accused?

- Still do not know the cause of my imprisonment, child leonardite.

- Do not know, eh? Is not the death of Tonda?

- Maybe I raise this false testimony, child who is bad because it
falls his feet and killed.

Get office, child, I was very calm, sewing shoes a shoe shop in the
Rue de Manrique, when she appeared at the door the captain Tonda.

From I saw them I knew it was coming for me, and tried to slip away.

Dismounted and went to him as if to surrender.

At the door of the shop had a wheel stop and I slipped out between
her and the wall of the house.

Tonda I fell back shouting: - Date, date! Shortcut! He tripped over a rock, fell on the sword
that had naked and injured in the stomach.

Did I have to blame for his death?

- Who caught you?

- Captain headman of Health. I took when I left for my job.

- I guess he told you why you lit.

- No word. He just told me he had orders to take me dead or alive.

- In good you've got, Dionisio. It will be much and give thanks to God if she escaped with
the skin.

- Whatever you want God and the Virgin.

I trust in my innocence. But do not think the kid that I love and Miss will do something for
me?

- Do? Nothing.

Do not wait.

By the way you have behaved decently with your masters! For them, the whole family, for yourself,
Dionisio, you'd better bend the neck in Point field.

With that you'll never insulting white girls.

- Me, Boy I've insulted
a white girl or color?

No, Leonardite child, I have consciousness of having insulted any.

- And one that was the cause of your quarrel with the mulatto to the
output of the dance?

- I did not insult the child.

For the bones of my mother that I did not say a bad word. Le asked a minuet, I said she was tired
and then went to dance with José Dolores Pimienta.

I complained to her the snub, he took his defense, we lock our words
and we beat a the street.

- If you do not let you talk hanged.

A otherwise. Do you know if they have brought here the same prey
young man of your tragedy with Pepper?

- I'm sure is not here.

Just put one foot in the prison courtyard, is published and circulated shouted his name.

- God protects you, Denis.

- Child charity, another word.

I remember that I delivered at his mercy a garment belongs.

- What piece of clothing? End soon, prontito.

- Had me in his pocket, hoping to give it one day, the watch Miss gave his market last year, but
they took it away to enter the prison. Must be in the hands of the Warden.

Dionisio told in as few words, how and when it came to power the clock and moved said to withdraw
his young master:

- Could you tell the child how is Mary Rule?

- Mom brought her wit.

Is now in the city earning wages. Have not you seen?

- No, sir. This is the first news I have of his coming. Why God did not want trip over it? I see
today in this prison. I have served as godmother to Miss and would
cook at home.

Leonardo night and returned home from the Commissioner and was surprised
in the act of sitting at the dinner table with his mistress.

- Hello!

Both good over here! Cantalapiedra said very cheerful, going to meet Leonardo, with an open
hand outstretched.

- Good to find, he said serious and cold, pretending that he had not
noticed Commissioner friendly demonstration.

- I waited, hiding Cantalapiedra
said the snub the bad impression made.

Fermina just tell me that you had honored with his presence this
humble shelter.

- I can speak a word with you?

- And two hundred
also, Don Leonardite.

You know that I am your most obedient servant.

Felt not be in the station when you were at dusk. He had to go racing the Policy Secretariat.
So that I do not know as we are not in the way, if you come there.

Bonora! screamed, a chair for this gentleman.

- Excuse the compliments, Leonardo said haughtily.

It is not for sitting. Let's talk provided it is standing alone.

- Why not here in front of Fermina? I have no secrets from her. We are inseparable.

- How you caught authority to Cecilia Valdés? asked the young man
desperately.

- Not with me has invested HM King Fernando VII, QDG,
but with Mr. Mayor to sign the warrant, a complaint from a parent.

-
What Mayor and which parent will tell you serve?

- That's too much
bread in between, Mr. Gamboa, the Commissioner said, laughing.

It seems like you something that is obscured ... Sit down and cool off.

- The girl has not committed any crime, so it is improper and illegal
to prison if is that everything has been nothing but a farce, or something
worse, God knows what purpose.

- None of this goes against me, I
have been a mere instrument in this case.

- Tell you if the name
of the complainant.

- Vd. knows better than me, and if you do not
know will know soon.

- Will you allowed to say the Mayor?

- No inconvenience:
the O'Reilly Don Fernando, Spain's largest first class Mayor of the
District of San Francisco ...

- Where did you a girl?

She is not in the public jail.

- Shall I not reveal it now. I drove to where I was ordered.

- After you hide it dishonest purposes.

- In my refusal to satisfy the curiosity of you does not show such
outrageous deduction.

Logic, logic, philosophy student sir.

- It matters little whether you want to throw the secretive and mysterious to me. I must see the
truth, and they may still, despite the author and instrument of this rude and intrigue indecent.

That
said, he went on his way home in high dudgeon. The family had a visitor in the room. No I decided
to enter it ready the carriage, moved in a suit, and when asked by signs her mother to the porch
railing of the reason for this precipitation:

- I go to the opera, he replied briefly.

Sang Rossini opera maestro Ricardo and Zoraida, to benefit the Santa
Marta, the beautiful Teatro Principal.

[59] It was then the company entrepreneur Eugenio Arriaza, and director
of the orchestra Don Manuel Cocco, brother of Jose, which we saw in
the mill La Tinaja.

The patio or yard and the boxes were occupied by a public medium
then nothing functions fan lyrics.

Leonardo came some time after the standard curtain.

Of course, he heard the overture to Tancredo, who preceded the opera
that night.

Looking for a man whose place in the theater knew in advance was because, as Mayor preside over
the function from the central box on the second floor.

Sitting was the pair of Madrid wife, embedded in music and song,
as he kept the back, standing by the door, the page mulatto, livery
rigorous cover castles and lions embroidered gold.

All this I watched through the porthole in the door of the box, closed against the corridor.
Could have called, assured of a friendly welcome input, but preferred wait on the balcony of the
refreshment room which overlooked the mall Paula.

Calculated according to Leonardo, shortly after completion of the first act, he felt measured steps
through the room, then a hand rested on his shoulders and followed a voice in a dramatic tone
declaimed: - What does the friend of the brave Othello?

- Ah! Is that you, Fernando? The farthest I had from my mind.

- What are you doing here so lonely and pensieroso?

- I just got.

-
No saw you in the lunettes.

Why do not you come at once to my box?

- I figured there was no place for me.

- For you are always by my side.

- Thanks.

- Are you in moments of inspiration? Is the witch on the tripod? I welcome that. Feel interrupt.

-
I inspired! It can be: the devil.

- There would be nothing strange that you inspire the urban scene that unfolds at sea the balcony.
Will you composed there in the mind an article descriptive?

Insurance. In fact, Who that houses the soul of a poet is not inspired by the sight of row houses
that unequal our right, protruding balconies high Conde de Peñalver manor? Or the trees in this
mall without ending coffee Paula, now dark and deserted? Or the hospital of the same name at
the bottom, which seems an Egyptian pyramid, from which blackened top, Bonaparte said, are watching
the centuries?

Or the opposite side, very dark mass of the ship Sovereign, nailed, so to speak, in the still
waters Bay? Can not you see how it stands out from the sky where the stars sparkle? Who would
not say they, rather than light shed tears over the impending disappearance
of the last remaining our naval glories?

- Fernando, so poetic that
scene for you, it has no meaning for me.

Perhaps because I know it by heart, or because I'm black humor.

- For me, kid, always has charms of nature. In her presence forget all my penalties. And by the
way have you read in The Journal "A trait of my visit to Mount Etna?"

Arazoza was the other day at home in order for something original
... He insisted and gave these blots.

- Almost never see El Diario.

-
Then look for it and read it.

The article is short. It was published three or four days. I wrote
in Palermo.

I did not put my name, because he says ill of a mayor ... You understand
me.

He went out with my initials only and have you to believe that we
have come to congratulate me more than twenty friends?

Yes Pedro José Morillas hugged me and gave me the article with the clouds. I want to hear your
opinion.

- Afternoon is that you can give it to you, Fernando. My head burns, I get to shoot myself, or spreading
it to someone, that readings.

- Man! I'm surprised. I know. Are you the same student in the class
of Philosophy at the College of San Carlos, or another in your figure?

What has become of that good humor and that catchy joy that you were
earning the affection of all your classmates?

Stop your nonsense and childhoods. Are you in love?

You could give in such a stupid thing after your twenties and most
Aprils and your experience ...

- It is the passion of love which
consumes me with this chest.

It is the anger, the pain, is the despair that produces the first disappointment of what are
the world, men and friendship.

- Come on.

Why deny it? You're in love and unrequited.

Sludge symptoms are love. What is the real source of your troubles?

Confíamelas.

You know I'm your friend.

- My friend! cried the young man with an ironic smile.

I thought you were, but I am disappointed you're my worst enemy.

-
What date is your disappointment?

- It's disservice you did to me.

I do not know how his memory will not gnaw the bowels.

- Will you have lost your mind? Come on, man! And fall.

All your anger is born ... Ja, ja!

- Do not laugh, seriously said Leonardo. This step is not laughing.

- Why, what is? Mayor stressed. Here is the first time, since we know that I see serious y. .. bobo.

-
Do not call to seriousness and silliness it touches into fury.

- Stop your childish nonsense at this time. Your anger seems to be leading me, and if you were
not encalabrinar, you would see that, far from hatred, you owe me gratitude.

- Not missing anything, but after wounding me where it hurts most, I expect thanks. What freshness
of yours! Did you know that was my girl Cecilia Valdés?

- I learned it the same day, as you say, I did the disservice ...

-
But before that, what were you news of its existence?

Did you know his character and background?

- What had to know! Iota.

- Then, how without the knowledge of the facts, without formation of summary gave the command
in prison?

- Because there who asked no such requirements.

- How come such a friendship call me?

- You will find there.

- What crime blamed the girl for the abuse?

- No one else, as I understand, that of love too.

- So, you have knowingly committed an injustice, let us say it clear, an arbitrary act.

- I plead guilty of this sin.

- Sin say? It's more than that. In our laws is called a quasi offense, which still can you get it
in the face. If you have included the sad orphan who has no advocate, deceive medium to medium. Here
I am, I will put the matter in question.

     - Evil will, Leonardo, said the mayor with calm and dignity.

         Bad will, I repeat.

As as I'm concerned, your released would not hurt me none, bounce off the chain mail me high
position of my titles of nobility and my valimiento here and in court. For this next I'm immune.
But you, to take the way you say, (I speak as a companion and friend)
not get anything but shock a little and give your father saloon, whose
complaint I leaned formal written for the procedure ... arbitrary
charges me.

Your father, your good and honest father, came to my court and established
complaint in every way against this girl, by seducing a minor, son
of a wealthy family and decent, with her charms and chicanery.

In the discussion we had, he lamented, almost with tears in his eyes,
that were made a lost player, womanizer, who neither study nor could
meet you in April as he and your mother waiting for you to take the
administration of the property next year, ie after marrying the beautiful
and virtuous young lady Alquízar, as were committed all for the frivolous
girl, whose love affairs disgrace undoubtedly a young man Count must
be before long.

- "So this is the epitome of the story my father
told you?

Listen, or contemplated now the reverse of the medal.

There is no such seduction, deception or pumpkins in this business. The girl is very pretty and
I idolized.

Why did not correspond to his love?

But it Daddy little girl has since followed the steps, holding, dressing,
shoes, celándola, dicking, caring for more and better than it ever
has maintained, clothing, shoe care rounds and none of their daughters.

Why? You wonder what purpose. Only God and he knows it.

I do not think bad yet, but just the fact kidnap when my grandmother
just died, the only person who could oppose serious obstacle to achieving
of twisted desires, I suspect that my father does not harbor good
intentions ... I relieved and pleased, however, that whatever the
shower of gold that he may pour the her feet will not get more than
what it has achieved so far: bitter hatred.

But you, my friend, me good away from me and deliveries tied hand and foot in power of my father.
Will I have to forgive me this bad game? Never.

- You're unfair, very unfair to your father and me.

With him because I did not accede to their entreaties, but when I'm fully convinced that they were
righteous and holy intentions for you, the family and the same Valdés.

Me are unfair, because seeing your father was resolved cut in any
way, no matter the cost, your clandestine relationship with the girl,
I decided to lock her in the Collected for a short time, say, until
you get Baccalaureate and marry as God intended and as appropriate
to your class and the wealth of your family.

What then, if you think you will return ... the first love.

Leonardo was silent and thoughtful, and then said feebly: - Bye, Fernando!

This

stopped him by the arm and said: - Thou shalt not go that way, as
if we had fought. Come to my stage: greet my wife and hear my side
of the second act of the opera. To alleviate there is some pain balm
comparable to good music.

CHAPTER VII

The biggest monster of jealousy.

CALDERON

-
What are you up you mess with a little boy from the suburbs?, Asked
Rosa to husband still in bed .-- Di, answers, he added codeándole
behind him, because he thought that is to Swedish or asleep.

- I
do not bring me and took me mess with anyone, Rosa, said Don Candido
in his sleep.

- Your own, you do. I have said, I know for a fact.

-
Who told you that story?

- No story is true. You have taken from
his home to a girl a few days ago ... The author is not the case.

-
What is Rosa. Some influence in you mightily.

- Then we will clarify
that point. No I mean that you're back at it again ...

- Do you see
what I say? Since you have been prepared against me. Your son ...

-
Well, now check it killed my son.

- Your son, I say, "continued Don
Candido without getting upset, I was about to commit the greatest
of escapades he has committed so far. I interposed, because at last
I'm his father, and I avoided the commission ... You do not want to
knock on it, what other recourse I can only touch her? Lo, in short,
the amount of my old ways.

- I did not stay to hear! "So to prevent
the child committing a skull, is the father and gives a scandal?

-
In this case there has been no scandal.

- What! Have you had hidden
the thing? Too bad. See what interest do you have in it.

- No one,
in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real shame for
a person that touches us as closely as is our son.

- What shame? Dear father, forgive my saying this muckle, for it
doth not become a young head to instruct grey hairs; but I am sae far
frae ye, that my heart yearns to ye a', and fain wad I hear that ye had
forgien her trespass, and sae I nae doubt say mair than may become me.
The folk here are civil, and, like the barbarians unto the holy apostle,
hae shown me much kindness; and there are a sort of chosen people in the
land, for they hae some kirks without organs that are like ours, and are
called meeting-houses, where the minister preaches without a gown. But
most of the country are prelatists, whilk is awfu' to think; and I saw
twa men that were ministers following hunds, as bauld as Roslin or
Driden, the young Laird of Loup-the-dike, or ony wild gallant in Lothian.
A sorrowfa' sight to behold! Oh, dear father, may a blessing be with your
down-lying and up-rising, and remember in your prayers your affectionate
daughter to command,
                                                      "Jean Deans."

A postscript bore, "I learned from a decent woman, a grazier's widow, that they hae a cure
for the muir-ill in Cumberland, whilk is ane pint, as they ca't, of yill, whilk is a dribble
in comparison of our gawsie Scots pint, and hardly a mutchkin, boiled wi' sope and hartshorn
draps, and toomed doun the creature's throat wi' ane whorn. Ye might try it on the bauson-faced
year-auld quey; an it does nae gude, it can do nae ill.-- She was a kind woman, and seemed
skeely about horned beasts. When I reach Lunnon, I intend to gang to our cousin Mrs. Glass,
the tobacconist, at the sign o' the Thistle, wha is so ceevil as to send you down your spleuchan-fu'
anes a year; and as she must be well kend in Lunnon, I doubt not easily to find out where she
lives."

Being seduced into betraying our heroine's confidence thus far, we will stretch our communication
a step beyond, and impart to the reader her letter to her lover.

"Mr. Reuben Butler,--Hoping this will find you better, this comes to say, that I have reached
this great town safe, and am not wearied with walking, but the better for it. And I have seen
many things which I trust to tell you one day, also the muckle kirk of this place; and all
around the city are mills, whilk havena muckle wheels nor mill-dams, but gang by the wind--strange
to behold. Ane miller asked me to gang in and see it work, but I wad not, for I am not come
to the south to make acquaintance with strangers. I keep the straight road, and just beck if
onybody speaks to me ceevilly, and answers naebody with the tong but women of my ain sect.
I wish, Mr. Butler, I kend onything that wad mak ye weel, for they hae mair medicines in this
town of York than wad cure a' Scotland, and surely some of them wad be gude for your complaints.
If ye had a kindly motherly body to nurse ye, and no to let ye waste yoursell wi' reading--whilk
ye read mair than eneugh wi' the bairns in the schule--and to gie ye warm milk in the morning,
I wad be mair easy for ye. Dear Mr. Butler, keep a good heart, for we are in the hands of Ane
that kens better what is gude for us than we ken what is for oursells. I hae nae doubt to do
that for which I am come--I canna doubt it--I winna think to doubt it--because, if I haena
full assurance, how shall I bear myself with earnest entreaties in the great folk's presence?
But to ken that ane's purpose is right, and to make their heart strong, is the way to get through
the warst day's darg. The bairns' rime says, the warst blast of the borrowing days* couldna
kill the three silly poor hog-lams.

* The last three days of March, old style, are called the Borrowing Days; for, as they are
remarked to be unusually stormy, it is feigned that March had borrowed them from April, to
extend the sphere of his rougher sway. The rhyme on the subject is quoted in the glossary to
Leyden's edition of the "Complaynt of Scotland"--

               [March said to Aperill,
                   I see three hogs upon a hill,
                A young sheep before it has lost its first fleece.
                   But when the borrowed days were gane
                The three silly hogs came hirplin hame.]

"And if it be God's pleasure, we that are sindered in sorrow may meet again in joy, even on
this hither side of Jordan. I dinna bid ye mind what I said at our partin' anent my poor father,
and that misfortunate lassie, for I ken you will do sae for the sake of Christian charity,
whilk is mair than the entreaties of her that is your servant to command,

                                                    "Jeanie Deans."

This letter also had a postscript. "Dear Reuben, If ye think that it wad hae been right for
me to have said mair and kinder things to ye, just think that I hae written sae, since I am
sure that I wish a' that is kind and right to ye and by ye. Ye will think I am turned waster,
for I wear clean hose and shoon every day; but it's the fashion here for decent bodies and
ilka land has it's ain landlaw. Ower and aboon a', if laughing days were e'er to come back
again till us, ye wad laugh weel to see my round face at the far end of a strae bon-grace,
that looks as muckle and round as the middell aisle in Libberton Kirk. But it sheds the sun
weel aff, and keeps uncivil folk frae staring as if ane were a worrycow. I sall tell ye by
writ how I come on wi' the Duke of Argyle, when I won up to Lunnon. Direct a line, to say how
ye are, to me, to the charge of Mrs. Margaret Glass, tobacconist, at the sign of the Thistle,
Lunnon, whilk, if it assures me of your health, will make my mind sae muckle easier. Excuse
bad spelling and writing, as I have ane ill pen."

The orthography of these epistles may seem to the southron to require a better apology than
the letter expresses, though a bad pen was the excuse of a certain Galwegian laird for bad
spelling; but, on behalf of the heroine, I would have them to know, that, thanks to the care
of Butler, Jeanie Deans wrote and spelled fifty times better than half the women of rank in
Scotland at that period, whose strange orthography and singular diction form the strongest
contrast to the good sense which their correspondence usually intimates.

For the rest, in the tenor of these epistles, Jeanie expressed, perhaps, more hopes, a firmer
courage, and better spirits, than she actually felt. But this was with the amiable idea of
relieving her father and lover from apprehensions on her account, which she was sensible must
greatly add to their other troubles. "If they think me weel, and like to do weel," said the
poor pilgrim to herself, "my father will be kinder to Effie, and Butler will be kinder to himself.
For I ken weel that they will think mair o' me than I do o' mysell."

Accordingly, she sealed her letters carefully, and put them into the post-office with her own
hand, after many inquiries concerning the time in which they were likely to reach Edinburgh.
When this duty was performed, she readily accepted her landlady's pressing invitation to dine
with her, and remain till the next morning. The hostess, as we have said, was her countrywoman,
and the eagerness with which Scottish people meet, communicate, and, to the extent of their
power, assist each other, although it is often objected to us as a prejudice and narrowness
of sentiment, seems, on the contrary, to arise from a most justifiable and honourable feeling
of patriotism, combined with a conviction, which, if undeserved, would long since have been
confuted by experience, that the habits and principles of the nation are a sort of guarantee
for the character of the individual. At any rate, if the extensive influence of this national
partiality be considered as an additional tie, binding man to man, and calling forth the good
offices of such as can render them to the countryman who happens to need them, we think it
must be found to exceed, as an active and efficient motive, to generosity, that more impartial
and wider principle of general benevolence, which we have sometimes seen pleaded as an excuse
for assisting no individual whatever.

Mrs. Bickerton, lady of the ascendant of the Seven Stars, in the Castle-gate, York, was deeply
infected with the unfortunate prejudices of her country. Indeed, she displayed so much kindness
to Jeanie Deans (because she herself, being a Merse woman, marched with Mid-Lothian, in which
Jeanie was born), showed such motherly regard to her, and such anxiety for her farther progress,
that Jeanie thought herself safe, though by temper sufficiently cautious, in communicating
her whole story to her.

Mrs. Bickerton raised her hands and eyes at the recital, and exhibited much wonder and pity.
But she also gave some effectual good advice.

She required to know the strength of Jeanie's purse, reduced by her deposit at Liberton, and
the necessary expense of her journey, to about fifteen pounds. "This," she said, "would do
very well, providing she would carry it a' safe to London."

"Safe!" answered Jeanie; "I'se warrant my carrying it safe, bating the needful expenses."

"Ay, but highwaymen, lassie," said Mrs. Bickerton; "for ye are come into a more civilised,
that is to say, a more roguish country than the north, and how ye are to get forward, I do
not profess to know. If ye could wait here eight days, our waggons would go up, and I would
recommend you to Joe Broadwheel, who would see you safe to the Swan and two Necks. And dinna
sneeze at Joe, if he should be for drawing up wi' you" (continued Mrs. Bickerton, her acquired
English mingling with her national or original dialect), "he's a handy boy, and a wanter, and
no lad better thought o' on the road; and the English make good husbands enough, witness my
poor man, Moses Bickerton, as is i' the kirkyard." The wild rice is on the banks of the Rio Cuiaba and Porrudos. No
fucks wheat, no wine, no nuts in Europe. The lack of bread supplement Portuguese with farinha do
pao, or cazave. There are Cuyabá some cattle, but little. In D. Xaurú bought them Manuel Flores
some cows for people on boats, and paid twenty pesos each. Piglets and game are more abundant.

* * *

§.

VII.

Navigation made by Portuguese in Brazil to Cuiaba.

Each year the Portuguese traders go to Cuiaba Brazil with a large fleet of canoes gender-laden,
and return the product in gold and diamonds. The voyage is long and work: out of sixty or seventy
canoes of a harbor, which is four or five leagues San Pablo, a city well known in Brazil.
Añembí down by the river, to fall to the Paraná. On this sail downstream to the mouth of the
Rio Pardo, which comes from the west, and has the origin of some streams that flow down from
the great chain that extends from north to south, from near to Mount Cuyabá Itapuá in the Guarani
missions. Up to Portuguese canoes, until they can sail above the river Pardo: download here gender,
and to spend two miles of mountains, which are from the Rio Pardo to Carnap, vessels and cargo
transported on the truck of a Portuguez that it was filled in that range, and is interested
in the transport of these canoes. Before there was population there, spent their canoes on the shoulders
of slaves who have to paddle. Carried canoes to Carnap, the reloaded, and sail down the river
to enter the Tacuarí. For this sailing with some care, because their margins go up the Indians running
Mbayas campaign, which are enemies of the Portuguese, and not lose the opportunity to kill
or captive lead away from catching the fleet. He looked sharp
and laughed--looked grave and sighed, as one who was prepared to take the matter either way.

"Kenst thou this wee bit paper amang the rest, man?" said Mrs. Bickerton, handing him the protection
which Ratcliffe had given Jeanie Deans.

When Dick had looked at the paper, he winked with one eye, extended his grotesque mouth from
ear to ear, like a navigable canal, scratched his head powerfully, and then said, "Ken!--ay--maybe
we ken summat, an it werena for harm to him, mistress!"

"None in the world," said Mrs. Bickerton; "only a dram of Hollands to thyself, man, an thou
wilt speak."

"Why, then," said Dick, giving the head-band of his breeches a knowing hoist with one hand,
and kicking out one foot behind him to accommodate the adjustment of that important habiliment,
"I dares to say the pass will be kend weel eneugh on the road, an that be all."

"But what sort of a lad was he?" said Mrs. Bickerton, winking to Jeanie, as proud of her knowing
Ostler.

"Why, what ken I?--Jim the Rat--why he was Cock o' the North within this twelmonth--he and
Scotch Wilson, Handle Dandie, as they called him--but he's been out o' this country a while,
as I rackon; but ony gentleman, as keeps the road o' this side Stamford, will respect Jim's pass."

Without asking farther questions, the landlady filled Dick Ostler a bumper of Hollands. He
ducked with his head and shoulders, scraped with his more advanced hoof, bolted the alcohol,
to use the learned phrase, and withdrew to his own domains.

"I would advise thee, Jeanie," said Mrs. Bickerton, "an thou meetest with ugly customers o'
the road, to show them this bit paper, for it will serve thee, assure thyself."

A neat little supper concluded the evening. The exported Scotswoman, Mrs. Bickerton by name,
ate heartily of one or two seasoned dishes, drank some sound old ale, and a glass of stiff
negus; while she gave Jeanie a history of her gout, admiring how it was possible that she,
whose fathers and mothers for many generations had been farmers in Lammermuir, could have come
by a disorder so totally unknown to them. Jeanie did not choose to offend her friendly landlady,
by speaking her mind on the probable origin of this complaint; but she thought on the flesh-pots
of Egypt, and, in spite of all entreaties to better fare, made her evening meal upon vegetables,
with a glass of fair water.

Mrs. Bickerton assured her, that the acceptance of any reckoning was entirely out of the question,
furnished her with credentials to her correspondent in London, and to several inns upon the
road where she had some influence or interest, reminded her of the precautions she should adopt
for concealing her money, and as she was to depart early in the morning, took leave of her
very affectionately, taking her word that she would visit her on her return to Scotland, and
tell her how she had managed, and that summum bonum for a gossip, "all how and about it." This
Jeanie faithfully promised.

CHAPTER FIFTH.

              And Need and Misery, Vice and Danger, bind,
              In sad alliance, each degraded mind.

As our traveller set out early on the ensuing morning to prosecute her journey, and was in
the act of leaving the innyard, Dick Ostler, who either had risen early or neglected to go
to bed, either circumstance being equally incident to his calling, hollowed out after her,--"The
top of the morning to you, Moggie. Have a care o' Gunderby Hill, young one. Robin Hood's dead
and gwone, but there be takers yet in the vale of Bever. Jeanie looked at him as if to request
a farther explanation, but, with a leer, a shuffle, and a shrug, inimitable (unless by Emery*),
Dick turned again to the raw-boned steed which he was currying, and sung as he employed the
comb and brush,--

               "Robin Hood was a yeoman right good,
                    And his bow was of trusty yew;
                And if Robin said stand on the king's lea-land,
                    Pray, why should not we say so too?"

* [John Emery, an eminent comedian, played successfully at Covent Garden Theatre between 1798
and 1820. Among his characters, were those of Dandie Dinmont in Guy Mannering, Dougal in Rob
Roy, and Ratcliffe in the Heart of Mid-Lothian.]

Jeanie pursued her journey without farther inquiry, for there was nothing in Dick's manner
that inclined her to prolong their conference. A painful day's journey brought her to Ferrybridge,
the best inn, then and since, upon the great northern road; and an introduction from Mrs. Bickerton,
added to her own simple and quiet manners, so propitiated the landlady of the Swan in her favour,
that the good dame procured her the convenient accommodation of a pillion and post-horse then
returning to Tuxford, so that she accomplished, upon the second day after leaving York, the
longest journey she had yet made. She was a good deal fatigued by a mode of travelling to which
she was less accustomed than to walking, and it was considerably later than usual on the ensuing
morning that she felt herself able to resume her pilgrimage. At noon the hundred-armed Trent,
and the blackened ruins of Newark Castle, demolished in the great civil war, lay before her.
It may easily be supposed, that Jeanie had no curiosity to make antiquarian researches, but,
entering the town, went straight to the inn to which she had been directed at Ferrybridge.
While she procured some refreshment, she observed the girl who brought it to her, looked at
her several times with fixed and peculiar interest, and at last, to her infinite surprise,
inquired if her name was not Deans, and if she was not a Scotchwoman, going to London upon
justice business. Jeanie, with all her simplicity of character, had some of the caution of
her country, and, according to Scottish universal custom, she answered the question by another,
requesting the girl would tell her why she asked these questions?

The Maritornes of the Saracen's Head, Newark, replied, "Two women had passed that morning,
who had made inquiries after one Jeanie Deans, travelling to London on such an errand, and
could scarce be persuaded that she had not passed on."

Much surprised and somewhat alarmed (for what is inexplicable is usually alarming), Jeanie
questioned the wench about the particular appearance of these two women, but could only learn
that the one was aged, and the other young; that the latter was the taller, and that the former
spoke most, and seemed to maintain an authority over her companion, and that both spoke with
the Scottish accent.

This conveyed no information whatever, and with an indescribable presentiment of evil designed
towards her, Jeanie adopted the resolution of taking post-horses for the next stage. In this,
however, she could not be gratified; some accidental circumstances had occasioned what is called
a run upon the road, and the landlord could not accommodate her with a guide and horses. After
waiting some time, in hopes that a pair of horses that had gone southward would return in time
for her use, she at length, feeling ashamed at her own pusillanimity, resolved to prosecute
her journey in her usual manner.

"It was all plain road," she was assured, "except a high mountain called Gunnerby Hill, about
three miles from Grantham, which was her stage for the night.

"I'm glad to hear there's a hill," said Jeanie, "for baith my sight and my very feet are weary
o' sic tracts o' level ground--it looks a' the way between this and York as if a' the land
had been trenched and levelled, whilk is very wearisome to my Scotch een. When I lost sight
of a muckle blue hill they ca' Ingleboro', I thought I hadna a friend left in this strange land."

"As for the matter of that, young woman," said mine host, "an you be so fond o' hill, I carena
an thou couldst carry Gunnerby away with thee in thy lap, for it's a murder to post-horses.
But here's to thy journey, and mayst thou win well through it, for thou is a bold and a canny
lass."

So saying, he took a powerful pull at a solemn tankard of home-brewed ale.

"I hope there is nae bad company on the road, sir?" said Jeanie.

"Why, when it's clean without them I'll thatch Groby pool wi' pancakes. But there arena sae
mony now; and since they hae lost Jim the Rat, they hold together no better than the men of
Marsham when they lost their common. Take a drop ere thou goest," he concluded, offering her
the tankard; "thou wilt get naething at night save Grantham gruel, nine grots and a gallon
of water."

Jeanie courteously declined the tankard, and inquired what was her "lawing?"

"Thy lawing! Heaven help thee, wench! what ca'st thou that?"

"It is--I was wanting to ken what was to pay," replied Jeanie.

"Pay? Lord help thee!--why nought, woman--we hae drawn no liquor but a gill o' beer, and the
Saracen's Head can spare a mouthful o' meat to a stranger like o' thee, that cannot speak Christian
language. So here's to thee once more. The same again, quoth Mark of Bellgrave," and he took
another profound pull at the tankard.

The travellers who have visited Newark more lately, will not fail to remember the remarkably
civil and gentlemanly manners of the person who now keeps the principal inn there, and may
find some amusement in contrasting them with those of his more rough predecessor. But we believe
it will be found that the polish has worn off none of the real worth of the metal.

Taking leave of her Lincolnshire Gaius, Jeanie resumed her solitary walk, and was somewhat
alarmed when evening and twilight overtook her in the open ground which extends to the foot
of Gunnerby Hill, and is intersected with patches of copse and with swampy spots. The extensive
commons on the north road, most of which are now enclosed, and in general a relaxed state of
police, exposed the traveller to a highway robbery in a degree which is now unknown, except
in the immediate vicinity of the metropolis. Aware of this circumstance, Jeanie mended her
pace when she heard the trampling of a horse behind, and instinctively drew to one side of
the road, as if to allow as much room for the rider to pass as might be possible. When the
animal came up, she found that it was bearing two women, the one placed on a side-saddle, the
other on a pillion behind her, as may still occasionally be seen in England.

"A braw good-night to ye, Jeanie Deans," said the foremost female as the horse passed our heroine;
"What think ye o' yon bonny hill yonder, lifting its brow to the moon? Trow ye yon's the gate
to heaven, that ye are sae fain of?--maybe we will win there the night yet, God sain us, though
our minny here's rather dreigh in the upgang."

The speaker kept changing her seat in the saddle, and half stopping the horse as she brought
her body round, while the woman that sate behind her on the pillion seemed to urge her on,
in words which Jeanie heard but imperfectly. 

When the court of Spain sent to explore the accessible parts of the Patagonian coast, and More
to the point to establish populations, pilots Varela and Ramirez, who came to board the frigate
San Antonio, they were associated Fr Quiroga, whose diary served to P. Lozano to draft that we
published the first volume of our collection.

On his return from this mission, Fr. the Company was commissioned to map the territory Mission:
- vast and difficult work, not just by the nature of the terrain, but because of lack materials
and resources. Despite these obstacles, accepted P. Quiroga this assignment, and then have determined
with accuracy neat geographical position of the thirty towns Missions, and the cities of the
Assumption, Corrientes, Santa Fe, Colonia, Montevideo and Buenos Aires, drew his map with
the data supplied him edit and relationships unpublished for the
missionaries, when it was possible to buy it personally.

This work, which has no more merit in the day as your priority, was published in Rome in 1753, by
Fernando Franceschelli intaglio, which, according to the custom of
time, added some news on the banks of the Paraguay, and grade standings
latitude and longitude, according to the author's observations.

One of the most inaccurate parts of this map is the course of the river Paraguay, and was precisely
that the P. Quiroga had the opportunity to rectify shortly after, when in 1752 he accompanied
the Spanish commissioner, D. Manuel Antonio de Flores, in charge
of putting the framework divisive Jaurú's mouth, in compliance with
Article 6 of the treaty, set in Madrid in 13 January 1750.

This recognition that only fruit of laborious negotiations, was the last service the government
for this religious scholar, and is also the most honored his memory. In this diary availed D.
Luis de la Cruz Cano Olmedilla for the formation of his large map
of America Southern, which was published in Madrid in 1775, and reproduced
by Faden in London in 1799, was adopted by Arrowsmith in 1811.

This document would have met the fate of almost all the work of the last Jesuit in these regions,
had it not been for the care of P. Sunday Muriel (or Ciriaco Morelli
and struck him in his work called), which was inserted in the appendix
to his Latin version History of Paraguay P. Charlevoix, where we have
extracted.

Circumscribed to the duties of their state, P. Quiroga resigned himself to a secluded life in the
College of Belen, where he was intimidated by the decree of suppression of his order in 1767.
Expelled from his adopted country, without being allowed to return
to their own, sought an asylum in Italy, where he ended his days,
no more comfort than that provided by the religion to a guilt-free
conscience.

Buenos Aires, June 1836.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

* * *

DESCRIPTION OF PARAGUAY RIVER.

§. I.

Origin of the Paraguay River, and rivers that enter it, to its junction
with the Parana.

The Paraguay River has its origin in a great chain of mountains, which stretches from east to
west for hundreds of miles, passing north of Cuiaba. In this range down to many streams and
creeks south, which together form a mighty fine river, which begins to be waterway fifty or
sixty leagues above the Xaurú. And all the Paraguay river, from that mountains to the city
of the Seven Streams, where concurs with the Paraná, it is also navigable, even with large ships,
but these are not the best to overcome the current for which more apparent are the gigs of
oars, launches and all kinds of light xebecs.

From the river Xaurú above does not know that rivers of Paraguay come into consideration, but
is to believe that you enter some of the eastern part, because when
it comes to Xaurú and plentiful.

The mouth of Xaurú is 16 degrees 25 minutes south latitude, and 320 degrees and 10 minutes
in length, counted from the island towards the eastern Fierro. Comes said river of the west and
is navigable by canoe for some leagues. Below are the Xaurú Paraguay divides into two branches flowing.
The more runs with narrow channel, but very deep, through Xarayes:
and for this sail our boats without pregnancy whatsoever.

The other arm is for some miles along the western side of the Xarayes. And this, before returning
to join the first, perhaps Guabis enter the river, which runs from the peoples of the Chiquitos
towards the east, unless it be that the Guabis into a bend Caracará the lagoon, which communicates
with the Paraguay river almost at the bottom of the Xarayes.

Below Xarayes enters the eastern part in the Paraguay river of Porrudos, at the height of 17
degrees and 52 minutes. This river is very plentiful, and it enters in Cuiaba, as will be elsewhere.
Another arm of this same river falls below, and give the Portuguese the name of the Chiana
Canal, and he come up with their canoes to sailing Cuyabá Paulistas.

Tacuarí river, which also brings its current eastern part comes in Paraguay by three-neck, all
waterways. The northernmost, where lowering Paulist is 19 degrees. In the same part of the East with
great power comes Mboteteí river at 19 degrees and 20 minutes.

In the southern margin of Mboteteí was formerly a Spanish population, it was called Xerez,
which is forsaken by the persecutions they were suffering from the Paulist. It was this population
to thirty leagues from the Paraguay River, at the foot of the great ridge that extends north-south
between the rivers Paraná and Paraguay. In the great floods Mboteteí down by many tacuaras, or very
thick reeds, torn from their margins, which are many on the banks of the river Paraguay. And it
is very repairable, which in any the margin of this river, from the Mboteteí above, is not
a tacuara.

From Mboteteí, down the Paraguay River, is the strait that now call St. Xavier, including some
hills, 19 degrees and 48 minutes. One of the hills is in the eastern margin the river, and
four or five are in the western side.

Another notable Paraguay narrowness is below the three hills that are to the the west, called the Three
Brothers, at the foot of another high hill, called Bread Sugar, about twelve leagues below the
Three Brothers, and is the highest of all who found from the Assumption to Tacuarí. Is on
the eastern margin, and from there continued a ridge towards the east. There in the west, in
front of Pan de Azucar, another small hill and some distance to the
part of the north-west, is another not very big.

The narrow aforesaid, and the Sugar Loaf, are at 21 degrees 17 minutes.

It is then, down the Paraguay, the river mouth Tepotí at 21 degrees 45 minutes. Then in front
of an island, or something above, is the mouth of the river currents, so called by the mainstream
that it brings. This river has its origin next to the fountain of Guatimí that Paraná enters
the big jump. The river flows into the Paraguay Currents in 22 degrees and 2 minutes. Two or
three miles away is the south-west the hill Galvan, it is only in the western side. This lower
part of this a bunch of great mountains. At the south side of the river are too many hills and
narrow with strong currents, with peñasquería the sides of the river,
and called this step Itapucú-wolf.

Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes. Below is a tip that is another narrow ridge, and ends this rock
tip cut off, and lies about eight miles from the Itapucú-wolf.

Sign in below, on the eastern margin, the Rio Guarambaré in 23 degrees 8 minutes, and in front
of the mouth is an island. For the 23 degrees and 21 minutes are scattered stones middle of the
river, so in this stage should navigate with caution. Ipan river-wolf flows into the Paraguay,
at latitude 23 degrees 28 minutes. His mouth is facing a island. Download this river of yerba
mate that are north of Curuguatí, and has its origin near the Guatimí. In the 23 degrees 51 minutes
between the Paraguay, on the western margin, the Cookers river, and a short distance below
the same band enters the Verde River. Al front of these two rivers there are four islands. Lower
in the Banda Oriental enters mini Ipan in 21 degrees and 2 minutes.

Ipan below the mini, in 24 degrees and 4 minutes, we found that looked straight needle to the
north, and can not be attributed to other causes to the proximity of some iron ore stone or
magnet, of which there is enough in the jurisdiction of Paraguay. In the 24 degrees and 7
minutes between the Banda Oriental Xexuí the river, which comes from
the Curuguatí yerbales, and perhaps sailing ships loaded with grass,
although much work, missteps you have.

In the 24 degrees and 23 minutes between, on the east, the Cuarepotí: in 24 degrees and 29
minutes, the Ibobi. But 50 minutes down on the same level, enters the same side of the Tobatí
in an arm of Paraguay, whose entrance into the tip of the island is further south (and the
first tip when it comes up in the arm), two stones who come to the flower water, which should
be departing ships, or to take course at the river wider, leaving the eastern part of the island.
In the Tobatí fit, before his fall in Paraguay, the river Capiatá.

In the 24 degrees 56 minutes will go to Paraguay, in the west, the
river Mboicaé.

In 24 and 58, little above the fort of Arecutacuá, enter through the east the Peribebuí, and more
down, in 25 gr. and a minute, go on the same side the river Salado. Deep down, almost at the
same height, enter the western margin Piraí river.

The city of Assumption is 25 gr. 17 min. 15 seconds of latitude, 320 gr. 12 min. of length,
according to some markers. Others found 25, 16, latitude 320, 10 in length. Deep down is via
three mouths, the West Bank, the famous river Pilcomayo, which brings its waters cerranias Potosi,
and runs through the Chaco. In the 25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a narrow entrance, taking only
a rifle shot from a river to another, and is At this place the fort called La Angostura. The Tebicuari
enter Paraguay by the east, in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by the river boats of Our Lady of Santa Fe
and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth
is far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river is 17, or 18. Comes Bermejo
of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much
of the Chaco: the color of its waters is something vermilion.

In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters it, so that the
water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana.

They join the rivers Paraná and Paraguay at the forefront of this
city, which is located on the eastern margin, at 27 degrees and 27
minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length.

Seven Flames of Corrientes city, because the land where the city
is, for seven stone points, leaving the river, where the current is
stronger Paraná.

From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty as yours keeps up near Buenos
Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows into the sea with the name of Rio de la Plata, so named
because brought from here some articles of silver and gold the first conquerors of Paraguay,
which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry made to the people of Peru with Alejo
Garcia and his colleagues, according to is written in Argentina Rui
Diaz de Guzman.

* * *

§. II.

Nations of Indians living on the banks of Paraguay.

First in the same river, and its islands, inhabited by two factions of Indians Payaguá, who
walk all over him in their canoes, and kept fishing, and what to steal Spanish and Portuguese.
A bias has a room in the northernmost part of the river, and its principal chief called Quatí.
The other is usually more frequently in the southern part, in the
proximity of the Assumption.

The principal chief of this is called Ipar.

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná, live to the west, Abipones,
of which number is reduced to people. Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís
make incursions across the borders of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí,
and sometimes from Paraná, make their shots in the jurisdiction of Corrientes, and often from
the river Paraguay and ambushes in the mountains, make significant damage to the northernmost
village of the Guarani missions, and stays the jurisdiction of Paraguay. The Indians arrive
in the western part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco, the
Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make their shots into the
rooms of the Assumption.

These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the south
of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern and Western,
until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living in the manure.
These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops to the Mbayas,
paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar to other
Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and excellent archers. Judge is not many
nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the river Paraguay. The Portuguese, sailing by Xarayes
from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya is allowed to see some
Indians, though few. Do not know what nation they are. Can be some relics of the Xarayes. Up
here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks of the river Paraguay.

* * *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with admirable
variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there by a forest
and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is
greater Xexuí charm the eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet
of the mountain all covered with trees, other times it is a campaign
full of grass very green, others are huge palm trees, a particular
species of palms, because Logs are soaring and rights, hardwood and
round crown, with similar branches to the palm of making brooms in
Andalucia. Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly to form the
roofs of the houses, because in removing the glass, and cutting the
trunk by the foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work. These
palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí to Xerez. And as the logs
are very clean, walk the Indians horseback through the palm, without
any pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these palms are smaller than
regular palm, and dates are also smaller in proportion. I do not know
if they are edible.

Generally speaking, all the hills and mountains
are in many mountain slopes with tall trees and very thick trunk.
And there is no doubt that they would be, with so variety, precious
woods. We found by chance the tree where they get the rubber guta,
or gamboge, which is a paste of very fine yellow. The tall tree, not
too thick, sheet similar to that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree
giving some cuts for entertainment in the bark of one of this species.
Then cut out by the liquid rubber, which soon rubber coagulates as
seen in the pharmacy. She raised her head, and
spoke, but with a lowered tone, which was again gradually overcome by drowsiness, to which
the fatigue of a day's journey on horseback had probably given unwonted occasion,--"I dinna
ken what makes me sae sleepy--I amaist never sleep till my bonny Lady Moon gangs till her bed--mair
by token, when she's at the full, ye ken, rowing aboon us yonder in her grand silver coach--I
have danced to her my lane sometimes for very joy--and whiles dead folk came and danced wi'
me--the like o' Jock Porteous, or ony body I had ken'd when I was living--for ye maun ken I
was ance dead mysell." Here the poor maniac sung, in a low and wild tone,

                 "My banes are buried in yon kirkyard
                        Sae far ayont the sea,
                  And it is but my blithesome ghaist
                        That's speaking now to thee.

"But after a', Jeanie, my woman, naebody kens weel wha's living and wha's dead--or wha's gone
to Fairyland--there's another question. Whiles I think my puir bairn's dead--ye ken very weel
it's buried--but that signifies naething. I have had it on my knee a hundred times, and a hundred
till that, since it was buried--and how could that be were it dead, ye ken?--it's merely impossible."--And
here, some conviction half-overcoming the reveries of her imagination, she burst into a fit
of crying and ejaculation, "Wae's me! wae's me! wae's me!" till at length she moaned and sobbed
herself into a deep sleep, which was soon intimated by her breathing hard, leaving Jeanie to
her own melancholy reflections and observations.

CHAPTER SIXTH.

               Bind her quickly; or, by this steel,
               I'll tell, although I truss for company.
                                       Fletcher.

The imperfect light which shone into the window enabled Jeanie to see that there was scarcely
any chance of making her escape in that direction; for the aperture was high in the wall, and
so narrow, that, could she have climbed up to it, she might well doubt whether it would have
permitted her to pass her body through it. An unsuccessful attempt to escape would be sure
to draw down worse treatment than she now received, and she, therefore, resolved to watch her
opportunity carefully ere making such a perilous effort. For this purpose she applied herself
to the ruinous clay partition, which divided the hovel in which she now was from the rest of
the waste barn. It was decayed and full of cracks and chinks, one of which she enlarged with
her fingers, cautiously and without noise, until she could obtain a plain view of the old hag
and the taller ruffian, whom they called Levitt, seated together beside the decayed fire of
charcoal, and apparently engaged in close conference. She was at first terrified by the sight;
for the features of the old woman had a hideous cast of hardened and inveterate malice and
ill-humour, and those of the man, though naturally less unfavourable, were such as corresponded
well with licentious habits, and a lawless profession.

Strengthened in a mind naturally calm, sedate, and firm, by the influence of religious confidence,
this poor captive was enabled to attend to, and comprehend, a great part of an interesting
conversation which passed betwixt those into whose hands she had fallen, notwithstanding that
their meaning was partly disguised by the occasional use of cant terms, of which Jeanie knew
not the import, by the low tone in which they spoke, and by their mode of supplying their broken
phrases by shrugs and signs, as is usual amongst those of their disorderly profession.

The man opened the conversation by saying, "Now, dame, you see I am true to my friend. I have
not forgot that you planked a chury,* which helped me through the bars of the Castle of York,
and I came to do your work without asking questions; for one good turn deserves another.

* Concealed a knife.

But now that Madge, who is as loud as Tom of Lincoln, is somewhat still, and this same Tyburn
Neddie is shaking his heels after the old nag, why, you must tell me what all this is about,
and what's to be done--for d--n me if I touch the girl, or let her be touched, and she with
Jim Rat's pass, too."

"Thou art an honest lad, Frank," answered the old woman, "but e'en too good for thy trade;
thy tender heart will get thee into trouble. I will see ye gang up Holborn Hill backward, and
a' on the word of some silly loon that could never hae rapped to ye had ye drawn your knife
across his weasand."

"You may be balked there, old one," answered the robber; "I have known many a pretty lad cut
short in his first summer upon the road, because he was something hasty with his flats and
sharps. Besides, a man would fain live out his two years with a good conscience. So, tell me
what all this is about, and what's to be done for you that one can do decently?"

"Why, you must know, Frank--but first taste a snap of right Hollands." She drew a flask from
her pocket, and filled the fellow a large bumper, which he pronounced to be the right thing.--"You
must know, then, Frank--wunna ye mend your hand?" again offering the flask.

"No, no,--when a woman wants mischief from you, she always begins by filling you drunk. D--n
all Dutch courage. What I do I will do soberly--I'll last the longer for that too."

"Well, then, you must know," resumed the old woman, without any further attempts at propitiation,
"that this girl is going to London."

Here Jeanie could only distinguish the word sister.

The robber answered in a louder tone, "Fair enough that; and what the devil is your business
with it?"

"Business enough, I think. If the b--queers the noose, that silly cull will marry her."

"And who cares if he does?" said the man.

"Who cares, ye donnard Neddie! I care; and I will strangle her with my own hands, rather than
she should come to Madge's preferment."

"Madge's preferment! Does your old blind eyes see no farther than that? If he is as you say,
dye think he'll ever marry a moon-calf like Madge? Ecod, that's a good one--Marry Madge Wildfire!--Ha!
ha! ha!"

"Hark ye, ye crack-rope padder, born beggar, and bred thief!" replied the hag, "suppose he
never marries the wench, is that a reason he should marry another, and that other to hold my
daughter's place, and she crazed, and I a beggar, and all along of him? But I know that of
him will hang him--I know that of him will hang him, if he had a thousand lives--I know that
of him will hang--hang--hang him!"

She grinned as she repeated and dwelt upon the fatal monosyllable, with the emphasis of a vindictive
fiend.

"Then why don't you hang--hang--hang him?" said Frank, repeating her words contemptuously.
"There would be more sense in that, than in wreaking yourself here upon two wenches that have
done you and your daughter no ill."

"No ill?" answered the old woman--"and he to marry this jail-bird, if ever she gets her foot
loose!"

"But as there is no chance of his marrying a bird of your brood, I cannot, for my soul, see
what you have to do with all this," again replied the robber, shrugging his shoulders. "Where
there is aught to be got, I'll go as far as my neighbours, but I hate mischief for mischiefs sake."

"And would you go nae length for revenge?" said the hag--"for revenge--the sweetest morsel
to the mouth that over was cooked in hell!"

"The devil may keep it for his own eating, then," said the robber; "for hang me if I like the
sauce he dresses it with."

"Revenge!" continued the old woman; "why, it is the best reward the devil gives us for our
time here and hereafter. I have wrought hard for it--I have suffered for it--and I have sinned
for it--and I will have it,--or there is neither justice in heaven or in hell!"

Levitt had by this time lighted a pipe, and was listening with great composure to the frantic
and vindictive ravings of the old hag. He was too much, hardened by his course of life to be
shocked with them--too indifferent, and probably too stupid, to catch any part of their animation
or energy. "But, mother," he said, after a pause, "still I say, that if revenge is your wish,
you should take it on the young fellow himself."

"I wish I could," she said, drawing in her breath, with the eagerness of a thirsty person while
mimicking the action of drinking--"I wish I could--but no--I cannot--I cannot."

"And why not?--You would think little of peaching and hanging him for this Scotch affair.--Rat
me, one might have milled the Bank of England, and less noise about it."

"I have nursed him at this withered breast," answered the old woman, folding her hands on her
bosom, as if pressing an infant to it, "and, though he has proved an adder to me--though he
has been the destruction of me and mine--though he has made me company for the devil, if there
be a devil, and food for hell, if there be such a place, yet I cannot take his life.--No, I
cannot," she continued, with an appearance of rage against herself; "I have thought of it--I
have tried it--but, Francis Levitt, I canna gang through wi't--Na, na--he was the first bairn
I ever nurst--ill I had been--and man can never ken what woman feels for the bairn she has
held first to her bosom!"

"To be sure," said Levitt, "we have no experience; but, mother, they say you ha'n't been so
kind to other bairns, as you call them, that have come in your way.--Nay, d--n me, never lay
your hand on the whittle, for I am captain and leader here, and I will have no rebellion."

The hag, whose first motion had been, upon hearing the question, to grasp the haft of a large
knife, now unclosed her hand, stole it away from the weapon, and suffered it to fall by her
side, while she proceeded with a sort of smile--"Bairns! ye are joking, lad--wha wad touch
bairns? Madge, puir thing, had a misfortune wi' ane--and the t'other"--Here her voice sunk
so much, that Jeanie, though anxiously upon the watch, could not catch a word she said, until
she raised her tone at the conclusion of the sentence--"So Madge, in her daffin', threw it
into the Nor'-lock, I trow."

Madge, whose slumbers, like those of most who labour under mental malady, had been short, and
were easily broken, now made herself heard from her place of repose.

"Indeed, mother, that's a great lie, for I did nae sic thing."

"Hush, thou hellicat devil," said her mother--"By Heaven! the other wench will be waking too."

"That may be dangerous," said Frank; and he rose, and followed Meg Murdockson across the floor.

"Rise," said the hag to her daughter, "or I sall drive the knife between the planks into the
Bedlam back of thee!"

Apparently she at the same time seconded her threat by pricking her with the point of a knife,
for Madge, with a faint scream, changed her place, and the door opened.

The old woman held a candle in one hand, and a knife in the other. Levitt appeared behind her,
whether with a view of preventing, or assisting her in any violence she might meditate, could
not be well guessed. Jeanie's presence of mind stood her friend in this dreadful crisis. She
had resolution enough to maintain the attitude and manner of one who sleeps profoundly, and
to regulate even her breathing, notwithstanding the agitation of instant terror, so as to correspond
with her attitude.

The old woman passed the light across her eyes; and although Jeanie's fears were so powerfully
awakened by this movement, that she often declared afterwards, that she thought she saw the
figures of her destined murderers through her closed eyelids, she had still the resolution
to maintain the feint, on which her safety perhaps depended.

Levitt looked at her with fixed attention; he then turned the old woman out of the place, and
followed her himself. Having regained the outward apartment, and seated themselves, Jeanie
heard the highwayman say, to her no small relief, "She's as fast as if she were in Bedfordshire.--Now,
old Meg, d--n me if I can understand a glim of this story of yours, or what good it will do
you to hang the one wench and torment the other; but, rat me, I will be true to my friend,
and serve ye the way ye like it. I see it will be a bad job; but I do think I could get her
down to Surfleet on the Wash, and so on board Tom Moonshine's neat lugger, and keep her out
of the way three or four weeks, if that will please ye--But d--n me if any one shall harm her,
unless they have a mind to choke on a brace of blue plums.--It's a cruel, bad job, and I wish
you and it, Meg, were both at the devil."

"Never mind, hinny Levitt," said the old woman; "you are a ruffler, and will have a' your ain
gate--She shanna gang to heaven an hour sooner for me; I carena whether she live or die--it's
her sister--ay, her sister!"

"Well, we'll say no more about it; I hear Tom coming in. We'll couch a hogshead,* and so better
had you."

* Lay ourselves down to sleep.

They retired to repose accordingly, and all was silent in this asylum of iniquity.

Jeanie lay for a long time awake. At break of day she heard the two ruffians leave the barn,
after whispering to the old woman for some time. The sense that she was now guarded by persons
of her own sex gave her some confidence, and irresistible lassitude at length threw her into
slumber.

When the captive awakened, the sun was high in heaven, and the morning considerably advanced.
Madge Wildfire was still in the hovel which had served them for the night, and immediately
bid her good-morning, with her usual air of insane glee. "And dye ken, lass," said Madge, "there's
queer things chanced since ye hae been in the land of Nod. The constables hae been here, woman,
and they met wi' my minnie at the door, and they whirl'd her awa to the Justice's about the
man's wheat.--Dear! thae English churls think as muckle about a blade of wheat or grass, as
a Scotch laird does about his maukins and his muir-poots. Now, lass, if ye like, we'll play
them a fine jink; we will awa out and take a walk--they will mak unco wark when they miss us,
but we can easily be back by dinner time, or before dark night at ony rate, and it will be
some frolic and fresh air.--But maybe ye wad like to take some breakfast, and then lie down
again? I ken by mysell, there's whiles I can sit wi' my head in my hand the haill day, and
havena a word to cast at a dog--and other whiles, that I canna sit still a moment. That's when
the folk think me warst, but I am aye canny eneugh--ye needna be feared to walk wi' me."

Had Madge Wildfire been the most raging lunatic, instead of possessing a doubtful, uncertain,
and twilight sort of rationality, varying, probably, from the influence of the most trivial
causes, Jeanie would hardly have objected to leave a place of captivity, where she had so much
to apprehend. She eagerly assured Madge that she had no occasion for further sleep, no desire
whatever for eating; and, hoping internally that she was not guilty of sin in doing so, she
flattered her keeper's crazy humour for walking in the woods.

"It's no a'thegither for that neither," said poor Madge; "but I am judging ye will wun the
better out o' thae folk's hands; no that they are a'thegither bad folk neither, but they have
queer ways wi' them, and I whiles dinna think it has ever been weel wi' my mother and me since
we kept sic-like company."

With the haste, the joy, the fear, and the hope of a liberated captive, Jeanie snatched up
her little bundle, followed Madge into the free air, and eagerly looked round her for a human
habitation; but none was to be seen. The ground was partly cultivated, and partly left in its
natural state, according as the fancy of the slovenly agriculturists had decided. In its natural
state it was waste, in some places covered with dwarf trees and bushes, in others swamp, and
elsewhere firm and dry downs or pasture grounds.

Jeanie's active mind next led her to conjecture which way the high-road lay, whence she had
been forced. If she regained that public road, she imagined she must soon meet some person,
or arrive at some house, where she might tell her story, and request protection. But, after
a glance around her, she saw with regret that she had no means whatever of directing her course
with any degree of certainty, and that she was still in dependence upon her crazy companion.
"Shall we not walk upon the high-road?" said she to Madge, in such a tone as a nurse uses to
coax a child. "It's brawer walking on the road than amang thae wild bushes and whins."

Madge, who was walking very fast, stopped at this question, and looked at Jeanie with a sudden
and scrutinising glance, that seemed to indicate complete acquaintance with her purpose. "Aha,
lass!" she exclaimed, "are ye gaun to guide us that gate?--Ye'll be for making your heels save
your head, I am judging."

Jeanie hesitated for a moment, on hearing her companion thus express herself, whether she had
not better take the hint, and try to outstrip and get rid of her. But she knew not in which
direction to fly; she was by no means sure that she would prove the swiftest, and perfectly
conscious that in the event of her being pursued and overtaken, she would be inferior to the
madwoman in strength. She therefore gave up thoughts for the present of attempting to escape
in that manner, and, saying a few words to allay Madge's suspicions, she followed in anxious
apprehension the wayward path by which her guide thought proper to lead her. Madge, infirm
of purpose, and easily reconciled to the present scene, whatever it was, began soon to talk
with her usual diffuseness of ideas.

"It's a dainty thing to be in the woods on a fine morning like this! I like it far better than
the town, for there isna a wheen duddie bairns to be crying after ane, as if ane were a warld's
wonder, just because ane maybe is a thought bonnier and better put-on than their neighbours--though,
Jeanie, ye suld never be proud o' braw claiths, or beauty neither--wae's me! they're but a
snare--I ance thought better o'them, and what came o't?"

"Are ye sure ye ken the way ye are taking us?" said Jeanie, who began to imagine that she was
getting deeper into the woods and more remote from the high-road.

"Do I ken the road?--Wasna I mony a day living here, and what for shouldna I ken the road?
I might hae forgotten, too, for it was afore my accident; but there are some things ane can
never forget, let them try it as muckle as they like."

By this time they had gained the deepest part of a patch of woodland. The trees were a little
separated from each other, and at the foot of one of them, a beautiful poplar, was a hillock
of moss, such as the poet of Grasmere has described. So soon as she arrived at this spot, Madge
Wildfire, joining her hands above her head with a loud scream that resembled laughter, flung
herself all at once upon the spot, and remained lying there motionless.

Jeanie's first idea was to take the opportunity of flight; but her desire to escape yielded
for a moment to apprehension for the poor insane being, who, she thought, might perish for
want of relief. With an effort, which in her circumstances, might be termed heroic, she stooped
down, spoke in a soothing tone, and endeavoured to raise up the forlorn creature. She effected
this with difficulty, and as she placed her against the tree in a sitting posture, she observed
with surprise, that her complexion, usually florid, was now deadly pale, and that her face
was bathed in tears. Notwithstanding her own extreme danger, Jeanie was affected by the situation
of her companion; and the rather, that, through the whole train of her wavering and inconsistent
state of mind and line of conduct, she discerned a general colour of kindness towards herself,
for which she felt gratitude.

"Let me alane!--let me alane!" said the poor young woman, as her paroxysm of sorrow began to
abate--"Let me alane--it does me good to weep. I canna shed tears but maybe ance or twice a
year, and I aye come to wet this turf with them, that the flowers may grow fair, and the grass
may be green."

"But what is the matter with you?" said Jeanie--"Why do you weep so bitterly?"

"There's matter enow," replied the lunatic,--"mair than ae puir mind can bear, I trow. Stay
a bit, and I'll tell you a' about it; for I like ye, Jeanie Deans--a'body spoke weel about
ye when we lived in the Pleasaunts-- And I mind aye the drink o' milk ye gae me yon day, when
I had been on Arthur's Seat for four-and-twenty hours, looking for the ship that somebody was
sailing in."

These words recalled to Jeanie's recollection, that, in fact, she had been one morning much
frightened by meeting a crazy young woman near her father's house at an early hour, and that,
as she appeared to be harmless, her apprehension had been changed into pity, and she had relieved
the unhappy wanderer with some food, which she devoured with the haste of a famished person.
The incident, trifling in itself, was at present of great importance, if it should be found
to have made a favourable and permanent impression in her favour on the mind of the object
of her charity.

"Yes," said Madge, "I'll tell ye a' about it, for ye are a decent man's daughter--Douce Davie
Deans, ye ken--and maybe ye'll can teach me to find out the narrow way, and the straight path,
for I have been burning bricks in Egypt, and walking through the weary wilderness of Sinai,
for lang and mony a day. But whenever I think about mine errors, I am like to cover my lips
for shame."--Here she looked up and smiled.--"It's a strange thing now--I hae spoke mair gude
words to you in ten minutes, than I wad speak to my mother in as mony years--it's no that I
dinna think on them--and whiles they are just at my tongue's end, but then comes the devil,
and brushes my lips with his black wing, and lays his broad black loof on my mouth--for a black
loof it is, Jeanie--and sweeps away a' my gude thoughts, and dits up my gude words, and pits
a wheen fule sangs and idle vanities in their place." My
long journey through the philosophical world has made me conclude that all that is away of this
teaching of "Angel of the Schools" is equal to mislead the understanding, with much danger of falling
headlong into heresy.

Ramiro shook his head affirmatively without understanding, and looking
towards the folios was that they all bore the same title: Summa Theologica,
in ancient letters fat.

- This work, this monument, this tent - went
the canon - resume also tested and purified, it is true, in the crucible
of St. Thomas, all knowledge of Aristotle, but, to form yourselves
in the worship of that other admirable philosopher and defend you
against certain ideas that run like fever in the classrooms, I read
agora, vestibulum guise of a booklet I just write against Pedro Pomponacio
and some Spanish, following the uniqueness Afrodiseo Alexander's claim
that Aristotle felt and wrote that the rational soul dies with the
body.

By first removing the snuffer that marked the page, took up a book table manuscript. Then he
sat down next to the candlestick, callose glasses and began reading his apology Peripatetic.

Ramiro could not hide his confusion. His face clearly denoted vertigo.

- Do not mind - he said the canon at the end - if not the first time you have just caught the meaning.
Tomorrow will be read disclaimer.

Was trilingual college in Salamanca, after studying arts and theology.

There was perhaps in Spain another Lectoral it and to the Holy Scripture. Their explanations Old
and New Testament, every Monday and Friday, the church attracted
the most learned lay of the city and many students of the monasteries.

And what controversialist! None Cabildo of his colleagues could follow through their prime and secondary,
its ergos and distinctions. Took the proposal of the opponent, and in a trice, with outrageous
smile The hash is made under that cisoria art of the dialectic of amazing that he managed way, but
if dropping its conclusion was not declared vanquished opponent Tornabe to the early offensive
and scathing, lip twitched it out, his eyes swollen cholera, and was known to the hand, he
dropped the blessing from the altar, had sheepskin collar of more than one church.

While not equipped with a precise and penetrating philosophical standpoint, if he could not these
flaps of the spirit that shake the web of the routine, the theological concept was the strength
of a rock. Who were the builders of the doctrine he professed? Aristotle, the Fathers of the
Latin Church, St. Thomas.

To think that a modern man could amend those teachers was sublime dementia. What was the philosophical
belief on which Spain was founded by their envied greatness? One, not other ... Ergo! But he
knew too the hidden purpose of the new doctrines, and as for those who fought in Spain the
principles of the Scholastics, who denied the authority of the old masters intelligible species,
the ghosts of representation and to the immortality of the soul rational, but they were not allies
abroad or instruments of the devil.

He saw to Spain haunted by innumerable enemies. Since it was not possible to defeat it in war
frank and manly, now were looking to undermine that unity which made her invulnerable religious
introduced in the dispute within the sect and disorder.

Their faith was hurt in sick vigor. The heresy was more frightening than all the armies. The heresy
was the realgar that once in the entrails, was wrecked the firmest fortitude, and, according
to him, and the tósigo was partly sucked. Valladolid was a focus of Lutherans. Salamanca, a
seminar of heretics. The followers of Valdes and Ramus, the followers of Erasmus and Luther were
Asaz numerous. His former classmate Francisco Sanchez, Brocense, cast a curse against dirty
St. Thomas, when he invoked his sublime authority in disputes. The Cardinal Archbishop Toledo, Bartolomé
Carranza, luteranizaba in Christian Catechism. He had, therefore, that supreme moment when a
battle is lost by a break of the will. It was not the case to discuss proposals, but to extirpate
the roots of those boils and scarred provided with the cleansing fire.


"And who was Gentle George?" said Jeanie, endeavouring to bring her back to her story.

"O, he was Geordie Robertson, ye ken, when he was in Edinburgh; but that's no his right name
neither--His name is--But what is your business wi' his name?" said she, as if upon sudden
recollection, "What have ye to do asking for folk's names?--Have ye a mind I should scour my
knife between your ribs, as my mother says?"

As this was spoken with a menacing tone and gesture, Jeanie hastened to protest her total innocence
of purpose in the accidental question which she had asked, and Madge Wildfire went on somewhat
pacified.

"Never ask folk's names, Jeanie--it's no civil--I hae seen half-a-dozen o' folk in my mother's
at ance, and ne'er ane a' them ca'd the ither by his name; and Daddie Ratton says, it is the
most uncivil thing may be, because the bailie bodies are aye asking fashions questions, when
ye saw sic a man, or sic a man; and if ye dinna ken their names, ye ken there can be nae mair
speerd about it."

"In what strange school," thought Jeanie to herself, "has this poor creature been bred up,
where such remote precautions are taken against the pursuits of justice? What would my father
or Reuben Butler think if I were to tell them there are sic folk in the world? And to abuse
the simplicity of this demented creature! Oh, that I were but safe at hame amang mine ain leal
and true people! and I'll bless God, while I have breath, that placed me amongst those who
live in His fear, and under the shadow of His wing."

She was interrupted by the insane laugh of Madge Wildfire, as she saw a magpie hop across the path.

"See there!--that was the gate my auld joe used to cross the country, but no just sae lightly--he
hadna wings to help his auld legs, I trow; but I behoved to have married him for a' that, Jeanie,
or my mother wad hae been the dead o' me. But then came in the story of my poor bairn, and
my mother thought he wad be deaved wi' it's skirling, and she pat it away in below the bit
bourock of turf yonder, just to be out o' the gate; and I think she buried my best wits with
it, for I have never been just mysell since. And only think, Jeanie, after my mother had been
at a' these pains, the auld doited body Johnny Drottle turned up his nose, and wadna hae aught
to say to me! But it's little I care for him, for I have led a merry life ever since, and ne'er
a braw gentleman looks at me but ye wad think he was gaun to drop off his horse for mere love
of me. I have ken'd some o' them put their hand in their pocket, and gie me as muckle as sixpence
at a time, just for my weel-faured face."

This speech gave Jeanie a dark insight into Madge's history. She had been courted by a wealthy
suitor, whose addresses her mother had favoured, notwithstanding the objection of old age and
deformity. She had been seduced by some profligate, and, to conceal her shame and promote the
advantageous match she had planned, her mother had not hesitated to destroy the offspring of
their intrigue. That the consequence should be the total derangement of amind which was constitutionally
unsettled by giddiness and vanity, was extremely natural; and such was, in fact, the history
of Madge Wildfire's insanity.

CHAPTER SEVENTH.

             So free from danger, free from fear
             They crossed the court--right glad they were.
                                            Christabel. It was beautiful
die with that courage. However, in such case, he had spoken to the crowd. Then invent extraordinary
speeches in his head. But beneath its upright arrogance, his instinct creeping doeth meditating
on the power of the sovereign, in that irresistible power, absolute, while dispensing the greatest honors,
could suppress the existence more bizarre with a quill stroke.

At the time of dawn, when the new light began to point out the cracks in the window, love Beatrice
went on as ever in his chest. She thought passionately. He thought frantically in the enjoyment
of living and loving, encouraging him with the illusion of a mouth under his, of scented silky
hair, between his own Dutch.

His first thought upon waking was to walk the streets RIEF the maid. Considered people who came
every day to offer condolences for the death of Don Inigo will occupy afternoon. There was
a need to escape. At one began to spruce up. When the servant threw finally on the shoulders of black
velvet cape atrencillado, a lady came to tell Beatriz climbed the stairs, and, not being dressed
even Dona Guiomar was necessary entertain the visit.

- Ah!

How come to me! - Ramiro said to himself, and giving a finishing touch to your hair, left
the room.

Could only receive it in the old stand, as others had been desguarnidos by usurers. He thought,
however, that despite its age and neglect, that room was beyond a
serious greatness and noble ancestry.

Lifted the latch and entered.

It was one block long and narrow, bejeweled variously as the flamenco style, Italian and Mudejar
times of the Emperor. Since the death of Mrs. Eagle remained Brianda not open, as the rooms
of oriental tales that hold awful mystery. Don Inigo and his daughter preferred, in turn, other
rooms easier to renew. It was reported that on its premises the Board of the Communards Santa
had held its first meeting clandestinely; and for a long time the mob ran through the legend that
the ghosts of the executed, gathered in there, on moonlit nights.

So perhaps no one wanted to live that home for a quarter century.

The servants did not ignore these stories, and his fingers had trembled
on the bolts when Dona Guiomar ordered the doors be opened to ensure
the old stand of Dona Brianda the body of his father.

It was certainly strange aspect of this site. Old walls upholstered in blue velvet, rotten at
the top of the water leaks and leathery, dried at the edges, as hairy peels and twists on the old
mortuary chests. On either side oak chairs were encrusted with ivory, and cabinets, law firms,
accountants, where work worms mimicked the eyes of the cork. Adhesion earthy brightness killed
bronze nacre of the shell. Spectral quasi Furniture! The outer port, carpets and all draperies,
covered with cobwebs, hung with hypnotic appearance and the dust cleared, a so light, folds half
a century.

Ramiro, upon entering, he heard furtive runs under furniture. A hole left nut to crack.

The railing, dishonor the nervous hand of former suitors, divided into two parts platform, and
on the corked platform, dusty pillows still kept pressure female
bodies.

A waste of remote gallantry seemed unrealistic endure old way perfume or as a powder of clusters
in the caskets of the elderly.

Things adjudged! One might say that this unit is not expected eaten only the first breeze to
vanish outside shooting.

Six spectrally Pictures faded lived stay.

Ramiro waiting at a brazier, which still kept the ashes of the last
balls.

Was heard the sound of clogs and a rustling of silk in the gallery, and Beatrice appeared
dressed in black and smelled like an incense burner on.

While Ramiro gracefully bowed, the girl dropped her robe back.

Dona Alvarez, who accompanied her, he remained in the room next door.

-
Solos! - You said the youth.

Both of them trembled. A mysterious
radiation around them shook the unknown. The girl looked at her strangely
furniture and draperies, all that old, all that rot; then he began
to see one at a portrait. Following his gaze, and feeling incapable
under deep emotion, to formulate a concept courtier, Ramiro uttered:

-
They are our ancestors: the Eagles, illustrious men and women who
are long dead.

Jeanie Deans had never read the fanciful and delightful parable to which Madge alluded. Bunyan
was, indeed, a rigid Calvinist, but then he was also a member of a Baptist congregation, so
that his works had no place on David Deans's shelf of divinity. Madge, however, at some time
of her life, had been well acquainted, as it appeared, with the most popular of his performances,
which, indeed, rarely fails to make a deep impression upon children, and people of the lower rank.

"I am sure," she continued, "I may weel say I am come out of the city of Destruction, for my
mother is Mrs. Bat's-eyes, that dwells at Deadman's corner; and Frank Levitt, and Tyburn Tam,
they may be likened to Mistrust and Guilt, that came galloping up, and struck the poor pilgrim
to the ground with a great club, and stole a bag of silver, which was most of his spending
money, and so have they done to many, and will do to more.

In the midst of the confused assemblage of ideas indicated in this speech, Jeanie thought she
saw a serious purpose on the part of Madge, to endeavour to obtain the pardon and countenance
of some one whom she had offended; an attempt the most likely of all others to bring them once
more into contact with law and legal protection. She, therefore, resolved to be guided by her
while she was in so hopeful a disposition, and act for her own safety according to circumstances.

They were now close by the village, one of those beautiful scenes which are so often found
in merry England, where the cottages, instead of being built in two direct lines on each side
of a dusty high-road, stand in detached groups, interspersed not only with large oaks and elms,
but with fruit-trees, so many of which were at this time in flourish, that the grove seemed
enamelled with their crimson and white blossoms. In the centre of the hamlet stood the parish
church, and its little Gothic tower, from which at present was heard the Sunday chime of bells.

"We will wait here until the folk are a' in the church--they ca' the kirk a church in England,
Jeanie, be sure you mind that--for if I was gaun forward amang them, a' the gaitts o' boys
and lasses wad be crying at Madge Wildfire's tail, the little hell-rakers! and the beadle would
be as hard upon us as if it was our fault. I like their skirting as ill as he does, I can tell
him; I'm sure I often wish there was a het peat doun their throats when they set them up that
gate."

Conscious of the disorderly appearance of her own dress after the adventure of the preceding
night, and of the grotesque habit and demeanour of her guide, and sensible how important it
was to secure an attentive and impatient audience to her strange story from some one who might
have the means to protect her, Jeanie readily acquiesced in Madge's proposal to rest under
the trees, by which they were still somewhat screened, until the commencement of service should
give them an opportunity of entering the hamlet without attracting a crowd around them. She
made the less opposition, that Madge had intimated that this was not the village where her
mother was in custody, and that the two squires of the pad were absent in a different direction.

She sate herself down, therefore, at the foot of an oak, and by the assistance of a placid
fountain, which had been dammed up for the use of the villagers, and which served her as a
natural mirror, she began--no uncommon thing with a Scottish maiden of her rank--to arrange
her toilette in the open air, and bring her dress, soiled and disordered as it was, into such
order as the place and circumstances admitted.

She soon perceived reason, however, to regret that she had set about this task, however decent
and necessary, in the present time and society. Madge Wildfire, who, among other indications
of insanity, had a most overweening opinion of those charms, to which, in fact, she had owed
her misery, and whose mind, like a raft upon a lake, was agitated and driven about at random
by each fresh impulse, no sooner beheld Jeanie begin to arrange her hair, place her bonnet
in order, rub the dust from her shoes and clothes, adjust her neck-handkerchief and mittans,
and so forth, than with imitative zeal she began to bedizen and trick herself out with shreds
and remnants of beggarly finery, which she took out of a little bundle, and which, when disposed
around her person, made her appearance ten times more fantastic and apish than it had been before.

Jeanie groaned in spirit, but dared not interfere in a matter so delicate. Across the man's
cap or riding hat which she wore, Madge placed a broken and soiled white feather, intersected
with one which had been shed from the train of a peacock. To her dress, which was a kind of
riding-habit, she stitched, pinned, and otherwise secured, a large furbelow of artificial flowers,
all crushed, wrinkled and dirty, which had at first bedecked a lady of quality, then descended
to her Abigail, and dazzled the inmates of the servants' hall. A tawdry scarf of yellow silk,
trimmed with tinsel and spangles, which had seen as hard service, and boasted as honourable
a transmission, was next flung over one shoulder, and fell across her person in the manner
of a shoulder-belt, or baldrick. Madge then stripped off the coarse ordinary shoes, which she
wore, and replaced them by a pair of dirty satin ones, spangled and embroidered to match the
scarf, and furnished with very high heels. She had cut a willow switch in her morning's walk,
almost as long as a boy's fishing-rod. This she set herself seriously to peel, and when it
was transformed into such a wand as the Treasurer or High Steward bears on public occasions,
she told Jeanie that she thought they now looked decent, as young women should do upon the
Sunday morning, and that, as the bells had done ringing, she was willing to conduct her to
the Interpreter's house.

Jeanie sighed heavily, to think it should be her lot on the Lord's day, and during kirk time
too, to parade the street of an inhabited village with so very grotesque a comrade; but necessity
had no law, since, without a positive quarrel with the madwoman, which, in the circumstances,
would have been very unadvisable, she could see no means of shaking herself free of her society.

As for poor Madge, she was completely elated with personal vanity, and the most perfect satisfaction
concerning her own dazzling dress, and superior appearance. They entered the hamlet without
being observed, except by one old woman, who, being nearly "high-gravel blind," was only conscious
that something very fine and glittering was passing by, and dropped as deep a reverence to
Madge as she would have done to a countess. This filled up the measure of Madge's self-approbation.
She minced, she ambled, she smiled, she simpered, and waved Jeanie Deans forward with the condescension
of a noble chaperone, who has undertaken the charge of a country miss on her first journey
to the capital.

Jeanie followed in patience, and with her eyes fixed on the ground, that she might save herself
the mortification of seeing her companion's absurdities; but she started when, ascending two
or three steps, she found herself in the churchyard, and saw that Madge was making straight
for the door of the church. As Jeanie had no mind to enter the congregation in such company,
she walked aside from the pathway, and said in a decided tone, "Madge, I will wait here till
the church comes out--you may go in by yourself if you have a mind."

As she spoke these words, she was about to seat herself upon one of the grave-stones.

Madge was a little before Jeanie when she turned aside; but, suddenly changing her course,
she followed her with long strides, and, with every feature inflamed with passion, overtook
and seized her by the arm. "Do ye think, ye ungratefu' wretch, that I am gaun to let you sit
doun upon my father's grave? The deil settle ye doun, if ye dinna rise and come into the Interpreter's
house, that's the house of God, wi' me, but I'll rive every dud aft your back!"

She adapted the action to the phrase; for with one clutch she stripped Jeanie of her straw
bonnet and a handful of her hair to boot, and threw it up into an old yew-tree, where it stuck
fast. Jeanie's first impulse was to scream, but conceiving she might receive deadly harm before
she could obtain the assistance of anyone, notwithstanding the vicinity of the church, she
thought it wiser to follow the madwoman into the congregation, where she might find some means
of escape from her, or at least be secured against her violence. But when she meekly intimated
her consent to follow Madge, her guide's uncertain brain had caught another train of ideas.
She held Jeanie fast with one hand, and with the other pointed to the inscription on the grave-stone,
and commanded her to read it. Jeanie obeyed, and read these words:--

          "This Monument was erected to the Memory of Donald
             Murdockson of the King's xxvi., or Cameronian
          Regiment, a sincere Christian, a brave Soldier, and
           a faithful Servant, by his grateful and sorrowing
                       master, Robert Staunton."

"It's very weel read, Jeanie; it's just the very words," said Madge, whose ire had now faded
into deep melancholy, and with a step which, to Jeanie's great joy, was uncommonly quiet and
mournful, she led her companion towards the door of the church.

It was one of those old-fashioned Gothic parish churches which are frequent in England, the
most cleanly, decent, and reverential places of worship that are, perhaps, anywhere to be found
in the Christian world. Yet, notwithstanding the decent solemnity of its exterior, Jeanie was
too faithful to the directory of the Presbyterian kirk to have entered a prelatic place of
worship, and would, upon any other occasion, have thought that she beheld in the porch the
venerable figure of her father waving her back from the entrance, and pronouncing in a solemn
tone, "Cease, my child, to hear the instruction which causeth to err from the words of knowledge."
But in her present agitating and alarming situation, she looked for safety to this forbidden
place of assembly, as the hunted animal will sometimes seek shelter from imminent danger in
the human habitation, or in other places of refuge most alien to its nature and habits. Not
even the sound of the organ, and of one or two flutes which accompanied the psalmody, prevented
her from following her guide into the chancel of the church.

No sooner had Madge put her foot upon the pavement, and become sensible that she was the object
of attention to the spectators, than she resumed all the fantastic extravagance of deportment
which some transient touch of melancholy had banished for an instant. She swam rather than
walked up the centre aisle, dragging Jeanie after her, whom she held fast by the hand. She
would, indeed, have fain slipped aside into the pew nearest to the door, and left Madge to
ascend in her own manner and alone to the high places of the synagogue; but this was impossible,
without a degree of violent resistance, which seemed to her inconsistent with the time and
place, and she was accordingly led in captivity up the whole length of the church by her grotesque
conductress, who, with half-shut eyes, a prim smile upon her lips, and a mincing motion with
her hands, which corresponded with the delicate and affected pace at which she was pleased
to move, seemed to take the general stare of the congregation, which such an exhibition necessarily
excited, as a high compliment, and which she returned by nods and half-courtesies to individuals
amongst the audience, whom she seemed to distinguish as acquaintances. Her absurdity was enhanced
in the eyes of the spectators by the strange contrast which she formed to her companion, who,
with dishevelled hair, downcast eyes, and a face glowing with shame, was dragged, as it were
in triumph after her.

Madge's airs were at length fortunately cut short by her encountering in her progress the looks
of the clergyman, who fixed upon her a glance, at once steady, compassionate, and admonitory.
She hastily opened an empty pew which happened to be near her, and entered, dragging in Jeanie
after her. Kicking Jeanie on the shins, by way of hint that she should follow her example,
she sunk her head upon her hand for the space of a minute. Jeanie, to whom this posture of
mental devotion was entirely new, did not attempt to do the like, but looked round her with
a bewildered stare, which her neighbours, judging from the company in which they saw her, very
naturally ascribed to insanity. Every person in their immediate vicinity drew back from this
extraordinary couple as far as the limits of their pew permitted; but one old man could not
get beyond Madge's reach, ere, she had snatched the prayer-book from his hand, and ascertained
the lesson of the day. She then turned up the ritual, and with the most overstrained enthusiasm
of gesture and manner, showed Jeanie the passages as they were read in the service, making,
at the same time, her own responses so loud as to be heard above those of every other person.

Notwithstanding the shame and vexation which Jeanie felt in being thus exposed in a place of
worship, she could not and durst not omit rallying her spirits so as to look around her, and
consider to whom she ought to appeal for protection so soon as the service should be concluded.
Her first ideas naturally fixed upon the clergyman, and she was confirmed in the resolution
by observing that he was an aged gentleman, of a dignified appearance and deportment, who read
the service with an undisturbed and decent gravity, which brought back to becoming attention
those younger members of the congregation who had been disturbed by the extravagant behaviour
of Madge Wildfire. To the clergyman, therefore, Jeanie resolved to make her appeal when the
service was over.

It is true she felt disposed to be shocked at his surplice, of which she had heard so much,
but which she had never seen upon the person of a preacher of the word. Then she was confused
by the change of posture adopted in different parts of the ritual, the more so as Madge Wildfire,
to whom they seemed familiar, took the opportunity to exercise authority over her, pulling
her up and pushing her down with a bustling assiduity, which Jeanie felt must make them both
the objects of painful attention. But, notwithstanding these prejudices, it was her prudent
resolution, in this dilemma, to imitate as nearly as she could what was done around her. The
prophet, she thought, permitted Naaman the Syrian to bow even in the house of Rimmon. Surely
if I, in this streight, worship the God of my fathers in mine own language, although the manner
thereof be strange to me, the Lord will pardon me in this thing.

In this resolution she became so much confirmed, that, withdrawing herself from Madge as far
as the pew permitted, she endeavoured to evince by serious and composed attention to what was
passing, that her mind was composed to devotion. Her tormentor would not long have permitted
her to remain quiet, but fatigue overpowered her, and she fell fast asleep in the other corner
of the pew.

Jeanie, though her mind in her own despite sometimes reverted to her situation, compelled herself
to give attention to a sensible, energetic, and well-composed discourse, upon the practical
doctrines of Christianity, which she could not help approving, although it was every word written
down and read by the preacher, and although it was delivered in a tone and gesture very different
from those of Boanerges Stormheaven, who was her father's favourite preacher. The serious and
placid attention with which Jeanie listened, did not escape the clergyman. Madge Wildfire's
entrance had rendered him apprehensive of some disturbance, to provide against which, as far
as possible, he often turned his eyes to the part of the church where Jeanie and she were placed,
and became soon aware that, although the loss of her head-gear, and the awkwardness of her
situation, had given an uncommon and anxious air to the features of the former, yet she was
in a state of mind very different from that of her companion. When he dismissed the congregation,
he observed her look around with a wild and terrified look, as if uncertain what course she
ought to adopt, and noticed that she approached one or two of the most decent of the congregation,
as if to address them, and then shrunk back timidly, on observing that they seemed to shun
and to avoid her. The clergyman was satisfied there must be something extraordinary in all
this, and as a benevolent man, as well as a good Christian pastor, he resolved to inquire into
the matter more minutely.

CHAPTER EIGHTH.

               There governed in that year
               A stern, stout churl--an angry overseer.
                                             Crabbe.

While Mr. Staunton, for such was this worthy clergyman's name, was laying aside his gown in
the vestry, Jeanie was in the act of coming to an open rupture with Madge.

"We must return to Mummer's barn directly," said Madge; "we'll be ower late, and my mother
will be angry."

"I am not going back with you, Madge," said Jeanie, taking out a guinea, and offering it to
her; "I am much obliged to you, but I maun gang my ain road."

"And me coming a' this way out o' my gate to pleasure you, ye ungratefu' cutty," answered Madge;
"and me to be brained by my mother when I gang hame, and a' for your sake!--But I will gar
ye as good"

"For God's sake," said Jeanie to a man who stood beside them, "keep her off!--she is mad."

"Ey, ey," answered the boor; "I hae some guess of that, and I trow thou be'st a bird of the
same feather.--Howsomever, Madge, I redd thee keep hand off her, or I'se lend thee a whisterpoop."

Several of the lower class of the parishioners now gathered round the strangers, and the cry
arose among the boys that "there was a-going to be a fite between mad Madge Murdockson and
another Bess of Bedlam." But while the fry assembled with the humane hope of seeing as much
of the fun as possible, the laced cocked-hat of the beadle was discerned among the multitude,
and all made way for that person of awful authority. His first address was to Madge.

"What's brought thee back again, thou silly donnot, to plague this parish? We will not eat it.

- Never say "I will not drink this water." Because I say is very rich gentleman and is very fond
of the girl.

And lord knows what he is capable of a rich gentleman when is madly
in love and keep you from seeing and talking to his beloved torture.

-
We said goalkeeper more heal quickly.

What do you mean the gentleman that?

- Not much.

Wants Mr give the child on their side these oranges (choose six from
the most beautiful of the board), and tell him he is putting much
effort and money spent to remove as soon as this prison.

- Man!,
Said the policeman hesitated, I have not ever done the role of run-see-and
tell.

- Come, sir, that you will not regret.

Sepal: the gentleman is very rich, very grateful and is very much in love.

Goalkeeper scared, shaky, uncertain, it was a long time standing, watching, and the black and the
oranges. After he asked huskily through fear or shame:

- What do you call the gentleman?

- The child knows, "said Maria de Regla, abruptly walking away.

He remained the keeper thoughtful, as if rooted to the bars of the goal. Soon we passed the lock
to the door, he locked it, and three oranges in each hand he went into the yard of the House
of Recogidas.

There was all that can be filled with illusions of a man in love, and hope to a woman afflicted,
in the brief interview that he had the keeper with Cecilia.

There were those of - you. is my savior. What angel brought you to this poor woman persecuted? I am
innocent. My only crime love is a lot like a young man who died for me. This has made me the
father of the gentleman from who you talk to me. All his rage against me is because they love
him and want his son. You have mercy on a woman unjustly persecuted.

The doorman went away another man .-- Who comes up with a girl brought here like this? - Is
asked himself. The devil, but the evil spirit to tempt and draw from their boxes to the peaceful
people. Here I would like to see the strong men, the same saints.

"Resist? It will soften, they would melt, would be delivered footed into the clutches of Satan.
Will he have the courage to see her mourn, complain and beg to hear it and not take their part? I
will do what it wants. Is clear. And stay wrong with the Bishop, my protector, will fall from
grace, lose the position I occupy in this house. But what remedy? She is very cute, cry, and I'm
not stick. Damn fruit!

Two or three days later it returned, and keeper of the collections did not get it wrong. Brought
new claim: that of a private conversation with the prisoner in the prison. Visits were prohibited
inside the house could only speak to those contained in the presence
of the guardian at the gate of the goal.

But Mary Rule argued the point with skill, saying, among other things, not surprisingly, the porter
will help kill an innocent child sadness, and made complicit in the
greatest injustice that had occurred previously in Havana.

That gentleman, lover of the girl, he had very advanced steps to remove closure, and, of course,
exclude from its gratitude to all those who had oppressed their adored torment. Then he added, as
if suddenly remembering:

- The gentleman gave me for lord these half-dozen ounces of gold, in case the girl needed something
to eat, or dress, or any craving ...

This last argument ended up spoiling the rest of virtue or embarrassment of the goalkeeper.
Granted entry.

Briefly describe the scene now followed the interview the messenger with the dam.

María Cecilia Rule found in the same position in which said had surprised
guardian days before, only this time not the hair that covered part
of the back overlooking the entrance to the cell.

Something began to see there's former nurse, who called him greatly
care.

- Jesus! said.

What do I see?

Is it possible that this child is the same as I suspected? What things happen in this world!

In
that voice and those incoherent exclamations, Cecilia raised her
head and asked Ringtone unconscious and suffering:

- What do you
want?

- I want to tell me his mercy his first name.

- Cecilia Valdés.

-
Jesus! she cried the black.

Itself than I expected!

Like a dream. You know his mercy Who painted the crescent?

- What crescent?

- The bears his mercy in the shoulder (with the index touching the girl's left).

- This is not painting, is a mole, or rather, a brand I have been
there as a result a blow to my childhood.

- No, if your worship is
really, really Cecilia Valdés I know, that's not the moon, or hit
mark: crescent is the grandmother of his mercy he painted and indigo
needle before to throw it into the Real Casa Cuna.

- Oh! Mother never
told me such thing.

- I know because that was the signal that I got
to recognize among the other girls the Royal Baby.

- Who is you who
knows so much about me?

- Is it possible that your worship does not
know me yet?

Should remember me.

- No, indeed.

- Well, I gave suck to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and
then for about a year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy,
when she lived in the alley in San Juan of God.

Your worship was already talking champurriado Pennines and not say more, on days I removed it
from the arms. Ay! Do not know his mercy with tears and sorrow it has cost me his upbringing,
not only to me, also my husband. Yes, your worship has been the cause first and foremost of
our misfortunes.

- What has happened to Vds.?

- I will be banished from Havana twelve
years, and my husband is a prisoner in jail.

Le blame the death of Captain Tonda.

- So that's how you say!

So I am the most unhappy woman who treads the world! Alas, without having harmed anyone all
fall on me!

- Do not cry, nor regret, girl.

Although the cause of our misfortunes, his grace is innocent no fault.

- How should I not mourn and grieve, if pursued after me unjustly, made of stone scandal of women
in this house, harass me with your questions and nonsense, for auction has been you, it says
I grew up, and I reproach the misfortunes of you and her husband? Is there more unhappiness
than mine?

- When I told him my story, woven with that of his mercy, will be
convinced that I have a lot reason.

- But who are you?

- My name
is Maria de Regla, humble servant of his grace, Leonardo Gamboa child
slave.

- Ah!

Cecilia said standing up and hugging her interlocutor.

- Listen!
said it with feeling.

The child recognizes and embraces me as a child slave Leonardo not
the mother's milk as I am of his mercy.

- No, I embrace both reasons,
especially since his coming is a bringer of salvation for me.

The black crossed his arms and began to contemplate Cecilia face to
face.

From time to time murmured in a low tone: See you! The same front!
The same nose! The same mouth!

The same eyes! Even the dimple in his beard! Yes, her hair, her body, her air, her own angel!
What! His very image!

- Who? asked Cecilia.

- In my daughter Adela.

- Who is this girl?

-
Milk My other daughter, sister, father and mother of the child Leonardo.

-
"So much I look like her?

That's what I had told some friends who know her view.

- And say
that it seems.

Not be more like twins.

Could it be because the child why Leonardo is so enamored of his
mercy?

But he sins and sin to want to worship as they want.

If you would like as friends or brothers, go, as a man and woman
is a sin.

Both are in mortal sin.

- Why did you say that? Cecilia asked, surprised. In loving a man and a much woman, I do not know
who has sinned.

- Yes, there, child, sometimes you have to sin tight.

On the one hand, he is white, but within Soon it will be of blue blood, because his father is
the Count of Casa Gamboa. And he has a palace to live with that is to be his lawful wife. And
his mercy ... Sorry, girl, that is so clariosa. His mercy is poor, has no drop of blue blood
and a daughter ... of the Creche. You can not be left to marry his mercy.

- Everything is to be put on the head. A good man he is and does what he wants. And although no,
I'm sure the word that has given me.

- You can not fulfill it, girl.

Undeceive, yet still can not fulfill.

- Why not?

- Why not. In time you will know their mercy.

That marriage is a dream, are not checked ...

- Then you are opposed. I do not understand why.

- I am not opposed, my child.

Not me who is opposed, is another, that's nature are the laws divine
and human.

It would be a sacrilege ... But what do I say? At least it is too
late.

Tell me, girl, what's in your eyes?

- I have nothing in their eyes, "said Cecilia scrubbing innocently.

- Yes, I see something in them that is a bad sign. I think that has yellow eyeball. No doubt.
These circles, the pallor, the face distorted ... Poor thing! His mercy is sick.

- I sick! No, no, she said a hurry.

- His mercy and Leonardo child is female.

- Do not understand what you said.

- Have you ever felt your mercy nausea? So as a desire to be provocative?

- Yes, several times.

More often since I'm in this house. I attribute that to the shocks and sorrows my unjust imprisonment.

-
Tate. Some are the bulls. Did not I? The cause of the illness of his worship is another. I
know, the soothsayer. Do not know the girl I've been a nurse for many years? What am married? There
is no healing.

None ... Poor girl! Innocent! Unhappy! In his mercy has made much damage that face so beautiful
that God has given. If your worship had been born ugly, perhaps does not matter what happens
now. Would be free and be happy. More ... which has no cure, is best forgotten. Finally, tell the
child Leonardo the status of your mercy and safety pin that rush to get the girl in this damn
house.

Leonardo Gamboa strongly affected the latest news that Cecilia brought the slave. Without loss
of time, as he had intended it, he focused with his classmate and friend Mayor, who had decreed
the arbitrary order of imprisonment, to which he claimed those titles, along with this circumstance.
He also revealed the delicate state secret the girl. Spilled all over the gold with both hands
and had the ineffable satisfaction to see their efforts crowned with success all the way over
the last days of the month April.

Cecilia went to his place, despite fierce opposition from his father. Led prison the house they
had rented in the Rue des Dames, by giving cook, servant trust and owner of Mary always rule.
It seemed there was not the happiest man on the face of the earth.

While all this was executed with total reserves of Don Candido, Leonardo hid anything Dona Rosa.
From beginning to end kept informed of the steps being taken, as
were given.

And, sorry to say, do not know who was more rejoicing in the outcome of the drama, if your child
or the mother. This raised an insurmountable barrier, she sincerely believed, between the girl and
the reckless claims of her husband.

Amid these scenes, displayed Leonardo skill and willpower without example, by great care in fulfilling
the conditions of the contract held secret to her mother. Attended to law classes regularly,
and when it came time to graduate, visited one by one doctors to
be discussed, mainly to Don Diego de la Torre, who enjoyed very stiff
reputation with graduates, he went out to Fray Ambrosio Herrera, Secretary
University, who secretly informed that instead of the three tips of
hard custom, intended to put three ounces of gold in each cartridge.

That paved the way for reception, and managed to stall the ordinance hood, up to the chair
of the lecture hall, get in the crown of the head red biretta, delivering a speech unintelligible
in Latin, and obtain the degree of Bachelor of Laws "Nemiña dissentiente [60] April 12 1831.

Satisfied with this side its commitments, he still had time to take formal possession of palace
that his father had given him.

Then, with the aim of monitoring numb of it, ran to give a "caradita" to Isabel's paradise Alquízar,
and see to conclude with it, if possible, the manner and time of marriage.

Found it quite cold and discouraged. Repugnábale highly the idea of ​​witnessing for second
time, the horrific scenes of wit.

As a guest, it would lack the time together with desire, like love, because if failed to stop
loving the terrible punishments blacks there, by a fatal necessity of the institution, could
hardly promised that married were abolished. Leonardo And pray take these reasons for which
mere scruples nun friend, now they might be persuaded it would relieve a promise that is no
longer interested much his heart, turned to Havana without trying to pave the unexpected inconvenience.

Had
flown out with inconceivable rapidity. In late August was a beautiful Cecilia girl; event
that, far from happy with Leonardo, it seems that only made him feel
the full weight of the grave responsibility that had been thrown over
in a moment of amorous rapture.

That not his wife, much less their equal. Could you submit it without blushing, that beautiful
as magu sun, anywhere? He had not yet fallen so gentle slope of vice sambenito that would make the
gala.

Vanished, without a doubt, the enthusiasm with easy coveted possession of the object was only
contemptible in quality above. When love took place shortly shame. After this was due repentance,
and presented at a gallop, much earlier than This was expected, called the cold storage conditions
and moral laxity that had tests the young Gamboa.

The first symptoms of change not long in discovering Cecilia with pain came towards rush of
jealousy to complicate the situation of things.

After three or four months of marriage unlawful were less frequent
and less prolonged visits to Leonardo's house Calle de las Damas.

What value than the height of gifts to the beloved, who advanced
to all tastes and whims, even if it was ever more cold and reserved
with her, but showed pride and joy for the child, if ever they failed
to achieve even for a night trocar the house of his own parents?

This explains the strange behavior of Leonardo with Cecilia, the biggest influence on him vigorously
pursued his mother. Because it was a certainty that if the boy had fled with all the virtues
at the early age of 22 years, fleeing the timid pigeon loft struck
by lightning, was no less true that warmed her heart still sweet filial
marble.

Doña Rosa also had learned from those days true story of birth, baptism, parenting and fatherhood
of Cecilia Valdés, told Mary Rule now in order to obtain complete forgiveness of their sins
and some help for Dionisio, who was still in close prison. Terrified this lady of the abyss
to which he had pushed his son, he said with apparent calmness:

- I was thinking, Leonardite, it's time to loosen up on the little boy like wild pears ... What do
you think?

- Jesus, Mom! shocked the young man replied. It would be an atrocity.

- Yes, it is necessary, the mother said in a resolute tone. Now, to marry Elizabeth.

- This, too? Isabella no longer loves me. You have read his last letters. They do not speak
love, speaks only Monji.

- Nonsense!

Never mind. I'll fix the business in two Palotada. Things have changed.

It should get married early on primogeniture, even not for any other
purpose than ensuring legitimate succession to the title.

To marry Isabel, I say.

By letter of Don Tomas Don Candido Ilincheta, said Dona Rosa Isabel's
hand for his son Leonardo, heir presumptive County Gamboa House.

In response, the alleged bride, accompanied by her father, sister and aunt came to his time
Havana and was removed at the home of her cousins, the Misses Gámez. It was therefore postponed
marriage for early November in the picturesque Church of the Angel, because the most decent,
if not closer to the congregation itself. The first of three revelations Regular ran last Sunday
in October, fairs past San Rafael.

There were those who communicate with Cecilia's new link next to Isabel Ilincheta her lover.
We disclaim paint the tumult of passions aroused in the breast of
the proud and vengeful mulatta.

Suffice it to say that the sheep, in fact, became a lioness.

At dusk on November 10 knocked on the door of an old friend Cecilia,
who not seen since his concubinage with Leonardo.

- Jose Dolores!
she exclaimed, throwing her arms around his neck in tears.

What good angel sent you to me?

- I come, "he said with grim countenance and terrible voice, because it gave me the heart Celia could
need.

- Jose Dolores! José Dolores of my soul! That marriage should not be.

- No?

- No.

- Then tell me not to be Celia.

- No more off him in his arms and walked outside. Cecilia, a little, limp hair and the dress loose,
ran to the door and shouted back: Joseph! José Dolores! To her, he does!

Useless warning.

The musician had already turned the corner of Calle de las Damas.

Numerous candles and candles burned on the altar of the church of
Santo Angel Custodio. Some people were standing, leaning on the railing
of the broad plateau ending the two stone steps. On the Street looks
up a large group Compostela ladies and gentlemen whose carriages were
down. The couple put the foot on the last step, when a man came by
the other side, his hat pulled down over ears, crossed the plateau
and ran diagonally to Leonardo, an effort to win before this the south
side of the church, where he finally disappeared.

She took the boy
on the left hand, gave a muffled cry, wanted to lean on the arm Elizabeth,
rolled and fell at his feet, splashing blood on the shiny white silk
dress.

Brushing the arm at the scum, he became the knife right way
the heart.

CONCLUSION

Far from appeasing Rosa convinced that Cecilia
Valdés was the daughter of his adulterous half-sister, husband and
hence his unfortunate son, that it seemed to turn it into anger divestment
and the desire for revenge. Pursued, then, the girl with real fury,
and it was not difficult to make the convict as an accomplice in the
murder of Leonardo, a year of confinement in the hospital for Paula.
On these roads came to recognize and embrace daughter and mother,
having recovered this trial, as is often the insane, a few moments
before his spirit left the wretched human shell. 

It makes Isabel
Ilincheta, disillusioned would not find happiness or quiet the soul
in the society within which happens to be born, retired to the convent
of the nuns Teresas or Carmelites, and was professed there after a
year of novitiate.

Rosa married to Diego Metieses, strove to replace
the older sister in the care of father and aunt, going to dwell with
them in the paradise of Alquízar.

Formed the criminal case for killing
Dionisio Tonda, did not come to fail but five years after the events
recounted here. The court sentenced him to ten and the popular chain
Don Miguel Tacon assigned him to the prison in Havana to the composition
of streets.

FIN

GLOSSARY

A

includes: rustic leather footwear that
covers the ground beef, fingers and most of foot and secured with
ropes or straps.

Agramonte field: instead of much confusion, where
no one understands. The house seemed to be in some disturbance, but as she could not suppose
she was altogether forgotten, she thought it better to remain quiet in the apartment where
she had been left, till some one should take notice of her.

The first who entered was, to her no small delight, one of her own sex, a motherly-looking
aged person of a housekeeper. To her Jeanie explained her situation in a few words, and begged
her assistance.

The dignity of a housekeeper did not encourage too much familiarity with a person who was at
the Rectory on justice-business, and whose character might seem in her eyes somewhat precarious;
but she was civil, although distant.

"Her young master," she said, "had had a bad accident by a fall from his horse, which made
him liable to fainting fits; he had been taken very ill just now, and it was impossible his
Reverence could see Jeanie for some time; but that she need not fear his doing all that was
just and proper in her behalf the instant he could get her business attended to."--She concluded
by offering to show Jeanie a room, where she might remain till his Reverence was at leisure.

Our heroine took the opportunity to request the means of adjusting and changing her dress.

The housekeeper, in whose estimation order and cleanliness ranked high among personal virtues,
gladly complied with a request so reasonable; and the change of dress which Jeanie's bundle
furnished made so important an improvement in her appearance, that the old lady hardly knew
the soiled and disordered traveller, whose attire showed the violence she had sustained, in
the neat, clean, quiet-looking little Scotch-woman, who now stood before her. Encouraged by
such a favourable alteration in her appearance, Mrs. Dalton ventured to invite Jeanie to partake
of her dinner, and was equally pleased with the decent propriety of her conduct during the meal.

"Thou canst read this book, canst thou, young woman?" said the old lady, when their meal was
concluded, laying her hand upon a large Bible.

"I hope sae, madam," said Jeanie, surprised at the question "my father wad hae wanted mony
a thing ere I had wanted that schuling."

"The better sign of him, young woman. There are men here, well to pass in the world, would
not want their share of a Leicester plover, and that's a bag-pudding, if fasting for three
hours would make all their poor children read the Bible from end to end. Take thou the book,
then, for my eyes are something dazed, and read where thou listest--it's the only book thou
canst not happen wrong in."

Jeanie was at first tempted to turn up the parable of the good Samaritan, but her conscience
checked her, as if it were a use of Scripture, not for her own edification, but to work upon
the mind of others for the relief of her worldly afflictions; and under this scrupulous sense
of duty, she selected, in preference, a CHAPTER of the prophet Isaiah, and read it, notwithstanding
her northern' accent and tone, with a devout propriety, which greatly edified Mrs. Dalton.

"Ah," she said, "an all Scotchwomen were sic as thou but it was our luck to get born devils
of thy country, I think--every one worse than t'other. If thou knowest of any tidy lass like
thysell that wanted a place, and could bring a good character, and would not go laiking about
to wakes and fairs, and wore shoes and stockings all the day round--why, I'll not say but we
might find room for her at the Rectory. Hast no cousin or sister, lass, that such an offer
would suit?"

This was touching upon a sore point, but Jeanie was spared the pain of replying by the entrance
of the same man-servant she had seen before.

"Measter wishes to see the young woman from Scotland," was Tummas's address.

"Go to his Reverence, my dear, as fast as you can, and tell him all your story--his Reverence
is a kind man," said Mrs. Dalton. "I will fold down the leaf, and wake you a cup of tea, with
some nice muffin, against you come down, and that's what you seldom see in Scotland, girl."

"Measter's waiting for the young woman," said Tummas impatiently.

"Well, Mr. Jack-Sauce, and what is your business to put in your oar?--And how often must I
tell you to call Mr. Staunton his Reverence, seeing as he is a dignified clergyman, and not
be meastering, meastering him, as if he were a little petty squire?"

As Jeanie was now at the door, and ready to accompany Tummas, the footman said nothing till
he got into the passage, when he muttered, "There are moe masters than one in this house, and
I think we shall have a mistress too, an Dame Dalton carries it thus."

Tummas led the way through a more intricate range of passages than Jeanie had yet threaded,
and ushered her into an apartment which was darkened by the closing of most of the window-shutters,
and in which was a bed with the curtains partly drawn.

"Here is the young woman, sir," said Tummas.

"Very well," said a voice from the bed, but not that of his Reverence; "be ready to answer
the bell, and leave the room."

"There is some mistake," said Jeanie, confounded at finding herself in the apartment of an
invalid; "the servant told me that the minister"

"Don't trouble yourself," said the invalid, "there is no mistake. I know more of your affairs
than my father, and I can manage them better.--Leave the room, Tom." The servant obeyed.--"We
must not," said the invalid, "lose time, when we have little to lose. Open the shutters of
that window."

She did so, and as he drew aside the curtain of his bed, the light fell on his pale countenance,
as, turban'd with bandages, and dressed in a night-gown, he lay, seemingly exhausted, upon the bed.

"Look at me," he said, "Jeanie Deans; can you not recollect me?"

"No, sir," said she, full of surprise. "I was never in this country before."

"But I may have been in yours. Think--recollect. I should faint did I name the name you are
most dearly bound to loathe and to detest. Think--remember!"

A terrible recollection flashed on Jeanie, which every tone of the speaker confirmed, and which
his next words rendered certainty.

"Be composed--remember Muschat's Cairn, and the moonlight night!"

Jeanie sunk down on a chair with clasped hands, and gasped in agony.

"Yes, here I lie," he said, "like a crushed snake, writhing with impatience at my incapacity
of motion--here I lie, when I ought to have been in Edinburgh, trying every means to save a
life that is dearer to me than my own.--How is your sister?--how fares it with her?--condemned
to death, I know it, by this time! O, the horse that carried me safely on a thousand errands
of folly and wickedness, that he should have broke down with me on the only good mission I
have undertaken for years! But I must rein in my passion--my frame cannot endure it, and I
have much to say. Give me some of the cordial which stands on that table.--Why do you tremble?
But you have too good cause.--Let it stand--I need it not."

Jeanie, however reluctant, approached him with the cup into which she had poured the draught,
and could not forbear saying, "There is a cordial for the mind, sir, if the wicked will turn
from their transgressions, and seek to the Physician of souls."

"Silence!" he said sternly--"and yet I thank you. But tell me, and lose no time in doing so,
what you are doing in this country? Remember, though I have been your sister's worst enemy,
yet I will serve her with the best of my blood, and I will serve you for her sake; and no one
can serve you to such purpose, for no one can know the circumstances so well--so speak without
fear."

"I am not afraid, sir," said Jeanie, collecting her spirits. "I trust in God; and if it pleases
Him to redeem my sister's captivity, it is all I seek, whosoever be the instrument. But, sir,
to be plain with you, I dare not use your counsel, unless I were enabled to see that it accords
with the law which I must rely upon."

"The devil take the Puritan!" cried George Staunton, for so we must now call him--"I beg your
pardon; but I am naturally impatient, and you drive me mad! What harm can it possibly do to
tell me in what situation your sister stands, and your own expectations of being able to assist
her? It is time enough to refuse my advice when I offer any which you may think improper. I
speak calmly to you, though 'tis against my nature; but don't urge me to impatience--it will
only render me incapable of serving Effie."

There was in the looks and words of this unhappy young man a sort of restrained eagerness and
impetuosity which seemed to prey upon itself, as the impatience of a fiery steed fatigues itself
with churning upon the bit. After a moment's consideration, it occurred to Jeanie that she
was not entitled to withhold from him, whether on her sister's account or her own, the fatal
account of the consequences of the crime which he had committed, nor to reject such advice,
being in itself lawful and innocent, as he might be able to suggest in the way of remedy. Accordingly,
in as few words as she could express it, she told the history of her sister's trial and condemnation,
and of her own journey as far as Newark. He appeared to listen in the utmost agony of mind,
yet repressed every violent symptom of emotion, whether by gesture or sound, which might have
interrupted the speaker, and, stretched on his couch like the Mexican monarch on his bed of
live coals, only the contortions of his cheek, and the quivering of his limbs, gave indication
of his sufferings. To much of what she said he listened with stifled groans, as if he were
only hearing those miseries confirmed, whose fatal reality he had known before; but when she
pursued her tale through the circumstances which had interrupted her journey, extreme surprise
and earnest attention appeared to succeed to the symptoms of remorse which he had before exhibited.
He questioned Jeanie closely concerning the appearance of the two men, and the conversation
which she had overheard between the taller of them and the woman.

When Jeanie mentioned the old woman having alluded to her foster-son--"It is too true," he
said; "and the source from which I derived food, when an infant, must have communicated to
me the wretched--the fated--propensity to vices that were strangers in my own family.--But go on."

Jeanie passed slightly over her journey in company with Madge, having no inclination to repeat
what might be the effect of mere raving on the part of her companion, and therefore her tale
was now closed.

Young Staunton lay for a moment in profound meditation and at length spoke with more composure
than he had yet displayed during their interview.--"You are a sensible, as well as a good young
woman, Jeanie Deans, and I will tell you more of my story than I have told to any one.-- Story
did I call it?--it is a tissue of folly, guilt, and misery.--But take notice--I do it because
I desire your confidence in return--that is, that you will act in this dismal matter by my
advice and direction. Therefore do I speak."

"I will do what is fitting for a sister, and a daughter, and a Christian woman to do," said
Jeanie; "but do not tell me any of your secrets.--It is not good that I should come into your
counsel, or listen to the doctrine which causeth to err."

"Simple fool!" said the young man. "Look at me. My head is not horned, my foot is not cloven,
my hands are not garnished with talons; and, since I am not the very devil himself, what interest
can any one else have in destroying the hopes with which you comfort or fool yourself? Listen
to me patiently, and you will find that, when you have heard my counsel, you may go to the
seventh heaven with it in your pocket, if you have a mind, and not feel yourself an ounce heavier
in the ascent."

At the risk of being somewhat heavy, as explanations usually prove, we must here endeavour
to combine into a distinct narrative, information which the invalid communicated in a manner
at once too circumstantial, and too much broken by passion, to admit of our giving his precise
words. Part of it indeed he read from a manuscript, which he had perhaps drawn up for the information
of his relations after his decease.

"To make my tale short--this wretched hag--this Margaret Murdockson, was the wife of a favourite
servant of my father--she had been my nurse--her husband was dead--she resided in a cottage
near this place--she had a daughter who grew up, and was then a beautiful but very giddy girl;
her mother endeavoured to promote her marriage with an old and wealthy churl in the neighbourhood--the
girl saw me frequently--She was familiar with me, as our connection seemed to permit--and I--in
a word, I wronged her cruelly--It was not so bad as your sister's business, but it was sufficiently
villanous--her folly should have been her protection. Soon after this I was sent abroad--To
do my father justice, if I have turned out a fiend it is not his fault--he used the best means.
When I returned, I found the wretched mother and daughter had fallen into disgrace, and were
chased from this country.--My deep share in their shame and misery was discovered--my father
used very harsh language--we quarrelled. I left his house, and led a life of strange adventure,
resolving never again to see my father or my father's home.

"And now comes the story!--Jeanie, I put my life into your hands, and not only my own life,
which, God knows, is not worth saving, but the happiness of a respectable old man, and the
honour of a family of consideration. My love of low society, as such propensities as I was
cursed with are usually termed, was, I think of an uncommon kind, and indicated a nature, which,
if not depraved by early debauchery, would have been fit for better things. I did not so much
delight in the wild revel, the low humour, the unconfined liberty of those with whom I associated
as in the spirit of adventure, presence of mind in peril, and sharpness of intellect which
they displayed in prosecuting their maraudings upon the revenue, or similar adventures.--Have
you looked round this rectory?--is it not a sweet and pleasant retreat?"

Jeanie, alarmed at this sudden change of subject, replied in the affirmative.

"Well! I wish it had been ten thousand fathoms under ground, with its church-lands, and tithes,
and all that belongs to it. Had it not been for this cursed rectory, I should have been permitted
to follow the bent of my own inclinations and the profession of arms, and half the courage
and address that I have displayed among smugglers and deer-stealers would have secured me an
honourable rank among my contemporaries. Why did I not go abroad when I left this house!--Why
did I leave it at all!--why--But it came to that point with me that it is madness to look back,
and misery to look forward!"

He paused, and then proceeded with more composure.

"The chances of a wandering life brought me unhappily to Scotland, to embroil myself in worse
and more criminal actions than I had yet been concerned in. It was now I became acquainted
with Wilson, a remarkable man in his station of life; quiet, composed, and resolute, firm in
mind, and uncommonly strong in person, gifted with a sort of rough eloquence which raised him
above his companions. Hitherto I had been

               As dissolute as desperate, yet through both
               Were seen some sparkles of a better hope.

"But it was this man's misfortune, as well as mine, that, notwithstanding the difference of
our rank and education, he acquired an extraordinary and fascinating influence over me, which
I can only account for by the calm determination of his character being superior to the less
sustained impetuosity of mine. Where he led I felt myself bound to follow; and strange was
the courage and address which he displayed in his pursuits. While I was engaged in desperate
adventures, under so strange and dangerous a preceptor, I became acquainted with your unfortunate
sister at some sports of the young people in the suburbs, which she frequented by stealth--and
her ruin proved an interlude to the tragic scenes in which I was now deeply engaged. Yet this
let me say--the villany was not premeditated, and I was firmly resolved to do her all the justice
which marriage could do, so soon as I should be able to extricate myself from my unhappy course
of life, and embrace some one more suited to my birth. I had wild visions--visions of conducting
her as if to some poor retreat, and introducing her at once to rank and fortune she never dreamt
of. A friend, at my request, attempted a negotiation with my father, which was protracted for
some time, and renewed at different intervals. At length, and just when I expected my father's
pardon, he learned by some means or other my infamy, painted in even exaggerated colours, which
was, God knows, unnecessary. He wrote me a letter--how it found me out I know not--enclosing
me a sum of money, and disowning me for ever. I became desperate--I became frantic--I readily
joined Wilson in a perilous smuggling adventure in which we miscarried, and was willingly blinded
by his logic to consider the robbery of the officer of the customs in Fife as a fair and honourable
reprisal. Hitherto I had observed a certain line in my criminality, and stood free of assaults
upon personal property, but now I felt a wild pleasure in disgracing myself as much as possible.

"The plunder was no object to me. I abandoned that to my comrades, and only asked the post
of danger. I remember well that when I stood with my drawn sword guarding the door while they
committed the felony, I had not a thought of my own safety. I was only meditating on my sense
of supposed wrong from my family, my impotent thirst of vengeance, and how it would sound in
the haughty cars of the family of Willingham, that one of their descendants, and the heir apparent
of their honours, should perish by the hands of the hangman for robbing a Scottish gauger of
a sum not equal to one-fifth part of the money I had in my pocket-book. We were taken--I expected
no less. We were condemned--that also I looked for. But death, as he approached nearer, looked
grimly; and the recollection of your sister's destitute condition determined me on an effort
to save my life.-- I forgot to tell you, that in Edinburgh I again met the woman Murdockson
and her daughter. She had followed the camp when young, and had now, under pretence of a trifling
traffic, resumed predatory habits, with which she had already been too familiar. Our first
meeting was stormy; but I was liberal of what money I had, and she forgot, or seemed to forget,
the injury her daughter had received. The unfortunate girl herself seemed hardly even to know
her seducer, far less to retain any sense of the injury she had received. Her mind is totally
alienated, which, according to her mother's account, is sometimes the consequence of an unfavourable
confinement. But it was my doing. Here was another stone knitted round my neck to sink me into
the pit of perdition. Every look--every word of this poor creature--her false spirits--her
imperfect recollections--her allusions to things which she had forgotten, but which were recorded
in my conscience, were stabs of a poniard--stabs did I say?--they were tearing with hot pincers,
and scalding the raw wound with burning sulphur--they were to be endured however, and they
were endured.-- I return to my prison thoughts.

"It was not the least miserable of them that your sister's time approached. I knew her dread
of you and of her father. She often said she would die a thousand deaths ere you should know
her shame--yet her confinement must be provided for. I knew this woman Murdockson was an infernal
hag, but I thought she loved me, and that money would make her true. She had procured a file
for Wilson, and a spring-saw for me; and she undertook readily to take charge of Effie during
her illness, in which she had skill enough to give the necessary assistance. I gave her the
money which my father had sent me. It was settled that she should receive Effie into her house
in the meantime, and wait for farther directions from me, when I should effect my escape. I
communicated this purpose, and recommended the old hag to poor Effie by a letter, in which
I recollect that I endeavoured to support the character of Macheath under condemnation-a fine,
gay, bold-faced ruffian, who is game to the last. Such, and so wretchedly poor, was my ambition!
Yet I had resolved to forsake the courses I had been engaged in, should I be so fortunate as
to escape the gibbet. My design was to marry your sister, and go over to the West Indies. I
had still a considerable sum of money left, and I trusted to be able, in one way or other,
to provide for myself and my wife.

"We made the attempt to escape, and by the obstinacy of Wilson, who insisted upon going first,
it totally miscarried. The undaunted and self-denied manner in which he sacrificed himself
to redeem his error, and accomplish my escape from the Tolbooth Church, you must have heard
of--all Scotland rang with it. It was a gallant and extraordinary deed--All men spoke of it--all
men, even those who most condemned the habits and crimes of this self-devoted man, praised
the heroism of his friendship. I have many vices, but cowardice or want of gratitude, are none
of the number. I resolved to requite his generosity, and even your sister's safety became a
secondary consideration with me for the time. To effect Wilson's liberation was my principal
object, and I doubted not to find the means.

"Yet I did not forget Effie neither. The bloodhounds of the law were so close after me, that
I dared not trust myself near any of my old haunts, but old Murdockson met me by appointment,
and informed me that your sister had happily been delivered of a boy. I charged the hag to
keep her patient's mind easy, and let her want for nothing that money could purchase, and I
retreated to Fife, where, among my old associates of Wilson's gang, I hid myself in those places
of concealment where the men engaged in that desperate trade are used to find security for
themselves and their uncustomed goods. Men who are disobedient both to human and divine laws
are not always insensible to the claims of courage and generosity. We were assured that the
mob of Edinburgh, strongly moved with the hardship of Wilson's situation, and the gallantry
of his conduct, would back any bold attempt that might be made to rescue him even from the
foot of the gibbet. Desperate as the attempt seemed, upon my declaring myself ready to lead
the onset on the guard, I found no want of followers who engaged to stand by me, and returned
to Lothian, soon followed by some steady associates, prepared to act whenever the occasion
might require.

"I have no doubt I should have rescued him from the very noose that dangled over his head,"
he continued with animation, which seemed a flash of the interest which he had taken in such
exploits; "but amongst other precautions, the magistrates had taken one, suggested, as we afterwards
learned, by the unhappy wretch Porteous, which effectually disconcerted my measures. They anticipated,
by half-an-hour, the ordinary period for execution; and, as it had been resolved amongst us,
that, for fear of observation from the officers of justice, we should not show ourselves upon
the street until the time of action approached, it followed, that all was over before our attempt
at a rescue commenced. It did commence, however, and I gained the scaffold and cut the rope
with my own hand. It was too late! The bold, stouthearted, generous criminal was no more--and
vengeance was all that remained to us--a vengeance, as I then thought, doubly due from my hand,
to whom Wilson had given life and liberty when he could as easily have secured his own."

"O sir," said Jeanie, "did the Scripture never come into your mind, 'Vengeance is mine, and
I will repay it?'"

"Scripture! Why, I had not opened a Bible for five years," answered Staunton.

"Wae's me, sirs," said Jeanie--"and a minister's son too!"

"It is natural for you to say so; yet do not interrupt me, but let me finish my most accursed
history. The beast, Porteous, who kept firing on the people long after it had ceased to be
necessary, became the object of their hatred for having overdone his duty, and of mine for
having done it too well. We that is, I and the other determined friends of Wilson, resolved
to be avenged--but caution was necessary. I thought I had been marked by one of the officers,
and therefore continued to lurk about the vicinity of Edinburgh, but without daring to venture
within the walls. At length I visited, at the hazard of my life, the place where I hoped to
find my future wife and my son--they were both gone. Dame Murdockson informed me, that so soon
as Effie heard of the miscarriage of the attempt to rescue Wilson, and the hot pursuit after
me, she fell into a brain fever; and that being one day obliged to go out on some necessary
business and leave her alone, she had taken that opportunity to escape, and she had not seen
her since. I loaded her with reproaches, to which she listened with the most provoking and
callous composure; for it is one of her attributes, that, violent and fierce as she is upon
most occasions, there are some in which she shows the most imperturbable calmness. I threatened
her with justice; she said I had more reason to fear justice than she had. I felt she was right,
and was silenced. I threatened her with vengeance; she replied in nearly the same words, that,
to judge by injuries received, I had more reason to fear her vengeance, than she to dread mine.
She was again right, and I was left without an answer. I flung myself from her in indignation,
and employed a comrade to make inquiry in the neighbourhood of Saint Leonard's concerning your
sister; but ere I received his answer, the opening quest of a well-scented terrier of the law
drove me from the vicinity of Edinburgh, to a more distant and secluded place of concealment.
A secret and trusty emissary at length brought me the account of Porteous's condemnation, and
of your sister's imprisonment on a criminal charge; thus astounding one of mine ears, while
he gratified the other.

"I again ventured to the Pleasance--again charged Murdockson with treachery to the unfortunate
Effie and her child, though I could conceive no reason, save that of appropriating the whole
of the money I had lodged with her. Your narrative throws light on this, and shows another
motive, not less powerful because less evident--the desire of wreaking vengeance on the seducer
of her daughter,--the destroyer at once of her reason and reputation. Great God! how I wish
that, instead of the revenge she made choice of, she had delivered me up to the cord!"

"But what account did the wretched woman give of Effie and the bairn?" said Jeanie, who, during
this long and agitating narrative, had firmness and discernment enough to keep her eye on such
points as might throw light on her sister's misfortunes.

"She would give none," said Staunton; "she said the mother made a moonlight flitting from her
house, with the infant in her arms--that she had never seen either of them since--that the
lass might have thrown the child into the North Loch or the Quarry Holes for what she knew,
and it was like enough she had done so."

"And how came you to believe that she did not speak the fatal truth?" said Jeanie, trembling.

"Because, on this second occasion, I saw her daughter, and I understood from her, that, in
fact, the child had been removed or destroyed during the illness of the mother. But all knowledge
to be got from her is so uncertain and indirect, that I could not collect any farther circumstances.
Only the diabolical character of old Murdockson makes me augur the worst."

"The last account agrees with that given by my poor sister," said Jeanie; "but gang on wi'
your ain tale, sir."

"Of this I am certain," said Staunton, "that Effie, in her senses, and with her knowledge,
never injured living creature.--But what could I do in her exculpation?--Nothing--and, therefore,
my whole thoughts were turned toward her safety. I was under the cursed necessity of suppressing
my feelings towards Murdockson; my life was in the hag's hand--that I cared not for; but on
my life hung that of your sister. I spoke the wretch fair; I appeared to confide in her; and
to me, so far as I was personally concerned, she gave proofs of extraordinary fidelity. I was
at first uncertain what measures I ought to adopt for your sister's liberation, when the general
rage excited among the citizens of Edinburgh on account of the reprieve, of Porteous, suggested
to me the daring idea of forcing the jail, and at once carrying off your sister from the clutches
of the law, and bringing to condign punishment a miscreant, who had tormented the unfortunate
Wilson, even in the hour of death as if he had been a wild Indian taken captive by a hostile
tribe. I flung myself among the multitude in the moment of fermentation--so did others among
Wilson's mates, who had, like me, been disappointed in the hope of glutting their eyes with
Porteous's execution. All was organised, and I was chosen for the captain. I felt not--I do
not now feel, compunction for what was to be done, and has since been executed."

"O, God forgive ye, sir, and bring ye to a better sense of your ways!" exclaimed Jeanie, in
horror at the avowal of such violent sentiments.

"Amen," replied Staunton, "if my sentiments are wrong. But I repeat, that, although willing
to aid the deed, I could have wished them to have chosen another leader; because I foresaw
that the great and general duty of the night would interfere with the assistance which I proposed
to render Effie. I gave a commission however, to a trusty friend to protect her to a place
of safety, so soon as the fatal procession had left the jail. But for no persuasions which
I could use in the hurry of the moment, or which my comrade employed at more length, after
the mob had taken a different direction, could the unfortunate girl be prevailed upon to leave
the prison. His arguments were all wasted upon the infatuated victim, and he was obliged to
leave her in order to attend to his own safety. Such was his account; but, perhaps, he persevered
less steadily in his attempts to persuade her than I would have done."

"Effie was right to remain," said Jeanie; "and I love her the better for it."

"Why will you say so?" said Staunton.

"You cannot understand my reasons, sir, if I should render them," answered Jeanie composedly;
"they that thirst for the blood of their enemies have no taste for the well-spring of life."

"My hopes," said Staunton, "were thus a second time disappointed. My next efforts were to bring
her through her trial by means of yourself. How I urged it, and where, you cannot have forgotten.
I do not blame you for your refusal; it was founded, I am convinced, on principle, and not
on indifference to your sister's fate. For me, judge of me as a man frantic; I knew not what
hand to turn to, and all my efforts were unavailing. In this condition, and close beset on
all sides, I thought of what might be done by means of my family, and their influence. I fled
from Scotland--I reached this place--my miserably wasted and unhappy appearance procured me
from my father that pardon, which a parent finds it so hard to refuse, even to the most undeserving
son. And here I have awaited in anguish of mind, which the condemned criminal might envy, the
event of your sister's trial."

"Without taking any steps for her relief?" said Jeanie.

"To the last I hoped her ease might terminate more favourably; and it is only two days since
that the fatal tidings reached me. My resolution was instantly taken. I mounted my best horse
with the purpose of making the utmost haste to London and there compounding with Sir Robert
Walpole for your sister's safety, by surrendering to him, in the person of the heir of the
family of Willingham, the notorious George Robertson, the accomplice of Wilson, the breaker
of the Tolbooth prison, and the well-known leader of the Porteous mob."

"But would that save my sister?" said Jeanie, in astonishment.

"It would, as I should drive my bargain," said Staunton. "Queens love revenge as well as their
subjects--Little as you seem to esteem it, it is a poison which pleases all palates, from the
prince to the peasant. Prime ministers love no less the power of gratifying sovereigns by gratifying
their passions.--The life of an obscure village girl! Why, I might ask the best of the crown-jewels
for laying the head of such an insolent conspiracy at the foot of her majesty, with a certainty
of being gratified. All my other plans have failed, but this could not--Heaven is just, however,
and would not honour me with making this voluntary atonement for the injury I have done your
sister. I had not rode ten miles, when my horse, the best and most sure-footed animal in this
country, fell with me on a level piece of road, as if he had been struck by a cannon-shot.
I was greatly hurt, and was brought back here in the condition in which you now see me."

As young Staunton had come to the conclusion, the servant opened the door, and, with a voice
which seemed intended rather for a signal, than merely the announcing of a visit, said, "His
Reverence, sir, is coming up stairs to wait upon you."

"For God's sake, hide yourself, Jeanie," exclaimed Staunton, "in that dressing closet!"

"No, sir," said Jeanie; "as I am here for nae ill, I canna take the shame of hiding mysell
frae the master of the house."

"But, good Heavens!" exclaimed George Staunton, "do but consider--"

Ere he could complete the sentence, his father entered the apartment.

CHAPTER TENTH.

             And now, will pardon, comfort, kindness, draw
             The youth from vice? will honour, duty, law?
                                            Crabbe. 

II

On a beautiful day of the month of May last, the Countess Poldy
was alone, as intricacies of the forest, between ten and eleven in
the morning.

Simple and elegantly dressed, wearing the graceful head a graceful Italian straw hat and left
arm slope a small wicker basket. That day was not meditation and contemplation of the beauties natural
for the sole purpose of his trip. Had other more practical. Was she going to pick strawberries
wild, the very delicate that wood produced in abundance, and also take florida some blade of grass,
called waldmeister, which puts on perfume and Conquer and season the Maitrank, delicious drink
of that season and that he liked very much the Countess widow.

Waldmeister looking strawberries, Poldy had strayed from the castle and deep in the the forest,
far more than it used to.

Thus came to be in place very lonely and wild where the thick broken trees that were crowded with
dense foliage, had a small lagoon. On the opposite side of that to which he had approached Poldy,
stood a dark and dilapidated tower. All the land surrounding the lake was damp and vicious. Fumes
malarious birds were scared away from that place. Birds not glad with their songs and chirps as
they did elsewhere in the same forest. Almost sunk roots in water here and there were cattails and
reeds in crowded clumps. On the face of the sleeping water, then curled not the slightest breath
of wind, extended the blade and the round green and broad leaves of water lily, whose white
flowers stood in the still air. Foot of Poldy sank into the grass had grown very high. Every
time fixed in the soil one of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass were hidden, and gave
great jumping, splashing in stagnant water. The noise was the water, Frogs duck it was the only
thing that interrupted the strange silence that reigned around.

Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the lagoon to the site where
the tower looked like. And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although
she was not shy, I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and
when least suspicious.

He was a portly white stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but
gentle and serene, it came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic. Occasionally shook his
head from side to side with a graceful coquetry. When was closer, took a few hops, extended
and long wings flapped as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak,
was a son very similar to castanets. Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation,
as if respect him contained, kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every
two or three steps as if waiting for the permission to get to it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because he was considered harmless,
but missed that show him as loving and as resolutely as long strides as he strode come lean toward
it as if it were an old friend. Would you have known and dealt before
and did not remember then?

Poldy sought in vain by all the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory
of that knowledge and treatment. Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have ever
had. The same could be seen than ever stork Poldy had met because, although could not quite express
in any human language but only castañetazos resonant with its peak, slow of gait, their frequent
stops and each of the looks that way to her brown eyes seemed to mean interrogation Poldy
and supplication, as if to say: charming Countess, may I see I close and treats? There was also
in a stork do not know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note in a
traveler of distinction, came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and struck
up a conversation without thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy
undoubtedly sympathized with the stork. I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance
respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her. Admitted, back in himself, knew
the stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed with exquisite good
manners, but because parenting is not learned, but rather should ease called fine or refined touch
of world.

Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was
or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in
his head touched. The stork was allowed to pet and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste
caused him, squinting eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the
long neck on the cover of the lovely lady.

It passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop, all covered with abundant
and white feathers. Then he realized with surprise that the stork had there, suspended ribbon
very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric, which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.

Poldy
could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from that pledge. Soon So broke the
tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed the
lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but in the end, dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had had no intention of staying with the garment
and was ready to return the bird if the bird came back to it and somehow
the claim.

Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the
fabric of silk, giving form of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which
was the color of apricots, was written in it with very black ink in
strange lines and several tiny letters.

She looked at them and the Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. Though he knew and exploited
moderately disciple of his brother, Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which
alphabet language and those symbols and words belonged. He suspected, however, that registration
silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and
enjoyment of his brother Count Henry.

III

Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher his brother he what the web
said. Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch,
as was his custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito,
taught him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written
it.

Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate Valmiki suddenly
the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were in the fabric, but requested time and promised
her sister have an exact translation of all on the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to the library, and triumphantly
showed him the verses and translated.

- Do not know what to think, he told his sister. Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from
India, where spent the winter, and the verses are the work of a Brahman,
or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes, I suspect that it
may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the verses and who hung
the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the one who find.

- What
end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman of ours with that cheating?

I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the
Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the Danube. Let's see ... read.

- You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European
than Asian.

Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems modeled on four lines of
the Prologue in Heaven of Faust. The coincidence is unlikely. And, although not impossible,
I find strange and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe and imitate
him.

- Come on, read the verses without further preface.

- The verses
say:

I wish to heaven the brightest star; I call this land their
fullest; And no love near or distant love Touched my heart quieted.

-
True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe,
unless the poet self says what it says Mephistopheles of Faust.

-
Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian
mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart:

Without wings
and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is
released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope.

-
That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a
Christian.

In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany. Moreover, in all countries,
must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with
a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is.

- I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell
translated.

    Maybe I in the translation I have rendered
    a European look in the original does
    not. Hear now the final composition.
    The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly
love with love and sensuality inspire women.

Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others. It's like a small
piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose
compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted
by otherworldly style and transcendent.

The composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the
Hebrews and the Indians.

    Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched
    beautiful and love your friends, but
    this poet or touch or see, or
    hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in such
a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and
the same may be our contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries
or even be waiting another forty in the world of ideas, before it
reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people
of our caste.

- Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original
or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The
Muslim prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's
treasure, while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any
idea or notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

-
I'm all ears.

Count Henry read thus:

Where are you hiding, my beauty, they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full
of grace, free of anger?

Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

You're not dreaming, you really are; Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful
women Yours will call the immortals.

In the pure light in your eyes Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box
Source of their pleasure and treasure.

Ora reside off the ground Ora show up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will
go looking for you.

Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I know I find you
well in my life For me des exalted prize.

    Poldy heard the verses carefully
    and discussed them with his brother
    and even tried with apparent
    critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws.

    What she concealed and not revealed
    or his brother or anyone, was the swarm
    of assumptions and dreams verses
    that arose in his imagination.

    Already contained writing them
    an elegant look young brahman, not
    far from his magnificent villa,
    in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in
his own palace Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the
kingdoms and countries that described the ancient epics.

    But the author of the verses
    was a contemporary of her and looked
    her end by the disease and passion
    that tormented him.

    Loved or rather wanted to love,
    nothing worth seeing around
    him of his love, and looking away,
    blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves
to be loved.

    
    
    In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered
    much on this, and wove and wove countless stories, their feeling
beautiful, with which she delighted in secret without telling anyone,
not even the old governess Justina who was his confidant.

IV

Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding but to continuance. In
other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister, whom he
loved greatly. Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses and the
translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.

Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything.

The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive spirit so prosaically, would certainly have
destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted
She nobody tear down.

The widowed Countess Zaheri accused and often also his daughter, calling it extravagant of dreaming,
hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable ideal
persecuting and absurd. If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success of
the stork, did not they think and what would not say if he knew?

Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore,
or as if she had the pretense that he forgot.

Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author
of three poems.

Already assumed in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young
and beautiful, and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.

The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy

.


They trudged along in silence for a mile or two along a country road, which conducted them,
by hedge and gate-way, into the principal highway, a little beyond Grantham. At length her
master of the horse asked her whether her name was not Jean, or Jane, Deans. She answered in
the affirmative, with some surprise. "Then here's a bit of a note as concerns you," said the
man, handing it over his left shoulder. "It's from young master, as I judge, and every man
about Willingham is fain to pleasure him either for love or fear; for he'll come to be landlord
at last, let them say what they like."

Jeanie broke the seal of the note, which was addressed to her, and read as follows:--

"You refuse to see me. I suppose you are shocked at my character: but, in painting myself such
as I am, you should give me credit for my sincerity. I am, at least, no hypocrite. You refuse,
however, to see me, and your conduct may be natural--but is it wise? I have expressed my anxiety
to repair your sister's misfortunes at the expense of my honour,--my family's honour--my own
life, and you think me too debased to be admitted even to sacrifice what I have remaining of
honour, fame, and life, in her cause. Well, if the offerer be despised, the victim is still
equally at hand; and perhaps there may be justice in the decree of Heaven, that I shall not
have the melancholy credit of appearing to make this sacrifice out of my own free good-will.
You, as you have declined my concurrence, must take the whole upon yourself. Go, then, to the
Duke of Argyle, and, when other arguments fail you, tell him you have it in your power to bring
to condign punishment the most active conspirator in the Porteous mob. He will hear you on
this topic, should he be deaf to every other. Make your own terms, for they will be at your
own making. You know where I am to be found; and you may be assured I will not give you the
dark side of the hill, as at Muschat's Cairn; I have no thoughts of stirring from the house
I was born in; like the hare, I shall be worried in the seat I started from. I repeat it--make
your own terms. I need not remind you to ask your sister's life, for that you will do of course;
but make terms of advantage for yourself--ask wealth and reward--office and income for Butler--ask
anything--you will get anything--and all for delivering to the hands of the executioner a man
most deserving of his office;--one who, though young in years, is old in wickedness, and whose
most earnest desire is, after the storms of an unquiet life, to sleep and be at rest."

This extraordinary letter was subscribed with the initials G. S.

Jeanie read it over once or twice with great attention, which the slow pace of the horse, as
he stalked through a deep lane, enabled her to do with facility.

When she had perused this billet, her first employment was to tear it into as small pieces
as possible, and disperse these pieces in the air by a few at a time, so that a document containing
so perilous a secret might not fall into any other person's hand.

The question how far, in point of extremity, she was entitled to save her sister's life by
sacrificing that of a person who, though guilty towards the state, had done her no injury,
formed the next earnest and most painful subject of consideration. In one sense, indeed, it
seemed as if denouncing the guilt of Staunton, the cause of her sister's errors and misfortunes,
would have been an act of just, and even providential retribution. But Jeanie, in the strict
and severe tone of morality in which she was educated, had to consider not only the general
aspect of a proposed action, but its justness and fitness in relation to the actor, before
she could be, according to her own phrase, free to enter upon it. What right had she to make
a barter between the lives of Staunton and of Effie, and to sacrifice the one for the safety
of the other? His guilt--that guilt for which he was amenable to the laws--was a crime against
the public indeed, but it was not against her.

Neither did it seem to her that his share in the death of Porteous, though her mind revolted
at the idea of using violence to any one, was in the relation of a common murder, against the
perpetrator of which every one is called to aid the public magistrate. That violent action
was blended with many circumstances, which, in the eyes of those in Jeanie's rank of life,
if they did not altogether deprive it of the character of guilt, softened, at least, its most
atrocious features. The anxiety of the government to obtain conviction of some of the offenders,
had but served to increase the public feeling which connected the action, though violent and
irregular, with the idea of ancient national independence. The rigorous measures adopted or
proposed against the city of Edinburgh, the ancient metropolis of Scotland--the extremely unpopular
and injudicious measure of compelling the Scottish clergy, contrary to their principles and
sense of duty, to promulgate from the pulpit the reward offered for the discovery of the perpetrators
of this slaughter, had produced on the public mind the opposite consequences from what were
intended; and Jeanie felt conscious, that whoever should lodge information concerning that
event, and for whatsoever purpose it might be done, it would be considered as an act of treason
against the independence of Scotland. With the fanaticism of the Scottish Presbyterians, there
was always mingled a glow of national feeling, and Jeanie, trembled at the idea of her name
being handed down to posterity with that of the "fause Monteath," and one or two others, who,
having deserted and betrayed the cause of their country, are damned to perpetual remembrance
and execration among its peasantry. Yet, to part with Effie's life once more, when a word spoken
might save it, pressed severely on the mind of her affectionate sister.

"The Lord support and direct me!" said Jeanie, "for it seems to be His will to try me with
difficulties far beyond my ain strength."

While this thought passed through Jeanie's mind, her guard, tired of silence, began to show
some inclination to be communicative. He seemed a sensible, steady peasant, but not having
more delicacy or prudence than is common to those in his situation, he, of course, chose the
Willingham family as the subject of his conversation. From this man Jeanie learned some particulars
of which she had hitherto been ignorant, and which we will briefly recapitulate for the information
of the reader.

The father of George Staunton had been bred a soldier, and during service in the West Indies,
had married the heiress of a wealthy planter. By this lady he had an only child, George Staunton,
the unhappy young, man who has been so often mentioned in this narrative. He passed the first
part of his early youth under the charge of a doting mother, and in the society of negro slaves,
whose study it was to gratify his every caprice. His father was a man of worth and sense; but
as he alone retained tolerable health among the officers of the regiment he belonged to, he
was much engaged with his duty. Besides, Mrs. Staunton was beautiful and wilful, and enjoyed
but delicate health; so that it was difficult for a man of affection, humanity, and a quiet
disposition, to struggle with her on the point of her over-indulgence to an only child. Indeed,
what Mr. Staunton did do towards counteracting the baneful effects of his wife's system, only
tended to render it more pernicious; for every restraint imposed on the boy in his father's
presence, was compensated by treble license during his absence. So that George Staunton acquired,
even in childhood, the habit of regarding his father as a rigid censor, from whose severity
he was desirous of emancipating himself as soon and absolutely as possible.

When he was about ten years old, and when his mind had received all the seeds of those evil
weeds which afterwards grew apace, his mother died, and his father, half heart-broken, returned
to England. To sum up her imprudence and unjustifiable indulgence, she had contrived to place
a considerable part of her fortune at her son's exclusive control or disposal, in consequence
of which management, George Staunton had not been long in England till he learned his independence,
and how to abuse it. His father had endeavoured to rectify the defects of his education by
placing him in a well-regulated seminary. But although he showed some capacity for learning,
his riotous conduct soon became intolerable to his teachers. He found means (too easily afforded
to all youths who have certain expectations) of procuring such a command of money as enabled
him to anticipate in boyhood the frolics and follies of a more mature age, and, with these
accomplishments, he was returned on his father's hands as a profligate boy, whose example might
ruin a hundred.

The elder Mr. Staunton, whose mind, since his wife's death, had been tinged with a melancholy,
which certainly his son's conduct did not tend to dispel, had taken orders, and was inducted
by his brother Sir William Staunton into the family living of Willingham. The revenue was a
matter of consequence to him, for he derived little advantage from the estate of his late wife;
and his own fortune was that of a younger brother.

He took his son to reside with him at the rectory, but he soon found that his disorders rendered
him an intolerable inmate. And as the young men of his own rank would not endure the purse-proud
insolence of the Creole, he fell into that taste for low society, which is worse than "pressing
to death, whipping, or hanging." His father sent him abroad, but he only returned wilder and
more desperate than before. It is true, this unhappy youth was not without his good qualities.
He had lively wit, good temper, reckless generosity, and manners, which, while he was under
restraint, might pass well in society. But all these availed him nothing. He was so well acquainted
with the turf, the gaming-table, the cock-pit, and every worse rendezvous of folly and dissipation,
that his mother's fortune was spent before he was twenty-one, and he was soon in debt and in
distress. His early history may be concluded in the words of our British Juvenal, when describing
a similar character:--

             Headstrong, determined in his own career,
             He thought reproof unjust, and truth severe.
                  The soul's disease was to its crisis come,
             He first abused, and then abjured, his home;
                  And when he chose a vagabond to be,
             He made his shame his glory, "I'll be free!"*
                   [Crabbe's Borough, Letter xii.]

"And yet 'tis pity on Measter George, too," continued the honest boor, "for he has an open
hand, and winna let a poor body want an he has it."

The virtue of profuse generosity, by which, indeed, they themselves are most directly advantaged,
is readily admitted by the vulgar as a cloak for many sins.

At Stamford our heroine was deposited in safety by her communicative guide. She obtained a
place in the coach, which, although termed a light one, and accommodated with no fewer than
six horses, only reached London on the afternoon of the second day. The recommendation of the
elder Mr. Staunton procured Jeanie a civil reception at the inn where the carriage stopped,
and, by the aid of Mrs. Bickerton's correspondent, she found out her friend and relative Mrs.
Glass, by whom she was kindly received and hospitably entertained.

CHAPTER ELEVENTH.

           My name is Argyle, you may well think it strange,
               To live at the court and never to change.
                                Ballad.

Few names deserve more honourable mention in the history of Scotland, during this period, than
that of John, Duke of Argyle and Greenwich. His talents as a statesman and a soldier were generally
admitted; he was not without ambition, but "without the illness that attends it"--without that
irregularity of thought and aim, which often excites great men, in his peculiar situation,
(for it was a very peculiar one), to grasp the means of raising themselves to power, at the
risk of throwing a kingdom into confusion.

He was alike free from the ordinary vices of statesmen, falsehood, namely, and dissimulation;
and from those of warriors, inordinate and violent thirst after self-aggrandisement.

Scotland, his native country, stood at this time in a very precarious and doubtful situation.
She was indeed united to England, but the cement had not had time to acquire consistence. The
irritation of ancient wrongs still subsisted, and betwixt the fretful jealousy of the Scottish,
and the supercilious disdain of the English, quarrels repeatedly occurred, in the course of
which the national league, so important to the safety of both, was in the utmost danger of
being dissolved. Scotland had, besides, the disadvantage of being divided into intestine factions,
which hated each other bitterly, and waited but a signal to break forth into action.

In such circumstances, another man, with the talents and rank of Argyle, but without a mind
so happily regulated, would have sought to rise from the earth in the whirlwind, and direct
its fury. He chose a course more safe and more honourable. Soaring above the petty distinctions
of faction, his voice was raised, whether in office or opposition, for those measures which
were at once just and lenient. His high military talents enabled him, during the memorable
year 1715, to render such services to the House of Hanover, as, perhaps, were too great to
be either acknowledged or repaid. He had employed, too, his utmost influence in softening the
consequences of that insurrection to the unfortunate gentlemen whom a mistaken sense of loyalty
had engaged in the affair, and was rewarded by the esteem and affection of his country in an
uncommon degree. This popularity, with a discontented and warlike people, was supposed to be
a subject of jealousy at court, where the power to become dangerous is sometimes of itself
obnoxious, though the inclination is not united with it. Besides, the Duke of Argyle's independent
and somewhat haughty mode of expressing himself in Parliament, and acting in public, were ill
calculated to attract royal favour. He was, therefore, always respected, and often employed;
but he was not a favourite of George the Second, his consort, or his ministers. At several
different periods in his life, the Duke might be considered as in absolute disgrace at court,
although he could hardly be said to be a declared member of opposition. This rendered him the
dearer to Scotland, because it was usually in her cause that he incurred the displeasure of
his sovereign; and upon this very occasion of the Porteous mob, the animated and eloquent opposition
which he had offered to the severe measures which were about to be adopted towards the city
of Edinburgh, was the more gratefully received in that metropolis, as it was understood that
the Duke's interposition had given personal offence to Queen Caroline.

His conduct upon this occasion, as, indeed, that of all the Scottish members of the legislature,
with one or two unworthy exceptions, had been in the highest degree spirited. The popular tradition,
concerning his reply to Queen Caroline, has been given already, and some fragments of his speech
against the Porteous Bill are still remembered. He retorted upon the Chancellor, Lord Hardwicke,
the insinuation that he had stated himself in this case rather as a party than as a judge:--"I
appeal," said Argyle, "to the House--to the nation, if I can be justly branded with the infamy
of being a jobber or a partisan. Have I been a briber of votes?--a buyer of boroughs?--the
agent of corruption for any purpose, or on behalf of any party?--Consider my life; examine
my actions in the field and in the cabinet, and see where there lies a blot that can attach
to my honour. I have shown myself the friend of my country--the loyal subject of my king. I
am ready to do so again, without an instant's regard to the frowns or smiles of a court. I
have experienced both, and am prepared with indifference for either. I have given my reasons
for opposing this bill, and have made it appear that it is repugnant to the international treaty
of union, to the liberty of Scotland, and, reflectively, to that of England, to common justice,
to common sense, and to the public interest. Shall the metropolis of Scotland, the capital
of an independent nation, the residence of a long line of monarchs, by whom that noble city
was graced and dignified--shall such a city, for the fault of an obscure and unknown body of
rioters, be deprived of its honours and its privileges--its gates and its guards?--and shall
a native Scotsman tamely behold the havoc? I glory, my Lords, in opposing such unjust rigour,
and reckon it my dearest pride and honour to stand up in defence of my native country while
thus laid open to undeserved shame, and unjust spoliation."

Other statesmen and orators, both Scottish and English, used the same arguments, the bill was
gradually stripped of its most oppressive and obnoxious clauses, and at length ended in a fine
upon the city of Edinburgh in favour of Porteous's widow. So that, as somebody observed at
the time, the whole of these fierce debates ended in making the fortune of an old cook-maid,
such having been the good woman's original capacity.

The court, however, did not forget the baffle they had received in this affair, and the Duke
of Argyle, who had contributed so much to it, was thereafter considered as a person in disgrace.
It is necessary to place these circumstances under the reader's observation, both because they
are connected with the preceding and subsequent part of our narrative.

The Duke was alone in his study, when one of his gentlemen acquainted him, that a country-girl,
from Scotland, was desirous of speaking with his Grace.

"A country-girl, and from Scotland!" said the Duke; "what can have brought the silly fool to
London?--Some lover pressed and sent to sea, or some stock sank in the South-Sea funds, or
some such hopeful concern, I suppose, and then nobody to manage the matter but MacCallummore,--Well,
this same popularity has its inconveniences.--However, show our countrywoman up, Archibald--it
is ill manners to keep her in attendance."

A young woman of rather low stature, and whose countenance might be termed very modest and
pleasing in expression, though sun-burnt, somewhat freckled, and not possessing regular features,
was ushered into the splendid library. She wore the tartan plaid of her country, adjusted so
as partly to cover her head, and partly to fall back over her shoulders. A quantity of fair
hair, disposed with great simplicity and neatness, appeared in front of her round and good-humoured
face, to which the solemnity of her errand, and her sense of the Duke's rank and importance,
gave an appearance of deep awe, but not of slavish fear, or fluttered bashfulness. The rest
of Jeanie's dress was in the style of Scottish maidens of her own class; but arranged with
that scrupulous attention to neatness and cleanliness, which we often find united with that
purity of mind, of which it is a natural emblem.

She stopped near the entrance of the room, made her deepest reverence, and crossed her hands
upon her bosom, without uttering a syllable. The Duke of Argyle advanced towards her; and,
if she admired his graceful deportment and rich dress, decorated with the orders which had
been deservedly bestowed on him, his courteous manner, and quick and intelligent cast of countenance,
he on his part was not less, or less deservedly, struck with the quiet simplicity and modesty
expressed in the dress, manners, and countenance of his humble countrywoman.

"Did you wish to speak with me, my bonny lass?" said the Duke, using the encouraging epithet
which at once acknowledged the connection betwixt them as country-folk; "or did you wish to
see the Duchess?"

"My business is with your honour, my Lord--I mean your Lordship's Grace."

"And what is it, my good girl?" said the Duke, in the same mild and encouraging tone of voice.
Jeanie looked at the attendant. "Leave us, Archibald," said the Duke, "and wait in the anteroom."
The domestic retired. "And now sit down, my good lass," said the Duke; "take your breath--take
your time, and tell me what you have got to say. I guess by your dress, you are just come up
from poor Scotland--Did you come through the streets in your tartan plaid?"

"No, sir," said Jeanie; "a friend brought me in ane o' their street coaches--a very decent
woman," she added, her courage increasing as she became familiar with the sound of her own
voice in such a presence; "your Lordship's Grace kens her--it's Mrs. Glass, at the sign o'
the Thistle."

"O, my worthy snuff-merchant--I have always a chat with Mrs. Glass when I purchase my Scots
high-dried. Well, but your business, my bonny woman--time and tide, you know, wait for no one."

"Your honour--I beg your Lordship's pardon--I mean your Grace,"--for it must be noticed, that
this matter of addressing the Duke by his appropriate title had been anxiously inculcated upon
Jeanie by her friend Mrs. Glass, in whose eyes it was a matter of such importance, that her
last words, as Jeanie left the coach, were, "Mind to say your Grace;" and Jeanie, who had scarce
ever in her life spoke to a person of higher quality than the Laird of Dumbiedikes, found great
difficulty in arranging her language according to the rules of ceremony.

The Duke, who saw her embarrassment, said, with his usual affability, "Never mind my grace,
lassie; just speak out a plain tale, and show you have a Scots tongue in your head."

"Sir, I am muckle obliged--Sir, I am the sister of that poor unfortunate criminal, Effie Deans,
who is ordered for execution at Edinburgh."'

"Ah!" said the Duke, "I have heard of that unhappy story, I think--a case of child-murder,
under a special act of parliament--Duncan Forbes mentioned it at dinner the other day."

"And I was come up frae the north, sir, to see what could be done for her in the way of getting
a reprieve or pardon, sir, or the like of that."

"Alas! my poor girl," said the Duke; "you have made a long and a sad journey to very little
purpose--Your sister is ordered for execution."

"But I am given to understand that there is law for reprieving her, if it is in the king's
pleasure," said Jeanie.

"Certainly, there is," said the Duke; "but that is purely in the king's breast. The crime has
been but too common--the Scots crown-lawyers think it is right there should be an example.
Then the late disorders in Edinburgh have excited a prejudice in government against the nation
at large, which they think can only be managed by measures of intimidation and severity. Mrs. Alvarez, the owner, walked behind hitting
the slabs with the staff.

The girl we stopped driving disdainful princess garb. The black veil only discovered the hem of
the skirt, where a gallon silver plated three times the turquoise velvet. Ramiro rose. All the
grace of women now passed to him, tender and terrible. Whiteness of that face, aired by the
north wind, suggested in the hosts, and was indeed, as the allowance
of his love, the allowance of his passion, forgotten and dying.

Once at the window, Beatriz suggested a vague greeting, making flower in his lip a smirk galling. Further
out, where would leave the square, turning her face to that mask sad moments faded behind the
watery reflection glass, turned to smile, and so, accompanied by
the soft head rocking chair, disappeared with his people.

Ramiro threw the Art of Dying Well on a table covered with books.

       

The next morning, the servant who came to wake him up he remained puzzled. His master was not
removed nightclothes.

* * * * *

Gone are the days, long days of imprisonment, which he shortened to read, or painting in oils
with amazing dexterity on walnut tables, figures of Virgin and Saints. Canon came to visit him
often and always encouraged him to embrace the ecclesiastical career. True day he said:

- The cause of the Moorish going early. Will soon call you to testify.

As I was by the window, and looked at that time to the street, said:

-
There goes Gonzalo de San Vicente.

In fixed that goes with it is a master of the sword; she's always in the company. Some are saying
that the King wants to put off making alderman, despite of his few years, and if this happens,
Alonso Blázquez Beatriz give his daughter in marriage. Her father Philip is a great gentleman and
a faithful servant of the King and the Church.

Then, looking at an almond tree looming behind a roof and whose branches were beginning to cover
flower, added:

- Agora libidinous season arrives.

Meanwhile, Ramiro wearied. His wound had not closed. A circle surrounding swollen the lingering
scar, ready to be reopened at the slightest effort. The surgeon, after a learned discourse
on the influence of the planets in the crude humor and semicocidos of gangrene, had ended by
saying he could not leave until late March, having never before still bleeding a dozen times,
ex carpal manus, because, he says, "there was still vice of blood, presence of candidate standards
that are, no foul, and opportunity, then there was only ask. "

Easter came.

The days around breastfeeding in the first smile of the year, and
the trees burst buds, buds blondes and hairy like the young of birds.

The city, invaded by the people of the contours, sounded like a beehive. On Wednesday morning,
Ramiro was crossing the square, on beautiful horse, his former rival Gonzalo de San Vicente. The
dressing was blue velvet chair, with arms of his lineage embroidered
backwards, with gold and silk.

Two lackeys preceded it. Going to happen, no doubt, by the house of Beatrice or see out of
a church.

White plume, subject to a cap jewel Diamond, shivering in the morning air. Ramiro was moved
out to the balcony and launch an insult against that juveniles, blond
as a foreigner, white and pink as a female.

XXV

While not awake yet, the mane in disarray, fearful of light eyes, and stretching, now arm, now
the other, Beatrice, sitting on the edge of the bed, we let their slaves dress and maidens.

It was Holy Saturday and missing less than an hour for the Mass of Glory in the main church.
A clock had hit nine seasons.

Costabal much up so early. The caress the morning of holandas died within the will dream of making
it permanent joys.

The babblings of Mrs. Alvarez, and also the bare metal statues and
marble, brought of Italy for Don Alonso had dissipated early innocence.

Leocadia,

her favorite maid, after scrubbing and kiss her feet repeatedly estirábala Now, on the legs,
stockings tight bronze color, as reflected silk on the statuesque perfection, strong streak
of light. Then, having the red shoes with scented slippers Amber delicately lifted the nightgown
and gave him a kiss on the meat. The girl stopped her with both hands, exhaling fussy whine.

The same girl took after another shirt with a chest and came to offer
tips on a tray.

Then, Beatriz, catching and displaying garment that smells sweet and taped, closed, behind them,
the yellow damask hanging from Canopy. His legs are stronger than rest of his person, were peeping
through the opening. Rapacejos precious diamonds adorn leagues.

Warm perfume, which did not come from any handle the smell, or ark
of essences, but the bed ajar and clothes the night before, abandoned
on stools, perfumed the air of the bedroom.

A maid in the toilet rigged towels, wash basin, the basin. Another pathetic white lead to the complexion
and the bloody boat slightly poppy cheeks. Beatriz just wash accents. The cold water made her
hit the ground with the clog. The maid passed it, then, on the throat and shoulders, by way
of a breeze, damp cloth. Instead, she accepted with delight the fragrance. What else? Is the
amber water Angel, the civet, they kept the body fragrant flowers
which deck?

Two slaves of Italy served her knees. The youngest known to lengthen the eyes with kohl, in the
style of Turkish. He wore huge earrings and a green turban and striped glitter inequality. Was
languid and blond, like a virgin Sanzio. Don Alonso had purchased from a captain galley, and when
the gentleman returned from the Court, it was she who brought him
to the bed, every night, the sleeping flavored cooking.

Beatriz asked her book of devotion, meditating, in its way, the Mystery of the day, while the mending
the lank hair, which mimicked blackness stretches the abode glimpse of rosewood.

A cascade of sun, passing the windows, entered the room of bias. The glittering gift divine and sparkled
in the silver, the pearl and metal inlays in gallon of the hangings, falling onto the mat as a shower
of gold from the mythology. Outside, the morning glow illuminated the higher ledges, and the
sky without a cloud would dispelling the fog.

Habíanla reached devotional ajar.

The model represented the Lord up in the air, with white flag in his right hand while falling
terror guards around the grave. Children read with difficulty the Epistle of St. Paul to the
Colosio in line with the index. Then the narrative of St. Matthew: Mary Magdalene and the other
Mary Road to the tomb, the stone removed, the glowing words of the
angel announcing Resurrection.

The image of that miracle of miracles touched her deeply. A joy unspeakable the flooded to imagine
Jesus in his glorious flight after the agonies of Calvary.

There to laugh, to sing, had to wear the richest fabrics and choosing the best jewelry. Jesus
had risen!

Took in hand the mirror and tried to smile long glass, teaching teeth.

Finally, dressed in yellow brocade touches of silver and red work resembled to a web of chasuble, curly
hair neatly under the touch of feathers and velvet raised by the
cork of the slippers, adorned as a Miracle, seasoned, puffed, crisp
and walked around the room, watching, over her shoulder, the borders
the pearl petticoat and pomp of the kilt.

His tiny ears the earrings swaying diamond of a Grandmother.

The servants followed her like a dove that is drained.

A seek to adjust the welts of shoe, another straighten the gold cloth
belt embroidered with pearls.

Leocadia, taking a big mouthful of water smell, honed his teeth a steady stream, and, turning
around, rociolo with expertise from the hem of the skirt to the starched
ruff.

A servant came to announce that the sedan chairs waiting at the reception.

- Call Alvarez - said Beatriz.

A moment later the lady came with a lot of rumor and gorgoranes accounts. The maids withdrew.
Then, Mrs. Alvarez, the girl looking at through his glasses, burst:

- Princess precious! Star of Bethlehem Praise God who made you beautiful and salty a pearl of
the sea!

Beatrice, looking in the mirror, affected in the meantime, the most diverse grimaces. Ora screwed
desmayadizo trembling eyelids, as if breathing the perfume painful,
and now the opening beyond measure, and short, at once, his mouth
with lipstick, seemed to offer an imaginary lover, and candied strawberry,
as enticing candy purple.

The owner asked her almost in his ear:

- Did this street?

- Who
say? - Said the girl.

- De Gonzalo.

- Did I know?

- Yes it had.

Vile input many times in the church. I was looking for beagle will smell like herbs.

- Bah!

- Tired lover you will see, it is the gift of the eyes with his steel-colored
suit and a thousand buttonwood and fittings, and God help me!

What feathers so bizarre! All the girls turned their heads for Miralles. What will happen
when you put an alderman, as they say? You seem either born low up the same constellation. Lucida
couple! He will be the pearl nacre and you, madam!

- What church do you go?

- A Major.

And blessed the fire and the candle. I did give, by a canon friend, incense and estoraque.
Donosa party! The temple Güel better than a garden. Let's hurry, to be late.

He took her glass, Echola a cloak and brought it up with alacrity the stoves of martens, where
Beatriz introduced again and mannitol, mimicking the packaging of the ladies.

Once in the street, the daughter of Don Alonso apoyose against the back of the chair to counteract
swaying, and the slow pace of silleteros, crossed into the crowd, stiff and showy as an image, pious
mouth, eyes Recoletos.

A footman carried the pillow postratoria ahead with the shield of the richly Blázquez embroidery.

XXVI

Avila
resplendent in gold and white wet in the morning, a small Jerusalem. The religious emotion swelled,
the perfume. The flowers of the trees, hovering above of the walls, hung on the streets. Loss
seemed impatient joy bells silent spread over the entire village. Beatriz sucked that floating
sublimity sensing something mysterious was going to move near their existence.

Villanaje circulated with the sentence on the streets, and the girl looked with disgust to the peasants;
who left to spend a whiff of cheese, and crunched on the stones on
Sunday shoes.

Some faces shone through the wonder of the fact that the Church celebrated very remote, and
Pujadas pupils would like to wonder out similar to San Juan and San
Pedro Road the grave.

Arriving at the plaza of the Cathedral, the squire had to remove the
rustic to give way to the chair.

In addition to the huts and villages of the contours, many people
neighboring towns had overturned many of its people in that small
square, barely whether it was sufficient for the neighbors.

The most diverse clothes burned under the magical light, loose multicolor
crowding.

Skirts could be seen as red or green peppers, red ocher color as
pumpkins, purple as eggplant, brown layers and coletos like the skin
of the tubers, old black clothes that were taking the wrong-colored
beans, catching dengue fever and shawls which seemed to have blown
across the garden.

There was no lack of shepherdesses eclogue, in braids and corsage,
shepherdesses Sotalvo of Tornadizos of Fontiveros, laundresses, or
pastoralists, who had failed to remove the smell of bleach or the
stench of the cops and fawns.

Dry and taciturn men, of shaven mouth and I mean monastic hat, watched
the parade of lords, leaning on their sticks of respect or on the
neck of the donkeys.

       Women spoke cheerfully.

The richest aprons brought flashy, and almost all, necklaces coral and silver earrings Mudejar
crosses and medals that looked like ex-votos of dressing room. Much of these people had left
their remote huts, farmhouses before dawn the starlight.

- Back I say! - Screaming there a bracket drunk with power, pulling
badly to the rustic, to preserve the human alley where they were coming
to the church ladies and gentlemen.

- Do you want the lord sheriff
who stirred up the lady legs mules? - He replied a city ​​girl.

-
Back, I say, and go two.

- Pus remove those fingers!

- Look at the
Antonia, which are not market today.

Street vendors selling advantage.

- Beautiful Lady, by Royal takes the rosary.

- I would give you, at best, fourth.

- Rear or front?

- Oste the villain!

* * * * *

The temple was filled with crowds and above all mottled with light and incense. The long glare coming
down from the dye colorimeter spectral windows and stone alabaster,
glazed golden pulpits, strutted the dark walnut.

Beatriz was a kneel with noble ladies, between the choir and the chapel. The officers, resplendent
Jewelry and scallops, occupied the seats in center.

The singing of the Litany was echoing through the arches, powerful, monotonous sublime. For Deacons
end coated in white garments appear.

Begins the Mass, said Beatriz Gonzalo de San Vicente, dressed as the lady said, knelt on the
glove, opposite to the ship, staring fixedly at the sign of the cross. She corresponded with tender
eyes, and then head down, sighed deeply back eyes to the book.

Honourable Don Jerónimo Manrique de Lara offered incense and pale bony hands. The liturgical smog filled
in an instant, what miraculous cloud around the sanctuary, involving to provide and deacons,
dimming the gold, and cover with veil of perfume sunny the paintings of the altarpiece.

Suddenly, the voice of the priest intones the first words of Gloria, and like the thunderous
collapse of the tomb of silence and pain which the Church rises from
the morning Thursday, descuélganse a time high, the thunder of the
drums, the roar of the hornpipes, the overflowing of the organ and
puffing up there, out there in the air, sun explodes while the rapid
ringing of all bells, frantic, crazy, crazy, singing and throwing
to the winds the sublime and ancient joy of the Resurrection.

At that moment, Beatriz, to lift the front, saw his right, against
a column of cruise the ghost ... The person of Ramiro!

The organ
and the bells were ringing. A storm of religious joy heads bent them
of the kneeling crowd. Beatriz she faltered, confusing in the same
transport the resurrection of the Lord and the presence of the pale
young man, whose face figurósele, at first, the face of stark and
admirable passion.

With the last words of the Gospel, Ramiro began
to retreat slowly.

Arrimose the grave of Diego del Aguila, resting
his temple against the wall, as if expecting advice of that old gentleman
of his family, stayed in there, in your honor. People went through
all the doors of the church. Ramiro saw that his rival was parked
next to a basin with the fingers placed on edge, waiting probably
Beatrice.

- It is strength to overcome this mesmo! - He said. And,
driven by irresistible movement, took his place, almost hidden behind
the same column. Thus, when Beatrice was found within walking distance
and Gonzalo came forward to offer the holy water in the fingers, wet
Ramiro turn briefly yours, and also handed to her, and calm imperious
gesture. Amazed this double gesture, the girl hesitated, but then,
lowering his eyes tended to move her trembling hand into the hand
of Ramiro.

The two young men looked for a moment a terrible way.

So saying, he hurried Jeanie into the coach, while she internally praised and wondered at the
easy manner in which he shifted off Mrs. Glass's officious offers and inquiries, without mentioning
his master's orders, or entering into any explanation,

On entering the coach, Mr. Archibald seated himself in the front seat opposite to our heroine,
and they drove on in silence. After they had driven nearly half-an-hour, without a word on
either side, it occurred to Jeanie, that the distance and time did not correspond with that
which had been occupied by her journey on the former occasion, to and from the residence of
the Duke of Argyle. At length she could not help asking her taciturn companion, "Whilk way
they were going?"

"My Lord Duke will inform you himself, madam," answered Archibald, with the same solemn courtesy
which marked his whole demeanour. Almost as he spoke, the hackney-coach drew up, and the coachman
dismounted and opened the door. Archibald got out, and assisted Jeanie to get down. She found
herself in a large turnpike road, without the bounds of London, upon the other side of which
road was drawn up a plain chariot and four horses, the panels without arms, and the servants
without liveries.

"You have been punctual, I see, Jeanie," said the Duke of Argyle, as Archibald opened the carriage-door.
"You must be my companion for the rest of the way. Archibald will remain here with the hackney-coach
till your return."

Ere Jeanie could make answer, she found herself, to her no small astonishment, seated by the
side of a duke, in a carriage which rolled forward at a rapid yet smooth rate, very different
in both particulars from the lumbering, jolting vehicle which she had just left; and which,
lumbering and jolting as it was, conveyed to one who had seldom been in a coach before a certain
feeling of dignity and importance.

"Young woman," said the Duke, "after thinking as attentively on your sister's case as is in
my power, I continue to be impressed with the belief that great injustice may be done by the
execution of her sentence. So are one or two liberal and intelligent lawyers of both countries
whom I have spoken with.--Nay, pray hear me out before you thank me.--I have already told you
my personal conviction is of little consequence, unless I could impress the same upon others.
Now I have done for you what I would certainly not have done to serve any purpose of my own--I
have asked an audience of a lady whose interest with the king is deservedly very high. It has
been allowed me, and I am desirous that you should see her and speak for yourself. You have
no occasion to be abashed; tell your story simply, as you did to me."

"I am much obliged to your Grace," said Jeanie, remembering Mrs. Glass's charge, "and I am
sure, since I have had the courage to speak to your Grace in poor Effie's cause, I have less
reason to be shame-faced in speaking to a leddy. But, sir, I would like to ken what to ca'
her, whether your grace or your honour, or your leddyship, as we say to lairds and leddies
in Scotland, and I will take care to mind it; for I ken leddies are full mair particular than
gentlemen about their titles of honour."

"You have no occasion to call her anything but Madam. Just say what you think is likely to
make the best impression--look at me from time to time--and if I put my hand to my cravat so--(showing
her the motion)--you will stop; but I shall only do this when you say anything that is not
likely to please."

"But, sir, your Grace," said Jeanie, "if it wasna ower muckle trouble, wad it no be better
to tell me what I should say, and I could get it by heart?"

"No, Jeanie, that would not have the same effect--that would be like reading a sermon, you
know, which we good Presbyterians think has less unction than when spoken without book," replied
the Duke. "Just speak as plainly and boldly to this lady, as you did to me the day before yesterday,
and if you can gain her consent, I'll wad ye a plack, as we say in the north, that you get
the pardon from the king."

As he spoke, he took a pamphlet from his pocket, and began to read. Jeanie had good sense and
tact, which constitute betwixt them that which is called natural good breeding. She interpreted
the Duke's manoeuvre as a hint that she was to ask no more questions, and she remained silent
accordingly.

The carriage rolled rapidly onwards through fertile meadows, ornamented with splendid old oaks,
and catching occasionally a glance of the majestic mirror of a broad and placid river. After
passing through a pleasant village, the equipage stopped on a commanding eminence, where the
beauty of English landscape was displayed in its utmost luxuriance. Here the Duke alighted,
and desired Jeanie to follow him.

The Duke of Argyle was, of course, familiar with this scene; but to a man of taste it must
be always new. Yet, as he paused and looked on this inimitable landscape, with the feeling
of delight which it must give to the bosom of every admirer of nature, his thoughts naturally
reverted to his own more grand, and scarce less beautiful, domains of Inverary.-- "This is
a fine scene," he said to his companion, curious, perhaps, to draw out her sentiments; "we
have nothing like it in Scotland."

"It's braw rich feeding for the cows, and they have a fine breed o' cattle here," replied Jeanie;
"but I like just as weel to look at the craigs of Arthur's Seat, and the sea coming in ayont
them as at a' thae muckle trees."

The Duke smiled at a reply equally professional and national, and made a signal for the carriage
to remain where it was. Then adopting an unfrequented footpath, he conducted Jeanie through
several complicated mazes to a postern-door in a high brick wall.

It was shut; but as the Duke tapped slightly at it, a person in waiting within, after reconnoitring
through a small iron grate, contrived for the purpose, unlocked the door and admitted them.
They entered, and it was immediately closed and fastened behind them. This was all done quickly,
the door so instantly closing, and the person who opened it so suddenly disappearing, that
Jeanie could not even catch a glimpse of his exterior.

They found themselves at the extremity of a deep and narrow alley, carpeted with the most verdant
and close-shaven turf, which felt like velvet under their feet, and screened from the sun by
the branches of the lofty elms which united over the path, and caused it to resemble, in the
solemn obscurity of the light which they admitted, as well as from the range of columnar stems,
and intricate union of their arched branches, one of the narrow side aisles in an ancient Gothic
cathedral.

CHAPTER THIRTEETH

                            I beseech you--
            These tears beseech you, and these chaste hands woo you
            That never yet were heaved but to things holy--
            Things like yourself--You are a God above us;
                  Be as a God, then, full of saving mercy!
                                            The Bloody Brother.

Encouraged as she was by the courteous manners of her noble countryman, it was not without
a feeling of something like terror that Jeanie felt herself in a place apparently so lonely
with a man of such high rank. That she should have been permitted to wait on the Duke in his
own house, and have been there received to a private interview, was in itself an uncommon and
distinguished event in the annals of a life so simple as hers; but to find herself his travelling
companion in a journey, and then suddenly to be left alone with him in so secluded a situation,
had something in it of awful mystery. A romantic heroine might have suspected and dreaded the
power of her own charms; but Jeanie was too wise to let such a silly thought intrude on her
mind. Still, however, she had a most eager desire to know where she now was, and to whom she
was to be presented.

She remarked that the Duke's dress, though still such as indicated rank and fashion (for it
was not the custom of men of quality at that time to dress themselves like their own coachmen
or grooms), was nevertheless plainer than that in which she had seen him upon a former occasion,
and was divested, in particular, of all those badges of external decoration which intimated
superior consequence. In short, he was attired as plainly as any gentleman of fashion could
appear in the streets of London in a morning; and this circumstance helped to shake an opinion
which Jeanie began to entertain, that, perhaps, he intended she should plead her cause in the
presence of royalty itself. "But surely," said she to, herself, "he wad hae putten on his braw
star and garter, an he had thought o' coming before the face of majesty--and after a', this
is mair like a gentleman's policy than a royal palace."

There was some sense in Jeanie's reasoning; yet she was not sufficiently mistress either of
the circumstances of etiquette, or the particular relations which existed betwixt the government
and the Duke of Argyle, to form an accurate judgment. The Duke, as we have said, was at this
time in open opposition to the administration of Sir Robert Walpole, and was understood to
be out of favour with the royal family, to whom he had rendered such important services. But
it was a maxim of Queen Caroline to bear herself towards her political friends with such caution,
as if there was a possibility of their one day being her enemies, and towards political opponents
with the same degree of circumspection, as if they might again become friendly to her measures,
Since Margaret of Anjou, no queen-consort had exercised such weight in the political affairs
of England, and the personal address which she displayed on many occasions, had no small share
in reclaiming from their political heresy many of those determined Tories, who, after the reign
of the Stuarts had been extinguished in the person of Queen Anne, were disposed rather to transfer
their allegiance to her brother the Chevalier de St. George, than to acquiesce in the settlement
of the crown on the Hanover family. Her husband, whose most shining quality was courage in
the field of battle, and who endured the office of King of England, without ever being able
to acquire English habits, or any familiarity with English dispositions, found the utmost assistance
from the address of his partner, and while he jealously affected to do everything according
to his own will and pleasure, was in secret prudent enough to take and follow the advice of
his more adroit consort. He intrusted to her the delicate office of determining the various
degrees of favour necessary to attach the wavering, or to confirm such as were already friendly,
or to regain those whose good-will had been lost.

With all the winning address of an elegant, and, according to the times, an accomplished woman,
Queen Caroline possessed the masculine soul of the other sex. She was proud by nature, and
even her policy could not always temper her expressions of displeasure, although few were more
ready at repairing any false step of this kind, when her prudence came up to the aid of her
passions. She loved the real possession of power rather than the show of it, and whatever she
did herself that was either wise or popular, she always desired that the King should have the
full credit as well as the advantage of the measure, conscious that, by adding to his respectability,
she was most likely to maintain her own. And so desirous was she to comply with all his tastes,
that, when threatened with the gout, she had repeatedly had recourse to checking the fit, by
the use of the cold bath, thereby endangering her life, that she might be able to attend the
king in his walks.

It was a very consistent part of Queen Caroline's character, to keep up many private correspondences
with those to whom in public she seemed unfavourable, or who, for various reasons, stood ill
with the court. By this means she kept in her hands the thread of many a political intrigue,
and, without pledging herself to anything, could often prevent discontent from becoming hatred,
and opposition from exaggerating itself into rebellion. If by any accident her correspondence
with such persons chanced to be observed or discovered, which she took all possible pains to
prevent, it was represented as a mere intercourse of society, having no reference to politics;
an answer with which even the prime minister, Sir Robert Walpole, was compelled to remain satisfied,
when he discovered that the Queen had given a private audience to Pulteney, afterwards Earl
of Bath, his most formidable and most inveterate enemy.

In thus maintaining occasional intercourse with several persons who seemed most alienated from
the crown, it may readily be supposed that Queen Caroline had taken care not to break entirely
with the Duke of Argyle. His high birth, his great talents, the estimation in which he was
held in his own country, the great services which he had rendered the house of Brunswick in
1715, placed him high in that rank of persons who were not to be rashly neglected. The bark is white, similar to those of
the walnut. The result is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains
such as beans, grains and between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and is sold in pharmacies.
The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little difference,
and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has his blood like olives.
The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland. It would be good to test whether it can be very
useful oil, and even if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§.

IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south latitude,
and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth of Xaurú, and distance is of Cuiaba, we
can put this city in 322 degrees of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.
Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to
lead in the Porrudos, runs north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá
port, a distance of two to three miles from the city.

In the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where
they have their origin the two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay.

And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon rivers, Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins
and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands of Xarayes: from so
that this part can not enter into the city but by the stream. Nor is it possible that otherwise you
can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy rains flooded almost all the space
of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from east to west, that between the river
and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá, and may at this time through Cuyabá boats from the river
Paraguay, without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather Cuyabá are reduced and Paraguay
rivers to their narrow and deep channels. And although the intermediate space are many gaps, or
there is no communication, or not been discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from
a river to the other.

Therefore, for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese
need to give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by
which to climb back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very
laborious and esponse to the assaults of the barbarians and the black
rebels.

For these reasons there are few The Portuguese who undertake the journey by land. The great
distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and mules in Cuyabá be sold at prices
very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos, and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of the
great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for these mountains,
to have communication with those of Mattogroso: but laborious way, and only for ordinary people
used to temper the climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes,
and the neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended.

Only the guard of Captain General, and to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of
soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two
prisons to the frontier of the infidels: twelve others in a war canoe serves to escort the
boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining twenty, are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending
the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of which only a small number
are free, others, or slaves, or taken and treated as such, because Except for little more
than two hundred people who will find white people, the others, many
are black and mulattoes, and mestizos many Indians, who are treated
by the Portuguese like slaves: for, though only to the actual ordinance
and to those of Payaguá other nation can make slaves, but those parts
are served any Portuguese Indians who can catch, and keep them in
slavery. The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate the north are the Paresis
and Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese, for either have to
overcome, or are to be killed in the fray.

"When your Grace can find time for a duty so frivolous," replied the Queen, "you are aware
of your title to be well received. I hope my readiness to comply with the wish which you expressed
yesterday to Lady Suffolk, is, a sufficient proof that one of the royal family, at least, has
not forgotten ancient and important services, in resenting something which resembles recent
neglect." This was said apparently with great good humour, and in a tone which expressed a
desire of conciliation.

The Duke replied, "That he would account himself the most unfortunate of men, if he could be
supposed capable of neglecting his duty, in modes and circumstances when it was expected, and
would have been agreeable. He was deeply gratified by the honour which her Majesty was now
doing to him personally; and he trusted she would soon perceive that it was in a matter essential
to his Majesty's interest that he had the boldness to give her this trouble."

"You cannot oblige me more, my Lord Duke," replied the Queen, "than by giving me the advantage
of your lights and experience on any point of the King's service. Your Grace is aware, that
I can only be the medium through which the matter is subjected to his Majesty's superior wisdom;
but if it is a suit which respects your Grace personally, it shall lose no support by being
preferred through me."

"It is no suit of mine, madam," replied the Duke; "nor have I any to prefer for myself personally,
although I feel in full force my obligation to your Majesty. It is a business which concerns
his Majesty, as a lover of justice and of mercy, and which, I am convinced, may be highly useful
in conciliating the unfortunate irritation which at present subsists among his Majesty's good
subjects in Scotland."

There were two parts of this speech disagreeable to Caroline. In the first place, it removed
the flattering notion she had adopted, that Argyle designed to use her personal intercession
in making his peace with the administration, and recovering the employments of which he had
been deprived; and next, she was displeased that he should talk of the discontents in Scotland
as irritations to be conciliated, rather than suppressed.

Under the influence of these feelings, she answered hastily, "That his Majesty has good subjects
in England, my Lord Duke, he is bound to thank God and the laws--that he has subjects in Scotland,
I think he may thank God and his sword."

The Duke, though a courtier, coloured slightly, and the Queen, instantly sensible of her error,
added, without displaying the least change of countenance, and as if the words had been an
original branch of the sentence--"And the swords of those real Scotchmen who are friends to
the House of Brunswick, particularly that of his Grace of Argyle."

"My sword, madam," replied the Duke, "like that of my fathers, has been always at the command
of my lawful king, and of my native country--I trust it is impossible to separate their real
rights and interests. But the present is a matter of more private concern, and respects the
person of an obscure individual."

"What is the affair, my Lord?" said the Queen. "Let us find out what we are talking about,
lest we should misconstrue and misunderstand each other."

"The matter, madam," answered the Duke of Argyle, "regards the fate of an unfortunate young
woman in Scotland, now lying under sentence of death, for a crime of which I think it highly
probable that she is innocent. And my humble petition to your Majesty is, to obtain your powerful
intercession with the King for a pardon."

It was now the Queen's turn to colour, and she did so over cheek and brow, neck and bosom.
She paused a moment as if unwilling to trust her voice with the first expression of her displeasure;
and on assuming the air of dignity and an austere regard of control, she at length replied,
"My Lord Duke, I will not ask your motives for addressing to me a request, which circumstances
have rendered such an extraordinary one. Your road to the King's closet, as a peer and a privy-councillor,
entitled to request an audience, was open, without giving me the pain of this discussion. I,
at least, have had enough of Scotch pardons."

The Duke was prepared for this burst of indignation, and he was not shaken by it. He did not
attempt a reply while the Queen was in the first heat of displeasure, but remained in the same
firm, yet respectful posture, which he had assumed during the interview. The Queen, trained
from her situation to self-command, instantly perceived the advantage she might give against
herself by yielding to passion; and added, in the same condescending and affable tone in which
she had opened the interview, "You must allow me some of the privileges of the sex, my Lord;
and do not judge uncharitably of me, though I am a little moved at the recollection of the
gross insult and outrage done in your capital city to the royal authority, at the very time
when it was vested in my unworthy person. Your Grace cannot be surprised that I should both
have felt it at the time, and recollected it now."

"It is certainly a matter not speedily to be forgotten," answered the Duke. "My own poor thoughts
of it have been long before your Majesty, and I must have expressed myself very ill if I did
not convey my detestation of the murder which was committed under such extraordinary circumstances.
I might, indeed, be so unfortunate as to differ with his Majesty's advisers on the degree in
which it was either just or politic to punish the innocent instead of the guilty. But I trust
your Majesty will permit me to be silent on a topic in which my sentiments have not the good
fortune to coincide with those of more able men."

"We will not prosecute a topic on which we may probably differ," said the Queen. "One word,
however, I may say in private--you know our good Lady Suffolk is a little deaf--the Duke of
Argyle, when disposed to renew his acquaintance with his master and mistress, will hardly find
many topics on which we should disagree."

"Let me hope," said the Duke, bowing profoundly to so flattering an intimation, "that I shall
not be so unfortunate as to have found one on the present occasion."

"I must first impose on your Grace the duty of confession," said the Queen, "before I grant
you absolution. What is your particular interest in this young woman? She does not seem" (and
she scanned Jeanie, as she said this, with the eye of a connoisseur) "much qualified to alarm
my friend the Duchess's jealousy."

"I think your Majesty," replied the Duke, smiling in his turn, "will allow my taste may be
a pledge for me on that score."

"Then, though she has not much the air d'une grande dame, I suppose she is some thirtieth cousin
in the terrible CHAPTER of Scottish genealogy?"

"No, madam," said the Duke; "but I wish some of my nearer relations had half her worth, honesty,
and affection."

"Her name must be Campbell, at least?" said Queen Caroline.

"No, madam; her name is not quite so distinguished, if I may be permitted to say so," answered
the Duke.

"Ah! but she comes from Inverary or Argyleshire?" said the Sovereign.

"She has never been farther north in her life than Edinburgh, madam."

"Then my conjectures are all ended," said the Queen, "and your Grace must yourself take the
trouble to explain the affair of your prote'ge'e."

With that precision and easy brevity which is only acquired by habitually conversing in the
higher ranks of society, and which is the diametrical opposite of that protracted style of
disquisition,

           Which squires call potter, and which men call prose,

the Duke explained the singular law under which Effie Deans had received sentence of death,
and detailed the affectionate exertions which Jeanie had made in behalf of a sister, for whose
sake she was willing to sacrifice all but truth and conscience. It is a palace, like no other in Havana. You should not stand in hairs:
this is the salvation of your most beloved son. My account are the purchase and empowerment
of the cage, yours runs the domestication of the bird has to occupy.

Fixed the plan and distributed the papers, his Don Candido played without delay or difficulty. Doña
Rosa, on the contrary, due to its peculiar character from the first
steps put insurmountable obstacle to the realization of the project.

Entered through a lot in the composition of a haughty Dona Rosa and suspicion to they often cease
to be unjust and unwise in their domestic relationships ... Nobody better Leonardo knew the weakness
of his mother. As soon as she told him the project conditions domestication, all founded in his resignation
to the possession of Cecilia, decided predispose poking against her husband's jealousy of
his wife at the most. Bastola for which it referred, without naming it, as he had heard from
Cecilia, referring to illegal dealings and Don Candido suspects the young and the old neighborhood
for a long time Angel behind, to the money in them was spending with extravagance or generosity
of the old love, the stranger had always taken interest in the maintenance and welfare of two
women, to the vigilance with which the girl was jealous care and health elderly, in short, the
effective and consistent services in these dubious businesses morality
had lent Montes de Oca.

Each and every one of these reports, along with others already mentioned, had reached the ears
Dona Rosa at different times and through various channels.

The relationship of late and rigged son only served to complement and confirm what she knew
by heart or merely suspected.

It appears unnecessary to add that in this case, as in all of its kind, stocked the weed their
malignant effect.

Well, that irritated the mother against the father for the alleged continued violation of conjugal
faith, in revenge or retaliation hatched in secret with the child to be mine to blow up the parapets
raised by Don Candido in defending the honor of Cecilia Valdés. A Dona Rosa execution committed
their money and influence.

To help in the arduous undertaking, it required only three conditions: one, that the child
continue to graduate studies degree in law, another to marry Isabel Ilincheta end of the year,
and the third, to accept, without complaint, the gift of the palace, with that very subject, he
did his father. Everything promised Leonardo plane.

The first step was to request the services of Mary Rule, that nurse
The Tinaja wit, whose guile and talent recognized mother and child
together, Despite the animosity with which they looked. Prestose it
the best wins, both because it was in its nature the role of conspiracy,
since it promised to pay with goods of many evils received at the
hands of the two. From then after work began on the sap.

There was
a real revolution Cecilia entry at the home of the Collected.

"The what?" said Lady Suffolk, to whom the phrase was new, and who besides was rather deaf.

"That's the stool of repentance, madam, if it please your Leddyship," answered Jeanie, "for
light life and conversation, and for breaking the seventh command." Here she raised her eyes
to the Duke, saw his hand at his chin, and, totally unconscious of what she had said out of
joint, gave double effect to the innuendo, by stopping short and looking embarrassed.

As for Lady Suffolk, she retired like a covering party, which, having interposed betwixt their
retreating friends and the enemy, have suddenly drawn on themselves a fire unexpectedly severe.

The deuce take the lass, thought the Duke of Argyle to himself; there goes another shot--and
she has hit with both barrels right and left! Unintentionally
ever made, the boy recognized an emblem of his mind in those avechuchos that even sleeping on the
perch, threw to one side, pecking brave, dreaming imaginary prey.

In a moment, she felt touched his shoulder, and, looking back, he found himself with a figure
was not erased from his memory. Necklaces adorning them, but wore a less ragged clothes and
sinister than that afternoon, along with the Incarnation. Poldy waiting in vain and
even fantasized about the miracle of the stork speak, but the eloquence of the stork ever went
beyond the usual castañetazos and some grunts and whistles out of tune, which were all his language.
 She turned towards the Duke of
Argyle with a smile, which marked that she enjoyed the triumph, and observed, "The Scotch are
a rigidly moral people." Then, again applying herself to Jeanie, she asked how she travelled
up from Scotland.

"Upon my foot mostly, madam," was the reply.

"What, all that immense way upon foot?--How far can you walk in a day."

"Five-and-twenty miles and a bittock."

"And a what?" said the Queen, looking towards the Duke of Argyle.

"And about five miles more," replied the Duke.

"I thought I was a good walker," said the Queen, "but this shames me sadly."

"May your Leddyship never hae sae weary a heart, that ye canna be sensible of the weariness
of the limbs," said Jeanie. That came better off, thought the Duke; it's the first thing she
has said to the purpose.

"And I didna just a'thegither walk the haill way neither, for I had whiles the cast of a cart;
and I had the cast of a horse from Ferrybridge--and divers other easements," said Jeanie, cutting
short her story, for she observed the Duke made the sign he had fixed upon.

"With all these accommodations," answered the Queen, "you must have had a very fatiguing journey,
and, I fear, to little purpose; since, if the King were to pardon your sister, in all probability
it would do her little good, for I suppose your people of Edinburgh would hang her out of spite."

She will sink herself now outright, thought the Duke.

But he was wrong. The shoals on which Jeanie had touched in this delicate conversation lay
under ground, and were unknown to her; this rock was above water, and she avoided it.

"She was confident," she said, "that baith town and country wad rejoice to see his Majesty
taking compassion on a poor unfriended creature." (N. A.)

[9] or Campeche Campeche armchair: big chair with arms, low and high
back seat lined mahogany commonly Morocco.

(N. of E.)

[10] fashion sex Recreation Bello Weekly, a newspaper that appeared in 1829 and published until
1831. Its chief editor was Domingo Delmonte. (N. of E.)

[11] The New scolding of Havana, which was launched in 1829, and was essentially then customs and
literary criticism. In its pages began as a writer Antonio Bachiller y Morales. (N. of E.)

[12] Vicente Escobar, mulatto artist born in Havana in 1757, who excelled
as a portraitist of the Captains-General and members of the wealthy
families of the time.

Was protected Captain General Vives. He visited Europe to perfect his art and Spain won the
title painter of the Royal House.

He died in Havana in 1834. (N. of E.)

[13] El Diario de la Habana, a newspaper founded by Thomas A. Cervantes, which lasted until 1846.
(N E.)

[14] Cigarette here refers to what in Cuba is called snuff or cigars. (N. of E.)

[15] Among the Romans, and just for old Spanish law, men could be free naive or libertines. The
former were born free that had not ever fallen in slavery or servitude,
the Libertines were the ones having suffered slavery, were been released.
And the children of freedmen they began to libertines. (N. of E.)

[16]
Anacleto Bermuda (1806-1852), a prominent lawyer in Havana, the same
name as the student Medical executed in 1871. (N. of E.)

[17] The
law of the Twelve Tables, the body of criminal law's most important
Roman town in antiquity. He is dead and gane to his place, and they that have slain him must answer for their
ain act. But my sister, my puir sister, Effie, still lives, though her days and hours are numbered!
She still lives, and a word of the King's mouth might restore her to a brokenhearted auld man,
that never in his daily and nightly exercise, forgot to pray that his Majesty might be blessed
with a long and a prosperous reign, and that his throne, and the throne of his posterity, might
be established in righteousness. O madam, if ever ye kend what it was to sorrow for and with
a sinning and a suffering creature, whose mind is sae tossed that she can be neither ca'd fit
to live or die, have some compassion on our misery!--Save an honest house from dishonour, and
an unhappy girl, not eighteen years of age, from an early and dreadful death! Alas! it is not
when we sleep soft and wake merrily ourselves that we think on other people's sufferings. Our
hearts are waxed light within us then, and we are for righting our ain wrangs and fighting
our ain battles. But when the hour of trouble comes to the mind or to the body--and seldom
may it visit your Leddyship--and when the hour of death comes, that comes to high and low--lang
and late may it be yours!--Oh, my Leddy, then it isna what we hae dune for oursells, but what
we hae dune for others, that we think on maist pleasantly. And the thoughts that ye hae intervened
to spare the puir thing's life will be sweeter in that hour, come when it may, than if a word
of your mouth could hang the haill Porteous mob at the tail of ae tow."

Tear followed tear down Jeanie's cheeks, as, her features glowing and quivering with emotion,
she pleaded her sister's cause with a pathos which was at once simple and solemn.

"This is eloquence," said her Majesty to the Duke of Argyle. "Young woman," she continued,
addressing herself to Jeanie, "I cannot grant a pardon to your sister--but you shall not want
my warm intercession with his Majesty. Take this house-wife case," she continued, putting a
small embroidered needle-case into Jeanie's hands; "do not open it now, but at your leisure--you
will find something in it which will remind you that you have had an interview with Queen Caroline."

Jeanie, having her suspicions thus confirmed, dropped on her knees, and would have expanded
herself in gratitude; but the Duke who was upon thorns lest she should say more or less than
just enough, touched his chin once more.

"Our business is, I think, ended for the present, my Lord Duke," said the Queen, "and, I trust,
to your satisfaction. Hereafter I hope to see your Grace more frequently, both at Richmond
and St. James's.--Come Lady Suffolk, we must wish his Grace good-morning."

They exchanged their parting reverences, and the Duke, so soon as the ladies had turned their
backs, assisted Jeanie to rise from the ground, and conducted her back through the avenue,
which she trode with the feeling of one who walks in her sleep.

CHAPTER FOURTEENTH.

                    So soon as I can win the offended king,
                    I will be known your advocate.
                                             Cymbeline. 

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the gender of Europe thence selling
price up. A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of shoes, the
same: a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá
sixties. And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices,
and is the largest smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in Lisbon,
and not permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all the
land of poor health. The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and
they die a lot, because they can not cure. The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery,
and some fever. The Portuguese, convinced that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those
effects, intended to force lemon juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not
infrequently ending with the patient. The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on
a boat through the Xarajes, very smart man in his right, hearing the ensign of complaining
Cuyabá that was between the people some patients the bug, maybe something was informed that
the bug, and actually went to see the sick, and found that there was no such creature or Guzan,
and offered to cure them later. The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was
no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which maybe mixed with AGI,
garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they
were, then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger,
he was given two days healthy, without applying any of the sobredichas
thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall
from the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights caused
by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like
dysentery, with great relaxation in the stomach, which had no the
heat needed for digestion.
It was opened accordingly. In the inside of the case was the usual assortment of silk and needles,
with scissors, tweezers, etc.; and in the pocket was a bank-bill for fifty pounds.

The Duke had no sooner informed Jeanie of the value of this last document, for she was unaccustomed
to see notes for such sums, than she expressed her regret at the mistake which had taken place.
"For the hussy itsell," she said, "was a very valuable thing for a keepsake, with the Queen's
name written in the inside with her ain hand doubtless--Caroline--as plain as could be, and
a crown drawn aboon it."

She therefore tendered the bill to the Duke, requesting him to find some mode of returning
it to the royal owner.

"No, no, Jeanie," said the Duke, "there is no mistake in the case. Her Majesty knows you have
been put to great expense, and she wishes to make it up to you."

"I am sure she is even ower gude," said Jeanie, "and it glads me muckle that I can pay back
Dumbiedikes his siller, without distressing my father, honest man."

"Dumbiedikes! What, a freeholder of Mid-Lothian, is he not?" said his Grace, whose occasional
residence in that county made him acquainted with most of the heritors, as landed persons are
termed in Scotland.--"He has a house not far from Dalkeith, wears a black wig and a laced hat?"

"Yes sir," answered Jeanie, who had her reasons for being brief in her answers upon this topic.

"Ah, my old friend Dumbie!" said the Duke; "I have thrice seen him fou, and only once heard
the sound of his voice--Is he a cousin of yours, Jeanie?"

"No, sir,--my Lord."

"Then he must be a well-wisher, I suspect?"

"Ye--yes,--my Lord, sir," answered Jeanie, blushing, and with hesitation.

"Aha! then, if the Laird starts, I suppose my friend Butler must be in some danger?"

"O no, sir," answered Jeanie, much more readily, but at the same time blushing much more deeply. To
get into the hammock without falling while these enemies, it is necessary to raise the sheet
from the floor, only to get the precise dragging the body, while some hole through which to
enter, because if they come not stop fidgeting all night.

Not to be surprised by the infidels of the river, which are the Payaguá, and a nation that only be
seen in the river of Porrudos, always leave a soldier on guard defended in fence or bush,
which has many loaded guns at hand, in order to fire if he offer, while the other soldiers come.
On the ground can not easily be undertaken, by the impenetrable undergrowth of the mountain,
and the monitoring of some dogs who always carry with them the Portuguese.

After

the fleet arrives at the river Paraguay, to shorten the journey go by a narrow arm the same river,
which they call Paraguay-mini arm, and makes the big island of Paraguay ten miles long, and
in my opinion, they called the old Island Orejones Argentina puts because the Xarayes below.
Sail, after emerging from the arm, by the Paraguay river, until they reached a narrow arm of the
Porrudos river, and to this arm narrow channel called Chan. In leaving it, sail the river of
Porrudos above, to enter the Cuiaba river coming from north to south. Finally navigate the
Cuiaba river above to the port city of the same name. The works to be navigation in such neat
pass by many rivers, and in weather so hot, it is easy to see will be many and great, but the
more often the ongoing war of mosquitoes not cease to bother at all hours.

* * *

§. VIII.

Mattogroso Situation.

Mattogroso main population is founded by the Portuguese back in the fork, they do before your
board and Serer Guaporé rivers that have their source very close to the origin Paraguay River,
and run towards the west. The Serer loses its name after it is coupled with Guaporé: and this
in the immediate vicinity of the Moxos bears the name of the great river Itenes: navigable from the Villa
Bella Mattogroso until it joins the Mamore, which runs south to north,
and both together make up the Wood River, navigable to the Marañon,
although the work of some jumps, to the Portuguese easily pass, pulling
the boat ashore, and carry some distance on round pieces of wood.

"Quite unnecessary," said the Duke; "the Dunlop is the very cheese of which I am so fond, and
I will take it as the greatest favour you can do me to send one to Caroline Park. But remember,
be on honour with it, Jeanie, and make it all yourself, for I am a real good judge."

"I am not feared," said Jeanie, confidently, "that I may please your Honour; for I am sure
you look as if you could hardly find fault wi' onybody that did their best; and weel is it
my part, I trow, to do mine."

This discourse introduced a topic upon which the two travellers, though so different in rank
and education, found each a good deal to say. The Duke, besides his other patriotic qualities,
was a distinguished agriculturist, and proud of his knowledge in that department. He entertained
Jeanie with his observations on the different breeds of cattle in Scotland, and their capacity
for the dairy, and received so much information from her practical experience in return, that
he promised her a couple of Devonshire cows in reward for the lesson. In short his mind was
so transported back to his rural employments and amusements, that he sighed when his carriage
stopped opposite to the old hackney-coach, which Archibald had kept in attendance at the place
where they had left it. While the coachman again bridled his lean cattle, which had been indulged
with a bite of musty hay, the Duke cautioned Jeanie not to be too communicative to her landlady
concerning what had passed. "There is," he said, "no use of speaking of matters till they are
actually settled; and you may refer the good lady to Archibald, if she presses you hard with
questions. She is his old acquaintance, and he knows how to manage with her."

He then took a cordial farewell of Jeanie, and told her to be ready in the ensuing week to
return to Scotland--saw her safely established in her hackney-coach, and rolled of in his own
carriage, humming a stanza of the ballad which he is said to have composed:--

                "At the sight of Dumbarton once again,
                 I'll cock up my bonnet and march amain,
                 With my claymore hanging down to my heel,
                 To whang at the bannocks of barley meal."

Perhaps one ought to be actually a Scotsman to conceive how ardently, under all distinctions
of rank and situation, they feel their mutual connection with each other as natives of the
same country. There are, I believe, more associations common to the inhabitants of a rude and
wild, than of a well-cultivated and fertile country; their ancestors have more seldom changed
their place of residence; their mutual recollection of remarkable objects is more accurate;
the high and the low are more interested in each other's welfare; the feelings of kindred and
relationship are more widely extended, and in a word, the bonds of patriotic affection, always
honourable even when a little too exclusively strained, have more influence on men's feelings
and actions.

The rumbling hackney-coach, which tumbled over the (then) execrable London pavement, at a rate
very different from that which had conveyed the ducal carriage to Richmond, at length deposited
Jeanie Deans and her attendant at the national sign of the Thistle. Mrs. Glass, who had been
in long and anxious expectation, now rushed, full of eager curiosity and open-mouthed interrogation,
upon our heroine, who was positively unable to sustain the overwhelming cataract of her questions,
which burst forth with the sublimity of a grand gardyloo:--

"Had she seen the Duke, God bless him--the Duchess--the young ladies?-- Had she seen the King,
God bless him--the Queen--the Prince of Wales--the Princess--or any of the rest of the royal
family?--Had she got her sister's pardon?--Was it out and out--or was it only a commutation
of punishment?--How far had she gone--where had she driven to--whom had she seen--what had
been said--what had kept her so long?"

Such were the various questions huddled upon each other by a curiosity so eager, that it could
hardly wait for its own gratification. Jeanie would have been more than sufficiently embarrassed
by this overbearing tide of interrogations, had not Archibald, who had probably received from
his master a hint to that purpose, advanced to her rescue. "Mrs. Glass," said Archibald, "his
Grace desired me particularly to say, that he would take it as a great favour if you would
ask the young woman no questions, as he wishes to explain to you more distinctly than she can
do how her affairs stand, and consult you on some matters which she cannot altogether so well
explain. The Duke will call at the Thistle to-morrow or next day for that purpose." The Payaguá the usually
expect a multitude of very light canoes, each of which are six or seven men, and to avoid detection,
they come with their canoes under the branches of trees, coming to play in the water: and when they
pass the Portuguese, the assault of a sudden and give them a volley of arrows, throwing Portuguez
always white, and lie on canoes can take, and collecting gender and blacks, are lowered to
the Assumption, where the Spanish out of compassion to rescue the captives. To avoid the Portuguese
these assaults and damage Payaguá do in their fleets, have reinforced the call of war canoe,
for the escort from the Tacuarí to Cuiaba.

The weapons of war canoe is a bronze Cañoncillo a rod or something else long, which promptly fired
several shots. And for this they bear in their drawers well conditioned cartridges, made of
canvas instead camellote because in this way prevent is some fire in the canyon, and say they are
not so hot, although shoot then with that many shots Cañoncillo. The alacrity with which soar,
due partly to have everything ready, and be able to easily handle the gun for being so short,
and partly because those who exercised four well concur in charge: one with the cartridge, other
with the heel and attacked, one with a fuse that sticks in the stove filled with gunpowder not
stopping at prime, and the other end with boot-fire. The Cañoncillo, although it is well strengthened,
not unlike some other guns in his factory. Only the carriage is somewhat different, because
it has no wheels and is arranged with its spigot such luck on a bank of the canoe, which can
easily get to all parts, and so shooting a hand, they can come back and shoot the other.

The crew of the war canoe consists of twelve soldiers and their ensign,
and eight or nine black spade oars in their uniforms.

The ensign is in the canoe for sun protection and rain His chariot very good with curtains and
seats. The soldiers are also in canoe through the canopy off for safekeeping. The rowers are
to the fore and aft, and one with the blade serves as a helmsman.

To sleep, and those of war canoes as the load, looking preventable
any camp site before nightfall on the river bank, where the mountain
is very close, and have overgrown with weeds and thorns, of which
the land is in abundance among the trees.


But her prudence instantly suggested that her secret interview with Queen Caroline, which seemed
to pass under a certain sort of mystery, was not a proper subject for the gossip of a woman
like Mrs. Glass, of whose heart she had a much better opinion than of her prudence. She, therefore,
answered in general, that the Duke had had the extraordinary kindness to make very particular
inquiries into her sister's bad affair, and that he thought he had found the means of putting
it a' straight again, but that he proposed to tell all that he thought about the matter to
Mrs. Glass herself.

This did not quite satisfy the penetrating mistress of the Thistle. Searching as her own small
rappee, she, in spite of her promise, urged Jeanie with still farther questions. "Had she been
a' that time at Argyle House? Was the Duke with her the whole time? and had she seen the Duchess?
and had she seen the young ladies--and specially Lady Caroline Campbell?"--To these questions
Jeanie gave the general reply, that she knew so little of the town that she could not tell
exactly where she had been; that she had not seen the Duchess to her knowledge; that she had
seen two ladies, one of whom, she understood, bore the name of Caroline; and more, she said,
she could not tell about the matter.

"It would be the Duke's eldest daughter, Lady Caroline Campbell, there is no doubt of that,"
said Mrs. Glass; "but doubtless, I shall know more particularly through his Grace.--And so,
as the cloth is laid in the little parlour above stairs, and it is past three o'clock, for
I have been waiting this hour for you, and I have had a snack myself; and, as they used to
say in Scotland in my time--I do not ken if the word be used now--there is ill talking between
a full body and a fasting."

CHAPTER FIFTEENTH.

          Heaven first taught letters for some wretch's aid,--
                   Some banished lover or some captive maid.
                                          Pope.

By dint of unwonted labour with the pen, Jeanie Deans contrived to indite, and give to the
charge of the postman on the ensuing day, no less than three letters, an exertion altogether
strange to her habits; insomuch so, that, if milk had been plenty, she would rather have made
thrice as many Dunlop cheeses. The first of them was very brief. It was addressed to George
Staunton, Esq., at the Rectory, Willingham, by Grantham; the address being part of the information
she had extracted from the communicative peasant who rode before her to Stamford. It was in
these words:--

"Sir,--To prevent farder mischieves, whereof there hath been enough,
comes these: Sir, I have my sister's pardon from the Queen's Majesty,
whereof I do not doubt you will be glad, having had to say naut of
matters whereof you know the purport. So, Sir, I pray for your better
welfare in bodie and soul, and that it will please the fisycian to visit
you in His good time. What Poldy not manage to determine was whether the bird was married or single. Poldy
he was always seen as just did not understand their language, not asked if he was married,
and in Spain we often ask the parrot, which respond to the question.

The next letter was to her father. It is too long altogether for insertion, so we only give
a few extracts.

The third letter was to Butler, and its tenor as follows:--

