The compass in Columbus's day existed, so far as all essentials are concerned, as it exists
to-day.  Although it lacked the refinements introduced by Lord Kelvin it was swung in double-cradles,
and had the thirty-two points painted upon a card.  The discovery of the compass, and even
of the lodestone, are things wrapt in obscurity; but the lodestone had been known since at
least the eleventh century, and the compass certainly since the thirteenth.  With the compass
were used the sea charts, which were simply maps on a rather larger and more exact scale than
the land maps of the period.  There were no soundings or currents marked on the old charts,
which were drawn on a plane projection; and they can have been of little--practical use to
navigators except in the case of coasts which were elaborately charted on a large scale.  The
chart of Columbus, in so far as it was concerned with the ocean westward of the Azores, can
of course have contained nothing except the conjectured islands or lands which he hoped to
find; possibly the land seen by the shipwrecked pilot may have been marked on it, and his failure
to find that land may have been the reason why, as we shall see, he changed his course to the
southward on the 7th of October.  It must be remembered that Columbus's conception of the world
was that of the Portuguese Mappemonde of 1490, a sketch of which is here reproduced. This conception
of the world excluded the Pacific Ocean and the continent of North and South America, and made
it reasonable to suppose that any one who sailed westward long enough from Spain would ultimately
reach Cathay and the Indies.  Behaim's globe, which was completed in the year 1492, represented
the farthest point that geographical knowledge had reached previous to the discoveries of Columbus,
and on it is shown the island of Cipango or Japan.

By far the most important element in the navigation of Columbus, in so far as estimating his
position was concerned, was what is known as "dead-reckoning" that is to say, the computation
of the distance travelled by the ship through the water.  At present this distance is measured
by a patent log, which in its commonest form is a propeller-shaped instrument trailed through
the water at the end of a long wire or cord the inboard end of which is attached to a registering
clock.  On being dragged through the water the propeller spins round and the twisting action
is communicated by the cord to the clock-work machinery which counts the miles.  In the case
of powerful steamers and in ordinary weather dead-reckoning is very accurately calculated by
the number of revolutions of the propellers recorded in the engine-room; and a device not unlike
this was known to the Romans in the time of the Republic.  They attached small wheels about
four feet in diameter to the sides of their ships; the passage of the water turned the wheels,
and a very simple gearing was arranged which threw a pebble into a tallypot at each revolution.
This device, however, seems to have been abandoned or forgotten in Columbus's day, when there
was no more exact method of estimating dead-reckoning than the primitive one of spitting over
the side in calm weather, or at other times throwing some object into the water and estimating
the rate of progress by its speed in passing the ship's side.  The hour-glass, which was used
to get the multiple for long distances, was of course the only portable time measurer available
for Columbus.  These, with a rough knowledge of astronomy, and the taking of the altitude of
the polar star, were the only known means for ascertaining the position of his ship at sea.

The first mishap occurred on Monday, August 6th, when the Pinta carried away her rudder.  The
Pinta, it will be remembered, was commanded by Martin Alonso Pinzon, and was owned by Gomaz
Rascon and Christoval Quintero, who had been at the bottom of some of the troubles ashore;
and it was thought highly probable that these two rascals had something to do with the mishap,
which they had engineered in the hope that their vessel would be left behind at the Canaries.
Martin Alonso, however, proved a man of resource, and rigged up a sort of steering gear with
ropes.  There was a choppy sea, and Columbus could not bring his own vessel near enough to
render any assistance, though he doubtless bawled his directions to Pinzon, and looked with
a troubled eye on the commotion going on on board the Pinta.  On the next day the jury-rigged
rudder carried away again, and was again repaired, but it was decided to try and make the island
of Lanzarote in the Canaries, and to get another caravel to replace the Pinta.  All through
the next day the Santa Maria and the Nina had to shorten sail in order not to leave the damaged
Pinta behind; the three captains had a discussion and difference of opinion as to where they
were; but Columbus, who was a genius at dead-reckoning, proved to be right in his surmise,
and they came in sight of the Canaries on Thursday morning, August 9th.

Columbus left Pinzon on the Grand Canary with orders to try to obtain a caravel there, while
he sailed on to Gomera, which he reached on Sunday night, with a similar purpose.  As he was
unsuccessful he sent a message by a boat that was going back to tell Pinzon to beach the Pinta
and repair her rudder; and having spent more days in fruitless search for a vessel, he started
back to join Pinzon on August 23rd.  During the night he passed the Peak of Teneriffe, which
was then in eruption.  The repairs to the Pinta, doubtless in no way expedited by Messrs. Rascon
and Quintera, took longer than had been expected; it was found necessary to make an entirely
new rudder for her; and advantage was taken of the delay to make some alterations in the rig
of the Nina, which was changed from a latine rig to a square rig, so that she might be better
able to keep up with the others.  September had come before these two jobs were completed;
and on the 2nd of September the three ships sailed for Gomera, the most westerly of the islands,
where they anchored in the north-east bay.  The Admiral was in a great hurry to get away from
the islands and from the track of merchant ships, for he had none too much confidence in the
integrity of his crews, which were already murmuring and finding every mishap a warning sign
from God.  He therefore only stayed long enough at Gomera to take in wood and water and provisions,
and set sail from that island on the 6th of September.

The wind fell lighter and lighter, and on Friday the little fleet lay becalmed within sight
of Ferro.  But on Saturday evening north-east airs sprang up again, and they were able to make
nine leagues of westing.  On Sunday they had lost sight of land; and at thus finding their
ships three lonely specks in the waste of ocean the crew lost heart and began to lament.  There
was something like a panic, many of the sailors bursting into tears and imploring Columbus
to take them home again.  To us it may seem a rather childish exhibition; but it must be remembered
that these sailors were unwillingly embarked upon a voyage which they believed would only lead
to death and disaster.  The bravest of us to-day, if he found himself press-ganged on board
a balloon and embarked upon a journey, the object of which was to land upon Mars or the moon,
might find it difficult to preserve his composure on losing sight of the earth; and the parallel
is not too extreme to indicate the light in which their present enterprise must have appeared
to many of the Admiral's crew.

