This ebook was transcribed by Les Bowler.

GENERAL GORDON: SAINT AND SOLDIER.

BY J. WARDLE, C.C., A PERSONAL FRIEND.

NOTTINGHAM: HENRY B. SAXTON, KING STREET. 1904.

{The Author: p6.jpg}

PREFACE.

Nothing but the greatest possible pressure from my many kind friends who have heard my lecture
on "General Gordon: Saint and Soldier," who knew of my intimacy with him, and had seen some
of the letters referred to, would have induced me to narrate this little story of a noble life.
I am greatly indebted to many friends, authors, and newspapers, for extracts and incidents,
etc., etc.; and to them I beg to offer my best thanks and humble apology.  This book is issued
in the hope, that, with all its imperfections, it may inspire the young men of our times to
imitate the Christ-like spirit and example of our illustrious and noble hero, C. G. Gordon.

J. WARDLE.

THIS BRIEF STORY OF A NOBLE, SAINTLY AND HEROIC LIFE, I DEDICATE WITH MUCH AFFECTION TO MY
SON, JOSEPH GORDON WARDLE

   "If I am asked, who is the greatest man? I answer, "the best."  And if
   I am requested to say, who is the best, I reply: "he that deserveth
   most of his fellow creatures."

--Sir William Jones.

INDEX.

Chapter I.--Introduction--Gordon's birth, parentage and school--His first experience of warfare
in the Crimea--His display of exceptional soldierly qualities--The storming of Sebastopol and
its fall.

Chapter II.--Gordon assisting to lay down frontiers in Russia, Turkey and Armenia--Gordon in
China--Burning of the Summer Palace--Chinese rebellion and its suppression.

Chapter III.--Gordon at Manchester--My experiences with him--Ragged School work--Amongst the
poor, the old, the sick--Some of his letters to me, showing his deep solicitude for the lads.

Chapter IV.--Gordon's letters--Leaflet, &c.--His work at Gravesend--Amongst his "Kings"--His
call to foreign service, and leave taking--The public regret.

Chapter V.--His first appointment as Governor General of the Soudan--His journey to, and his
arrival at Khartoum--His many difficulties--His visit to King John of Abyssinia, and resignation.

Chapter VI.--Gordon's return to Egypt and welcome by the Khedive--Home again--A second visit
to China--Soudan very unsettled--The Madhi winning battles--Hicks Pasha's army annihilated--Gordon
sent for; agrees again to go to Khartoum.

Chapter VII.--Gordon's starting for Khartoum (2nd appointment)--His arrival and reception--Khartoum
surrounded--Letter from the Madhi to Gordon--Gordon's reply--His many and severe trials in
Khartoum.

Chapter VIII.--Expedition of Lord Wolseley's to relieve Gordon--Terrible marches in the desert--Battle
of Abu-Klea--Colonel Burnaby killed--Awful scenes--The Arabs break the British Square--Victory
and march to Mettemmeh.

Chapter IX.--Gordon's Boats, manned by Sir Charles Wilson, fighting up to Khartoum--Khartoum
fallen--Gordon a martyr--Mourning in all lands--Our Queen's letter of complaint to Gladstone--Gladstone's
reply and vindication--Queen's letters to Gordon's sister--Account of the fall of Khartoum--Acceptance
by the Queen of Gordon's Bible.

CHAPTER I.

   "There is nothing purer than honesty; nothing sweeter than charity;
   nothing warmer than love; nothing richer than wisdom; nothing brighter
   than virtue; nothing more steadfast than faith."--Bacon.

It has been said that the most interesting study for mankind is man; and surely one of the
grandest objects for human contemplation, is a noble character; a lofty type of a truly great
and good man is humanity's richest heritage.

While places and things may have a special or peculiar charm, and indeed may become very interesting,
nothing stirs our hearts, or rouses our enthusiasm so much as the study of a noble heroic life,
such as that of the uncrowned king, who is the subject of our story, and whose career of unsullied
splendour closed in the year 1885 in the beleaguered capital of that dark sad land, where the
White and Blue Nile blend their waters.

   "Noble he was contemning all things mean,
   His truth unquestioned and his soul severe,
   At no man's question was he e'er dismayed,
   Of no man's presence was he e'er afraid."

General Gordon was the son of a soldier who proved his gallantry on many occasions, and who
took a pride in his profession.  It was said of him that he was greatly beloved by all who
served under him.  He was generous, genial and kind hearted, and strictly just in all his practices
and aims.  He gave to his Queen and country a long life of devoted service.  His wife, we are
told, was a woman of marked liberality; cheerful and loving, always thoughtful of the wants
of others; completely devoid of selfishness.

The fourth son, and third soldier of this happy pair, Charles George, was born at Woolwich
in 1833.  He was trained at Taunton.  When about 15 years of age he was sent to the Royal Military
Academy at Woolwich, to prepare for the army; a profession his father thought most worthy of
the Gordons.  While here at school an incident occurred which served to show that our young
hero was no ordinary student.  His tutor, with an air of contempt, rebuked him severely for
some error or failure in his lessons, and told him sneeringly he would never make a general.
This roused the Scotch blood of the budding soldier, and in a rage he tore the epaulettes from
his shoulders, and threw them at his tutor's feet--another proof of the correctness of the
old adage, "Never prophesy unless you know."  By the time he reached the age of twenty-one,
he had become every inch a soldier, and when tested he proved to have all a soldier's qualities--bravery,
courage, heroism, patriotism, and fidelity, characteristics of the best soldiers in our army.

Archibald Forbes, writing of him, says "The character of General Gordon was unique.  As it
unfolded in its curiously varied but never contradictory aspects, you are reminded of Cromwell,
of Havelock, of Livingstone, and of Captain Hedley Viccars.  But Gordon's individuality stood
out in its incomparable blending of masterfulness and tenderness, of strength and sweetness.
His high and noble nature was made more chivalrous by his fervent, deep and real piety.  His
absolute trust in God guided him serenely through the greatest difficulties.  Because of that
he was not alone in the deepest solitude.  He was not depressed in the direst extremity.  He
had learned the happy art of leaning upon the Omnipotent arm."

{Gordon, the hero: p17.jpg}

Early in 1884 a leading newspaper said of him, "General Gordon is without doubt the finest
captain of irregular forces living."  About the same time Mr. Gladstone said of him, "General
Gordon is no common man.  It is no exaggeration to say he is a hero.  It is no exaggeration
to say he is a Christian hero."  Mr. W. E. Forster also remarked of him, "I know no other man
living for whom I have a greater admiration than General Gordon.  He is utterly unselfish.
He is regardless of money.  He cares nothing for fame or glory.  He cares little for life or
death.  He is a deeply religious man.  The world to come, and God's government over this, are
to him the greatest of life's realities.  True heroism has been said to be a sacrifice of self
for the benefit of others.  If this is true, Gordon has well won the appellation, "The Hero
of the Soudan."  His soldierly qualities were first tested in the Crimea, where we find him
in 1854 and 1855.  Here for the first time in his military career he was brought face to face
with all the horrors of actual war, and here for the first time he saw friend and foe lie locked
like brothers in each other's arms.  Here he got his first baptism of fire; and here he showed
the splendid qualities which in after years made him so famous and so beloved.  An old soldier
who served under him during this terrible campaign says "I shall never forget that remarkable
figure and form, which was an inspiration to all who knew him, and saw him on the field of
carnage and blood."

He was utterly unconcerned in the midst of dangers and death.  He would twirl his cane and
good humouredly say "Now boys, don't fear, I see no danger."  On one occasion when engaged
in the very thick of a most awful struggle he said, "Now my boys, I'm your officer, I lead,
you follow," and he walked literally through a shower of lead and iron with as little concern
apparently, as if he were walking across his own drawing-room; and he came out of the conflict
without a scar.

Sir E. Stanton in his dispatches home, making special reference to our hero, says--"Young Gordon
has attracted the notice of his superiors out here, not only by his activity, but by his special
aptitude for war, developing itself amid the trenches before Sebastopol, in a personal knowledge
of the enemy's movements, such as no officer has displayed.  We have sent him frequently right
up to the Russian entrenchments to find out what new moves they are making."  Amid all the
excitement of war and its dangers he never omitted writing to his mother; an example I hope
my readers, if boys, or girls, will studiously copy.  He loved his mother with the passion
of his great loving heart.  Soldier lads often forget their mother's influence, their mother's
prayers, and their mother's God. Writing home to his mother he says "We are giving the Redan
shells day and night, in order to prevent the Russians from repairing it and they repay us
by sending amongst us awful missiles of death and destruction, and it requires one to be very
nimble to keep out of their way.  I have now been thirty-four times, twenty-four hours in the
trenches; that is more than a month without any relief whatever, and I assure you it gets very
tedious.  Still one does not mind if any advance is being made."

An eye witness of this bloody work in the trenches and the storming of the Malakof and the
Redan, writes:--

   "On that terrible 8th of September, every gun and mortar that our
   people and our noble allies, the French, could bring to bear upon the
   enemy's work, was raining death and destruction upon them.  The
   stormers had all got into their places.  They consisted of about 1,000
   men of the Old Light and 2nd Division; the supports were formed up as
   closely as possible to them, and all appeared in readiness.  History
   may well say, 'the storming of a fortress is an awful task.'  There we
   stood not a word being spoken; every one seemed to be full of thought;
   many a courageous heart, that was destined to be still in death in one
   short hour, was now beating high."

   "It was about 11.15 a.m., and our heavy guns were firing in such a way
   as I have never heard before.  The batteries fired in volleys or
   salvoes as fast as they could load and fire, the balls passing a few
   feet above our heads, while the air seemed full of shell.  The enemy
   were not idle; for round shot, shell, grape and musket balls were
   bounding and whizzing all about us, and earth and stones were rattling
   about our heads like hail.  Our poor fellows fell fast, but still our
   sailors and artillery men stuck to it manfully.  We knew well that
   this could not last long, but many a brave soldier's career was cut
   short long before we advanced to the attack--strange some of our older
   hands were smoking and taking not the slightest notice of this 'dance
   of death.'  Some men were being carried past dead, and others limping
   to the rear with mangled limbs, while their life's blood was streaming
   fast away.  We looked at each other with amazement for we were now
   under a most terrible fire.  We knew well it meant death to many of
   us.  Several who had gone through the whole campaign shook hands
   saying, 'This is hot,' 'Good bye, old boy,' 'Write to the old folks
   for me if I do not return.'  This request was made by many of us.  I
   was close to one of our Generals, who stood watch in hand, when
   suddenly at 12 o'clock mid-day the French drums and bugles sounded the
   charge, and with a shout, 'Vive l'Empereur' repeated over and over
   again by some 50,000 men, a shout that was enough to strike terror
   into the enemy.  The French, headed by the Zouaves, sprang forward at
   the Malakof like a lot of cats.  On they went like a lot of bees, or
   rather like the dashing of the waves of the sea against a rock.  We
   had a splendid view of their operations, it was grand but terrible;
   the deafening shouts of the advancing hosts told us they were carrying
   all before them."

   "They were now completely enveloped in smoke and fire, but column
   after column kept advancing, pouring volley after volley into the
   breasts of the defenders.  They (the French) meant to have it, let the
   cost be what it might.  At 12.15 up went the proud flag of France,
   with a shout that drowned for a time the roar of both cannon and
   musketry.  And now came our turn.  As soon as the French were seen
   upon the Malakof our stormers sprang forward, led by Colonel
   Windham--the old Light Division consisting of 300 men of the 90th,
   about the same number of the 97th, and about 400 of the 2nd Battalion
   Rifle Brigade, and with various detachments of the 2nd and Light
   Divisions, and a number of blue jackets, carrying scaling ladders.  Our
   men advanced splendidly, with a ringing British cheer, although the
   enemy poured a terrible fire of grape, canister and musketry into
   them, which swept down whole companies at a time.  We, the supports,
   moved forward to back up our comrades.  We advanced as quickly as we
   could until we came to the foremost trench, when we leaped the
   parapet, then made a rush at the blood stained walls of the Redan.  We
   had had a clear run of over 200 yards under that murderous fire of
   grape, canister and musketry.  How any ever lived to pass that 200
   yards seemed a miracle; for our poor fellows fell one on the top of
   another; but nothing could stop us but death.  On we went shouting
   until we reached the redoubt.  The fighting inside these works was of
   the most desperate character, butt and bayonet, foot and fist; the
   enemy's guns were quickly spiked: this struggle lasted about an hour
   and a half.  It was an awful time, about 3,000 of our brave soldiers
   were slain in this short period."  Our hero Gordon, tells us that on
   the evening of this 8th of September--

   "I heard most terrific explosions, the earth seemed to be shaken to
   its very centre;--It was afterwards discovered the enemy's position
   was no longer tenable, so they had fired some 300 tons of gunpowder,
   which had blown up all their vast forts and magazines.  O! what a
   night: many of our poor fellows had been nearly buried in the
   debris, and burning mass: the whole of Sebastopol was in flames.  The
   Russians were leaving it helter-skelter--a complete rout, and a heavy
   but gloriously-won victory."

For his acknowledged ability, his fine heroism, and his true loyalty to his superiors during
this most trying campaign, he received the well-earned decoration of the Legion of Honour from
the French Government, a mark of distinction very rarely conferred upon so young an officer.

We must not leave this part of our story without a brief notice of one whose name will live
in song and story, when this generation shall have passed away.  Many noble English ladies
bravely went out to nurse the suffering soldiers; but in this noble band was one whose name
remains a synonym for kindly sympathy, tenderness and peace--Miss Florence Nightingale.

The following lines were written in her praise--

   "Britain has welcomed home with open hand
   Her gallant soldiers to their native land;
   But one alone the Nation's thanks did shun,
   Though Europe rings with all that she hath done;
   For when will shadow on the wall e'er fail,
   To picture forth fair Florence Nightingale:
   Her deeds are blazoned on the scroll of fame,
   And England well may prize her deathless name."

CHAPTER II.

   "The greatness of a nation depends upon the men it can breed and
   rear.--Froude.

The war over and peace duly established, Lieutenant Gordon (for so he was then) accompanied
General Sir Lintorn Simmons to Galatz, where, as assistant commissioner, he was engaged in
fixing the new frontiers of Russia, Turkey and Roumania.  In 1857, when his duties here were
finished, he went with the same officer to Armenia; there, in the same capacity, he was engaged
in laying down the Asiatic frontiers of Russia and Turkey.  When this work was completed he
returned home and was quartered at Chatham, and employed for a time as Field Work Instructor
and Adjutant.  In 1860, now holding the rank of Captain, he joined the Army in China, and was
present at the surrender of Pekin; and for his services he was promoted to the rank of Major.

THE BURNING OF THE SUMMER PALACE.

"On the eleventh of October," Gordon relates, "we were sent down in a hurry to throw up earth
works against the City; as the Chinese refused to give up the gate we demanded their surrender
before we could treat with them.  They were also required to give up the prisoners.  You will
be sorry to hear the treatment they have suffered has been very bad.  Poor De Norman, who was
with me in Asia, is one of the victims.  It appears they were tied so tight by the wrists that
the flesh mortified, and they died in the greatest torture.  Up to the time that elapsed before
they arrived at the Summer Palace, they were well treated, but then the ill- treatment began.
The Emperor is supposed to have been there at the time.

But to go back to the work, the Chinese were given until twelve on the 13th, to give up the
gate.  We made a lot of batteries, and everything was ready for assault of the wall, which
is a battlement, forty feet high, but of inferior masonry; at 11.30 p.m., however, the gate
was opened, and we took possession; so our work was of no avail.  The Chinese had then, until
the 23rd, to think over our terms of treaty, and to pay up ten thousand pounds (10,000 pounds)
for each Englishman, and five hundred pounds (500 pounds) for each native soldier who had died
during their captivity.  This they did, and the money was paid, and the treaty signed yesterday.
I could not witness it, as all officers commanding companies were obliged to remain in camp,
owing to the ill-treatment the prisoners experienced at the Summer Palace.  The General ordered
this to be destroyed, and stuck up proclamations to say why it was ordered.  We accordingly
went out, and after pillaging it, burned the whole magnificent palace, and destroyed most valuable
property, which could not be replaced for millions of pounds.

"This Palace" (wrote the author of Our Own Times), "covered an area of many miles.  The Palace
of Adrian, at Tivoli, might have been hidden in one of its courts.  Gardens, temples, small
lodges and pagodas, groves, grottoes, lakes, bridges, terraces, artificial hills, diversified
the vast space.  All the artistic treasures, all the curiosities, archaeological and other,
that Chinese wealth and taste, such as it was, could bring together."  Gordon notes, "This
palace, with its surrounding buildings, over two hundred in number, covered an area eight by
ten miles in extent."  He says, "it makes one's heart burn to see such beauty destroyed; it
was as if Windsor Palace, South Kensington Museum, and British Museum, all in one, were in
flames: you can scarcely imagine the beauty and magnificence of the things we were bound to
destroy."

"These palaces were so large, and we were so pressed for time, that we could not plunder them
carefully.  Quantities of gold ornaments were burned, considered as brass.  It was wretchedly
demoralizing for an army: everybody was wild for plunder . . .  The throne and room were lined
with ebony, carved in a wonderful manner.  There were huge mirrors of all shapes and sizes,
clocks, watches, musical boxes with puppets on them, magnificent china of every description,
heaps and heaps of silks of all colours, coral screens, large amounts of treasures, etc.  The
French have smashed up everything in a most shameful way.  It was a scene of utter destruction
which passes my description."  This was not much in Gordon's line.

In the following year he made a tour on horseback to the outer wall of China at Kalgan, accompanied
by Lieutenant Cardew.  A Chinese lad of the age of fourteen, who knew a little English, acted
as their servant and interpreter, while their personal luggage was conveyed in the Chinese
carts.  In the course of this tour we are told they passed through districts which had never
before been visited by any European.  At Kalgan the great wall was seen, with its parapet about
twenty-two feet high, and sixteen feet broad.  Both sides were solid brick, each being three
times the size of our English bricks.  Gordon writes: "It is wonderful to see the long line
of wall stretching over the hills as far as the eye can reach."  From Kalgan they travelled
westwards to Taitong; here they saw huge caravans of camels laden with tea going towards Russia.
Here they were forced to have the axle trees of their carts widened, for they had come into
a great part of the country where the wheels were set wider than in the provinces whence they
came.  Their carts, therefore, no longer fitted into the deep ruts which had been worn into
the terribly bad roads.  The main object of their journey was to find out if there was in the
Inner Wall any pass besides the Tchatiaou which on that side of the country led from the Russian
territory to Pekin.  It was not until they reached Taiyuen that they struck the road that led
to Pekin or Tientsin.

