Some of her critics, including Mrs. Oliphant (far less indulgent than the poor curates who
forgave her nobly), have grudged Charlotte her amusement. There is nothing, from her fame downwards,
that Mrs. Oliphant did not grudge her. Mr. Birrell sternly disapproves; even Mr. Swinburne,
at the height of his panegyric, is put off. Perhaps Charlotte's humour was not her most attractive
quality; but nobody seems to have seen the pathos and the bravery of it. Neither have they
seen that Miss Nussey was at the bottom of its worst development, the "curate-baiting". Miss
Nussey used to go and stay at Haworth for weeks at a time. Haworth was not amusing, and Miss
Nussey had to be amused. All this school-girlish jesting, the perpetual and rather tiresome
banter, was a playing down to Miss Nussey. It was a kind of tender "baiting" of Miss Nussey,
who had tried on several occasions to do Charlotte good. And it was the natural, healthy rebound
of the little Irish gamine that lived in Charlotte Brontë, bursting with cleverness and devilry.
I, for my part, am glad to think that for one happy year she gave it full vent.

She was only twenty-four. Even as late as the mid-Victorian era to be twenty-four and unmarried
was to be middle-aged. But (this cannot be too much insisted on) Charlotte Brontë was the revolutionist
who changed all that. She changed it not only in her novels but in her person. Here again she
has been misrepresented. There are no words severe enough for Mrs. Oliphant's horrible portrait
of her as a plain-faced, lachrymose, middle-aged spinster, dying, visibly, to be married, obsessed
for ever with that idea, for ever whining over the frustration of her sex. What Mrs. Oliphant,
"the married woman", resented in Charlotte Brontë, over and above her fame, was Charlotte's
unsanctioned knowledge of the mysteries, her intrusion into the veiled places, her unbaring
of the virgin heart. That her genius was chiefly concerned in it does not seem to have occurred
to Mrs. Oliphant, any more than it occurred to her to notice the impression that Charlotte
Brontë made on her male contemporaries. It is doubtful if one of them thought of her as Mrs.
Oliphant would have us think. They gave her the tender, deferent affection they would have
given to a charming child. Even the very curates saw in her, to their amazement, the spirit
of undying youth. Small as a child, and fragile, with soft hair and flaming eyes, and always
the pathetic, appealing plainness of a plain child, with her child's audacity and shyness,
her sudden, absurd sallies and retreats, she had a charm made the more piquant by her assumption
of austerity. George Henry Lewes was gross and flippant, and he could not see it; Branwell's
friend, Mr. Grundy, was Branwell's friend, and he missed it. Mrs. Oliphant ranges herself with
Mr. Grundy and George Henry Lewes.

But Charlotte's fun was soon over, and she became a nursery-governess again at Mrs. White's,
of Rawdon. Anne was with Mrs. Robinson, at Thorp Green.

Emily was at Haworth, alone.

That was in eighteen-forty-one. Years after their death a little black box was found, containing
four tiny scraps of paper, undiscovered by Charlotte when she burnt every line left by Anne
and Emily except their poems. Two of these four papers were written by Emily, and two by Anne;
each sister keeping for the other a record of four years. They begin in eighteen-forty-one.
Emily was then twenty-four and Anne a year and a half younger. Nothing can be more childlike,
more naïve. Emily heads her diary:

    A PAPER to be opened
        when Anne is
        25 years old,
    or my next birthday after
            if
        all be well.
Emily Jane Brontë. July the 30th, 1841.

She says: "It is Friday evening, near nine o'clock--wild rainy weather. I am seated in the
dining-room, having just concluded tidying our desk-boxes, writing this document. Papa is in
the parlour--Aunt upstairs in her room.... Victoria and Adelaide are ensconced in the peat-house.
Keeper is in the kitchen--Hero in his cage."

Having accounted for Victoria and Adelaide, the tame geese, Keeper, the dog, and Hero, the
hawk, she notes the whereabouts of Charlotte, Branwell, and Anne. And then (with gravity):

"A scheme is at present in agitation for setting us up in a school of our own."... "This day
four years I wonder whether we shall be dragging on in our present condition or established
to our hearts' content."

Then Emily dreams her dream.

"I guess that on the time appointed for the opening of this paper we, i.e. Charlotte, Anne,
and I, shall be all merrily seated in our own sitting-room in some pleasant and flourishing
seminary, having just gathered in for the midsummer holiday. Our debts will be paid off and
we shall have cash in hand to a considerable amount. Papa, Aunt, and Branwell, will either
have been or be coming to visit us."

And Anne writes with equal innocence (it is delicious, Anne's diary): "Four years ago I was
at school. Since then I have been a governess at Blake Hall, left it, come to Thorp Green,
and seen the sea and York Minster."... "We have got Keeper, got a sweet little cat and lost
it, and also got a hawk. Got a wild goose which has flown away, and three tame ones, one of
which has been killed."

It is Emily who lets out the dreary secret of the dream--the debts which could not be paid;
probably Branwell's.

But the "considerable amount of cash in hand" was to remain a dream. Nothing came of Branwell's
knight-errantry. He muddled the accounts of the Leeds and Manchester Railroad and was sent
home. It was not good for Branwell to be a clerk at a lonely wayside station. His disaster,
which they much exaggerated, was a shock to the three sisters. They began to have misgivings,
premonitions of Branwell's destiny.

And from Mrs. White's at Rawdon, Charlotte sends out cry after desolate cry. Again we have
an impression of an age of exile, but really the exile did not last long, not much longer than
Emily's imprisonment in the Academy for Young Ladies, nothing like so long as Anne's miserable
term.

The exile really began in 'forty-two, when Charlotte and Emily left England for Brussels and
Madame Héger's Pensionnat de Demoiselles in the Rue d'Isabelle. It is supposed to have been
the turning-point in Charlotte's career. She was then twenty-six, Emily twenty-four.

It is absurd and it is pathetic, but Charlotte's supreme ambition at that time was to keep
a school, a school of her own, like her friend Miss Wooler. There was a great innocence and
humility in Charlotte. She was easily taken in by any of those veiled, inimical spectres of
the cross-roads that youth mistakes for destiny. She must have refused to look too closely
at the apparition; it was enough for her that she saw in it the divine thing--liberty. Her
genius was already struggling in her. She had begun to feel under her shoulders the painful
piercing of her wings. Her friend, Mary Taylor, had written to her from Brussels telling her
of pictures and cathedrals. Charlotte tells how it woke her up. "I hardly know what swelled
in my breast as I read her letter: such a vehement impatience of restraint and steady work;
such a strong wish for wings--wings such as wealth can furnish; such an urgent desire to see,
to know, to learn; something internal seemed to expand bodily for a minute. I was tantalized
by the consciousness of faculties unexercised." But Charlotte's "wings" were not "such as wealth
can furnish". They were to droop, almost to die, in Brussels.

Emily was calmer. Whether she mistook it for her destiny or not, she seems to have acquiesced
when Charlotte showed her the veiled figure at the cross-roads, to have been led blindfold
by Charlotte through the "streaming and starless darkness" that took them to Brussels. The
rest she endured with a stern and terrible resignation. It is known from her letters what the
Pensionnat was to Charlotte. Heaven only knows what it must have been to Emily. Charlotte,
with her undying passion for knowledge and the spectacle of the world, with her psychological
interest in M. Héger and his wife, Charlotte hardly came out of it with her soul alive. But
Emily was not interested in M. Héger nor in his wife, nor in his educational system. She thought
his system was no good and told him so. What she thought of his wife is not recorded.

Then, in their first year of Brussels, their old aunt, Miss Branwell, died. That was destiny,
the destiny that was so kind to Emily. It sent her and her sister back to Haworth and it kept
her there. Poor Anne was fairly launched on her career; she remained in her "situation", and
somebody had to look after Mr. Brontë and the house. Things were going badly and sadly at the
Parsonage. Branwell was there, drinking; and Charlotte was even afraid that her father ...
also sometimes ... perhaps....

She left Emily to deal with them and went back to Brussels as a pupil teacher, alone. She went
in an agony of self-reproach, desiring more and more knowledge, a perfect, inalienable, indestructible
possession of the German language, and wondering whether it were right to satisfy that indomitable
craving. By giving utterance to this self-reproach, so passionate, so immense, so disproportioned
to the crime, the innocent Charlotte laid herself open to an unjust suspicion. Innocent and
unaware she went, and--it is her own word--she was "punished" for it.

Nothing that she had yet known of homesickness could compare with that last year of solitary
and unmitigated exile. It is supposed, even by the charitable, that whatever M. Héger did or
did not do for Charlotte, he did everything for her genius. As a matter of fact, it was at
Brussels that she suffered the supreme and ultimate abandonment. She no longer felt the wild
unknown thing stirring in her with wings. So little could M. Héger do for it that it refused
to inhabit the same house with him. She records the result of that imprisonment a few weeks
after her release: "There are times now when it appears to me as if all my ideas and feelings,
except a few friendships and affections, are changed from what they used to be; something in
me, which used to be enthusiasm, is tamed down and broken."

At Brussels surely enlightenment must have come to her. She must have seen, as Emily saw, that
in going that way, she had mistaken and done violence to her destiny.

She went back to Haworth where it waited for her, where it had turned even the tragedy of her
family to account. Everything conspired to keep her there. The school was given up. She tells
why. "It is on Papa's account; he is now, as you know, getting old, and it grieves me to tell
you that he is losing his sight. I have felt for some months that I ought not to be away from
him; and I feel now that it would be too selfish to leave (at least as long as Branwell and
Anne are absent) to pursue selfish interests of my own. With the help of God I will try to
deny myself in this matter, and to wait."

And with the help of God she waited.

There are three significant entries in Emily's sealed paper for eighteen-forty-five. "Now I
don't desire a school at all, and none of us have any great longing for it." "I am quite contented
for myself ... seldom or never troubled with nothing to do and merely desiring that everybody
could be as comfortable as myself and as undesponding, and then we should have a very tolerable
world of it." "I have plenty of work on hand, and writing...." This, embedded among details
of an incomparable innocence: "We have got Flossy; got and lost Tiger; lost the hawk, Hero,
which, with the geese, was given away, and is doubtless dead."

And Anne, as naïve as a little nun, writes in her sealed paper: "Emily is upstairs ironing.
I am sitting in the dining-room in the rocking-chair before the fire with my feet on the fender.
Papa is in the parlour. Tabby and Martha are, I think, in the kitchen. Keeper and Flossy are,
I do not know where. Little Dick is hopping in his cage." And then, "Emily ... is writing some
poetry.... I wonder what it is about?"

That is the only clue to the secret that is given. These childlike diaries are full of the
"Gondal Chronicles",[A] an interminable fantasy in which for years Emily collaborated with
Anne. They flourished the "Gondal Chronicles" in each other's faces, with positive bravado,
trying to see which could keep it up the longer. Under it all there was a mystery; for, as
Charlotte said of their old play, "Best plays were secret plays," and the sisters kept their
best hidden. And then suddenly the "Gondal Chronicles" were dropped, the mystery broke down.
All three of them had been writing poems; they had been writing poems for years. Some of Emily's
dated from her first exile at Roe Head. Most of Anne's sad songs were sung in her house of
bondage. From Charlotte, in her Brussels period, not a line.

[Footnote A: See supra, pp. 193 to 209.]

But at Haworth, in the years that followed her return and found her free, she wrote nearly
all her maturer poems (none of them were excessively mature): she wrote The Professor, and
close upon The Professor, Jane Eyre. In the same term that found her also, poor child, free,
and at Haworth, Anne wrote Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall.

And Emily wrote Wuthering Heights.

They had found their destiny--at Haworth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every conceivable theory has been offered to account for the novels that came so swiftly and
incredibly from these three sisters. It has been said that they wrote them merely to pay their
debts when they found that poems did not pay. It would be truer to say that they wrote them
because it was their destiny to write them, and because their hour had come, and that they
published them with the dimmest hope of a return.

Before they knew where they were, Charlotte found herself involved in what she thought was
a businesslike and masculine correspondence with publishing firms.

The Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell, appeared first, and nothing happened. The Professor
travelled among publishers, and nothing happened. Then, towards the end of the fourth year
there came Jane Eyre, and Charlotte was famous.

But not Emily. Wuthering Heights appeared also, and nothing happened. It was bound in the same
volume with Anne's humble tale. Its lightning should have scorched and consumed Agnes Grey,
but nothing happened. Ellis and Acton Bell remained equals in obscurity, recognized only by
their association with the tremendous Currer. When it came to publishing The Tenant of Wildfell
Hall, and association became confusion, Charlotte and Anne went up to London to prove their
separate identity. Emily stayed at Haworth, superbly indifferent to the proceedings. She was
unseen, undreamed of, unrealized, and in all her life she made no sign.

But, in a spirit of reckless adventure, Charlotte and Anne walked the seven miles to Keighley
on a Friday evening in a thunderstorm, and took the night train up. On the Saturday morning
they appeared in the office at Cornhill to the amazement of Mr. George Smith and Mr. Williams.
With childlike innocence and secrecy they hid in the Chapter Coffee-house in Paternoster Row,
and called themselves the Misses Brown. When entertainment was offered them, they expressed
a wish to hear Dr. Croly preach. They did not hear him; they only heard The Barber of Seville
at Covent Garden. They tried, with a delicious solemnity, to give the whole thing an air of
business, but it was really a breathless, infantile escapade of three days. Three days out
of four years.

       *       *       *       *       *

And in those four years poor Branwell's destiny found him also. After many minor falls and
penitences and relapses, he seemed at length to have settled down. He had been tutor for two
and a half years with the Robinsons at Thorp Green, in the house where Anne was a governess.
He was happy at first; an ominous happiness. Then Anne began to be aware of something.

Mr. Birrell has said rather unkindly that he has no use for this young man. Nobody had any
use for him. Not the editors to whom he used to write so hysterically. Not the Leeds and Manchester
Railroad Company. And certainly not Mrs. Robinson, the lady for whom he conceived that insane
and unlawful passion which has been made to loom so large in the lives of the Brontës. After
all the agony and indignation that has gathered round this episode, it is clear enough now,
down to the last sordid details. The feverish, degenerate, utterly irresponsible Branwell not
only declared his passion, but persuaded himself, against the evidence of his senses, that
it was returned. The lady (whom he must have frightened horribly) told her husband, who instantly
dismissed Branwell.

Branwell never got over it.

He was destined to die young, and, no doubt, if there had been no Mrs. Robinson, some other
passion would have killed him. Still, it may be said with very little exaggeration that he
died of it. He had not hitherto shown any signs of tuberculosis. It may be questioned whether
without this predisposing cause he would have developed it. He had had his chance to survive.
He had never been packed, like his sisters, first one of five, then one of three, into a closet
not big enough for one. But he drank harder after the Robinson affair than he had ever drunk
before, and he added opium to drink. Drink and opium gave frightful intensity to the hallucination
of which, in a sense, he died.

It took him more than three years, from July, eighteen-forty-five, the date of his dismissal,
to September, eighteen-forty-eight, the date of his death.

The Incumbent of Haworth has been much blamed for his son's shortcomings. He has been charged
with first spoiling the boy, and then neglecting him. In reality his only error (a most unusual
one in an early Victorian father) was that he believed in his son's genius. When London and
the Royal Academy proved beyond him he had him taught at Bradford. He gave him a studio there.
He had already given him an education that at least enabled him to obtain tutorships, if not
to keep them. The Parsonage must have been a terrible place for Branwell, but it was not in
the Vicar's power to make it more attractive than the Bull Inn. Branwell was not a poet like
his sisters, and moors meant nothing to him. To be sure, when he went into Wales and saw Penmaenmawr,
he wrote a poem about it. But the poem is not really about Penmaenmawr. It is all about Branwell;
Penmaenmawr is Branwell, a symbol of his colossal personality and of his fate. For Branwell
was a monstrous egoist. He was not interested in his sisters or in his friends, or really in
Mrs. Robinson. He was interested only in himself. What could a poor vicar do with a son like
that? There was nothing solid in Branwell that you could take hold of and chastise. There was
nothing you could appeal to. His affection for his family was three-fourths sentimentalism.
Still, what the Vicar could do he did do. When Branwell was mad with drink and opium he never
left him. There is no story more grim and at the same time more poignant and pathetic than
that which Mrs. Gaskell tells of his devotion to his son in this time of the boy's ruin. Branwell
slept in his father's room. He would doze all day, and rage all night, threatening his father's
life. In the morning he would go to his sisters and say: "The poor old man and I have had a
terrible night of it. He does his best, the poor old man, but it is all over with me." He died
in his father's arms while Emily and little Anne looked on.

They say that he struggled to his feet and died standing, to prove the strength of his will;
but some biographer has robbed him of this poor splendour. It was enough for his sisters--and
it should be enough for anybody--that his madness left him with the onset of his illness, and
that he went from them penitent and tender, purified by the mystery and miracle of death.

That was on Sunday, the twenty-fourth of September. From that day Emily sickened. She caught
cold at Branwell's funeral. On September the thirtieth she was in church listening to his funeral
sermon. After that, she never crossed the threshold of the Parsonage till in December her dead
body was carried over it, to lie beside her brother under the church floor.

In October, a week or two after Branwell's death, Charlotte wrote: "Emily has a cold and cough
at present." "Emily's cold and cough are very obstinate. I fear she has pain in her chest,
and I sometimes catch a shortness in her breathing when she has moved at all quickly." In November:
"I told you Emily was ill, in my last letter. She has not rallied yet. She is very ill....
I think Emily seems the nearest thing to my heart in all the world." And in December: "Emily
suffers no more from pain or weakness now ... there is no Emily in time, or on earth now....
We are very calm at present. Why should we be otherwise? The anguish of seeing her suffer is
over; the spectacle of the pains of death is gone by: the funeral day is past. We feel she
is at peace. No need to tremble for the hard frost and the keen wind. Emily does not feel them.
She died in a time of promise.... But it is God's will, and the place where she has gone is
better than that which she has left."

It could have been hardly daylight on the moors the morning when Charlotte went out to find
that last solitary sprig of heather which she laid on Emily's pillow for Emily to see when
she awoke. Emily's eyes were so drowsed with death that she could not see it. And yet it could
not have been many hours later when a fire was lit in her bedroom, and she rose and dressed
herself. Madame Duclaux[A] tells how she sat before the fire, combing her long, dark hair,
and how the comb dropped from her weak fingers, and fell under the grate. And how she sat there
in her mortal apathy; and how, when the servant came to her, she said dreamily: "Martha, my
comb's down there; I was too weak to stoop and pick it up."

[Footnote A: "Emily Brontë": Eminent Women Series.]

She dragged herself down to the sitting-room, and died there, about two o'clock. She must have
had some horror of dying in that room of death overhead; for, at noon, when the last pains
seized her, she refused to be taken back to it. Unterrified, indomitable, driven by her immortal
passion for life, she fought terribly. Death took her as she tried to rise from the sofa and
break from her sisters' arms that would have laid her there. Profoundly, piteously alienated,
she must have felt that Anne and Charlotte were in league with death; that they fought with
her and bound her down; and that in her escape from them she conquered.

Another month and Anne sickened. As Emily died of Branwell's death, so Emily's death hastened
Anne's. Charlotte wrote in the middle of January: "I can scarcely say that Anne is worse, nor
can I say she is better.... The days pass in a slow, dull march: the nights are the test; the
sudden wakings from restless sleep, the revived knowledge that one lies in her grave, and another,
not at my side, but in a separate and sick bed." And again in March: "Anne's decline is gradual
and fluctuating, but its nature is not doubtful." And yet again in April: "If there were no
hope beyond this world ... Emily's fate, and that which threatens Anne, would be heartbreaking.

Mrs. Oliphant has censured Emily Brontë for the manner of her dying. She might as well have
censured Anne for drawing out the agony. For Anne was gentle to the end, utterly submissive.
She gave death no trouble. She went, with a last hope, to Scarborough, and died there at the
end of May. She was buried at Scarborough, where she lies alone. It is not easy to believe
that she had no "preference for place", but there is no doubt that even to that choice of her
last resting-place she would have submitted--gently.

"I got here a little before eight o'clock. All was clean and bright, waiting for me. Papa and
the servants were well, and all received me with an affection that should have consoled. The
dogs seemed in strange ecstasy. I am certain that they regarded me as the harbinger of others.
The dumb creatures thought that as I was returned, those who had been so long absent were not
far behind.... I felt that the house was all silent, the rooms were all empty. I remembered
where the three were laid--in what narrow, dark dwellings--never more to reappear on earth....
I cannot help thinking of their last days, remembering their sufferings, and what they said
and did, and how they looked in mortal affliction.... To sit in a lonely room, the clock ticking
loud through a still house...." Charlotte could see nothing else before her.

It was July. She had come home after a visit to Miss Nussey.

In that month she wrote that chapter of Shirley which is headed "The Valley of the Shadow".
The book (begun more than eighteen months before) fairly quivers with the shock that cut it in two.

It was finished somewhere in September of that year of Anne's death. Charlotte went up to London.
She saw Thackeray. She learned to accept the fact of her celebrity.

Somehow the years passed, the years of Charlotte's continuous celebrity, and of those literary
letters that take so disproportionate a part in her correspondence that she seems at last to
have forgotten; she seems to belong to the world rather than to Haworth. And the world seems
full of Charlotte; the world that had no place for Emily. And yet Wuthering Heights had followed
Shirley. It had been republished with Charlotte's introduction, her vindication of Emily. It
brought more fame for Charlotte, but none--yet--for Emily.

Two years later came Villette. Charlotte went up to London a second time and saw Thackeray
again. And there were more letters, the admirable but slightly self-conscious letters of the
literary woman, artificially assured. They might deceive you, only the other letters, the letters
to Ellen Nussey go on; they come palpitating with the life of Charlotte Brontë's soul that
had in it nothing of the literary taint. You see in them how, body and soul, Haworth claims
her and holds her, and will not let her go.

Nor does she desire now to be let go. Her life at Haworth is part of Emily's life; it partakes
of the immortality of the unforgotten dead. London and Thackeray, the Smiths, Mrs. Gaskell,
and Miss Martineau, Sir John and Lady Kay-Shuttleworth, her celebrity and the little train
of cheerful, unfamiliar circumstances, all these things sink into insignificance beside it.
They are all extraneous somehow, and out of keeping. Nothing that her biographers have done
(when they have done their worst) can destroy or even diminish the effect her life gives of
unity, of fitness, of profound and tragic harmony. It was Mrs. Gaskell's sense of this effect
that made her work a masterpiece.

And in her marriage, at Haworth, to her father's curate, Arthur Nicholls, the marriage that
cut short her life and made an end of her celebrity, Charlotte Brontë followed before all things
her instinct for fitness, for unity, for harmony. It was exquisitely in keeping. It did no
violence to her memories, her simplicities and sanctities. It found her in the apathy of exhaustion,
and it was yet one with all that was passionate in her and undying. She went to it one morning
in May, all white and drooping, in her modest gown and that poor little bridal bonnet with
its wreath of snowdrops, symbolic of all the timidities, the reluctances, the cold austerities
of spring roused in the lap of winter, and yet she found in it the secret fire of youth. She
went to it afraid; and in her third month of marriage she still gives a cry wrung from the
memory of her fear. "Indeed, indeed, Nell, it is a solemn and strange and perilous thing for
a woman to become a wife."

And yet for all that, after London, after fame and friendships in which her dead had no share,
her marriage was not the great departure; it was the great return. It was the outcome of all
that had gone before it; the fruit of painful life, which is recognition, acceptance, the final
trust in destiny. There were to be no more false starts, no more veiled ghosts of the cross-roads,
pointing the disastrous way.

And in its abrupt and pitiful end her life rang true; it sustained the tragic harmony. It was
the fulfilment of secret prophecies, forebodings, premonitions, of her reiterated "It was not
to be." You may say that in the end life cheated and betrayed her.

And inevitably; for she had loved life, not as Emily loved it, like an equal, with power over
it and pride and an unearthly understanding, virgin and unafraid. There was something slightly
subservient, consciously inferior, in Charlotte's attitude to life. She had loved it secretly,
with a sort of shame, with a corroding passion and incredulity and despair. Such natures are
not seldom victims of the power they would propitiate. It killed her in her effort to bring
forth life.

When the end came she could not realize it. For the first time she was incredulous of disaster.
She heard, out of her last stupor, her husband praying that God would spare her, and she whispered,
"Oh, I am not going to die, am I? He will not separate us; we have been so happy."

You can see her youth rising up beside that death-bed and answering, "That is why."

And yet, could even Charlotte's youth have been so sure as to the cheating and betrayal? That
happiness of hers was cut short in the moment of its perfection. She was not to suffer any
disenchantment or decline; her love was not to know any cold of fear or her genius any fever
of frustration. She was saved the struggle we can see before her. Arthur Nicholls was passionately
fond of Charlotte. But he was hostile to Charlotte's genius and to Charlotte's fame. A plain,
practical, robust man, inimical to any dream. He could be adorably kind to a sick, submissive
Charlotte. Would he have been so tender to a Charlotte in revolt? She was spared the torture
of the choice between Arthur Nicholls and her genius. We know how she would have chosen. It
is well for her, and it is all one to literature, that she died, not "in a time of promise",
but in the moment of fulfilment.

       *       *       *       *       *

