"The best in the world," she answered mildly but promptly, feeling the doubt in the question.
"An' no one was able to understan' why you ran away as you did. I wonder now my heart didn't
break over it. The neighbors jist adored you: the best dancer an' singer, the gayest boy in
the parish, an' the Monsignor thought there was no other like you."

"I have forgotten how to sing an' dance, mother. I think these accomplishments can be easily
learned again. Does the Monsignor still hold his interest in me?"

"More than ever, I think, but he's a quiet man that says little when he means a good deal."

At nine o'clock an old woman came in with an evening paper, and gave a cry of joy at sight
of him. Having been instructed between the opening of the outer door and the woman's appearance,
Arthur took the old lady in his arms and kissed her. She was the servant of the house, more
companion than servant, wrinkled like an autumn leaf that has felt the heat, but blithe and active.

"So you knew me, Judy, in spite of the whiskers and the long absence?"

"Knew you, is it?" cried Judy, laughing, and crying, and talking at once, in a way quite wonderful
to one who had never witnessed this feat. "An' why shouldn't I know you? Didn't I hould ye
in me own two arrums the night you were born? An' was there a day afther that I didn't have
something to do wid ye? Oh, ye little spalpeen, to give us all the fright ye did, runnin' away
to Californy. Now if ye had run away to Ireland, there'd be some sinse in it. Musha thin, but
it was fond o' goold ye wor, an' ye hardly sixteen. I hope ye brought a pile of it back wid ye."

She rattled on in her joy until weariness took them all at the same moment, and they withdrew
to bed. He was awakened in the morning by a cautious whispering in the room outside his door.

"Pon me sowl," Judy was saying angrily, "ye take it like anny ould Yankee. Ye're as dull as
if 'twas his body on'y, an' not body an' sowl together, that kem home to ye. Jist like ould
Mrs. Wilcox the night her son died, sittin' in her room, an' crowshayin' away, whin a dacint
woman 'ud be howlin' wid sorra like a banshee."

"To tell the truth," Anne replied, "I can't quite forgive him for the way he left me, an' it's
so long since I saw him, Judy, an' he's so thin an' miserable lookin', that I feel as if he
was only a fairy child."

"Mother, you're talking too loud to your neighbors," he cried out then in a cheery and familiar
voice, for he saw at once the necessity of removing the very natural constraint indicated by
his mother's words; and there was a sudden cry from the women, Judy flying to the kitchen while
Anne came to his door.

"It's true the walls have ears," she said with a kindly smile. "But you and I, son, will have
to make many's the explanation of that kind before you are well settled in your old home."

He arose for breakfast with the satisfaction of having enjoyed a perfect sleep, and with a
delightful interest in what the day had in store for him. Judy bantered and petted him. His
mother carried him over difficult allusions in her speech. The sun looked in on him pleasantly,
he took a sniff of air from a brickish garden, saw the brown walls of the cathedral not far
away, and then went back to bed. A sudden and overpowering weakness came upon him which made
the bed agreeable. Here he was to receive such friends as would call upon him that day. Anne
Dillon looked somewhat anxious over the ordeal, and his own interest grew sharper each moment,
until the street-door at last opened with decision, and his mother whispered quickly:

"Louis Everard! Make much of him."

She went out to check the brisk and excited student who wished to enter with a shout, warning
him that the returned wanderer was a sick man. There was silence for a moment, and then the
young fellow appeared in the doorway.

"Will you have a fit if I come any nearer?" he said roguishly.

In the soft, clear light from the window Arthur saw a slim, manly figure, a lovable face lighted
by keen blue eyes, a white and frank forehead crowned by light hair, and an expression of face
that won him on the instant. This was his chum, whom he had loved, and trained, and tyrannized
over long ago. For the first time since his sorrow he felt the inrushing need of love's sympathy,
and with tear-dimmed eyes he mutely held out his arms. Louis flew into the proffered embrace,
and kissed him twice with the ardor of a boy. The affectionate touch of his lips quite unmanned
Arthur, who was silent while the young fellow sat on the side of the bed with one arm about
him, and began to ply him with questions.

"Tell me first of all," he said, "how you had the heart to do it, to run away from so many
that loved the ground you walked on. I cried my eyes out night after night ... and your poor
mother ... and indeed all of us ... how could you do it? What had we done?"

"Drop it," said Arthur. "At that time I could have done anything. It was pure thoughtlessness,
regretted many a time since. I did it, and there's the end of it, except that I am suffering
now and must suffer more for the folly."

"One thing, remember," said Louis, "you must let them all see that your heart is in the right
place. I'm not going to tell you all that was said about you. But you must let every one see
that you are as good as when you left us."

"That would be too little, dear heart. Any man that has been through my experiences and did
not show himself ten times better than ever he was before, ought to stay in the desert."

"That sounds like you," said Louis, gently pulling his beard.

"Tell me, partner," said Arthur lightly, "would you recognize me with whiskers?"

"Never. There is nothing about you that reminds me of that boy who ran away. Just think, it's
ten years, and how we all change in ten years. But say, what adventures you must have had!
I've got to hear the whole story, mind, from the first chapter to the last. You are to come
over to the house two nights in a week, to the old room, you remember, and unfold the secrets
of ten years. Haven't you had a lot of them?"

"A car-load, and of every kind. In the mines and forests, on the desert, lost in the mountains,
hunting and fishing and prospecting; not to mention love adventures of the tenderest sort.
I feel pleasant to think of telling you my latest adventures in the old room, where I used
to curl you up with fright----"

"Over stories of witches and fairies," cried Louis, "when I would crawl up your back as we
lay in bed, and shiver while I begged you to go on. And the room is just the same, for all
the new things have the old pattern. I felt you would come back some day with a bag of real
stories to be told in the same dear old place."

"Real enough surely," said Arthur with a deep sigh, "and I hope they may not tire you in the
telling. Mother ... tells me that you are going to be a priest. Is that true?"

"As far as I can see now, yes. But one is never certain."

"Then I hope you will be one of the Monsignor's stamp. That man is surely a man of God."

"Not a doubt of it," said Louis, taking his hat to go.

"One thing," said Arthur as he took his hand and detained him. He was hungry for loving intimacy
with this fine lad, and stammered in his words. "We are to be the same ... brothers ... that
we were long ago!"

"That's for you to say, old man," replied Louis, who was pleased and even flattered, and petted
Arthur's hands. "I always had to do as you said, and was glad to be your slave. I have been
the faithful one all these years. It is your turn now."

After that Arthur cared little who came to see him. He was no longer alone. This youth loved
him with the love of fidelity and gratitude, to which he had no claim except by adoption from
Mrs. Anne Dillon; but it warmed his heart and cheered his spirit so much that he did not discuss
with himself the propriety of owning and enjoying it. He looked with delight on Louis' mother
when she came later in the day, and welcomed him as a mother would a dear son. A nun accompanied
her, whose costume gave him great surprise and some irritation. She was a frank-faced but homely
woman, who wore her religious habit with distinction. Arthur felt as if he were in a chapel
while she sat by him and studied his face. His mother did the talking for him, compared his
features with the portrait on the wall, and recalled the mischievous pranks of his wild boyhood,
indirectly giving him much information as to his former relationships with the visitors. Mrs.
Everard had been fond of him, and Sister Mary Magdalen had prepared him for his first communion.
This fact the nun emphasized by whispering to him as she was about to leave:

"I hope you have not neglected your religious duties?"

"Monsignor will tell you," he said with an amused smile. He found no great difficulty in dealing
with the visitors that came and went during the first week. Thanks to his mother's tactful
management no hitches occurred more serious than the real Arthur Dillon might have encountered
after a long absence. The sick man learned very speedily how high his uncle stood in the city,
for the last polite inquiry of each visitor was whether the Senator had called to welcome his
nephew. In the narrow world of the Endicotts the average mind had not strength enough to conceive
of a personality which embraced in itself a prize-fighter and a state senator. The terms were
contradictory. True, Nero had been actor and gladiator, and the inference was just that an
American might achieve equal distinction; but the Endicott mind refused to consider such an
inference. Arthur Dillon no longer found anything absurd or impossible. The surprises of his
new position charmed him. Three months earlier and the wildest libeller could not have accused
him of an uncle lower in rank than a governor of the state. Sonorous names, senator and gladiator,
brimful of the ferocity and dignity of old Rome! near as they had been in the days of Cæsar,
one would have thought the march of civilization might have widened the interval. Here was
a rogue's march indeed! Judy gave the Senator a remarkable character.

"The Senator, is it?" said she when asked for an opinion. "Divil a finer man from here to himself!
There isn't a sowl in the city that doesn't bless his name. He's a great man bekase he was
born so. He began life with his two fishts, thumpin' other boys wid the gloves, as they call
'em. Thin he wint to the war, an' began fightin' wid powdher an' guns, so they med him a colonel.
Thin he kem home an' wint fightin' the boss o' the town, so they med him a senator. It was
all fightin' wid him, an' they say he's at it yet, though he luks so pleasant all the time,
he must find it healthy. I don't suppose thim he's fightin' wid finds it as agreeable. Somewan
must git the batin', ye know. There's jist the differ betune men. I've been usin' me fists
all me life, beltin' the washboord, an' I'm nowhere yet. An' Tommy Kilbride the baker, he's
been poundin' at the dough for thirty years, an' he's no better off than I am. But me noble
Dan Dillon that began wid punchin' the heads of his neighbors, see where he is to-day. But
he's worthy of it, an' I'd be the last to begrudge him his luck."

In the Endicott circle the appearance of a senator as great as Sumner had not been an event
to flutter the heart, though the honor was unquestioned; but never in his life had the young
man felt a keener interest than in the visit of his new uncle. He came at last, a splendid
figure, too ample in outline and too rich in color for the simple room. The first impression
he made was that of the man. The powerful and subtle essence of the man breathed from him.
His face and figure had that boldness of line and depth of color which rightly belong to the
well-bred peasant. He was well dressed, and handsome, with eyes as soft and bright as a Spaniard's.
Arthur was overcome with delight. In Louis he had found sympathy and love, and in the Senator
he felt sure that he would find ideal strength and ideal manhood, things for the weak to lean
upon. The young patrician seized his uncle's hand and pressed it hard between his own. At this
affectionate greeting the Senator's voice failed him, and he had difficulty in keeping back
his tears.

"If your father were only here now, God rest his soul this day," he said. "How he loved you.
Often an' often he said to me that his happiness would be complete if he lived to see you a
man. He died, but I live to see it, an' to welcome you back to your own. The Dillons are dying
out. You're the only one of our family with the family name. What's the use o' tellin' you
how glad we are that Californy didn't swallow you up forever."

Arthur thanked him fervently, and complimented him on his political honors. The Senator beamed
with the delight of a man who finds the value of honors in the joy which they give his friends.

"Yes, I've mounted, Artie, an' I came by everything I have honest. You'll not be ashamed of
me, boy, when you see where I stand outside. But there's one thing about politics very hard,
the enemy don't spare you. If you were to believe all that's said of me by opponents I'm afraid
you wouldn't shake hands with me in public."

"I suppose they bring up the prize-fighting," said Arthur. "You ought to have told them that
no one need be ashamed to do what many a Roman emperor did."

"Ah," cried the Senator, "there's where a man feels the loss of an education. I never knew
the emperors did any ring business. What a sockdologer it would have been to compare myself
with the Roman emperors."

"Then you've done with fighting, uncle?"

There was regret in his tone, for he felt the situation would have been improved if the Senator
were still before the public as a gladiator.

"I see you ain't lost none o' your old time deviltry, Artie," he replied good-naturedly. "I
gave that up long ago, an' lots o' things with it. But givin' up has nothin' to do with politics,
an' regular all my sins are retailed in the papers. But one thing they can never say: that
I was a liar or a thief. An' they can't say that I ever broke my word, or broke faith with
the people that elected me, or did anything that was not becoming in a senator. I respect that
position an' the honor for all they're worth."

"And they can never say," added Arthur, "that you were afraid of any man on earth, or that
you ever hurt the helpless, or ever deserted a friend or a soul that was in need."

The Senator flushed at the unexpected praise and the sincerity of the tone. He was anxious
to justify himself even before this sinner, because his dead brother and his sister-in-law
had been too severe on his former occupations to recognize the virtues which Arthur complimented.

"Whatever I have been," said the Senator, pressing the hand which still held his, "I was never
less than a square man."

"That's easy to believe, uncle, and I'll willingly punch the head of the first man that denies it."

"Same old spirit," said the delighted Senator. "Why, you little rogue, d'ye remember when you
used to go round gettin' all the pictures o' me in me fightin' days, an' makin' your dear mother
mad by threatenin' to go into the ring yourself? Why; you had your own fightin' gear, gloves
an' clubs an' all that, an' you trained young Everard in the business, till his old ... his
father put a head ... put a stop to it."

"Fine boy, that Louis, but I never thought he'd turn to the Church."

"He never had any thin' else in him," said the Senator earnestly. "It was born in him as fightin'
an' general wildness was born in you an' me. Look into his face an' you'll see it. Fine? The
boy hasn't his like in the city or the land. I'll back him for any sum--I'll stand to it that
he'll be archbishop some day."

"Which I'll never be," said Arthur with a grin.

"Every man in his place, Artie. I've brought you yours, if you want to take it. How would politics
in New York suit you?"

"I'm ripe for anything with fun in it."

"Then you won't find fault, Artie, if I ask how things stood with you--you see it's this way,
Artie----"

"Now, hold on, old man," said Arthur. "If you are going to get embarrassed in trying to do
something for me, then I withdraw. Speak right out what you have to say, and leave me to make
any reply that suits me."

"Then, if you'll pardon me, did you leave things in Californy straight an' square, so that
nothin' could be said about you in the papers as to your record?"

"Straight as a die, uncle."

"An' would you take the position of secretary to the chief an' so get acquainted with everything
an' everybody?"

"On the spot, and thank you, if you can wait till I am able to move about decently."

"Then it's done, an' I'm the proudest man in the state to see another Dillon enterin'----"

"The ring," said Arthur.

"No, the arena of politics," corrected the Senator. "An' I can tell from your talk that you
have education an' sand. In time we'll make you mayor of the town."

When he was going after a most affectionate conversation with his nephew the Senator made a
polite suggestion to Mrs. Dillon.

"His friends an' my friends an' the friends of his father, an' the rank an' file generally
want to see an' to hear this young man, just as the matter stands. Still more will they wish
to give him the right hand of fellowship when they learn that he is about to enter on a political
career. Now, why not save time and trouble by just giving a reception some day about the end
of the month, invite the whole ga--the whole multitude, do the thing handsome, an' wind it
up forever?"

The Senator had an evident dread of his sister-in-law, and spoke to her with senatorial dignity.
She meekly accepted his suggestion, and humbly attended him to the door. His good sense had
cleared the situation. Preparation for a reception would set a current going in the quiet house,
and relieve the awkwardness of the new relationships; and it would save time in the business
of renewing old acquaintance. They took up the work eagerly. The old house had to be refitted
for the occasion, his mother had to replenish a scanty wardrobe, and he had to dress himself
in the fashion proper to Arthur Dillon. Anne's taste was good, inclined to rich but simple
coloring, and he helped her in the selection of materials, insisting on expenditures which
awed and delighted her. Judy Haskell came in for her share of raiment, and carried out some
dread designs on her own person with conviction. It was pure pleasure to help these simple
souls who loved him.

After a three weeks' stay in the house he went about the city at his ease, and busied himself
with the study and practise of his new personality. In secret, even from Louis who spent much
of his leisure with him, he began to acquire the well-known accomplishments of the real Arthur
Dillon, who had sung and danced his way into the hearts of his friends, who had been a wit
for a boy, bubbling over with good spirits, an athlete, a manager of amateur minstrels, a precocious
gallant among the girls, a fighter ever ready to defend the weak, a tireless leader in any
enterprise, and of a bright mind, but indifferent to study. The part was difficult for him
to play, since his nature was staidness itself beside the spontaneity and variety of Arthur
Dillon: but his spirits rose in the effort, some feeling within responded to the dash and daring
of this lost boy, so much loved and so deeply mourned.

Louis helped him in preparing his wardrobe, very unlike anything an Endicott had ever worn.
Lacking the elegance and correctness of earlier days, and of a different character, it was
in itself a disguise. He wore his hair long and thick in the Byronic fashion, and a curly beard
shadowed his lower face. Standing at the glass on the afternoon of the reception he felt confident
that Horace Endicott had fairly disappeared beneath the new man Dillon. His figure had filled
out slightly, and had lost its mournful stoop; his face was no longer wolfish in its leanness,
and his color had returned, though melancholy eyes marked by deep circles still betrayed the
sick heart. Yet the figure in the glass looked as unlike Horace Endicott as Louis Everard.
He compared it with the accurate portrait sent out by his pursuers through the press. Only
the day before had the story of his mysterious disappearance been made public. For months they
had sought him quietly but vainly. It was a sign of their despair that the journals should
have his story, his portrait, and a reward for his discovery.

No man sees his face as others see it, but the difference between the printed portrait and
the reflection of Arthur Dillon in the mirror was so startling that he felt humbled and pained,
and had to remind himself that this was the unlikeness he so desired. The plump and muscular
figure of Horace Endicott, dressed perfectly, posed affectively, expressed the self-confidence
of the aristocrat. His smooth face was insolent with happiness and prosperity, with that spirit
called the pride of life. But for what he knew of this man, he could have laughed at his self-sufficiency.
The mirror gave back a shrunken, sickly figure, somewhat concealed by new garments, and the
eyes betrayed a poor soul, cracked and seamed by grief and wrong; no longer Horace Endicott,
broken by sickness of mind and heart, and disguised by circumstance, but another man entirely.
What a mill is sorrow, thus to grind up an Endicott and from the dust remold a Dillon! The
young aristocrat, plump, insolent, shallow, and self-poised, looked commonplace in his pride
beside this broken man, who had walked through the abyss of hell, and nevertheless saved his soul.

He discovered as he gazed alternately on portrait and mirror that a singular feeling had taken
hold of him. Horace Endicott all at once seemed remote, like a close friend swallowed and obliterated
years ago by the sea; while within himself, whoever he might be, some one seemed struggling
for release, or expression, or dominion. He interpreted it promptly. Outwardly, he was living
the life of Arthur Dillon, and inwardly that Arthur was making war on Horace Endicott, taking
possession as an enemy seizes a stubborn land, reaching out for those remote citadels wherein
the essence of personality resides. He did not object. He was rather pleased, though he shivered
with a not unwelcome dread.

The reception turned out a marvelous affair for him who had always been bored by such ceremonies.
His mother, resplendent in a silk dress of changeable hue, seemed to walk on air. Mrs. Everard
and her daughter Mona assisted Anne in receiving the guests. The elder women he knew were Irish
peasants, who in childhood had run barefoot to school on a breakfast of oatmeal porridge, and
had since done their own washing and baking for a time. Only a practised eye could have distinguished
them from their sisters born in the purple. Mona was a beauty, who earned her own living as
a teacher, and had the little virtues of the profession well marked; truly a daughter of the
gods, tall for a woman, with a mocking face all sparkle and bloom, small eyes that flashed
like gems, a sharp tongue, and a head of silken hair, now known as the Titian red, but at that
time despised by all except artists and herself. She was a witch, an enchantress, who thought
no man as good as her brother, and showed other men only the regard which irritates them. And
Arthur loved her and her mother because they belonged to Louis.

"I don't know how you'll like the arrangements," Louis said to him, when all things were ready.
"This is not a society affair. It's an affair of the clan. The Dillons and their friends have
a right to attend. So you must be prepared for hodcarriers as well as aristocrats."

At three o'clock the house and the garden were thrown open to the stream of guests. Arthur
gazed in wonder. First came old men and women of all conditions, laborers, servants, small
shopkeepers, who had known his father and been neighbors and clients for years. Dressed in
their best, and joyful over his return to life and home and friends, they wrung his hands,
wept over him, and blessed him until their warm delight and sincerity nearly overcame him,
who had never known the deep love of the humble for the head of the clan. The Senator was their
benefactor, their bulwark and their glory; but Arthur was the heir, the hope of the promising
future. They went through the ceremony of felicitation and congratulation, chatted for a while,
and then took their leave as calmly and properly as the dames and gallants of a court; and
one and all bowed to the earth with moist and delighted eyes before the Everards.

"How like a queen she looks," they said of the mother.

"The blessin' o' God on him," they said of Louis, "for priest is written all over him, an'
how could he help it wid such a mother."

"She's fit for a king," they said of Mona. "Wirra, an' to think she'd look at a plain man like
Doyle Grahame."

But of Anne Dillon and her son they said nothing, so much were they overcome by surprise at
the splendor of the mother and the son, and the beauty of the old house made over new. After
dark the Senator arrived, which was the signal for a change in the character of the guests.

"You'll get the aristocracy now, the high Irish," said Louis.

Arthur recognized it by its airs, its superciliousness, and several other bad qualities. It
was a budding aristocracy at the ugliest moment of its development; city officials and their
families, lawyers, merchants, physicians, journalists, clever and green and bibulous, who ran
in with a grin and ran out with a witticism, out of respect for the chief, and who were abashed
and surprised at the superior insolence of the returned Dillon. Reminded of the story that
he had returned a wealthy man, many of them lingered. With these visitors however came the
pillars of Irish society, solid men and dignified women, whom the Senator introduced as they
passed. There were three emphatic moments which impressed Arthur Dillon. A hush fell upon the
chattering crowd one instant, and people made way for Monsignor O'Donnell, who looked very
gorgeous to Arthur in his purple-trimmed soutane, and purple cloak falling over his broad shoulders.
The politicians bent low, the flippant grew serious, the faithful few became reverent. A successful
leader was passing, and they struggled to touch his garments. Arthur's heart swelled at the
silent tribute, for he loved this man.

"His little finger," said the Senator in a whisper, "is worth more to them than my whole body."

A second time this wave of feeling invaded the crowd, when a strong-faced, quiet-mannered man
entered the room, and paid his respects to the Dillons. Again the lane was made, and hearts
fluttered and many hands were outstretched in greeting to the political leader, Hon. John Sullivan,
the head of Tammany, the passing idol of the hour, to whom Arthur was soon to be private secretary.
He would have left at once but that the Senator whispered something in his ear; and presently
the two went into the hall to receive the third personage of the evening, and came back with
him, deeply impressed by the honor of his presence. He was a short, stocky man, of a military
bearing, with a face so strongly marked as to indicate a certain ferocity of temperament; his
deep and sparkling eyes had eyebrows aslant after the fashion of Mephisto; the expression a
little cynical, all determination, but at that moment good-natured. The assembly fell into
an ecstasy at the sight and the touch of their hero, for no one failed to recognize the dashing
General Sheridan. They needed only a slight excuse to fall at his feet and adore him.

Arthur was impressed indeed, but his mother had fallen into a state of heavenly trance over
the greatness which had honored their festival. She recovered only when the celebrities had
departed and the stream of guests had come to an end. Then came a dance in the garden for the
young people, and the school-friends of Arthur Dillon made demands upon him for the entertainment
of which his boyhood had given such promise; so he sang his songs with nerve and success, and
danced strange dances with graceful foot, until the common voice declared that he had changed
only in appearance, which was natural, and had kept the promise of his boyhood for gayety of
spirits, sweet singing, and fine dancing.

"I feel more than ever to-night," said Louis at parting, "that all of you has come home."

Reviewing the events of the day in his own room after midnight, he felt like an actor whose
first appearance has been a success. None of the guests seemed to have any doubt of his personality,
or to feel any surprise at his appearance. For them Arthur Dillon had come home again after
an adventurous life, and changes were accepted as the natural result of growth. They took him
to their heart without question. He was loved. What Horace Endicott could not command with
all his wealth, the love of his own kin, a poor, broken adventurer, Arthur Dillon, enjoyed
in plenty. Well, thank God for the good fortune which followed so unexpectedly his exit from
the past. He had a secure place in tender hearts for the first time since father and mother
died. What is life without love and loving? What are love and loving without God? He could
say again, as on the shore of the little pool, I believe in God forever.

CHAPTER VII.

THE DILLON CLAN.

After the reception Arthur Dillon fell easily into the good graces of the clan, and found his
place quite naturally; but like the suspicious intruder his ears and eyes remained wide open
to catch the general sentiment about himself, and the varying opinions as to his manners and
character. He began to perceive by degrees the magnitude of the task which he had imposed upon
himself; the act of disappearing was but a trifle compared with the relationships crowding
upon him in his new environment. He would be forced to maintain them all with some likeness
to the method which would have come naturally to the real Dillon. The clan made it easy for
him. Since allowance had to be conceded to his sickly condition, they formed no decisive opinions
about him, accepting pleasantly, until health and humor would urge him to speak of his own
accord, Anne's cloudy story of his adventures, of luck in the mines, and of excuses for his
long silence. All observed the new element in his disposition; the boy who had been too heedless
and headlong to notice anything but what pleased him, now saw everything; and kept at the same
time a careful reserve about his past and present experiences, which impressed his friends
and filled Judy Haskell with dread.

"Tommy Higgins," she said, to Anne in an interval of housework, "kem home from Texas pritty
much the same, with a face an him as long as yer arm, an' his mouth shut up like an old door.
Even himself cudn't open it. He spint money free, an' av coorse that talked for him. But wan
day, whin his mother was thryin' an a velvet sack he bought for her, an' fightin' him bekase
there was no fur collar to id, in walked his wife an' three childher to him an' her, an' shtayed
wid her ever afther. Begob, she never said another word about fur collars, an' she never got
another velvet sack till she died. Tommy had money, enough to kape them all decent, bud not
enough for velvet and silk an' joolry. From that minnit he got back his tongue, an' he talked
himself almost to death about what he didn't do, an' what he did do in Californy. So they med
him a tax-collecthor an' a shtump-speaker right away, an' that saved his neighbors from dyin'
o' fatague lishtenin' to his lies. Take care, Anne Dillon, that this b'y o' yours hastn't a
wife somewhere."

Anne was in the precise attitude of old Mrs. Higgins when her son's wife arrived, fitting a
winter cloak to her trim figure. At the sudden suggestion she sat down overcome.

"Oh, God forgive you, Judy," said she, "even to mention such a thing. I forbid you ever to
speak of it again. I don't care what woman came in the door, I'd turn her out like a thramp.
He's mine, I've been widout him ten years, and I'm going to hold him now against every schemin'
woman in the world."

"Faith," said Judy, "I don't want to see another woman in the house anny more than yerself.
I'm on'y warnin' yez. It 'ud jist break my heart to lose the grandher he's afther puttin' on yez."

The two women looked about them with mournful admiration. The house, perfect in its furnishings,
delighted the womanly taste. In Anne's wardrobe hung such a collection of millinery, dresses,
ornaments, that the mere thought of losing it saddened their hearts. And the loss of that future
which Anne Dillon had seen in her own day-dreams ... she turned savagely on Judy.

"You were born wid an evil eye, Judy Haskell," cried she, "to see things no wan but you would
ever think of. Never mention them again."

"Lemme tell ye thin that there's others who have somethin' to say besides meself. If they're
in a wondher over Artie, they're in a greater wondher over Artie's mother, buyin' silks, an'
satins, an' jools like an acthress, an' dhressin' as gay as a greenhorn jist over from Ireland."

"They're jealous, an' I'm goin' to make them more so," said Anne with a gleeful laugh, as she
flung away care and turned to the mirror. For the first time since her youth she had become
a scandal to her friends.

Judy kept Arthur well informed of the general feeling and the common opinion, and he took pains
not only to soothe his mother's fright but also to explain the little matters which irritated
her friends. Mrs. Everard did not regard the change in Anne with complacency.

"Arthur is changed for the better, but his mother for the worse," she said to Judy, certain
that the old lady would retail it to her mistress. "A woman of fifty, that always dressed in
dark colors, sensibly, to take all at once to red, and yellow, and blue, and to order bonnets
like the Empress Eugenie's ... well, one can't call her crazy, but she's on the way."

"She has the money," sighed Mona, who had none.

"Sure she always had that kind of taste," said Judy in defence, "an' whin her eyes was blue
an' her hair yalla, I dunno but high colors wint well enough. Her father always dhressed her
well. Anyhow she's goin' to make up for all the years she had to dhress like an undertaker.
Yistherday it was a gran' opery-cloak, as soon as Artie tould her he had taken four opery sates
for the season."

The ladies gasped, and Mona clapped her hands at the prospect of unlimited opera, for Anne
had always been kind to her in such matters.

"But all that's nawthin'," Judy went on demurely, "to what's comin' next week. It's a secret
o' coorse, an' I wudn't have yez mintion it for the world, though yez'll hear it soon enough.
Micksheen has a new cage all silver an' goold, an' Artie says he has a piddygree, which manes
that they kep' thrack of him as far back as Adam an' Eve, as they do for lords an' ladies;
though how anny of 'em can get beyant Noah an' the ark bates me. Now they're puttin' Micksheen
in condition, which manes all sorts of nonsense, an' plenty o' throuble for the poor cat, that
does be bawlin' all over the house night an' day wid the dhread of it, an' lukkin' up at me
pitiful to save him from what's comin'. Artie has enthered his name at the polis headquarthers
somewhere, that he's a prize cat, an' he's to be sint in the cage to the cat show to win a
prize over fifty thousand other cats wid piddygrees. They wanted me to attind on Micksheen,
but I sed no, an' so they've hired a darky in a uniform to luk after him. An' wanst a day Anne
is goin' to march up to the show in a different dhress, an' luk in at Micksheen."

At this point Judy's demureness gave way and she laughed till the tears came. The others could
not but join.

"Well, that's the top of the hill," said Mrs. Everard. "Surely Arthur ought to know enough
to stop that tomfoolery. If he doesn't I will, I declare."

Arthur however gave the affair a very different complexion when she mentioned it.

"Micksheen is a blooded cat," said he, "for Vandervelt presented it to the Senator, who gave
it to mother. And I suggested the cat-show for two reasons: mother's life has not been any
too bright, and I had a big share in darkening it; so I'm going to crowd as much fun into it
as she is willing to stand. Then I want to see how Micksheen stands in the community. His looks
are finer than his pedigree, which is very good. And I want every one to know that there's
nothing too good in New York for mother, and that she's going to have a share in all the fun
that's going."

"That's just like you, and I wish you luck," said Mary Everard.

Not only did he go about explaining, and mollifying public sentiment himself, he also secured
the services of Sister Mary Magdalen for the same useful end. The nun was a puzzle to him.
Encased in her religious habit like a knight in armor, her face framed in the white gamp and
black veil, her hands hidden in her long sleeves, she seemed to him a fine automaton, with
a sweet voice and some surprising movements; for he could not measure her, nor form any impression
of her, nor see a line of her natural disposition. Her human side appeared very clearly in
her influence with the clan, her sincere and affectionate interest in himself, and her appetite
for news in detail. Had she not made him live over again the late reception by her questions
as to what was done, what everybody said, and what the ladies wore? Unwearied in aiding the
needy, she brought him people of all sorts and conditions, in whom he took not the slightest
interest, and besought his charity for them. He gave it in exchange for her good will, making
her clearly understand that the change in his mother's habits must not lead to anything like
annoyance from her old friends and neighbors.

"Oh, dear, no," she exclaimed, "for annoyance would only remove you from our midst, and deprive
us of a great benefactor, for I am sure you will prove to be that. May I introduce to you my
friend, Miss Edith Conyngham?"

He bowed to the apparition which came forward, seized his hands, held them and patted them
affectionately, despite his efforts to release them.

"We all seem to have known you since childhood," was her apology.

The small, dark woman, pale as a dying nun, irritated him. Blue glasses concealed her eyes,
and an ugly costume concealed her figure; she came out of an obscure corner behind the nun,
and fell back into it noiselessly, but her voice and manner had the smoothness of velvet. He
looked at her hands patting his own, and found them very soft, white, untouched by age, and
a curious contrast to her gray hair. Interest touching him faintly he responded to her warmth,
and looked closely into the blue glasses with a smile. Immediately the little woman sank back
into her corner. Long after he settled the doubt which assailed him at that moment, if there
were not significance in her look and words and manner. Sister Magdalen bored him ten minutes
with her history. He must surely take an interest in her ... great friend of his father's ...
and indeed of his friends ... her whole life devoted to religion and the poor ... the recklessness
of others had driven her from a convent where she had been highly esteemed ... she had to be
vindicated ... her case was well on the way to trial ... nothing should be left undone to make
it a triumph. Rather dryly he promised his aid, wondering if he had really caught the true
meaning of the little woman's behavior. He gave up suspicion when Judy provided Miss Conyngham
with a character.

"This is the way of it," said Judy, "an' it's aisy to undhershtan' ... thin agin I dinno as
it's so aisy ... but annyway she was a sisther in a convent out west, an' widout lave or license
they put her out, bekase she wudn't do what the head wan ordhered her to do. So now she's in
New York, an' Sisther Mary Mag Dillon is lukkin afther her, an' says she must be righted if
the Pope himself has to do it. We all have pity an her, knowin' her people as we did. A smarter
girl never opened a book in Ameriky. An' I'm her godmother."

"Then we must do something for her," said the master kindly in compliment to Judy. After his
mother and Judy none appealed to him like the women of the Everard home. The motherly grace
of Mary and the youthful charm of beautiful Mona attracted him naturally; from them he picked
up stray features of Arthur Dillon's character; but that which drew him to them utterly was
his love for Louis. Never had any boy, he believed, so profoundly the love of mother and sister.
The sun rose and set with him for the Everards, and beautiful eyes deepened in beauty and flashed
with joy when they rested on him. Arthur found no difficulty in learning from them the simple
story of the lad's childhood and youth.

"How did it happen," he inquired of Mary, "that he took up the idea of being a priest? It was
not in his mind ten years back?"

"He was the priest from his birth," she answered proudly. "Just seven months old he was when
a first cousin of mine paid us a visit. He was a young man, ordained about a week, ... we had
waited and prayed for that sight ten years ... he sang the Mass for us and blessed us all.
It was beautiful to see, the boy we had known all his life, to come among us a priest, and
to say Mass in front of Father O'Donnell--I never can call him Monsignor--with the sweetest
voice you ever heard. Well, the first thing he did when he came to my house and Louis was a
fat, hearty baby in the cradle, was to take him in his arms, look into his face a little while,
and then kiss him. And I'll never forget the words he said."

Her dark eyes were moist, but a smile lighted up her calm face.

"Mary," he said to me, "this boy should be the first priest of the next generation. I'll bless
him to that end, and do you offer him to God. And I did. He was the roughest child of all mine,
and showed very little of the spirit of piety as he grew up. But he was always the best boy
to his own. He had the heart for us all, and never took his play till he was sure the house
was well served. Nothing was said to him about being a priest. That was left to God. One winter
he began to keep a little diary, and I saw in it that he was going often to Mass on week days,
and often to confession. He was working then with his father in the office, since he did not
care much for school. Then the next thing I knew he came to me one night and put his arms about
me to say that he wished to be a priest, to go to college, and that this very cousin who had
blessed him in the cradle had urged him to make known the wish that was in him, for it seems
he discovered what we only hoped for. And so he has been coming and going ever since, a blessing
to the house, and sure I don't know how I shall get along without him when he goes to the seminary
next year."

"Nor I," said Arthur with a start. "How can you ever think of giving him up?"

"That's the first thing we have to learn," she replied with a smile at his passion. "The children
all leave the house in time one way or another. It's only a question of giving him to God's
service or to the service of another woman. I could never be jealous of God."

He laughed at this suggestion of jealousy in a mother. Of course she must hate the woman who
robs her of her son, and secures a greater love than a mother ever knew. The ways of nature,
or God, are indeed hard to the flesh. He thought of this as he sat in the attic room with his
light-hearted chum. He envied him the love and reverence of these good women, envied him that
he had been offered to God in his infancy; and in his envy felt a satisfaction that very soon
these affectionate souls would soon have to give Louis up to Another. To him this small room
was like a shrine, sacred, undefiled, the enclosure of a young creature specially called to
the service of man, perfumed by innocence, cared for by angels, let down from heaven into a
house on Cherry Street. Louis had no such fancies, but flung aside his books, shoved his chum
into a chair, placed his feet on a stool, put a cigar in his mouth and lighted it for him,
pulled his whiskers, and ordered the latest instalment of Dillon's Dark Doings in Dugout. Then
the legends of life in California began. Sometimes, after supper, a knock was heard at the
door, and there entered two little sisters, who must hear a bear-story from Arthur, and kiss
the big brother good-night; two delicate flowers on the rough stem of life, that filled Horace
Endicott with bitterness and joy when he gathered them into his embrace; the bitterness of
hate, the joy of escape from paternity. What softness, what beauty, what fragrance in the cherubs!
Trumps, their big brother called them, but the world knew them as Marguerite and Constance,
and they shared the human repugnance to an early bed.

"You ought to be glad to go to bed," Arthur said, "when you go to sleep so fast, and dream
beautiful dreams about angels."

"But I don't dream of angels," said Marguerite sadly. "Night before last I dreamed a big black
man came out of a cellar, and took baby away," casting a look of love at Constance in her brother's
arms.

"And I dreamed," said Constance, with a queer little pucker of her mouth, "that she was all
on fire, in her dress, and----"

This was the limit of her language, for the thought of her sister on fire overwhelmed the words
at her command.

"And baby woke up," the elder continued--for she was a second mother to Constance, and pieced
out all her deficiencies and did penance for her sins--"and she said to mother, 'throw water
on Marguerite to put her out.'"

"What sad dreams," Arthur said. "Tell Father O'Donnell about them."

"She has other things to tell him," Louis said with a grin. "I have no doubt you could help
her, Artie. She must go to confession sometime, and she has no sins to tell. The other day
when I was setting out for confession she asked me not to tell all my sins to the priest, but
to hold back a few and give them to her for her confession. Now you have enough to spare for
that honest use, I think."

"Oh, please, dear cousin Artie," said the child, thrilling his heart with the touch of her
tender lips on his cheek.

"There's no doubt I have enough," he cried with a secret groan. "When you are ready to go,
Marguerite, I will give you all you want."

The history of Arthur's stay in California was drawn entirely from his travels on the Pacific
slope, tedious to the narrator, but interesting because of the lad's interest, and because
of the picture which the rapt listener made. His study-desk near by, strewn with papers and
books, the white bed and bookcase farther off, pictures and mottoes of his own selection on
the white walls, a little altar in the depths of the dormer-window; and the lord of the little
domain in the foreground, hands on knees, lips parted, cheeks flushed, eyes fixed and dreamy,
seeing the rich colors and varied action as soon as words conveyed the story to the ear; a
perfect picture of the listening boy, to whom experience like a wandering minstrel sings the
glory of the future in the happenings of the past.

Arthur invariably closed his story with a fit of sighing. That happy past made his present
fate heavy indeed. Horace Endicott rose strong in him then and protested bitterly against Arthur
Dillon as a usurper; but sure there never was a gentler usurper, for he surrendered so willingly
and promptly that Endicott fled again into his voluntary obscurity. Louis comforted those heavy
moments with soft word and gentle touch, pulling his beard lovingly, smoothing his hair, lighting
for him a fresh cigar, asking no questions, and, when the dark humor deepened, exorcising the
evil spirit with a sprinkling of holy water. Prayers were said together--an overpowering moment
for the man who rarely prayed to see this faith and its devotion in the boy--and then to bed,
where Louis invariably woke to the incidents of the day and retailed them for an hour to his
amused ear; and with the last word fell into instant and balmy sleep. Oh, this wonder of unconscious
boyhood! Had this sad-hearted man ever known that blissful state? He lay there listening to
the soft and regular breathing of the child, who knew so little of life and evil. At last he
fell asleep moaning. It was Louis who woke with a sense of fright, felt that his bedfellow
was gone, and heard his voice at the other side of the room, an agonized voice that chilled him.

"To go back would be to kill her ... but I must go back ... and then the trail of blood over
all...."

Louis leaped out of bed, and lit the night-candle. Arthur stood beside the altar in the dormer-window,
motionless, with pallid face and open eyes that saw nothing.

"Why should such a wretch live and I be suffering?--she suffers too ... but not enough ...
the child ... oh, that was the worst ... the child ... my child...."

The low voice gave out the words distinctly and without passion, as of one repeating what was
told to him. Rid of fear Louis slapped him on the shoulder and shook him, laughing into his
astonished face when sense came back to him.

"It's like a scene, or a skene from Macbeth," he said. "Say, Artie, you had better make open
confession of your sins. Why should you want to kill her, and put the trail of blood over it all?"

"I said that, did I?" He thought a moment, then put his arms about Louis. They were sitting
on the side of the bed.

"You must know it sometime, Louis. It is only for your ear now. I had a wife ... she was worthless
... she lives ... that is all."

"And your child? you spoke of a child?"

Arthur shook with a chill and wiped the sweat from his forehead.

"No," he groaned, "no ... thank God for that ... I had no child."

After a little they went back to bed, and Louis made light of everything with stories of his
own sleep-walking until he fell asleep again. The candle was left burning. Misfortune rose
and sat looking at the boy curiously. With the luck of the average man, he might have been
father to a boy like this, a girl like Mona with beautiful hair and a golden heart, soft sweet
babies like the Trumps. He leaned over and studied the sleeping face, so sweetly mournful,
so like death, yet more spiritual, for the soul was there still. In this face the senses had
lost their daylight influence, had withdrawn into the shadows; and now the light of innocence,
the light of a beautiful soul, the light that never was on land or sea, shone out of the still
features. A feeling which had never touched his nature before took fierce possession of him,
and shook him as a tiger shakes his prey. He had to writhe in silence, to beat his head with
his hands, to stifle words of rage and hate and despair. At last exhausted he resigned himself,
he took the boy's hand in his, remembering that this innocent heart loved him, and fell into
a dreamless sleep.

The charm and the pain of mystery hung about the new life, attracting him, yet baffling him
at every step. He could not fathom or grasp the people with whom he lived intimately, they
seemed beyond him, and yet he dared ask no questions, dared not go even to Monsignor for explanations.
With the prelate his relations had to take that character which suited their individual standing.
When etiquette allowed him to visit the rector, Monsignor provided him with the philosophy
of the environment, explained the difficulties, and soothed him with the sympathy of a generous
heart acquainted with his calamities.

"It would have been better to have launched you elsewhere," he said, "but I knew no other place
well enough to get the right people. And then I have the hope that the necessity for this episode
will not continue."

"Death only will end it, Monsignor. Death for one or the other. It should come soon, for the
charm of this life is overpowering me. I shall never wish to go back if the charm holds me.
My uncle, the Senator, is about to place me in politics."

"I knew he would launch you on that stormy sea," Monsignor answered reflectively, "but you
are not bound to accept the enterprise."

"It will give me distraction, and I need distraction from this intolerable pain," tapping his
breast with a gesture of anguish.

"It will surely counter-irritate. It has entranced men like the Senator, and your chief; even
men like Birmingham. They have the ambition which runs with great ability. It's a pity that
the great prizes are beyond them."

"Why beyond them?"

"High office is closed to Catholics in this country."

"Here I run up against the mysterious again," he complained.

"Go down into your memory," Monsignor said after a little reflection, "and recall the first
feeling which obscurely stirred your heart when the ideas of Irish and Catholic were presented
to you. See if it was not distrust, dislike, irritation, or even hate; something different
from the feeling aroused by such ideas as Turk and atheist."

"Dislike, irritation, perhaps contempt, with a hint of amusement," Arthur replied thoughtfully.

"How came that feeling there touching people of whom you knew next to nothing?"

"Another mystery."

"Let me tell you. Hatred and contempt of the Irish Catholic has been the mark of English history
for four centuries, and the same feelings have become a part of English character. It is in
the English blood, and therefore it is in yours. It keeps such men as Sullivan and Birmingham
out of high office, and now it will act against you, strangely enough."

"I understand. Queer things, rum things in this world. I am such a mystery to myself, however,
that I ought not be surprised at outside mysteries."

"I often regret that I helped you to your present enterprise," said the priest, "on that very
account. Life is harsh enough without adding to its harshness."

"Never regret that you saved a poor fellow's life, reason, fortune, family name from shame
and blood," Arthur answered hotly. "I told you the consequences that were coming--you averted
them--there's no use to talk of gratitude--and through you I came to believe in God again,
as my mother taught me. No regret, for God's sake."

His voice broke for a moment, and he walked to the window. Outside he saw the gray-white walls
which would some day be the grand cathedral. The space about it looked like the studio of a
giant artist; piles of marble scattered here and there gave the half-formed temple the air
of a frowsy, ill-dressed child; and the mass rising to the sky resembled a cloud that might
suddenly melt into the ether. He had seen the great temples of the world, yet found in this
humbler, but still magnificent structure an element of wonder. From the old world, ancient,
rich in tradition, one expected all things; centaurs might spring from its soil unnoticed.
That the prosaic rocks of Manhattan should heave for this sublimity stirred the sense of admiring
wonder.

"This is your child?" said Arthur abruptly.

"I saw the foundation laid when I was a youth, great boulders of half-hewn rock, imbedded in
cement, to endure with the ages, able to support whatever man may pile upon them. This building
is part of my life--you may call it my child--for it seems to have sprung from me, although
a greater planned it."

"What a people to attempt this miracle," said Arthur.

"Now you have said it," cried the priest proudly. "The poor people to whom you now belong,
moved by the spirit which raised the great shrines of Europe, are building out of their poverty
and their faith the first really great temple on this continent. The country waited for them.
This temple will express more than a desire to have protection from bad weather, and to cover
the preacher's pulpit. Here you will have in stone faith, hope, love, sacrifice. What blessings
it will pour out upon the city, and upon the people who built it. For them it will be a great
glory many centuries perhaps."

"I shall have my share in the work," Arthur said with feeling. "I feel that I am here to stay,
and I shall be a stranger to no work in which my friends are engaged. I'll not let the mysteries
trouble me. I begin to see what you are, and a little of what you mean. Command me, for no
other in this world to-day has any right to command me--none with a right like yours, father
and friend."

"Thanks and amen, Arthur. Having no claim upon you we shall be all the more grateful. But in
good time. For the present look to yourself, closely, mind; and draw upon me, upon Louis, upon
your mother, they have the warmest hearts, for sympathy and consolation."

Not long before and Arthur Dillon would have received with the polite indifference of proud
and prosperous youth this generous offer of sympathy and love; but now it shook him to the
center, for he had learned, at what a fearful price! how precious, how necessary, how rare
is the jewel of human love.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE WEARIN' O' THE GREEN.

By degrees the effervescence of little Ireland, in which strange land his fortune had been
cast, began to steal into his blood. Mirth ruled the East side, working in each soul according
to his limitations. It was a wink, a smile, a drink, a passing gossoon, a sly girl, a light
trick, among the unspoken things; or a biting epigram, the phrase felicitous, a story gilt
with humor, a witticism swift and fatal as lightning; in addition varied activity, a dance
informal, a ceremonious ball, a party, a wake, a political meeting, the visit of the district
leader; and with all, as Judy expressed it, "lashins an' lavins, an' divil a thought of to-morrow."
Indeed this gay clan kept Yesterday so deeply and tenderly in mind that To-day's house had
no room for the uncertain morrow. He abandoned himself to the spirit of the place. The demon
of reckless fun caught him by the heels and sharpened his tongue, so that his wit and his dancing
became tonics for eyes and ears dusty with commonplace. His mother and his chum had to admonish
him, and it was very sweet to get this sign of their love for him. Reproof from our beloved
is sweeter than praise from an enemy.

They all watched over him as if he were heir to a throne. The Senator, busy with his approaching
entrance into local politics, had already introduced him to the leaders, who formed a rather
mixed circle of intelligence and power. He had met its kind before on the frontier, where the
common denominator in politics was manhood, not blue blood, previous good character, wealth,
nor the stamp of Harvard. A member held his place by virtue of courage, popularity, and ability.
Arthur made no inquiries, but took everything as it came. All was novelty, all surprise, and
to his decorous and orderly disposition, all ferment. The clan seemed to him to be rushing
onward like a torrent night and day, from the dance to the ward-meeting, from business to church,
interested and yet careless. The Senator informed him with pride that his début would take
place at the banquet on St. Patrick's Day, when he should make a speech.

"Do you think you can do it, me boy?" said the Senator. "If you think you can, why you can."

"I know I can," said the reckless Dillon, who had never made a speech in his life.

"An' lemme give you a subject," said Judy. They were all together in the sitting-room, where
the Senator had surprised them in a game of cards.

"Give a bastin' to Mare Livingstone," said Judy seriously. "I read in the Sun how he won't
inspect the parade on St. Patrick's Day, nor let the green flag fly on the city hall. There
must be an Orange dhrop in his blood, for no dacint Yankee 'ud have anny hathred for the blessed
green. Sure two years ago Mare Jones dressed himself up in a lovely green uniform, like an
Irish prince, an' lukked at the parade from a platform. It brought the tears to me eyes, he
lukked so lovely. They ought to have kep' him Mare for the rest of his life. An' for Mare Livingstone,
may never a blade o' grass or a green leaf grow on his grave."

The Senator beamed with secret pleasure, while the others began to talk together with a bitterness
beyond Arthur's comprehension.

"He ought to have kept his feelings to himself," said quiet Anne. "If he didn't like the green,
there was no need of insultin' us."

"And that wasn't the worst," Louis hotly added. "He gave a talk to the papers the next day,
and told how many Irish paupers were in the poorhouse, and said how there must be an end to
favoring the Irish."

"I saw that too," said Judy, "an' I sez to meself, sez I, he's wan o' the snakes St. Pathrick
dhruv out of Ireland."

"No need for surprise," Mona remarked, studying her cards, "for the man has only one thought:
to keep the Irish in the gutter. Do you suppose I would have been a teacher to-day if he could
have kept me out of it, with all his pretended friendship for papa."

"If you baste the Mayor like this now, there won't be much left for me to do at the banquet,"
said Arthur with a laugh for their fierceness.

"Ay, there it is," said Judy. "Yez young Americans have no love for the green, except for the
fun yez get out of it; barrin' dacint Louis here, who read the history of Ireland whin he was
tin years old, an' niver got over it. Oh, yez may laugh away! Ye are all for the red, white,
an' blue, till the Mare belts yez wid the red, white, an' blue, for he says he does everythin'
in honor o' thim colors, though I don't see how it honors thim to insult the green. He may
be a Livingshtone in name, but he's a dead wan for me."

The Senator grew more cheerful as this talk grew warmer, and then, seeing Arthur's wonderment,
he made an explanation.

"Livingstone is a good fellow, but he's not a politician, Artie. He thinks he can ru--manage
the affairs of this vil--metropolis without the Irish and especially without the Catholics.
Oh, he's death on them, except as boot-blacks, cooks, and ditch-diggers. He'd let them ru--manage
all the saloons. He's as mad--as indignant as a hornet that he could not boo--get rid of them
entirely during his term of office, and he had to speak out his feelings or bu--die. And he
has put his foot in it artistically. He has challenged the Irish and their friends, and he
goes out of office forever next fall. No party wants a man that lets go of his mouth at critical
moments. It might be a neat thing for you to touch him up in your speech at the banquet."

The Senator spoke with unctuousness and delight, and Arthur saw that the politicians rejoiced
at the loquacity and bad temper of the Honorable Quincy Livingstone, whom the Endicotts included
among their distant relatives.

"I'll take your subject, Judy," said he.

"Then rade up the histhory of Ireland," replied the old lady flattered.

Close observation of the present proved more interesting and amusing than the study of the
past. Quincy Livingstone's strictures on the exiles of Erin stirred them to the depths, and
his refusal to float the green flag from the city hall brought a blossoming of green ribbon
on St. Patrick's Day which only Spring could surpass in her decorations of the hills. The merchants
blessed the sour spirit which had provoked this display to the benefit of their treasuries.
The hard streets seemed to be sprouting as the crowds moved about, and even the steps and corridors
of the mayor's office glistened with the proscribed color. The cathedral on Mott Street was
the center of attraction, and a regiment which had done duty in the late war the center of
interest. Arthur wondered at the enthusiasm of the crowd as the veterans carrying their torn
battle-flags marched down the street and under the arched entrance of the church to take their
places for the solemn Mass. All eyes grew moist, and sobs burst forth at sight of them.

"If they were only marching for Ireland!" one man cried hoarsely.

"They'll do it yet," said another more hopeful.

Within the cathedral a multitude sat in order, reverently quiet, but charged with emotion.
With burning eyes they watched the soldiers in front and the priests in the sanctuary, and
some beat their breasts in pain, or writhed with sudden stress of feeling. Arthur felt thrilled
by the power of an emotion but vaguely understood. These exiles were living over in this moment
the scenes which had attended their expulsion from home and country, as he often repeated the
horrid scenes of his own tragedy. Under the reverence and decorum due to the temple hearts
were bursting with passion and grief. In a little while resignation would bring them relief
and peace.

It was like enchantment for Arthur Dillon. He knew the vested priest for his faithful friend;
but on the altar, in his mystic robes, uplifted, holding the reverent gaze of these thousands,
in an atmosphere clouded by incense and vocal with pathetic harmonies, the priest seemed as
far away as heaven; he knew in his strength and his weakness the boy beside him, but this enwrapped
attitude, this eloquent, still, unconscious face, which spoke of thoughts and feelings familiar
only to the eye of God, seemed to lift Louis into another sphere; he knew the people kneeling
about, the headlong, improvident, roystering crowd, but knew them not in this outpouring of
deeper emotions than spring from the daily chase for bread and pleasure.

A single incident fixed this scene in his mind and heart forever. Just in front of him sat
a young woman with her father, whom she covertly watched with some anxiety. He was a man of
big frame and wasted body, too nervous to remain quiet a moment, and deeply moved by the pageant,
for he twisted his hands and beat his breast as if in anguish. Once she touched his arm caressingly.
And the face which he turned towards her was stained with the unwiped tears; but when he stood
up at the close of the Mass to see the regiment march down the grand aisle, his pale face showed
so bitter an agony that Arthur recalled with horror his own sufferings. The young woman clung
to her father until the last soldier had passed, and the man had sunk into his seat with a
half-uttered groan. No one noticed them, and Arthur as he left with the ladies saw her patting
the father's hand and whispering to him softly.

Outside the cathedral a joyous uproar attended the beginning of that parade which the Mayor
had declined to review. As his party was to enjoy it at some point of Fifth Avenue he did not
tarry to witness the surprising scenes about the church, but with Louis took a car uptown.
Everywhere they heard hearty denunciations of the Mayor. At one street, their car being detained
by the passing of a single division of the parade, the passengers crowded about the front door
and the driver, and an anxious traveler asked the cause of the delay, and the probable length
of it. The driver looked at him curiously.

"About five minutes," he said. "Don't you know who's paradin' to-day?"

"No."

"See the green plumes an' ribbons?"

"I do," vacantly.

"Know what day o' the month it is?"

"March seventeenth, of course."

"Live near New York?"

"About twenty miles out."

"Gee whiz!" exclaimed the driver with a gasp. "I've bin a-drivin' o' this car for twenty years,
an' I never met anythin' quite so innercent. Well, it's St. Patrick's Day, an' them's the wild
Irish."

The traveler seemed but little enlightened. An emphatic man in black, with a mouth so wide
that its opening suggested the wonderful, seized the hand of the innocent and shook it cordially.

"I'm glad to meet one uncontaminated American citizen in this city," he said. "I hope there
are millions like you in the land."

The uncontaminated looked puzzled, and might have spoken but for a violent interruption. A
man had entered the car with an orange ribbon in his buttonhole.

"You'll have to take that off," said the conductor in alarm, pointing to the ribbon, "or leave
the car."

"I won't do either," said the man.

"And I stand by you in that refusal," said the emphatic gentleman. "It's an outrage that we
must submit to the domination of foreigners."

"It's the order of the company," said the conductor. "First thing we know a wild Irishman comes
along, he goes for that orange ribbon, there's a fight, the women are frightened, and perhaps
the car is smashed."

"An' besides," said the deliberate driver as he tied up his reins and took off his gloves,
"it's a darn sight easier an' cheaper for us to put you off than to keep an Irishman from tryin'
to murder you."

The uncontaminated citizen and two ladies fled to the street, while the driver and the conductor
stood over the offending passenger.

"Goin' to take off the ribbon?" asked the conductor.

"You will be guilty of a cowardly surrender of principle if you do," said the emphatic gentleman.

"May I suggest," said Arthur blandly, "that you wear it in his stead?"

"I am not interested either way," returned the emphatic one, with a snap of the terrible jaws,
"but maintain that for the sake of principle----"

A long speech was cut off at that moment by a war-cry from a simple lad who had just entered
the car, spied the ribbon, and launched himself like a catapult upon the Orange champion. A
lively scramble followed, but the scene speedily resolved itself into its proper elements.
The procession had passed, the car moved on its way, and the passengers through the rear door
saw the simple lad grinding the ribbon in the dust with triumphant heel, while its late wearer
flew toward the horizon pursued by an imaginary mob. Louis sat down and glared at the emphatic man.

"Who is he?" said Arthur with interest, drawing his breath with joy over the delights of this day.

"He's a child-stealer," said Louis with distinctness. "He kidnaps Catholic children and finds
them Protestant homes where their faith is stolen from them. He's the most hated man in the city."

The man accepted this scornful description of himself in silence. Except for the emphasis which
nature had given to his features, he was a presentable person. Flying side-whiskers made his
mouth appear grotesquely wide, and the play of strong feelings had produced vicious wrinkles
on his spare face. He appeared to be a man of energy, vivacity and vulgarity, reminding one
of a dinner of pork and cabbage. He was soon forgotten in the excitement of a delightful day,
whose glories came to a brilliant end in that banquet which introduced the nephew of Senator
Dillon into political life.

Standing before the guests, he found himself no longer that silent and disdainful Horace Endicott,
who on such an occasion would have cooly stuttered and stammered through fifty sentences of
dull congratulation and platitude. Feeling aroused him, illumined him, on the instant, almost
without wish of his own, at the contrast between two pictures which traced themselves on his
imagination as he rose in his place: the wrecked man who had fled from Sonia Westfield, what
would he have been to-night but for the friendly hands outstretched to save him? Behold him
in honor, in health, in hope, sure of love and some kind of happiness, standing before the
people who had rescued him. The thousand impressions of the past six months sparkled into life;
the sublime, pathetic, and amusing scenes of that day rose up like stars in his fancy; and
against his lips, like water against a dam, rushed vigorous sentences from the great deeps
opened in his soul by grief and change, and then leaped over in a beautiful, glittering flood.
He wondered vaguely at his vehemence and fluency, at the silence in the hall, that these great
people should listen to him at all. They heard him with astonishment, the leaders with interest,
the Senator with tears; and Monsignor looked once towards the gallery where Anne Dillon sat
literally frozen with terror and pride.

The long and sincere applause which followed the speech warned him that he had impressed a
rather callous crowd of notables, and an exaltation seized him. The guests lost no time in
congratulating him, and every tongue wagged in his favor.

"You have the gift of eloquence," said Sullivan.

"It will be a pleasure to hear you again," said Vandervelt, the literary and social light of
the Tammany circle.

"You have cleared your own road," Birmingham the financier remarked, and he stayed long to
praise the young orator.

"There's nothin' too good for you after to-night," cried the Senator brokenly. "I simply can't--cannot
talk about it."

"Your uncle," said Doyle Grahame, the young journalist who was bent on marrying Mona Everard,
"as usual closes the delicate sparring of his peers with a knockdown blow; there's nothing
too good for you."

"It's embarrassing."

"I wish I had your embarrassment. Shall I translate the praises of these great men for you?
Sullivan meant, I must have the use of your eloquence; the lion Vandervelt, when you speak
in my favor; Birmingham, please stump for me when I run for office; and the Senator, I will
make you governor. You may use your uncle; the others hope to use you."

"I am willing to be of service," said Arthur severely.

"A good-nature thrown away, unless you are asked to serve. They have all congratulated you
on your speech. Let me congratulate you on your uncle. They marvel at your eloquence; I, at
your luck. Give me such an uncle rather than the gift of poesy. Do not neglect oratory, but
cultivate thy uncle, boy."

Arthur laughed, Monsignor came up then, and heaped him with praise.

"Were you blessed with fluency in--your earlier years?" he said.

"Therein lies the surprise, and the joke. I never had an accomplishment except for making an
uproar in a crowd. It seems ridiculous to show signs of the orator now, without desire, ambition,
study, or preparation."

"Your California experiences," said the priest casually, "may have something to do with it.
But let me warn you," and he looked about to make sure no one heard, "that early distinction
in your case may attract the attention you wish to escape."

"I feel that it will help me," Arthur answered. "Who that knew Horace Endicott would look for
him in a popular Tammany orator? The mantle of an Irish Cicero would disguise even a Livingstone."

The surprise and pleasure of the leaders were cold beside the wild delight of the Dillon clan
when the news went around that Arthur had overshadowed the great speakers of the banquet. His
speech was read in every gathering, its sarcastic description of the offensive Livingstone
filled the Celts with joy, and threw Anne and Judy into an ecstasy.

"Faith, Mare Livingstone'll see green on St. Patrick's Day for the rest of his life," said
Judy. "It' ud be a proper punishment if the bread he ate, an' everythin' he touched on that
day, shud turn greener than ould Ireland, the land he insulted."

"There's curse enough on him," Anne replied sharply, ever careful to take Arthur's side, as
she thought, "and I won't have you spoiling Arthur's luck be cursing any wan. I'm too glad
to have an orator in the family. I can now put my orator against Mary Everard's priest, and
be as proud as she is."

"The pride was born in ye," said Judy. "You won't have to earn it. Indade, ye'll have a new
flirt to yer tail, an' a new toss to yer head, every day from now to his next speech."

"Why shouldn't I? I'm his mother," with emphasis.

CHAPTER IX.

THE VILLA AT CONEY ISLAND.

The awkwardness of his relations with Anne Dillon wore away speedily, until he began to think
as well as speak of her as his mother; for she proved with time to be a humorous and delightful
mother. Her love for rich colors and gay scenes, her ability to play gracefully the awkward
part which he had chosen for her, her affectionate and discreet reserve, her delicate tact
and fine wit, and her half-humorous determination to invade society, showed her as a woman
of parts. He indulged her fancies, in particular her dream of entering the charmed circle of
New York society. How this success should be won, and what was the circle, he did not know,
nor care. The pleasure for him lay in her bliss as she exhausted one pleasure after another,
and ever sought for higher things: Micksheen at the cat show attended by the liveried mulatto;
the opera and the dog show, with bonnets and costumes to match the occasion; then her own carriage,
used so discreetly as not to lose the respect of the parish; and finally the renting of the
third pew from the front in the middle aisle of the cathedral, a step forward in the social
world. How he had enjoyed these events in her upward progress! As a closing event for the first
year of his new life, he suggested a villa by the sea for the summer, with Mona and Louis as
guests for the season, with as many others as pleased her convenience. The light which broke
over her face at this suggestion came not from within, but direct from heaven!

She sent him modestly to a country of the Philistines known as Coney Island, where he found
the common herd enjoying a dish called chowder amid much spontaneity and dirt, and mingling
their uproarious bathing with foaming beer; a picture framed in white sand and sounding sea,
more than pleasant to the jaded taste of an Endicott. The roar of the surf drowned the mean
uproar of discordant man. The details of life there were too cheap to be looked at closely;
but at a distance the surface had sufficient color and movement. He found an exception to this
judgment. La Belle Colette danced with artistic power, though in surroundings unsuited to her
skill. He called it genius. In an open pavilion, whose roughness the white sand and the white-green
surf helped to condone, on a tawdry stage, she appeared, a slight, pale, winsome beauty, clad
in green and white gauze, looking like a sprite of the near-by sea. The witchery of her dancing
showed rare art, which was lost altogether on the simple crowd. She danced carelessly, as if
mocking the rustics, and made her exit without applause.

"Where did you get your artiste, August?" he said to a waiter.

"You saw how well she dances, hey? Poor Colette! The best creature in the world ... opens more
wine than five, and gives too much away. But for the drink she might dance at the opera."

Arthur went often to see her dance, with pity for the talent thrown away, and brought his mother
under protest from that cautious lady, who would have nothing to do with so common a place.
The villa stood in respectable, even aristocratic, quiet at the far end of the island, and
Anne regarded it almost with reverence, moving about as if in a temple. He found, however,
that she had made it a stage for a continuous drama, in which she played the leading part,
and the Dillon clan with all its ramifications played minor characters and the audience. Her
motives and her methods he could not fathom and did not try; the house filled rapidly, that
was enough; the round of dinners, suppers, receptions, dances, and whatnots had the regularity
of the tides. Everybody came down from Judy's remotest cousin up to His Grace the archbishop.
Even Edith Conyngham, apparently too timid to leave the shadow of Sister Magdalen, stole into
a back room with Judy, and haunted the beach for a few days. For Judy's sake he turned aside
to entertain her, and with the perversity which seems to follow certain actions he told her
the pathetic incident of the dancer. Why he should have chosen this poor nun to hear this tale,
embellished as if to torture her, he could never make out. Often in after years, when events
had given the story significance, he sought for his own motives in vain. It might have been
the gray hair, the rusty dress, the depressed manner, so painful a contrast to the sea-green
sprite, all youth, and grace, and beauty, which provoked him.

"I shall pray for the poor thing," said rusty Edith, fingering her beads, and then she made
to grasp his hand, which he thrust into his pockets.

"Not a second time," he told Louis. "I'd rather get the claw of a boiled lobster."

The young men did not like Miss Conyngham, but Louis pitied her sad state.

The leading characters on Anne's stage, at least the persons whom she permitted occasionally
to fill its center, were the anxious lovers Mona and Doyle Grahame. He was a poet to his finger-tips,
dark-haired, ruddy, manly, with clear wit, and the tenderest and bravest of dark eyes; and
she, red-tressed, lovely, candid, simple, loved him with her whole heart while submitting to
the decree of a sour father who forbade the banns. Friends like Anne gave them the opportunity
to woo, and the Dillon clan stood as one to blind the father as to what was going on. The sight
of this beauty and faith and love feeding on mutual confidence beside the sunlit surf and the
moonlight waters gave Arthur profound sadness, steeped his heart in bitterness. Such scenes
had been the prelude to his tragedy. Despair looked out of his eyes and frightened Louis.

"Why should you mind it so, after a year?" the lad pleaded.

"Time was when I minded nothing. I thought love and friendship, goodness and happiness, grew
on every bush, and that

    When we were far from the lips that we loved,
    We had but to make love to the lips that were near.

I am wiser now."

"Away with that look," Louis protested. "You have love in plenty with us, and you must not
let yourself go like that. It's frightful."

"It's gone," Arthur answered rousing himself. "The feeling will never go farther than a look.
She was not worth it--but the sight of these two--I suppose Adam must have grieved looking
back at paradise."

"They have their troubles also," Louis said to distract his mind. "Father is unkind and harsh
with Irish patriots, and because Grahame went through the mill, conspiracy, arrest, jail, prison,
escape, and all the rest of it, he won't hear of marriage for Mona with him. Of course he'll
have to come down in time. Grahame is the best fellow, and clever too."

One day seemed much the same as another to Arthur, but his mother's calendar had the dates
marked in various colors, according to the rank of her visitors. The visit of the archbishop
shone in figures of gold, but the day and hour which saw Lord Constantine cross her threshold
and sit at her table stood out on the calendar in letters of flame. The Ledwiths who brought
him were of little account, except as the friends of His Lordship. Anne informed the household
the day before of the honor which heaven was sending them, and gave minute instructions as
to the etiquette to be observed; and if Arthur wished to laugh the blissful light in her face
forbade. The rules of etiquette did not include the Ledwiths, who could put up with ordinary
politeness and be grateful.

"I can see from the expression of Mona," Arthur observed to the other gentlemen, "that the
etiquette of to-morrow puts us out of her sight. And who is Lord Constantine? I ought to know,
so I did not dare ask."

"A young English noble, son and heir of a Marquis," said Grahame with mock solemnity, "who
is devoted to the cause of bringing London and Washington closer together in brotherly love
and financial, that is rogues' sympathy--no, roguish sympathy--that's better. He would like
an alliance between England and us. Therefore he cultivates the Irish. And he'd marry Honora
Ledwith to-morrow if she'd have him. That's part of the scheme."

"And who are the Ledwiths?" said Arthur incautiously, but no one noticed the slip at the moment.

"People with ideas, strange weird ideas," Louis made answer. "Oh, perfectly sane, of course,
but so devoted to each other, and the cause of Ireland, that they can get along with none,
and few can get along with them. That's why Pop thinks so much of 'em. They are forever running
about the world, deep in conspiracies for freedom, and so on, but they never get anywhere to
stay. Outside of that they're the loveliest souls the sun ever shone on, and I adore Honora."

"And if Mona takes to His Lordship," said Grahame, "I'll worship Miss Ledwith."

"Very confusing," Arthur muttered. "English noble,--alliance between two countries--cultivates
Irish--wants to marry Irish girl--conspirators and all that--why, there's no head or tail to
the thing."

"Well, you keep your eye on Honora Ledwith and me, and you'll get the key. She's the sun of
the system. And, by the way, don't you remember old Ledwith, the red-hot lecturer on the woes
of Ireland? Didn't you play on her doorstep in Madison street, and treat her to Washington pie?"

When the party arrived next day Arthur saw a handsome, vigorous, blond young man, hearty in
his manner, and hesitating in his speech, whom he forgot directly in his surprise over the
Ledwiths; for he recognized in them the father and daughter whom he had observed in so passionate
a scene in the cathedral on St. Patrick's Day. He had their history by heart, the father being
a journalist and the daughter a singer; they had traveled half the world; and while every one
loved them none favored their roseate schemes for the freedom of Ireland. Perhaps this had
made them peculiar. At the first glance one would have detected oddity as well as distinction
in them. Tall, lean, vivacious, Owen Ledwith moved about restlessly, talked much, and with
considerable temper. The daughter sat placid and watchful, quite used to playing audience to
his entertainments; though her eyes never seemed to look at him, Arthur saw that she missed
none of his movements, never failed to catch his words and to smile her approval. The whiteness
of her face was like cream, and her dark blue eyes were pencilled by lashes so black that at
the first glance they seemed of a lighter shade. Impressed to a degree by what at that instant
could not be put into words, he named her in his own mind the White Lady. No trace of disdain
spoiled her lofty manner, yet he thought she looked at people as if they were minor instruments
in her own scheme. She made herself at home like one accustomed to quick changes of scene.
A woman of that sort travels round the globe with a satchel, and dresses for the play with
a ribbon and a comb, never finding the horizon too large for personal comfort. Clearly she
was beloved in the Dillon circle, for they made much of her; but of course that day not even
the master of the house was a good second to Lord Constantine. Anne moved about like herself
in a dream. She was heavenly, and Arthur enjoyed it, offering incense to His Lordship, and
provoking him into very English utterances. The young man's fault was that he rode his hobby
too hard.

"It's a shame, doncheknow," he cried as soon as he could decently get at his favorite theme,
"that the English-speaking peoples should be so hopelessly divided just now----"

"Hold on, Lord Conny," interrupted Grahame, "you're talking Greek to Dillon. Arthur, m'lud
has a theory that the English-speaking peoples should do something together, doncheknow, and
the devil of it is to get 'em together, doncheknow."

They all laughed save Anne, who looked awful at this scandalous mimicry of a personage, until
His Lordship laughed too.

"You are only a journalist," said he gayly, "and talk like your journal. As I was saying, we
are divided at home, and here it is much worse. The Irish here hate us worse than their brethren
at home hate us, doncheknow--thank you, Miss Ledwith, I really will not use that word again--and
all the races settled with you seem to dislike one another extremely. In Canada it's no better,
and sometimes I would despair altogether, only a beginning must be made sometime; and I am
really doing very well among the Irish."

He looked towards Honora who smiled and turned again to Arthur with those gracious eyes.

"I knew you would not forget it," she said. "The Washington pie in itself would keep it in
your mind. How I loved that pie, and every one who gave me some. Your coming home must have
been very wonderful to your dear mother."

"More wonderful than I could make you understand," murmured Arthur. "Do you know the old house
is still in Madison street, where we played and ate the pie?"

Louis put his head between them slyly and whispered:

"I can run over to the baker's if you wish and get a chunk of that identical pie, if you're
so in love with it, and we'll have the whole scene over again."

No persuasion could induce the party to remain over night at the villa, because of important
engagements in the city touching the alliance and the freedom of Erin; and the same tremendous
interests would take them far away the next morning to be absent for months; but the winter
would find them in the city and, when they would be fairly settled, Arthur was bid to come
and dine with them often. On the last boat the White Lady sailed away with her lord and father,
and Anne watched the boat out of sight, sighing like one who has been ravished to the third
heaven, and finds it a distressing job to get a grip on earth again.

Arthur noticed that his mother dressed particularly well for the visits of the politicians,
and entertained them sumptuously. Was she planning for his career? Delicious thought! But no,
the web was weaving for the Senator. When the last knot was tied, she threw it over his head
in perfect style. He complimented her on her latest costume. She swung about the room with
mock airs and graces to display it more perfectly, and the men applauded. Good fortune had
brought her back a likeness of her former beauty, angles and wrinkles had vanished, there was
luster in her hair, and her melting eyes shone clear blue, a trifle faded. In her old age the
coquette of twenty years back was returning with a charm which caught brother and son.

"I shall wear one like it at your inauguration, Senator," said she brightly.

"For President? Thank you. But the dress reminds me, Anne," the Senator added with feeling,
"of what you were twenty years ago: the sweetest and prettiest girl in the city."

"Oh, you always have the golden word," said she, "and thank you. But you'll not be elected
president, only mayor of our own city."

"It might come--in time," the Senator thought.

"And now is the time," cried she so emphatically that he jumped. "Vandervelt told me that no
man could be elected unless you said the word. Why shouldn't you say it for yourself? He told
me in the same breath he'd like to see you in the place afore any friend he had, because you
were a man o' your word, and no wan could lose be your election."

"Did he say all that?"

"Every word, and twice as much," she declared with eagerness. "Now think it over with all your
clever brains, Senator dear, and lift up the Dillon name to the first place in the city. Oh,
I'd give me life to see that glory."

"And to win it," Arthur added under his breath.

The Senator was impressed, and Arthur had a feeling akin to awe. Who can follow the way of
the world? The thread of destiny for the great city up the bay lay between the fingers of this
sweet, ambitious house-mother, and of the popular gladiator. Even though she should lead the
Senator by the nose to humiliation, the scene was wonderfully picturesque, and her thought
daring. He did not know enough history to be aware that this same scene had happened several
hundred times in past centuries; but he went out to take another look at the house which sheltered
a woman of pluck and genius. The secret of the villa was known. Anne had used it to help in
the selection of the next Mayor. He laughed from the depths of his being as he walked along
the shore.

The Everard children returned home early in September to enjoy the preparations for the entrance
of Louis into the seminary. The time had arrived for him to take up the special studies of
the priesthood, and this meant his separation from the home circle forever. He would come and
go for years perhaps, but alas! only as a visitor. The soul of Arthur was knit with the lad's
as Jonathan with David.

It was with him as with Sir Galahad.

    But all my heart is drawn above.

Parting with him was a calamity.

"How can you let him go?" he said to Mary Everard, busy with the preparations.

"I am a happy woman that God calls my boy to His service," she answered cheerfully. "The children
go anyway ... it's nature. I left father and mother for my own home. How good it is to think
he is going to the sanctuary. I know that he is going forever ... he is mine no more ... he
will come back often, but he is mine no more. I am heart-broken ... I am keeping a gay face
while he is here, for the child must not be worried with our grief ... time enough for that
when he is gone ... and he is so happy. My heart is leaving me to go with him. Twenty years
since he was born, and in all that time not a moment's pain on his account ... all his life
has been ours ... as if he were the father of the family. What shall I be for the rest of my
life, listening for his step and his voice, and never a sight or sound of him for months at
a time. God give me strength to bear it. If I live to see him on the altar, I shall thank God
and die...."

Twenty years she had served him, yet here came the inevitable end, as if such love had never been.

"Oh, you people of faith! I believe you never suffer, nor know what suffering is!"

"Not your kind of suffering, surely, or we would die. Our hope is always with us, and fortunately
does not depend on our moods for its power."

Mona teased him into good humor. That was a great moment when in presence of the family the
lad put on the dress of the seminary, Arthur's gift. Feeling like a prince who clothes his
favorite knight in his new armor, Arthur helped him to don the black cassock, tied the ribbons
of the surplice, and fixed the three-cornered cap properly on the brown, curly head. A pallor
spread over the mother's face. Mona talked much to keep back her tears, and the father declared
it a shame to make a priest of so fine a fellow, since there were too many priests in the world
for its good. The boy walked about as proud as a young soldier dressed for his first parade.
The Trumps, enraptured at the sight, clapped their hands with joy.

"Why, he's a priest," cried Constance, with a twist of her pretty mouth. "Louis is a priest."

"No, Baby," corrected Marguerite, the little mother, "but he is going to be one sometime."

The wonderful garments enchanted them, they feared to touch him, and protested when he swung
them high and kissed them on the return flight. The boy's departure for the seminary stirred
the region of Cherry Hill. The old neighbors came and went in a steady procession for two days
to take their leave of him, to bless his parents, and to wish them the joy of seeing him one
day at the altar as a priest of God. They bowed to him with that reverence which belonged to
Monsignor, only more familiar and loquacious, and each brought his gift of respect or affection.
Even the Senator and the Boss appeared to say a parting word.

"I wish you luck, Louis," the Senator said in his resonant voice, and with the speaker's chair
before his eyes, "and I know you'll get it, because you have deserved it, sir. I've seen you
grow up, and I've always been proud to know you, and I want to know you as long as I live.
If ever you should need a hand like mine in the ga ... I mean, if ever my assistance is of
any use to you, you know where to call."

"You have a hard road to travel," the genial Sullivan said at the close of his visit, "but
your training has prepared you for it, and we all hope you will walk it honorably to the end.
Remember we all take an interest in you, and what happens to you for good or ill will be felt
in this parish."

Then the moment of parting came, and Arthur thought less of his own grief than of the revelation
it contained for him. Was this the feeling which prompted the tears of his mother, and the
tender, speechless embrace of his dear father in the far-off days when he set out for school?
Was this the grief which made the parting moment terrible? Then he had thought it nothing that
for months of the year they should be without his beloved presence! He shivered at the last
embraces of Mary and Mona, at the tears of the children; he saw behind the father's mask of
calmness; he wondered no more at himself as he stood looking after the train which bore the
boy away. The city seemed as vacant all at once as if turned into a desert. The room in the
attic, with its bed, its desk, and its altar, suddenly became a terrible place, like a body
from which the soul has fled. Every feature of it gave him pain, and he hurried back with Mona
to the frivolity of Anne in her villa by the sea.

CHAPTER X.

THE HUMORS OF ELECTION.

When the villa closed the Senator was hopelessly enmeshed in the golden net which had been
so skilfully and genially woven by Anne during the summer. He believed himself to be the coming
man, all his natural shrewdness and rich experience going for naught before the witchery of
his sister's imagination. In her mind the climax of the drama was a Dillon at the top of the
heap in the City Hall. Alas, the very first orders of the chief to his secretary swept away
the fine-spun dreams of the Dillons, as the broom brushes into obscure dirt the wondrous cobweb.
The Hon. John Sullivan spoke in short sentences, used each man according to that man's nature,
stood above and ahead of his cleverest lieutenants, had few prejudices, and these noble, and
was truly a hero on the battle-ground of social forces, where no artillery roars, no uniforms
glare, and no trumpets sound for the poets. The time having come for action he gave Arthur
his orders on the supposition that he understood the political situation, which he did in some
degree, but not seriously. The Endicotts looked upon elections as the concern of the rabble,
and this Endicott thought it perhaps an occasion for uproarious fun. His orders partly sobered him.

"Go to your uncle," said Sullivan, "and tell him he's not in the race. I don't know where he
got that bee in his bonnet. Then arrange with Everard to call on Livingstone. Do what you can
to straighten the Mayor out. He ought to be the candidate."

This dealing with men inspired him. Hitherto he had been playing with children in the garden
of life; now he stood with the fighters in the terrible arena. And his first task was to extinguish
the roseate dreams of Anne and her gladiator, to destroy that exquisite fabric woven of moonlit
seas, enchanting dinners, and Parisian millinery. Never! Let the chief commit that sacrilege!
He would not say the word whose utterance might wound the hearts that loved him. The Senator
and Anne should have a clear field. High time for the very respectable citizens of the metropolis
to secure a novelty for mayor, to get a taste of Roman liberty, when a distinguished member
of the arena could wear the purple if he had the mind.

Birmingham forced him to change his attitude. The man of money was both good-hearted and large-minded,
and had departed from the ways of commerce to seek distinction in politics. Stolid, without
enthusiasm or dash, he could be stubbornly great in defence of principle. Success and a few
millions had not changed his early theories of life. Pride in his race, delight in his religion,
devotion to his party, increased in him as he rose to honor and fame. Arthur Dillon felt still
more the seriousness of the position when this man came to ask his aid in securing the nomination.

"There never was a time in the history of the city," said Birmingham, "when a Catholic had
such a chance to become mayor as now. Protestants would not have him, if he were a saint. But
prejudice has abated, and confidence in us has increased since the war. Sullivan can have the
position if he wants it. So can many others. All of them can afford to wait, while I cannot.
I am not a politician, only a candidate. At any moment, by the merest accident, I may become
one of the impossibles. I am anxious, therefore, to secure the nomination this year. I would
like to get your influence. Where the balance is often turned by the weight of a hair one cannot
be too alert."

"Do you think I have influence?" said Arthur humbly.

"You are the secretary," Birmingham answered, surprised.

"I shall have to use it in behalf of my uncle then."

"And if your uncle should not run?"

"I should be happy to give you my support."

Birmingham looked as blank as one before whom a door opens unexpectedly.

"You understand," continued Arthur, "that I have been absent too long to grasp the situation
clearly. I think my uncle aspires...."

"A very worthy man," murmured Birmingham.

"You seem to think he has not much of a chance...."

"I know something of Sullivan's mind," Birmingham ventured, "and you know it still better.
The exploits of the Senator in his youth--really it would be well for him not to expose himself
to public ridicule...."

"I had not thought of that," said Arthur, when the other paused delicately. "You are quite
right. He should not expose himself. As no other has done me the honor to ask my help, I am
free to help you."

"You are more than kind. This nomination means election, and election means the opening of
a fine career for me. Beyond lie the governorship, the senate, and perhaps higher things. To
us these high offices have been closed as firmly as if they were in Sweden. I want the honor
of breaking down the barriers."

"It is time. I hope you will get the honor," said Arthur gravely. He felt sadly about the Senator,
and the shining ambition of his mother. How could he shatter their dreams? Yet in very pity
the task had to be done, and when next he heard them vaporing on the glory of the future, he
said casually:

"I know what your enemies will say if you come into contrast with Livingstone."

"I've heard it often enough," answered the Senator gayly. "If I'd listened to them I'd be still
in the ring."

Then a suspicion overcame him, and he cried out bitterly:

"Do you say the same, Artie?"

"Rot. There isn't another like you in the whole world, uncle. If my vote could do it you'd
go into the White House to-morrow. If you're in earnest in this business of the nomination,
then I'm with you to the last ditch. Now when you become mayor of the first city in the land"--Oh,
the smile which flashed on the faces of Anne and the Senator at this phrase!--"you become also
the target of every journal in the country, of every comic paper, of every cartoonist. All
your little faults, your blunders, past and present, are magnified. They sing of you in the
music-halls. Oh, there would be no end to it! Ridicule is worse than abuse. It would hurt your
friends more than you. You could not escape it, and no one could answer it. Is the prize worth
the pain?"

Then he looked out of the window to escape seeing the pain in his mother's face, and the bitterness
in the Senator's. He did not illustrate his contention with examples, for with these the Senator
and his friends were familiar. A light arose on the poor man's horizon. Looking timidly at
Anne, after a moment's pause, he said:

"I never thought of all that. You've put me on the right track, Artie. I thank you."

"What can I do," he whispered to Anne, "since it's plain he wants me to give in--no, to avoid
the comic papers?"

"Whatever he wishes must be done," she replied with a gesture of despair.

"The boy is a wonder," thought the Senator. "He has us all under that little California thumb."

"I was a fool to think of the nomination," he said aloud as Arthur turned from the window.
"Of course there'd be no end to the ridicule. Didn't the chap on Harper's, when I was elected
for the Senate, rig me out as a gladiator, without a stitch on me, actually, Artie, not a stitch--most
indecent thing--and show old Cicero in the same picture looking at me like John Everard, with
a sneer, and singing to himself: a senator! No, I couldn't stand it. I give up. I've got as
high as my kind can go. But there's one thing, if I can't be mayor myself, I can say who's
goin' to be."

"Then make it Birmingham, uncle," Arthur suggested. "I would like to see him in that place
next to you."

"And Birmingham it is, unless"--he looked at Anne limp with disappointment--"unless I take
it into my head to name you for the place."

She gave a little cry of joy and sat up straight.

"Now God bless you for that word, Senator. It'll be a Dillon anyway."

"In that case I make Birmingham second choice," Arthur said seriously, accepting the hint as
a happy ending to a rather painful scene.

The second part of the Chief's order proved more entertaining. To visit the Mayor and sound
him on the question of his own renomination appeared to Arthur amusing rather than important;
because of his own rawness for such a mission, and also because of their relationship. Livingstone
was his kinsman. Of course John Everard gave the embassy character, but his reputation reflected
on its usefulness. Nature had not yet provided a key to the character of Louis' father. Arthur
endured him because Louis loved him, quoted him admiringly, and seemed to understand him most
of the time; but he could not understand an Irishman who maintained, as a principle of history,
the inferiority of his race to the English, traced its miseries to its silly pride, opposed
all schemes of progress until his principle was accepted, and placed the salvation of his people
in that moment when they should have admitted the inferiority imposed by nature, and laid aside
their wretched conceit. This perverse nature had a sociable, even humorous side, and in a sardonic
way loved its own.

"I have often wondered," Arthur said, when they were discussing the details of the mission
to Livingstone, "how your tough fiber ever generated beings so tender and beautiful as Mona,
and Louis, and the Trumps. And now I'm wondering why Sullivan associates you and me in this
business. Is it his plan to sink the Mayor deeper in his own mud?"

"Whatever his plan I'd like to know what he means in sending with me to the noblest official
in the city and the land, for that matter, the notorious orator of a cheap banquet."

"I think it means that Quincy must apologize to the Irish, or nominate himself," said Arthur
slowly.

A lively emotion touched him when he first entered the room where the Mayor sat stately and
gracious. In him the Endicott features were emphatic and beautiful. Tall, ruddy, perfectly
dressed, with white hair and moustache shining like silver, and dark blue eyes full of fire,
the aristocrat breathed from him like a perfume. His greeting both for Everard and Dillon had
a graciousness tinged with contempt; a contempt never yet perceived by Everard, but perceived
and promptly answered on Arthur's part with equal scorn.

"Mr. Dillon comes from Sullivan," said Everard, "to ask you, as a condition of renomination,
that you take back your remarks on the Irish last winter. You did them good. They are so soaked
in flattery, the flattery of budding orators, that your talk wakes them to the truth."

"I take nothing back," said the Mayor in a calm, sweet voice to which feeling gave an edge.

"Then you do not desire the nomination of Tammany Hall?" Arthur said with a placid drawl, which
usually exasperated Everard and other people.

"But I do," the Mayor answered quickly, comprehending on the instant the quality of this antagonist,
feeling his own insolence in the tone. "I merely decline the conditions."

"Then you must nominate yourself, for the Irish won't vote for you," cried Everard.

"The leaders would like to give you the nomination, Mr. Livingstone. You may have it, if you
can find the means to placate offended voters for your behavior and your utterances on St.
Patrick's Day."

"Go down on your knees at once, Mayor," sneered Everard.

"I hope Your Honor does not pay too much attention to the opinions of this gentleman," said
Arthur with a gesture for his companion. "He's a Crusoe in politics. There's no one else on
his island. You have a history, sir, which is often told in the Irish colony here. I have heard
it often since my return home----"

"This is the gentleman who spoke of your policy at the Donnybrook banquet," Everard interrupted.

Livingstone made a sign for silence, and took a closer look at Arthur.

"The Irish do not like you, they have no faith in you as a fair man, they say that you are
always planning against them, that you are responsible for the deviltries practised upon them
through gospel missions, soup kitchens, kidnapping industries, and political intrigues. Whether
these things be true, it seems to me that a candidate ought to go far out of his way to destroy
such fancies."

"A very good word, fancies! Are you going to make your famous speech over again?" said Everard
with the ready sneer.

"Can you deny that what I have spoken is the truth?"

"It is not necessary that he should," Livingstone answered quietly. "I am not interested in
what some people say of me. Tell Mr. Sullivan I am ready to accept the nomination, but that
I never retract, never desert a position."

This young man nettled and irritated the Mayor. His insolence, the insolence of his own class,
was so subtly and politely expressed, that no fault could be found; and, though his inexperience
was evident, he handled a ready blade and made no secret of his disdain. Arthur did not know
to what point of the compass the short conversation had carried them, but he took a boy's foolish
delight in teasing the irritated men.

"It all comes to this: you must nominate yourself," said Everard.

"And divide the party?"

"I am not sure it would divide the party," Livingstone condescended to say, for he was amused
at the simple horror of Dillon. "It might unite it under different circumstances."

"That's the remark of a statesman. And it would rid us, Arthur Dillon, of Sullivan and his
kind, who should be running a gin-mill in Hester street."

"If he didn't have a finer experience in politics, and a bigger brain for managing men than
any three in the city," retorted Arthur icily. "He is too wise to bring the prejudices of race
and creed into city politics. If Your Honor runs on an independent ticket, the Irish will vote
against you to a man. One would think that far-seeing men, interested in the city and careful
of the future, would hesitate to make dangerous rivalries of this sort. Is there not enough
bigotry now?"

"Not that I know," said the Mayor with a pretence of indifference. "We are all eager to keep
the races in good humor, but at the same time to prevent the ascendancy of a particular race,
except the native. It is the Irish to-day. It will be the Germans to-morrow. Once checked thoroughly,
there will be no trouble in the future."

The interview ended with these words. By that time Arthur had gone beyond his political depth,
and was glad to make his adieu to the great man. He retained one honest conclusion from the
interview.

"Birmingham can thank this pig-headed gentleman," said he to Everard, "for making him mayor
of New York."

John snorted his contempt of the statement and its abettors. The report of Arthur disquieted
the Chief and his counselors, who assembled to hear and discuss it.

"It's regrettable," was Sullivan's opinion. "Livingstone makes a fine figure in a campaign.
He has an attractive name. His independence is popular, and does no harm. He hasn't the interests
of the party at heart though. The question now is, can we persuade the Irish to overlook his
peculiarities about the green and St. Patrick's Day?"

"A more pertinent question," Vandervelt said after a respectful silence, "would be as to the
next available man. I favor Birmingham."

"And I," echoed the Senator.

Arthur listened to the amicable discussion that followed with thoughts not for the candidate,
but for the three men who thus determined the history of the city for the next two years. The
triumvirs! Cloudy scenes of half-forgotten history rose before him, strange names uttered themselves.
Mark Antony and young Octavius and weak Lepidus! He felt suddenly the seriousness of life,
and wonder at the ways of men; for he had never stood so near the little gods that harness
society to their policies, never till now had he seen with his own eyes how the world is steered.
The upshot of endless talk and trickery was the nomination of Birmingham, and the placing of
an independent ticket in the field with the Mayor at its head.

"Now for the fun," said Grahame. "It's going to be a big fight. If you want to see the working
out of principles keep close to me while the fight is on, and I'll explain things."

The explanation was intricate and long. What did not matter he forgot, but the picturesque
things, which touched his own life afterwards very closely, he kept in mind. Trotting about
with the journalist they encountered one day a cleric of distinguished appearance.

"Take a good look at him. He's the man that steers Livingstone."

"I thought it was John Everard."

"John doesn't even steer himself," said Grahame savagely. "But take a view of the bishop."

Arthur saw a face whose fine features were shaded by melancholy, tinged with jaundice, gloomy
in expression; the mouth drooped at the corners, and the eyes were heavy; one could hardly
picture that face lighted by humor or fancy.

"We refuse to discuss certain things in political circles here," Grahame continued. "One of
them is the muddle made of politics every little while by dragging in religion. The bishop,
Bishop Bradford is his name, never loses a chance to make a mud pie. The independent ticket
is his pie this year. He secured Livingstone to bake it, for he's no baker himself. He believes
in God, but still more does he believe that the Catholics of this city should be kept in the
backyard of society. If they eat his pie, their only ambition will be to live in an American
backyard. No word of this ever finds its way into the journals, but it is the secret element
in New York politics."

"I thought everything got into the newspapers," Arthur complained. "Blamed if I can get hold
of the thing."

"You're right, everything goes into the sewers, but not in a formal way. What's the reason
for the independent ticket? Printed: revolt against a domineering boss. Private: to shake the
Irish in politics. Do you see? Now, here is a campaign going on. It began last week. It ends
in November. But the other campaign has neither beginning nor end. I'll give you object-lessons.
There's where the fun comes in."

The first object-lesson brought Arthur to the gospel-hall managed by a gentleman whom he had
not seen or thought of since the pleasant celebration of St. Patrick's day. Rev. Mr. McMeeter,
evangelist of the expansive countenance, was warming up his gathering of sinners that night
with a twofold theme: hell for sinners, and the same, embroidered intensely, for Rome.

"He handles it as Laocoon did the serpents," whispered Grahame.

In a very clerical costume, on a small platform, the earnest man writhed, twisted, and sweated,
with every muscle in strain, his face working in convulsions, his lungs beating heaven with
sound. He outdid the Trojan hero in the leaps across the platform, the sinuous gestures, the
rendings of the enemy; until that moment when he drew the bars of hell for the unrepentant,
and flung Rome into the abyss. This effective performance, inartistic and almost grotesque,
never fell to the level of the ridiculous, for native power was strong in the man. The peroration
raised Livingstone to the skies, chained Sullivan in the lowest depths of the Inferno, and
introduced as a terrible example a brand just rescued from the burning.

"Study her, observe her," said Grahame. "These brands have had curious burnings."

She spoke with ease, a little woman in widow's weeds, coquettishly displaying silken brown
hair under the ruching of a demure bonnet. Taking her own account--"Which some reporter wrote
for her no doubt," Grahame commented--she had been a sinner, a slave of Rome, a castaway bound
hand and foot to degrading superstition, until rescued by the noblest of men and led by spirit
into the great work of rescuing others from the grinding slavery of the Church of Rome. Very
tenderly she appealed to the audience to help her. The prayers of the saints were about to
be answered. God had raised up a leader who would strike the shackles off the limbs of the
children. The leader, of course, was Mayor Livingstone.

"You see how the spirit works," said Grahame.

Then came an interruption. The Brand introduced a girl of twelve as an illustration of her
work of rescue among the dreadful hirelings of Rome. A feeble and ragged woman in the audience
rose and cried out that the child was her lost Ellen. The little girl made a leap from the
platform but was caught dexterously by the Brand and flung behind the scenes. A stout woman
shook her fist in the Brand's face and called her out of her name; and also gave the evangelist
a slap in the stomach which taught him a new kind of convulsion. His aids fell upon the stout
woman, the tough men of the audience fell upon the aids, the mother of Ellen began shrieking,
and some respectable people ran to the door to call the police. A single policeman entered
cooly, and laid about him with his stick so as to hit the evangelists with frequency. For a
few minutes all things turned to dust, confusion, and bad language. The policeman restored
order, dismissed Ellen with her mother, calmed the stout woman, and cautioned the host. The
Brand had watched the scene calmly and probably enjoyed it. When Arthur left with Grahame Mr.
McMeeter had just begun an address which described the policeman as a satellite, a janizary,
and a pretorian of Rome.

"They're doing a very neat job for Livingstone," said Grahame. "Maybe there are fifty such
places about the town. Little Ellen was lucky to see her mother again. Most of these stolen
children are shipped off to the west, and turned into very good Protestants, while their mothers
grieve to death."

"Livingstone ought to be above such work."

"He is. He has nothing in common with a kidnapper like McMeeter. He just accepts what is thrown
at him. McMeeter throws his support at him. Only high-class methods attract a man like Livingstone.
Sister Claire, the Escaped Nun, is one of his methods. We'll go and see her too. She lectures
at Chickering Hall to-night ... comes on about half after nine--tells all about her escape
from a prison in a convent ... how she was enslaved ... How sin thrives in convents ... and
appeals for help for other nuns not yet escaped ... with reference to the coming election and
the great deliverer, Livingstone ... makes a pile of money."

"You seem envious," Arthur hinted.

"Who wouldn't? I can't make a superfluous cent being virtuous, and Sister Claire clears thousands
by lying about her neighbors."

They took a seat among the reporters, in front of a decorous, severe, even godly audience,
who awaited the coming of the Escaped Nun with religious interest. Amid a profound stillness,
she came upon the stage from a rear door, ushered in by an impressive clergyman; and walked
forward, a startling figure, to the speaker's place, where she stood with the dignity and modesty
of her profession, and a self-possession all her own.

"Stunning," Grahame whispered. "Costume incorrect, but dramatic."

Her dress and veil were of pale yellow, some woolen stuff, the coif and gamp were of white
linen, and a red cross marked the entire front of her dress, the arms of the cross resting
on her bosom. Arthur stared. Her face of a sickly pallor had deep circles under the eyes, but
seemed plump enough for her years. For a moment she stood quietly, with drooping head and uplifted
eyes, her hands clasped, a picture of beauty. After a gasp and a pause the audience broke into
warm applause long continued. In a sweet and sonorous voice she made her speech, and told her
story. It sounded like the Lady of the Lake at times. Grahame yawned--he had heard it so often.
Arthur gathered that she had somewhere suffered the tortures of the Inquisition, that innocent
girls were enjoying the same experience in the convents of the country, that they were deserted
both of God and man, and that she alone had taken up their cause. She was a devoted Catholic,
and could never change her faith; if she appealed to her audience, it was only to interest
them in behalf of her suffering sisters.

"That's the artistic touch," Grahame whispered again. "But it won't pay. Her revelations must
get more salaciousness after election."

Arthur hardly heard him. Where had he seen and heard this woman before? Though he could not
recall a feature of her face, form, dress, manner, yet he had the puzzling sense of having
met her long ago, that her personality was not unfamiliar. Still her features baffled the sense.
He studied her in vain. When her lecture ended, with drooping head and clasped hands, she modestly
withdrew amid fervid acclamations.

Strange and bewildering were the currents of intrigue that made up a campaign in the great
city; not to mention the hidden forces whose current no human could discern. Arthur went about
exercising his talent for oratory in behalf of Birmingham, and found consolation in the sincere
applause of humble men, and of boys subdued by the charm of his manner. He learned that the
true orator expresses not only his own convictions and emotions, but also the unspoken thoughts,
the mute feelings, the cloudy convictions of the simple multitude. He is their interpreter
to themselves. The thought gave him reverence for that power which had lain long dormant in
him until sorrow waked its noble harmonies. The ferment in the city astonished him. The very
boys fought in the vacant lots, and reveled in the strategy of crooked streets and blind alleys.
Kindly women, suddenly reminded that the Irish were a race of slaves, banged their doors, and
flirted their skirts in scorn. Workmen lost their job here and there, mates fought at the workbench,
the bully found his excuse to beat the weak, all in the name of Livingstone. The small business
men, whose profits came from both sides, did severe penance for their sins of sanded sugar
and deficient weight. The police found their nerves overstrained.

To him the entire drama of the campaign had the interest of an impossible romance. It was a
struggle between a poor people, cast out by one nation, fighting for a footing on new soil,
and a successful few, who had forgotten the sufferings, the similar struggle of their fathers.
He rejoiced when Birmingham won. He had not a single regret for the defeat of Livingstone,
though it hurt him that a bad cause should have found its leader in his kinsman.

CHAPTER XI.

AN ENDICOTT HEIR.

Meanwhile what of the world and the woman he had left behind? A year had passed, his new personality
had begun to fit, and no word or sign direct from the Endicott circle had reached him. Time
seemed to have created a profound silence between him and them. Indirectly, however, through
the journals, he caught fleeting glimpses of that rage which had filled Sonia with hatred and
despair. A description of his person appeared as an advertisement, with a reward of five thousand
dollars for information that would lead to the discovery of his whereabouts, or to a certainty
of his death. At another time the journals which printed both reward and notice, had a carefully
worded plea from his Aunt Lois for letter or visit to soothe the anxieties of her last days.
He shook over this reminder of her faithful love until he analyzed the circumstances which
had probably led to this burst of publicity. Early in July a letter had informed Sonia of his
visit to Wisconsin; two months later a second letter described, in one word, her character,
and in six her sentence: adulteress, you shall never see me again. A week's work by her lawyers
would have laid bare the fact that the Endicott estate had vanished, and that her own small
income was her sole possession.

A careful study of his motives would have revealed in part his plans, and a detective had probably
spent a month in a vain pursuit. The detective's report must have startled even the lawyers.
All clues led to nothing. Sonia had no money to throw away, nor would she dare to appeal too
strongly to Aunt Lois and Horace Endicott's friends, who might learn too much, if she were
too candid. The two who loved him were not yet really worried by his disappearance, since they
had his significant letter. In time their confidence would give place to anxiety, and heaven
and earth would be moved to uncover his hiding-place. This loving notice was a trap set by
Sonia. On the road which led from Mulberry Street to Cambridge, from the home of Anne Dillon
to the home of Lois Endicott, Sonia's detective lay in wait for the returning steps of the
lost husband, and Sonia's eyes devoured the shadows, her ears drank in every sound. He laughed,
he grew warm with the feeling of triumph. She would watch and listen in vain. The judgment-seat
of God was the appointment he had made for her.

He began now to wonder at the completeness of his own disappearance. His former self seemed
utterly beyond the reach of men. The detectives had not only failed to find him, they had not
even fallen upon his track by accident. How singular that an Irish colony in the metropolis
should be so far in fact and sympathy from the aristocracy. Sonia and her detectives would
have thought of Greenland and the Eskimos, Ashanti, Alaska, the court of China, as possible
refuges, but never of Cherry Street and the children of Erin, who were farther off from the
Endicotts and the Livingstones than the head-hunters of Borneo. Had her detectives by any chance
met him on the road, prepared for any disguise, how dumb and deaf and sightless would they
become when his position as the nephew of Senator Dillon, the secretary of Sullivan, the orator
of Tammany Hall, and the pride of Cherry Hill, shone upon them.

This triumph he would have enjoyed the more could he have seen the effect which the gradual
change in his personality had produced on Monsignor O'Donnell, for whom the Endicott episode
proved the most curious experience of his career. Its interest was discounted by the responsibility
imposed upon him. His only comfort lay in the thought that at any moment he could wash his
hands of the affair, before annoying or dangerous consequences began to threaten. He suffered
from constant misgivings. The drama of a change in personality went on daily under his eyes,
and almost frightened him by its climaxes, which were more distinct to him than to Endicott.
First, the pale, worn, savage, and blood-haunted boy who came to him in his first agony; then
the melancholy, bearded, yet serene invalid who lay in Anne Dillon's house and was welcomed
as her son; next, the young citizen of the Irish colony, known as a wealthy and lucky Californian,
bidding for honors as the nephew of Senator Dillon; and last the surprising orator, the idol
of the Irish people, their devoted friend, who spared neither labor nor money in serving them.

The awesome things in this process were the fading away of the Endicott and the growing distinctness
of the Dillon. At first the old personality lay concealed under the new as under a mask; but
something like absorption by degrees obliterated the outlines of Endicott and developed the
Dillon. Daily he noticed the new features which sprang into sight between sunrise and sunrise.
It was not only the fashion of dress, of body, and of speech, which mimics may adopt; but also
a change of countenance, a turn of mind which remained permanent, change of gesture, a deeper
color of skin, greater decision in movement; in fact, so many and so minute mutations that
he could not recall one-tenth the number. Endicott for instance had possessed an eloquent,
lustrous, round eye, with an expression delightfully indolent; in Dillon the roundness and
indolence gave way to a malicious wrinkle at the outside corners, which gave his glance a touch
of bitterness. Endicott had been gracefully slow in his movement; Dillon was nervous and alert.
A fascination of terror held Monsignor as Arthur Dillon grew like his namesake more and more.
Out of what depths had this new personality been conjured up? What would be the end of it?
He said to himself that a single incident, the death of Sonia, would be enough to destroy on
the instant this Dillon and resurrect the Endicott. Still he was not sure, and the longer this
terrible process continued the less likely a change back to the normal.

Morbid introspection had become a part of the young man's pain. The study of the changes in
himself proved more pleasant than painful. His mind swung between bitter depression, and warm,
natural joy. His moments of deepest joy were coincident with an interesting condition of mind.
On certain days he completely forgot the Endicott and became the Dillon almost perfectly. Then
he no longer acted a part, but was absorbed in it. Most of the time he was Endicott playing
the rôle of Dillon, without effort and with much pleasure, indeed, but still an actor. When
memory and grief fled from him together, as on St. Patrick's Day, his new personality dominated
each instant of consciousness, and banished thought of the old. Then a new spirit rose in him;
not merely a feeling of relief from pain, but a positive influence which led him to do surprising
and audacious things, like the speech at the banquet. It was a divine forgetfulness, which
he prayed might be continuous. He loved to think that some years of his life would see the
new personality in full possession of him, while the old would be but a feeble memory, a mere
dream of an impossible past. Wonderful, if the little things of the day, small but innumerable,
should wipe out in the end an entire youth that took twenty years in building. What is the
past after all but a vague horizon made emphatic by the peaks of memory? What is the future
but a bare plain with no emphasis at all? Man lives only in the present, like the God whose
spirit breathes in him.

Sonia was bent on his not forgetting, however. His heart died within him when he read in the
journals the prominent announcement of the birth of a son to the lost Horace Endicott, whose
woful fate still troubled the short memory of editors. A son! He crushed the paper in his anguish
and fell again into the old depression. Oh, how thoroughly had God punished the hidden crimes
of this lost woman! A child would have saved her, and in her hatred of him she had ... he always
refused to utter to himself the thought which here rose before his mind. His head bent in agony.
This child was not his, perhaps not even hers. She had invented it as a trap for him. Were
it really his little one, his flesh and blood, how eagerly he would have thrown off his present
life and flown to its rescue from such a mother!

Sonia did not hope for such a result. It was her fraudulent mortgage on the future and its
possibilities. The child would be heir to his property; would have the sympathy and inherit
the possessions of his Aunt Lois; would lull the suspicions concerning its mother, and conciliate
the gossips; and might win him back from hiding, if only to expose the fraud and take shame
from the Endicotts. What a clever and daring criminal was this woman! With a cleverness always
at fault because of her rare unscrupulousness. Even wickedness has its delicacy, its modesty,
its propriety, which a criminal respects in proportion to his genius for crime. Sonia offended
all in her daring, and lost at every turn. This trap would catch her own feet. A child! A son!
He shuddered at the thought, and thanked God that he had escaped a new dishonor. His blood
would never mingle with the puddle in Sonia's veins.

He would not permit her to work this iniquity, and to check her he must risk final success
in his plan of disappearance by violating the first principle of the art: that there be no
further connection with the past. The detectives were watching the path by which he would return,
counting perhaps upon his rage over this fraudulent heir. He must give them their opportunity,
if he would destroy Sonia's schemes against Aunt Lois, but felt sure that they would be unprepared
to seize it, even if they dreamed it at hand. He had a plan which might accomplish his object
without endangering his position; and one night he slipped away from the city on a train for
Boston, got off at a lonely station, and plunged into the darkness without a word for a sleepy
station-master.

At dawn after two hours' walk he passed the pond which had once seemed to him the door of escape.
Poor old friend! Its gray face lay under the morning sky like the face of a dead saint, luminous
in its outlines, as if the glory of heaven shone through; still, oh, so still, and deep as
if it mirrored immensity. Little complaining murmurs, like the whimperings of a sleepy child,
rose up from the reeds, sweeter than any songs. He paused an instant to compare the then and
now, but fled with a groan as the old sorrow, the old madness, suddenly seized him with the
powerful grip of that horrid time. In fact, every step of the way to Martha's house was torture.
He saw that for him there were other dangers than Sonia and her detectives, in leaving the
refuge which God had provided for him. Oh, never could he be too grateful for the blessing,
never could he love enough the holy man who had suggested it, never could he repay the dear
souls whose love had made it beautiful. They rose up before him as he hurried down the road,
the lovable, humorous, rollicking, faulty clan; and he would not have exchanged them for the
glories of a court, for the joys of Arcady.

The sun and he found Martha busy with household duties. She did not know him and he said not
a word to enlighten her; he was a messenger from a friend who asked of her a service, the carrying
of a letter to a certain woman in Boston; and no one should see her deliver the letter, or
learn her name, or know her coming and going; for her friend, in hiding, and pursued, must
not be discovered. Then she knew that he came from Horace, and shed tears that he lived well
and happy, but could not believe, when he had made himself known, that this was the same man
of a year before. They spent a happy day together in perfecting the details of her visit to
Aunt Lois, which had to be accomplished with great care and secrecy. There was to be no correspondence
between them. In two weeks he would come again to hear a report of her success or failure.
If she were not at home, he would come two weeks later. She could tell Aunt Lois whatever the
old lady desired to hear about him, and assure her that nothing would induce him ever to return
to his former life. The letter said as much. When night came they went off over the hills together
to the nearest railway station, where he left her to find her way to the city, while he went
on to a different station and took a late train to New York. By these methods he felt hopeful
that his violation of the rules of disappearing would have no evil results for him, beyond
that momentary return of the old anguish which had frightened him more than Sonia's detectives.

In four weeks old Martha returned from her mission, and told this story as they sat in the
pleasant kitchen near a cheery fire.

"I rented a room in the neighborhood of your Aunt Lois' house, and settled myself to wait for
the most natural opportunity to meet her. It was long in coming, for she had been sick; but
when she got better I saw her going out to ride, and a little later she took to walking in
the park with her maid. There she often sat, and chatted with passing children, or with old
women like herself, poor old things trying to get life from the air. The maid is a spy. She
noted every soul about, and had an extra glance for me when your aunt spoke to me, after I
had waited three weeks for a word. I told her my story, as I told it to you. She was interested,
and I must go to her house to take lunch with her. I refused. I was not used to such invitations,
but I would call on her at other times. And the maid listened the more. She was never out of
hearing, nor out of sight, until Aunt Lois would get into a rage, and bid her take a walk.
It was then I handed her the letter under my shawl. The maid's eyes could not see through the
shawl. I told her what you bid me: that you would never return again, no more than if you were
dead, that she must burn the letter so that none would know a letter had been received and
burned, and that she would understand many things when she had read it; most particular that
she was surrounded by spies, and that she must go right on as if nothing had happened, and
deceive as she had been deceived.

"I met her only twice after that. I told her my plan to deceive the maid. I was a shrewd beggar
studying to get money out of her, with a story about going to my son in Washington. She bid
the maid secretly find out if I was worthy, and I saw the maid in private, and begged her to
report of me favorably, and she might have half the money, and then I would go away. And the
maid was deceived, for she brought me fifty dollars from your aunt, and kept thirty. She would
not give even the twenty until I had promised to go away without complaint. So I went away,
and stayed with a friend in Worcester. Since I came home I have not seen or heard of any stranger
in this neighborhood. So that it is likely I have not been suspected or followed. And the letter
was burned. And at the first fair chance your Aunt will go to Europe, taking with her her two
dearest relatives. She called them Sonia Endicott and her child Horace, and she would keep
them with her while she lived. At the last she sent you her love, though she could not understand
some of the things you were doing, but that was your own business. And she never shed a tear,
but kept smiling, and her smile was terrible."

He could believe that. Sonia might as well have lived in the glare of Vesuvius as in the enlightened
smile of Aunt Lois. The schemer was now in her own toils, and only at the death of the brave
old woman would she know her failure. Oh, how sweet and great is even human justice!

"If I do not see you again, Martha," said Arthur as he kissed the dear old mother farewell,
"remember that I am happy, and that you made me so."

THE GREEN AGAINST THE RED.

CHAPTER XII.

THE HATE OF HANNIBAL.

Owen Ledwith had a theory concerning the invasion of Ireland, which he began to expound that
winter. Since few know much more about the military art than the firing of a shotgun, he won
the scorn of all except his daughter and Arthur Dillon. In order to demonstrate his theory
Ledwith was willing to desert journalism, to fit out a small ship, and to sail into an Irish
harbor from New York and back, without asking leave from any government; if only the money
were supplied by the patriots to buy the ship and pay the sailors. His theory held that a fleet
of many ships might sail unquestioned from the unused harbors of the American coast, and land
one hundred thousand armed men in Ireland, where a blow might be struck such as never had been
yet in the good cause. Military critics denied the possibility of such an invasion. He would
have liked to perform the feat with a single ship, to convince them.

"I have a suspicion," he said one night to his daughter, "that this young Dillon would give
me five thousand dollars for the asking. He is a Fenian now."

"Is it possible?" Honora cried in astonishment.

"Well, I don't see any reason for wonder, Nora. He has been listening to me for three months,
vaporing over the wrongs of Ireland; he's of Celtic blood; he has been an adventurer in California;
he has the money, it would seem. Why, the wonder would be if he did not do what all the young
fellows are doing."

"I have not quite made up my mind about him yet, father," the young woman said thoughtfully.

"He's all man," said the father.

"True, but a man who is playing a part."

He laid down his pipe in his surprise, but she smiled assuringly.

"Well, it's fine acting, if you call it so, my love. In a little over a year he has made himself
the pride of Cherry Hill. Your great friend,"--this with a sniff--"Monsignor O'Donnell, is
his sponsor. He speaks like the orator born and with sincerity, though he knows little of politics.
But he has ideas. Then did you ever meet a merrier lad? Such a singer and dancer, such a favorite
among boys and girls! He seems to be as lovable as his uncle the Senator, and the proof of
it is that all confide in him. However, I have faith in your instincts, Nora. What do they say?"

"He looks at us all like a spectator sitting in front of a stage. Of course I have heard the
people talk about him. He is a popular idol, except to his mother who seems to be afraid of
him. He has moods of sadness, gloom, and Miss Conyngham told me she would wager he left a wife
in California. While all like him, each one has a curious thing to tell about him. They all
say it is the sickness which he had on coming home, and that the queer things are leaving him.
The impression he gives me is that of one acting a part. I must say it is fading every day,
but it hinders me from feeling quite satisfied about him."

"Well, one thing is in his favor: he listens to me," said Ledwith. "He is one of the few men
to whom I am not a crazy dreamer, crazy with love of Erin and hate of her shameless foe."

"And I love him for that, father," she said tenderly. "There is no acting in his regard and
esteem for you, nothing insincere in his liking for us, even if we cannot quite understand
it. For we are queer, Daddy," putting her arms about him. "Much love for our old home and much
thinking how to help it, and more despair and worry, have shut us off from the normal life,
until we have forgotten the qualities which make people liked. Poor Daddy!"

"Better that than doing nothing," he said sadly. "To struggle and fight once in a while mean
living; to sit still would be to die."

Arthur was ushered in just then by the servant, and took his place comfortably before the fire.
One could see the regard which they felt for him; on the part of Ledwith it was almost affection.
Deeply and sincerely he returned their kindly feeling.

He had a host of reasons for his regard. Their position seemed as strange to the humdrum world
as his own. They were looked on as queer people, who lived outside the ruts for the sake of
an enslaved nation. The idea of losing three meals a day and a fixed home for a hopeless cause
tickled the humor of the practical. Their devotion to an idea hardly surpassed their devotion
to each other. He mourned for her isolation, she mourned over his failures to free his native land.

"I have almost given the cause up," he said once to Arthur, "because I feel my helplessness.
I cannot agree with the leaders nor they with me. But if I gave up she would worry herself
to death over my loss of hope. I keep on, half on her account, half in the hope of striking
the real thing at the end."

"It seems to be also the breath of her life," said Arthur.

"No, it is not," the father replied. "Have you not heard her talk of your friend, Louis Everard?
How she dwells on his calling, and the happiness of it! My poor child, her whole heart yearns
for the cloister. She loves all such things. I have urged her to follow her inclinations, though
I know it would be the stroke of death for me, but she will not leave me until I die."

"You must not take us too seriously," she had once said, "in this matter of Irish liberties.
My father is hopelessly out of the current, for his health is only fair, and he has quarreled
with his leaders. I have given up hope of achieving anything. But if he gives up he dies. So,
I encourage him and keep marching on, in spite of the bitterest disappointments. Perhaps something
may come of it in the end."

"Not a doubt of it," said Arthur, uttering a great thought. "Every tear, every thought, every
heart-throb, every drop of sweat and blood, expended for human liberty, must be gathered up
by God and laid away in the treasury of heaven. The despots of time shall pay the interest
of that fund here or there."

A woman whose ideals embraced the freedom of an oppressed people, devotion to her father, and
love for the things of God, would naturally have a strong title to the respect of Arthur Dillon;
and she was, besides, a beautiful woman, who spoke great things in a voice so sweetly responsive
to her emotions that father and friend listened as to music. The Ledwiths had a comfortable
income, when they set to work, earned by his clever pen and her exquisite voice. The young
man missed none of her public appearances, though he kept the fact to himself. She was on those
occasions the White Lady in earnest. Her art had warmth indeed, but the coldness and aloofness
of exalted purity put her beyond the zone of desire; a snowy peak, distinct to the eye, but
inaccessible. When they were done with greetings Arthur brought up a specific subject.

"It has gone about that I have become a Fenian," he said, "and I have been called on to explain
to many what chance the movement has of succeeding. There was nothing in the initiation which
gave me that information."

"You can say: none," Ledwith answered bitterly. "And if you quote me as your authority there
will be many new members in the brotherhood."

"Then why keep up the movement, if nothing is to come of it?"

"The fighting must go on," Ledwith replied, "from generation to generation in spite of failure.
The Fenian movement will fail like all its predecessors. The only reason for its continuance
is that its successor may succeed. Step by step! Few nations are as lucky as this to win in
the first fight. Our country is the unluckiest of all. Her battle has been on seven hundred years."

"But I think there must be more consolation in the fight than your words imply;" Arthur declared.
"There must be a chance, a hope of winning."

"The hope has never died but the chance does not yet exist, and there is no chance for the
Fenians," Ledwith answered with emphasis. "The consolation lies for most of us in keeping up
the fight. It is a joy to let our enemy, England, know, and to make her feel, that we hate
her still, and that our hate keeps pace with her advancing greatness. It is pleasant to prove
to her, even by an abortive rising, that all her crimes, rogueries, and diplomacies against
us have been vain to quench our hate. We have been scattered over the world, but our hate has
been intensified. It is joy to see her foam at the mouth like a wild beast, then whine to the
world over the ingratitude of the Irish; to hear the representatives of her tax-payers howl
in Parliament at the expense of putting down regular rebellions; to see the landlords flying
out of the country they have ravaged, and the Orangemen white with the fear of slaughter. Then
these movements are an education. The children are trained to a knowledge of the position,
to hatred of the English power, and their generation takes up the fight where the preceding
left it."

"Hate is a terrible thing," said the young man. "Is England so hateful then?"

Honora urged him by looks to change the subject, for her father knew no bounds in speaking
of his country's enemy, but he would not lift his eyes to her face. He wished to hear Owen
Ledwith express his feelings with full vent on the dearest question to his heart. The man warmed
up as he spoke, fire in his eyes, his cheeks, his words, and gestures.

"She is a fiend from hell," he replied, hissing the words quietly. Deep emotion brought exterior
calm to Ledwith. "But that is only a feeling of mine. Let us deal with the facts. Like the
fabled vampire England hangs upon the throat of Ireland, battening on her blood. Populous England,
vanishing Ireland! What is the meaning of it? One people remains at home by the millions, the
other flies to other lands by the millions. Because the hell-witch is good to her own. For
them the trade of the world, the opening of mines, the building of factories, the use of every
natural power, the coddling of every artificial power. They go abroad only to conquer and tax
the foreigner for the benefit of those at home. Their harbors are filled with ships, and their
treasury with the gold of the world. For our people, there is only permission to work the soil,
for the benefit of absentee landlords, or encouragement to depart to America. No mines, no
factories, no commerce, no harbors, no ships, in a word no future. So the Irish do not stay
at home. The laws of England accomplished this destruction of trade, of art, of education,
oh, say it at once, of life. Damnable laws, fashioned by the horrid greed of a rich people,
that could not bear to see a poor people grow comfortable. They called over to their departments
of trade, of war, of art, to court, camp, and studio, our geniuses, gave them fame, and dubbed
them Englishmen; the castaways, the Irish in America and elsewhere are known as 'the mere Irish.'"

"It is very bitter," said Arthur, seeing the unshed tears in Honora's eyes.

"I wonder how we bear it," Ledwith continued. "We have not the American spirit, you may be
sure. I can fancy the colonists of a hundred years back meeting an Irish situation; the men
who faced the Indian risings, and, worse, the subduing of the wilderness. For them it would
have been equal rights and privileges and chances, or the bottom of the sea for one of the
countries. But we are poetic and religious, and murderous only when a Cromwell or a Castlereagh
opens hell for us. However, the past is nothing; it is the present which galls us. The gilding
of the gold and the painting of the lily are symbols of our present sufferings. After stripping
and roasting us at home, this England, this hell-witch sends abroad into all countries her
lies and slanders about us. Her spies, her professors, her gospellers, her agents, her sympathizers
everywhere, can tell you by the yard of our natural inferiority to the Chinese. Was it not
an American bishop who protested in behalf of the Chinese of San Francisco that they were more
desirable immigrants than the sodden Irish? God! this clean, patient, laborious race, whose
chastity is notorious, whose Christianity has withstood the desertion of Christ----"

Honora gave a half scream at the blasphemy, but at once controlled herself.

"I take that back, child--it was only madness," Ledwith said. "You see, Dillon, how scarred
my soul is with this sorrow. But the bishop and the Chinese! Not a word against that unfortunate
people, whose miseries are greater even than ours, and spring from the same sources. At least
they are not lied about, and a bishop, forsooth! can compare them, pagans in thought and act
and habit though they be, with the most moral and religious people in the world, to his own
shame. It is the English lie working. The Irish are inferior, and of a low, groveling, filthy
nature; they are buried both in ignorance and superstition; their ignorance can be seen in
their hatred of British rule, and their refusal to accept the British religion; wherever they
go in the wide world, they reduce the average of decency and intelligence and virtue; for twenty
years these lies have been sung in the ears of the nations, until only the enemies of England
have a welcome for us. Behold our position in this country. Just tolerated. No place open to
us except that of cleaning the sewers. Every soul of us compelled to fight, as Birmingham did
the other day, for a career, and to fight against men like Livingstone, who should be our friends.
And in the hearts of the common people a hatred for us, a disgust, even a horror, not inspired
by the leprous Chinese. We have earned all this hatred and scorn and opposition from England,
because in fighting with her we have observed the laws of humanity, when we should have wiped
her people off the face of the earth as Saul smote Agag and his corrupt people, as Cromwell
treated us. Do you wonder that I hate this England far more than I hate sin, or the devil,
or any monstrous creature which feeds upon man."

"I do not wonder," said Arthur. "With you there is always an increasing hatred of England?"

"Until death," cried Ledwith, leaping from his seat, as if the fire of hate tortured him, and
striding about the room. "To fight every minute against this monster, to fight in every fashion,
to irritate her, to destroy a grain of her influence, in a single mind, in a little community,
to expose her pretense, her sham virtues, her splendid hypocrisy, these are the breath of my
life. That hate will never perish until----"

He paused as if in painful thought, and passed his hand over his forehead.

"Until the wrongs of centuries have been avenged," said Arthur. Ledwith sat down with a scornful
laugh.

"That's a sentence from the orations of our patriotic orators," he sneered. "What have we to
do with the past? It is dead. The oppressed and injured are dead. God has settled their cause
long ago. It would be a pretty and consoling sight to look at the present difference between
the English Dives and the Irish Lazarus! The vengeance of God is a terrible thing. No! my hate
is of the present. It will not die until we have shaken the hold of this vampire, until we
have humiliated and disgraced it, and finally destroyed it. I don't speak of retaliation. The
sufferings of the innocent and oppressed are not atoned for by the sufferings of other innocents
and other oppressed. The people are blameless. The leaders, the accursed aristocracy of blood,
of place, of money, these make the corporate vampire, which battens upon the weak and ignorant
poor; only in England they give them a trifle more, flatter them with skill, while the Irish
are kicked out like beggars."

He looked at Dillon with haggard eyes. Honora sat like a statue, as if waiting for the storm
to pass.

"I have not sworn an oath like Hannibal," he said, "because God cannot be called as a witness
to hate. But the great foe of Rome never observed his oath more faithfully than I shall that
compact which I have made with myself and the powers of my nature: to turn all my strength
and time and capacity into the channel of hate against England. Oh, how poor are words and
looks and acts to express that fire which rages in the weakest and saddest of men."

He sank back with a gesture of weariness, and found Honora's hand resting on his tenderly.

"The other fire you have not mentioned, Daddy," she said wistfully, "the fire of a love which
has done more for Erin than the fire of hate. For love is more than hate, Daddy."

"Ay, indeed," he admitted. "Much as I hate England, what is it to my love for her victim? Love
is more than hate. One destroys, the other builds."

Ledwith, quite exhausted by emotion, became silent. The maid entered with a letter, which Honora
opened, read silently, and handed to her father without comment. His face flushed with pleasure.

"Doyle Grahame writes me," he explained to Arthur, "that a friend, who wishes to remain unknown,
has contributed five thousand dollars to testing my theory of an invasion of Ireland. That
makes the expedition a certainty--for May."

"Then let me volunteer the first for this enterprise," said Arthur blithely.

"And me the second," cried Honora with enthusiasm.

"Accepted both," said Ledwith, with a proud smile, new life stealing into his veins.

Not for a moment did he suspect the identity of his benefactor, until Monsignor, worried over
the risk for Arthur came to protest some days later. The priest had no faith in the military
enterprise of the Fenians, and, if he smiled at Arthur's interest in conspiracy, saw no good
reasons why he should waste his money and expose his life and liberty in a feeble and useless
undertaking. His protest both to Arthur and others was vigorous.

"If you have had anything to do with making young Dillon a Fenian," he said, "and bringing
him into this scheme of invasion, Owen, I would like you to undo the business, and persuade
him to stay at home."

"Which I shall not do, you may be sure, Monsignor," replied the patriot politely. "I want such
men. The enemy we fight sacrifices the flower of English youth to maintain its despotism; why
should we shrink from sacrifice?"

"I do not speak of sacrifice," said Monsignor. "One man is the same as another. But there are
grave reasons which demand the presence of this young man in America, and graver reasons why
he should not spend his money incautiously."

"Well, he has not spent any money yet, so far as I know," Ledwith said.

The priest hesitated a moment, while the other looked at him curiously.

"You are not aware, then, that he has provided the money for your enterprise?" Honora uttered
a cry, and Ledwith sprang from his chair in delighted surprise.

"Do you tell me that?" he shouted. "Honora, Honora, we have found the right man at last! Oh,
I felt a hundred times that this young fellow was destined to work immense good for me and
mine. God bless him forever and ever."

"Amen," said Honora, rejoicing in her father's joy.

"You know my opinion on these matters, Owen," said Monsignor.

"Ay, indeed, and of all the priests for that matter. Had we no religion the question of Irish
freedom would have been settled long ago. Better for us had we been pagans or savages. Religion
teaches us only how to suffer and be slaves."

"And what has patriotism done for you?" Monsignor replied without irritation.

"Little enough, to be sure."

"Now, since I have told you how necessary it is that Dillon should remain in America, and that
his money should not be expended----"

"Monsignor," Ledwith broke in impatiently, "let me say at once you are asking what you shall
not get. I swear to you that if the faith which you preach depended on getting this young fellow
to take back his money and to desert this enterprise, that faith would die. I want men, and
I shall take the widow's only son, the father of the family, the last hope of a broken heart.
I want money, and I shall take the crust from the mouth of the starving, the pennies from the
poor-box, the last cent of the poor, the vessels of the altar, anything and everything, for
my cause. How many times has our struggle gone down in blood and shame because we let our foolish
hearts, with their humanity, their faith, their sense of honor, their ridiculous pride, rule
us. I want this man and his money. I did not seek them, and I shall not play tricks to keep
them. But now that they are mine, no man shall take them from me."

Honora made peace between them, for these were stubborn men, unwilling to make compromises.
Monsignor could give only general reasons. Ledwith thought God had answered his prayers at
last. They parted with equal determination.

What a welcome Arthur Dillon received from the Ledwiths on his next visit! The two innocents
had been explaining their ideas for years, and traveling the earth to put them into action;
and in all that time had not met a single soul with confidence enough to invest a dollar in
them. They had spent their spare ducats in attempting what required a bank to maintain. They
had endured the ridicule of the hard-hearted and the silent pity of the friends who believed
them foolish dreamers. And behold a man of money appears to endow their enterprise, and to
show his faith in it by shipping as a common member of the expedition. Was there ever such
luck? They thanked him brokenly, and looked at him with eyes so full of tenderness and admiration
and confidence, that Arthur swore to himself he would hereafter go about the earth, hunting
up just such tender creatures, and providing the money to make their beautiful, heroic, and
foolish dreams come true. He began to feel the truth of a philosopher's saying: the dreams
of the innocent are the last reasoning of sages.

"And to this joy is added another," said Ledwith, when he could speak steadily. "General Sheridan
has promised to lead a Fenian army the moment the Irish government can show it in the field."

"What does that mean?" said Arthur.

"What does it mean that an Irish army on Irish soil should have for its leader a brilliant
general like Sheridan?" cried Ledwith. A new emotion overpowered him. His eyes filled with
tears. "It means victory for a forlorn cause. Napoleon himself never led more devoted troops
than will follow that hero to battle. Washington never received such love and veneration as
he will from the poor Irish, sick with longing for a true leader. Oh, God grant the day may
come, and that we may see it, when that man will lead us to victory."

His eyes flashed fire. He saw that far-off future, the war with its glories, the final triumph,
the crowning of Sheridan with everlasting fame. And then without warning he suddenly fell over
into a chair. Arthur lifted up his head in a fright, and saw a pallid face and lusterless eyes.
Honora bathed his temples, with the coolness and patience of habit.

"It is nothing, nothing," he said feebly after a moment. "Only the foolishness of it all ...
I can forget like a boy ... the thing will never come to pass ... never, never, never! There
stands the hero, splendid with success, rich in experience, eager, willing, a demigod whom
the Irish could worship ... his word would destroy faction, wipe out treason, weed out fools,
hold the clans in solid union ... if we could give him an army, back him with a government,
provide him with money! We shall never have the army ... nothing. Treason breeding faction,
faction inviting treason ... there's our story. O, God, ruling in heaven, but not on earth,
why do you torture us so? To give us such a man, and leave us without the opportunity or the
means of using him!"

He burst into violent, silent weeping. Dillon felt the stab of that hopeless grief, which for
the moment revived his own, although he could not quite understand it. Ledwith dashed away
the tears after a little and spoke calmly.

"You see how I can yield to dreams like a foolish child. I felt for a little as if the thing
had come to pass, and gave in to the fascination. This is the awaking. All the joy and sorrow
of my life have come mostly from dreams."

CHAPTER XIII.

ANNE DILLON'S FELICITY.

Monsignor was not discouraged by his failure to detach Arthur from the romantic expedition
to the Irish coast. With a view to save him from an adventure so hurtful to his welfare, he
went to see Anne Dillon. Her home, no longer on Mulberry Street, but on the confines of Washington
Square, in a modest enough dwelling, enjoyed that exclusiveness which is like the atmosphere
of a great painting. One feels by instinct that the master hand has been here. Although aware
that good fortune had wrought a marked change in Anne, Monsignor was utterly taken aback by
a transformation as remarkable in its way as the metamorphosis of Horace Endicott.

Judy Haskell admitted him, and with a reverence showed him into the parlor; the same Judy Haskell
as of yore, ornamented with a lace cap, a collar, deep cuffs, and an apron; through which her
homeliness shone as defiantly as the face of a rough mountain through the fog. She had been
instructed in the delicate art of receiving visitors with whom her intimacy had formerly been
marked; but for Monsignor she made an exception, and the glint in her eye, the smile just born
in the corner of her emphatic mouth, warned him that she knew of the astonishment which his
good breeding concealed.

"We're mountin' the laddher o' glory," she said, after the usual questions. "Luk at me in me
ould age, dhressed out like a Frinch sportin' maid. If there was a baby in the house ye'd see
me, Father Phil, galivantin' behind a baby-carriage up an' down the Square. Faith, she does
it well, the climbin', if we don't get dizzy whin we're halfway up, an' come to earth afore
all the neighbors, flatter nor pancakes."

"Tut, tut," said Monsignor, "are you not as good as the best, with the blood of the Montgomerys
and the Haskells in your veins? Are you to make strange with all this magnificence, as if you
were Indians seeing it for the first time?"

"That's what I've been sayin' to meself since it began," she replied.

"Since what began?"

"Why, the changin' from Mulberry Sthreet Irish to Washington Square Yankees," Judy said with
a shade of asperity. "It began wid the dog-show an' the opera. Oh, but I thought I'd die wid
laughin', whin I had to shtan' at the doors o' wan place or the other, waitin' on Micksheen,
or listenin' to the craziest music that ever was played or sung. After that kem politics, an'
nothin' wud do her but she'd bate ould Livingstone for Mare all by herself. Thin it was Vandervelt
for imbassador to England, an' she gev the Senator an' the Boss no pace till they tuk it up.
An' now it's the Countess o' Skibbereen mornin', noon, an' night. I'm sick o' that ould woman.
But she owns the soul of Anne Dillon."

"Well, her son can afford it," said Monsignor affably. "Why shouldn't she enjoy herself in
her own way?"

"Thrue for you, Father Phil; I ought to call you Morrisania, but the ould names are always
the shweetest. He has the money, and he knows how to spind it, an' if he didn't she'd show
him. Oh, but he's the fine b'y! Did ye ever see annywan grow more an' more like his father,
pace to his ashes. Whin he first kem it wasn't so plain, but now it seems to me he's the very
spit o' Pat Dillon. The turn of his head is very like him."

At this point in a chat, which interested Monsignor deeply, a soft voice floated down from
the upper distance, calling, "Judy! Judy!" in a delicate and perfect French accent.

"D'ye hear that, Father Phil?" whispered Judy with a grin. "It's nothin' now but Frinch an'
a Frinch masther. Wait till yez hear me at it."

She hastened to the hall and cried out, "Oui, oui, Madame," with a murmured aside to the priest,
"It's all I know."

"Venez en haut, Judy," said the voice.

"Oui, oui, Madame," answered Judy. "That manes come up, Father Phil," and Judy walked off upright,
with folded arms, swinging her garments, actions belied by the broad grin on her face, and
the sarcastic motion of her lips, which kept forming the French words with great scorn.

A few minutes afterward Anne glided into the room. The Montgomery girls had all been famous
for their beauty in the earlier history of Cherry Hill, and Anne had been the belle of her
time. He remembered her thirty years back, on the day of her marriage, when he served as altar-boy
at her wedding; and recalled a sweet-faced girl, with light brown silken hair, languorous blue
eyes, rose-pink skin, the loveliest mouth, the most provoking chin. Time and sorrow had dealt
harshly with her, and changed her, as the fairies might, into a thin-faced, gray-haired, severe
woman, whose dim eyes were hidden by glasses. She had retained only her grace and dignity of
manner. He recalled all this, and drew his breath; for before him stood Anne Montgomery, as
she had stood before him at the altar; allowing that thirty years had artistically removed
the youthful brilliance of youth, but left all else untouched. The brown hair waved above her
forehead, from her plump face most of the wrinkles had disappeared, her eyes gleamed with the
old time radiance, spectacles had been banished, a subdued color tinted her smiling face.

"Your son is not the only one to astound me," said Monsignor. "Anne, you have brought back
your youth again. What a magician is prosperity."

"It's the light-heartedness, Monsignor. To have as much money as one can use wisely and well,
to be done with scrimpin' forever, gives wan a new heart, or a new soul. I feel as I felt the
day I was married."

She might have added some information as to the share which modiste and beautifier might claim
in her rejuvenation, but Monsignor, very strict and happily ignorant of the details of the
toilet, as an ecclesiastic should be, was lost in admiration of her. It took him ten minutes
to come to the object of his visit.

"He has long been ahead of you," she said, referring to Arthur. "I asked him for leave to visit
Ireland, and he gave it on two conditions: that I would take Louis and Mona wid me, and refuse
to interfere with this Fenian business, no matter who asked me. I was so pleased that I promised,
and of course I can't go back on me word."

"This is a very clever young man," said Monsignor, admiring Anne's skill in extinguishing her
beautiful brogue, which, however, broke out sweetly at times.

"Did you ever see the like of him?" she exclaimed. "I'm afraid of him. He begins to look like
himself and like his father ... glory be to God ... just from looking at the pictures of the
two and thinkin' about them. He's good and generous, but I have never got over being afeared
of him. It was only when he went back on his uncle ... on Senator Dillon ... that I plucked
up courage to face him. I had the Senator all ready to take the place which Mr. Birmingham
has to-day, when Arthur called him off."

"He never could have been elected, Anne."

"I never could see why. The people that said that didn't think Mr. Vandervelt could be made
ambassador to England, at least this time. But he kem so near it that Quincy Livingstone complimented
me on my interest for Mr. Vandervelt. And just the same, Dan Dillon would have won had he run
for the office. It was with him a case of not wantin' to be de trop."

"Your French is três propos, Anne," said Monsignor with a laugh.

"If you want to hear an opinion of it," said the clever woman, laughing, too, "go and hear
the complaints of Mary and Sister Magdalen. Mais je suis capable de parler Français tout de même."

"And are you still afraid of Arthur? Wouldn't you venture on a little protest against his exposing
himself to needless danger?"

"I can do that, certainement, but no more. I love him, he's so fine a boy, and I wish I could
make free wid him; but he terrifies me when I think of everything and look at him. More than
wanst have I seen Arthur Dillon looking out at me from his eyes; and sometimes I feel that
Pat is in the room with me when he is around. As I said, I got courage to face him, and he
was grieved that I had to. For he went right into the contest over Vandervelt, and worked beautifully
for the Countess of Skibbereen. I'm to dine with her at the Vandervelts' next week, the farewell
dinner."

Her tones had a velvet tenderness in uttering this last sentence. She had touched one of the
peaks of her ambition.

"I shall meet you there," said Monsignor, taking a pinch of snuff. "Anne, you're a wonderful
woman. How have all these wonders come about?"

"It would take a head like your own to tell," she answered, with a meaning look at her handsome
afternoon costume. "But I know some of the points of the game. I met Mr. Vandervelt at a reception,
and told him he should not miss his chance to be ambassador, even if Livingstone lost the election
and wanted to go to England himself. Then he whispered to me the loveliest whisper. Says he,
'Mrs. Dillon, they think it will be a good way to get rid of Mr. Livingstone if he's defeated,'
says he; 'but if he wins I'll never get the high place, says he, 'for Tammany will be of no
account for years.'"

Anne smiled to herself with simple delight over that whispered confidence of a Vandervelt,
and Monsignor sat admiring this dawning cleverness. He noticed for the first time that her
taste in dress was striking and perfect, as far as he could judge.

"'Then' says I, 'Mr. Vandervelt,' says I, 'there's only wan thing to be done, wan thing to
be done,' says I. 'Arthur and the Senator and Doyle Grahame and Monsignor must tell Mr. Sullivan
along wid Mr. Birmingham that you should go to England this year. 'Oh,' said he, 'if you can
get such influence to work, nothing will stop me but the ill-will of the President.' 'And even
there,' said I, 'it will be paving the way for the next time, if you make a good showing this
time.' 'You see very far and well,' said he. That settled it. I've been dinin' and lunching
with the Vandervelts ever since. You know yourself, Monsignor, how I started every notable
man in town to tell Mr. Sullivan that Vandervelt must go to England. We failed, but it was
the President did it; but he gave Mr. Vandervelt his choice of any other first-class mission.
Then next, along came the old Countess of Skibbereen, and she was on the hands of the Vandervelts
with her scheme of getting knitting-machines for the poor people of Galway. She wasn't getting
on a bit, for she was old and queer in her ways, and the Vandervelts were worried over it.
Then I said: 'why not get up a concert, and have Honora sing and let Tammany take up one end
and society the other, and send home the Countess with ten thousand dollars?' My dear, they
jumped at it, and the Countess jumped at me. Will you ever forget it, Monsignor dear, the night
that Honora sang as the Genius of Erin? If that girl could only get over her craziness for
Ireland and her father--but that's not what I was talking about. Well, the Countess has her
ten thousand dollars, and says I'm the best-dressed woman in New York. So, that's the way I
come to dine with the Vandervelts at the farewell dinner to the Countess, and when it comes
off New York will be ringing with the name of Mrs. Montgomery Dillon."

"Is that the present name?" said Monsignor. "Anne, if you go to Ireland you'll return with
a title. Your son should be proud of you."

"I'll give him better reason before I'm done, Monsignor."

The prelate rose to go, then hesitated a moment.

"Do you think there is anything?--do you think there could be anything with regard to Honora
Ledwith?"

She stopped him with a gesture.

"I have watched all that. Not a thing could happen. Her thoughts are in heaven, poor child,
and his are busy with some woman that bothered him long ago, and may have a claim on him. No
wan told me, but my seein' and hearing are sharp as ever."

"Good-by, Mrs. Montgomery Dillon," he said, bowing at the door.

"Au plaisir, Monseigneur," she replied with a curtsey, and Judy opened the outer door, face
and mien like an Egyptian statue of the twelfth dynasty.

Anne Dillon watched him go with a sigh of deep contentment. How often she had dreamed of men
as distinguished leaving her presence and her house in this fashion; and the dream had come
true. All her life she had dreamed of the elegance and importance, which had come to her through
her strange son, partly through her own ambition and ability. She now believed that if one
only dreams hard enough fortune will bring dreams true. As the life which is past fades, for
all its reality, into the mist-substance of dreams, why should not the reverse action occur?
Had she been without the rich-colored visions which illuminated her idle hours, opportunity
might have found her a spiritless creature, content to take a salary from her son and to lay
it by for the miserable days of old age. Out upon such tameness! She had found life in her
dreams, and the two highest expressions of that life were Mrs. Montgomery Dillon and the Dowager
Countess of Skibbereen.

As a pagan priestess might have arrayed herself for appearance in the sanctuary, she clothed
herself in purple and gold on the evening of the farewell dinner.

Arthur escorted his mother and Honora to the Vandervelt residence.

As the trio made their bows, the aspirant for diplomatic honors rejoiced that his gratitude
for real favors reflected itself in objects so distinguished. He was a grateful man, this Vandervelt,
and broad-minded, willing to gild the steps by which he mounted, and to honor the humblest
who honored him: an aristocrat in the American sense of the term, believing that those who
wished should be encouraged to climb as high as natural capacity and opportunity permitted.
The party sat down slightly bored, they had gone through it so often; but for Anne Dillon each
moment and each circumstance shone with celestial beauty. She floated in the ether. The mellow
lights, the glitter of silver and glass, the perfume of flowers, the soft voices, all sights
and sounds, made up a harmony which lifted her body from the ground as on wings, more like
a dream than her richest dreams. For conversation, some one started Lord Constantine on his
hobby, and said Arthur was a Fenian, bent on destroying the hobby forever. In the discussion
the Countess appealed to Anne.

"We are a fighting race," said she, with admirable caution picking her steps through a long
paragraph. "There's--there are times when no one can hold us. This is such a time. A few months
back the Fenian trouble could have been settled in one week. Now it will take a year."

"But how?" said Vandervelt. "If you had the making of the scheme, I'm sure it would be a success."

"In this way," she answered, bowing and smiling to his sincere compliment, "by making all the
Irish Fenians, that is, those in Ireland, policemen."

The gentlemen laughed with one accord.

"Mr. Sullivan manages his troublesome people that way," she observed triumphantly.

"You are a student of the leader," said Vandervelt.

"Everybody should study him, if they want to win," said Anne.

"And that's wisdom," cried Lord Constantine.

The conversation turned on opera, and the hostess wondered why Honora did not study for the
operatic stage. Then they all urged her to think of the scheme.

"I hope," said Anne gently, "that she will never try to spoil her voice with opera. The great
singers give me the chills, and the creeps, and the shivers, the most terrible feeling, which
I never had since the day Monsignor preached his first sermon, and broke down."

"Oh, you dear creature," cried the Countess, "what a long memory you have."

Monsignor had to explain his first sermon. So it went on throughout the dinner. The haze of
perfect happiness gathered about Anne, and her speech became inspired. A crown of glory descended
upon her head when the Dowager, hearing of her summer visit to Ireland with Mona and Louis
in her care, exacted a solemn promise from her that the party should spend one month with her
at Castle Moyna, her dower home.

"That lovely boy and girl," said the Countess, "will find the place pleasant, and will make
it pleasant for me; where usually I can induce not even my son's children to come, they find
it so dull."

It did not matter much to Anne what happened thereafter. The farewells, the compliments, the
joy of walking down to the coach on the arm of Vandervelt, were as dust to this invitation
of the Dowager Countess of Skibbereen. The glory of the dinner faded away. She looked down
on the Vandervelts from the heights of Castle Moyna. She lost all at once her fear of her son.
From that moment the earth became as a rose-colored flame. She almost ignored the adulation
of Cherry Hill, and the astonished reverence of her friends over her success. Her success was
told in awesome whispers in the church as she walked to the third pew of the middle aisle.
A series of legends grew about it, over which the experienced gossips disputed in vain; her
own description of the dinner was carried to the four quarters of the world by Sister Magdalen,
Miss Conyngham, Senator Dillon, and Judy; the skeptical and envious pretended to doubt even
the paragraph in the journals. At last they were struck dumb with the rest when it was announced
that on Saturday last Mrs. Montgomery Dillon, Miss Mona Everard, and Mr. Louis Everard had
sailed on the City of London for a tour of Europe, the first month of which would be spent
at Castle Moyna, Ireland, as guests of the Dowager Countess of Skibbereen!

CHAPTER XIV.

ABOARD THE "ARROW."

One month later sailed another ship. In the depth of night the Arrow slipped her anchor, and
stole away from the suspicious eyes of harbor officials into the Atlantic; a stout vessel,
sailed with discretion, her trick being to avoid no encounters on the high seas and to seek
none. Love and hope steered her course. Her bowsprit pointed, like the lance of a knight, at
the power of England. Her north star was the freedom of a nation. War had nothing to do with
her, however, though her mission was warlike: to prove that one hundred similar vessels might
sail from various parts to the Irish coast, and land an army and its supplies without serious
interference from the enemy. The crew was a select body of men, whose souls ever sought the
danger of hopeless missions, as others seek a holiday. In spite of fine weather and bracing
seas, the cloud of a lonely fate hung over the ship. Arthur alone was enthusiastic. Ledwith,
feverish over slight success, because it roused the dormant appetite for complete success,
and Honora, fed upon disappointment, feared that this expedition would prove ashen bread as
usual; but the improvement in her father's health kept her cheerful. Doyle Grahame, always
in high spirits, devoted his leisure to writing the book which was to bring him fame and much
money. He described its motive and aim to his companions.

"It calls a halt," he said "on the senseless haste of Christians to take up such pagans as
Matthew Arnold, and raises a warning cry against surrender to the pagan spirit which is abroad."

"And do you think that the critics will read it and be overcome?" asked Arthur.

"It will convince the critics, not that they are pagans, but that I am. They will review it,
therefore, just to annoy me."

"You reason just like a critic, from anywhere to nowhere."

"The book will make a stir, nevertheless," and Doyle showed his confidence.

"It's to be a loud protest, and will tangle the supple legs of Henry Ward Beecher and other
semi-pagans like a lasso."

"How about the legs of the publishers?"

"That's their lookout. I have nothing against them, and I hope at the close of the sale they
will have nothing against me."

"When, where, with what title, binding and so forth?"

"Speak not overmuch to thy dentist," said Grahame slyly. "Already he knoweth too many of thy
mouth's secrets."

The young men kept the little company alive with their pranks and their badinage. Grahame discovered
in the Captain a rare personality, who had seen the globe in its entirety, particularly the
underside, as a detective and secret service agent for various governments. He was a tall,
slender man, rather like a New England deacon than a daring adventurer, with a refined face,
a handsome beard, and a speaking, languid gray eye. He spent the first week in strict devotion
to his duties, and in close observation of his passengers. In the second week Grahame had him
telling stories after dinner for the sole purpose of diverting the sad and anxious thoughts
of Honora, although Arthur hardly gave her time to think by the multiplied services which he
rendered her. There came an afternoon of storm, followed by a nasty night, which kept all the
passengers in the cabin; and after tea there, a demand was made upon Captain Richard Curran
for the best and longest story in his repertory. The men lit pipes and cigars, and Honora brought
her crotcheting. The rolling and tossing of the ship, the beating of the rain, and the roar
of the wind, gave them a sense of comfort. The ship, in her element, proudly and smoothly rode
the rough waves, showing her strength like a racer.

"Let us have a choice, Captain," said Grahame, as the officer settled himself in his chair.
"You detectives always set forth your successes. Give us now a story of complete failure, something
that remains a mystery till now."

"Mystery is the word," said Honora. "This is a night of mystery. But a story without an end
to it----"

"Like the history of Ireland," said Ledwith dryly.

"Is the very one to keep us thinking and talking for a month," said Grahame. "Captain, if you
will oblige us, a story of failure and of mystery."

"Such a one is fresh in my mind, for I fled from my ill-success to take charge of this expedition,"
said the Captain, whose voice was singularly pleasant. "The detective grows stale sometimes,
as singers and musicians do, makes a failure of his simplest work, and has to go off and sharpen
his wits at another trade. I am in that condition. For twenty months I sought the track of
a man, who disappeared as if the air absorbed him where he last breathed. I did not find him.
The search gave me a touch of monomania. For two months I have not been able to rest upon meeting
a new face until satisfied its owner was not--let us say, Tom Jones."

"Are you satisfied, then," said Arthur, "that we are all right?"

"He was not an Irishman, but a Puritan," replied the Captain, "and would not be found in a
place like this. I admit I studied your faces an hour or so, and asked about you among the
men, but under protest. I have given up the pursuit of Tom Jones, and I wish he would give
up the pursuit of me. I had to quiet my mind with some inquiries."

"Was there any money awaiting Tom? If so, I might be induced to be discovered," Grahame said
anxiously.

"You are all hopeless, Mr. Grahame. I have known you and Mr. Ledwith long enough, and Mr. Dillon
has his place secure in New York----"

"With a weak spot in my history," said Arthur. "I was off in California, playing bad boy for
ten years."

The Captain waved his hand as admitting Dillon's right to his personality.

"In October nearly two years ago the case of Tom Jones was placed in my care with orders to
report at once to Mrs. Tom. The problem of finding a lost man is in itself very simple, if
he is simply lost or in hiding. You follow his track from the place where he was last seen
to his new abode. But around this simple fact of disappearance are often grouped the interests
of many persons, which make a tangle worse than a poor fisherman's line. A proper detective
will make no start in his search until the line is as straight and taut as if a black bass
were sporting at the other end of it."

All the men exchanged delighted glances at this simile.

"I could spin this story for three hours straight talking of the characters who tangled me
at the start. But I did not budge until I had unraveled them every one. Mrs. Jones declared
there was no reason for the disappearance of Tom; his aunt Quincy said her flightiness had
driven him to it; and Cousin Jack, Mrs. Tom's adviser, thought it just a freak after much dissipation,
for Tom had been acting queerly for months before he did the vanishing act. The three were
talking either from spleen or the wish to hide the truth. When there was no trace of Tom after
a month of ordinary searching much of the truth came out, and I discovered the rest. Plain
speech with Mrs. Tom brought her to the half-truth. She was told that her husband would never
be found if the detective had to work in the dark. She was a clever woman, and very much worried,
for reasons, over her husband's disappearance. It was something to have her declare that he
had suspected her fidelity, but chiefly out of spleen, because she had discovered his infidelity.
A little sifting of many statements, which took a long time, for I was on the case nearly two
years, as I said, revealed Mrs. Tom as a remarkable woman. In viciousness she must have been
something of a monster, though she was beautiful enough to have posed for an angel. Her corruption
was of the marrow. She breathed crime and bred it. But her blade was too keen. She wounded
herself too often. Grit and ferocity were her strong points. We meet such women occasionally.
When she learned that I knew as much about her as need be, she threw off hypocrisy, and made
me an offer of ten thousand dollars to find her husband."

"I felt sure then of the money. Disappearance, for a living man, if clever people are looking
for him, is impossible nowadays. I can admit the case of a man being secretly killed or self-buried,
say, for instance, his wandering into a swamp and there perishing: these cases of disappearance
are common. But if he is alive he can be found."

"Why are you so sure of that?" said Arthur.

"Because no man can escape from his past, which is more a part of him than his heart or his
liver," said Curran. "That past is the pathway which leads to him. If you have it, it's only
a matter of time when you will have him."

"Yet you failed to find Tom Jones."

"For the time, yes," said the Captain with an eloquent smile. "Then, I had an antagonist of
the noblest quality. Tom Jones was a bud of the Mayflower stock. All his set agreed that he
was an exceptional man: a clean, honest, upright chap, the son of a soldier and a peerless
mother, apparently an every-day lad, but really as fine a piece of manhood as the world turns
out. Anyhow, I came to that conclusion about him when I had studied him through the documents.
What luck threw him between the foul jaws of his wife I can't say. She was a----"

The detective coughed before uttering the word, and looked at the men as he changed the form
of his sentence.

"She was a cruel creature. He adored her, and she hated him, and when he was gone slandered
him with a laugh, and defiled his honest name."

"Oh," cried Honora with a gasp of pain, "can there be such women now? I have read of them in
history, but I always felt they were far off----"

"I hope they are not many," said the Captain politely, "but in my profession I have met them.
Here was a case where the best of men was the victim of an Agrippina."

"Poor, dear lad," sighed she, "and of course he fled from her in horror."

"He was a wonder, Miss Ledwith. Think what he did. Such a man is more than a match for such
a woman. He discovered her unfaithfulness months before he disappeared. Then he sold all his
property, turning all he owned into money, and transferred it beyond any reach but his own,
leaving his wife just what she brought him--an income from her parents of fifteen hundred a
year: a mere drop to a woman whom he had dowered with a share in one hundred thousand. Though
I could not follow the tracks of his feet, I saw the traces of his thoughts as he executed
his scheme of vengeance. He discovered her villainy, he would have no scandal, he was disgusted
with life, so he dropped out of it with the prize for which she had married him, and left her
like a famished wolf in the desert. It would have satisfied him to have seen her rage and dismay,
but he was not one of the kind that enjoys torture."

"I watched Mrs. Tom for months, and felt she was the nearest thing to a demon I had ever met.
Well, I worked hard to find Tom. We tried many tricks to lure him from his hiding-place, if
it were near by, and we followed many a false trail into foreign lands. The result was dreadful
to me. We found nothing. When a child was born to him, and the fact advertised, and still he
did not appear, or give the faintest sign, I surrendered. It would be tedious to describe for
you how I followed the sales of his property, how I examined his last traces, how I pursued
all clues, how I wore myself out with study. At the last I gave out altogether and cut the
whole business. I was beginning to have Tom on the brain. He came to live on my nerves, and
to haunt my dreams, and to raise ghosts for me. He is gone two years, and Mrs. Tom is in Europe
with her baby and Tom's aunt Quincy. When I get over my present trouble, and get back a clear
brain, I shall take up the search. I shall find him yet. I'd like to show some of the documents,
but the matter is still confidential, and I must keep quiet, though I don't suppose you know
any of the parties. When I find him I shall finish the story for you."

"You will never find him," said Honora with emphasis. "That fearful woman shattered his very
soul. I know the sort of a man he was. He will never go back. If he can bear to live, it will
be because in his obscurity God gave him new faith and hope in human nature, and in the woman's
part of it."

"I shall find him," said the detective.

"You won't," said Grahame. "I'll wager he has been so close to you all this time, that you
cannot recognize him. That man is living within your horizon, if he's living at all. Probably
he has aided you in your search. You wouldn't be the first detective fooled in that game."

The Captain made no reply, but went off to see how his ship was bearing the storm. The little
company fell silent, perhaps depressed by the sounds of tempest without and the thought of
the poor soul whose departure from life had been so strange. Arthur sat thinking of many things.
He remembered the teaching that to God the past, present, and future are as one living present.
Here was an illustration: the old past and the new present side by side to-night in the person
of this detective. What a giant hand was that which could touch him, and fail to seize only
because the fingers did not know their natural prey. No doubt that the past is more a part
of a man than his heart, for here was every nerve of his body tingling to turn traitor to his
will. Horace Endicott, so long stilled that he thought him dead, rose from his sleep at the
bidding of the detective, and fought to betray Arthur Dillon. The blush, the trembling of the
hands, the tension of the muscles, the misty eye, the pallor of the cheek, the tremulous lip,
the writhing tongue, seemed to put themselves at the service of Endicott, and to fight for
the chance to betray the secret to Curran. He sat motionless, fighting, fighting; until after
a little he felt a delightful consciousness of the strength of Dillon, as of a rampart which
the Endicott could not overclimb. Then his spirits rose, and he listened without dread to the
story. How pitiful! What a fate for that splendid boy, the son of a brave soldier and a peerless
mother! A human being allied with a beast! Oh, tender heart of Honora that sighed for him so
pitifully! Oh, true spirit that recognized how impossible for Horace Endicott ever to return!
Down, out of sight forever, husband of Agrippina! The furies lie in wait for thee, wretched
husband of their daughter! Have shame enough to keep in thy grave until thou goest to meet
Sonia at the judgment seat!

Captain Curran was not at all flattered by the deep interest which Arthur took for the next
two days in the case of Tom Jones; but the young man nettled him by his emphatic assertions
that the detective had adopted a wrong theory as to the mysterious disappearance. They went
over the question of motives and of methods. The shrewd objections of Dillon gave him favor
in Curran's eyes. Before long the secret documents in the Captain's possession were laid before
him under obligations of secrecy. He saw various photographs of Endicott, and wondered at the
blindness of man; for here side by side were the man sought and his portrait, yet the detective
could not see the truth. Was it possible that the exterior man had changed so thoroughly to
match the inner personality which had grown up in him? He was conscious of such a change. The
mirror which reflected Arthur Dillon displayed a figure in no way related to the portrait.

"It seems to me," said Arthur, after a study of the photograph, "that I would be able to reach
that man, no matter what his disguise."

"Disguises are mere veils," said Curran, "which the trained eye of the detective can pierce
easily. But the great difficulty lies in a natural disguise, in the case where the man's appearance
changes without artificial aids. Here are two photographs which will illustrate my meaning.
Look at this."

Arthur saw a young and well-dressed fellow who might have been a student of good birth and
training.

"Now look at this," said the Captain, "and discover that they picture one and the same individual,
with a difference in age of two years."

The second portrait was a vigorous, rudely-dressed, bearded adventurer, as much like the first
as Dillon was like Grahame. Knowing that the portraits stood for the same youth, Arthur could
trace a resemblance in the separate features, but in the ensemble there was no likeness.

"The young fellow went from college to Africa," said Curran, "where he explored the wilderness
for two years. This photograph was taken on his return from an expedition. His father and mother,
his relatives and friends, saw that picture without recognizing him. When told who it was,
they were wholly astonished, and after a second study still failed to recognize their friend.
What are you going to do in a case of that kind? You or Grahame or Ledwith might be Tom Jones,
and how could I pierce such perfect and natural disguises."

"Let me see," said Arthur, as he stood with Endicott's photograph in his hand and studied the
detective, "if I can see this young man in you."

Having compared the features of the portrait and of the detective, he had to admit the absence
of a likeness. Handing the photograph to the Captain he said,

"You do the same for me."

"There is more likelihood in your case," said Curran, "for your age is nearer that of Tom Jones,
and youth has resemblances of color and feature."

He studied the photograph and compared it with the grave face before him.

"I have done this before," said Curran, "with the same result. You are ten years older than
Tom Jones, and you are as clearly Arthur Dillon as he was Tom Jones."

The young man and the Captain sighed together.

"Oh, I brought in others, clever and experienced," said Curran, "to try what a fresh mind could
do to help me, but in vain."

"There must have been something hard about Tom Jones," said Arthur, "when he was able to stay
away and make no sign after his child was born."

The Captain burst into a mocking laugh, which escaped him before he could repress the inclination.

"He may never have heard of it, and if he did his wife's reputation----"

"I see," said Arthur Dillon smiling, convinced that Captain Curran knew more of Sonia Westfield
than he cared to tell. At the detective's request the matter was dropped as one that did him
harm; but he complimented Arthur on the shrewdness of his suggestions, which indeed had given
him new views without changing his former opinions.

CHAPTER XV.

THE INVASION OF IRELAND.

One lovely morning the good ship sailed into the harbor of Foreskillen, an obscure fishing
port on the lonely coast of Donegal. The Arrow had been in sight of land all the day before.
A hush had fallen on the spirits of the adventurers. The two innocents, Honora and her father,
had sat on deck with eyes fixed on the land of their love, scarcely able to speak, and unwilling
to eat, in spite of Arthur's coaxing. Half the night they sat there, mostly silent, talking
reverently, every one touched and afraid to disturb them; after a short sleep they were on
deck again to see the ship enter the harbor in the gray dawn. The sun was still behind the
brown hills. Arthur saw a silver bay, a mournful shore with a few houses huddled miserably
in the distance, and bare hills without verdure or life. It was an indifferent part of the
earth to him; but revealed in the hearts of Owen Ledwith and his daughter, no jewel of the
mines could have shone more resplendent. He did not understand the love called patriotism,
any more than the love of a parent for his child. These affections have to be experienced to
be known. He loved his country and was ready to die for it; but to have bled for it, to have
writhed under tortures for it, to have groaned in unison with its mortal anguish, to have passed
through the fire of death and yet lived for it, these were not his glories.

In the cool, sad morning the father and daughter stood glorified in his eyes, for if they loved
each other much, they loved this strange land more. The white lady, whiter now than lilies,
stood with her arm about her father, her eyes shining; and he, poor man, trembled in an ague
of love and pity and despair and triumph, with a rapt, grief-stricken face, his shoulders heaving
to the repressed sob, as if nature would there make an end of him under this torrent of delight
and pain. Arthur writhed in secret humiliation. To love like this was of the gods, and he had
never loved anything so but Agrippina. As the ship glided to her anchorage the crew stood about
the deck in absolute silence, every man's heart in his face, the watch at its post, the others
leaning on the bulwarks. Like statues they gazed on the shore. It seemed a phantom ship, blown
from ghostly shores by the strength of hatred against the enemy, and love for the land of Eire;
for no hope shone in their eyes, or in the eyes of Ledwith and his daughter, only triumph at
their own light success. What a pity, thought Dillon, that at this hour of time men should
have reason to look so at the power of England. He knew there were millions of them scattered
over the earth, studying in just hate to shake the English grip on stolen lands, to pay back
the robberies of years in English blood.

The ship came to anchor amid profound silence, save for the orders of the Captain and the movements
of the men. Ledwith was speaking to himself more than to Honora, a lament in the Irish fashion
over the loved and lost, in a way to break the heart. The tears rolled down Honora's cheek,
for the agony was beginning.

"Land of love ... land of despair ... without a friend except among thy own children ... here
am I back again with just a grain of hope ... I love thee, I love thee, I love thee! Let them
neglect thee ... die every moment under the knife ... live in rags ... in scorn ... and hatred
too ... they have spared thee nothing ... I love thee ... I am faithful ... God strike me that
day when I forget thee! Here is the first gift I have ever given thee besides my heart and
my daughter ... a ship ... no freight but hope ... no guns alas! for thy torturers ... they
are still free to tear thee, these wolves, and to lie about thee to the whole world ... blood
and lies are their feast ... and how sweet are thy shores ... after all ... because thou art
everlasting! Thy children are gone, but they shall come back ... the dead are dead, but the
living are in many lands, and they will return ... perhaps soon ... I am the messenger ...
helpless as ever, but I bring thee news ... good news ... my beautiful Ireland! Poorer than
ever I return ... I shall never see thee free----"

He was working himself into a fever of grief when Honora spoke to him.

"You are forgetting, father, that this is the moment to thank Mr. Dillon in the name of our
country----"

"I forget everything when I am here," said Ledwith, breaking into cheerful smiles, and seizing
Arthur's hand. "I would be ashamed to say 'thank you,' Arthur, for what you have done. Let
this dear land herself welcome you to her shores. Never a foot stepped on them worthier of
respect and love than you."

They went ashore in silence, having determined on their course the night previous. They must
learn first what had happened since their departure from New York, where there had been rumors
of a rising, which Ledwith distrusted. It was too soon for the Fenians to rise; but as the
movement had gotten partly beyond the control of the leaders, anything might have happened.
If the country was still undisturbed, they might enjoy a ride through wild Donegal; if otherwise,
it was safer, having accomplished the purpose of the trip, to sail back to the West. The miserable
village at the head of the bay showed a few dwellers when they landed on the beach, but little
could be learned from them, save directions to a distant cotter who owned an ass and a cart,
and always kept information and mountain dew for travelers and the gentry. The young men visited
the cotter, and returned with the cart and the news. The rising was said to have begun, but
farther east and south, and the cotter had seen soldiers and police and squads of men hurrying
over the country; but so remote was the storm that the whole party agreed a ride over the bare
hills threatened no danger.

They mounted the cart in high spirits, now that emotion had subsided. All matters had been
arranged with Captain Curran, who was not to expect them earlier than the next day at evening,
and had his instructions for all contingencies. They set out for a village to the north, expressly
to avoid encounters possible southward. The morning was glorious. Arthur wondered at the miles
of uninhabited land stretching away on either side of the road, at the lack of population in
a territory so small. He had heard of these things before, but the sight of them proved stranger
than the hearing. Perhaps they had gone five miles on the road to Cruarig, when Grahame, driving,
pulled up the donkey with suddenness, and cried out in horror. Eight men had suddenly come
in sight on the road, armed with muskets, and as suddenly fled up the nearest timbered hill
and disappeared.

"I'll wager something," said Grahame, "that these men are being pursued by the police, or--which
would be worse for us--by soldiers. There is nothing to do but retreat in good order, and send
out a scout to make sure of the ground. We ought to have done that the very first thing."

No one gainsaid him, but Arthur thought that they might go on a bit further cautiously, and
if nothing suspicious occurred reach the town. Dubiously Grahame whipped up the donkey, and
drove with eyes alert past the wooded hill, which on its north side dropped into a little glen
watered by the sweetest singing brook. They paused to look at the brook and the glen. The road
stretched away above and below like a ribbon. A body of soldiers suddenly brightened the north
end of the ribbon two miles off.

"Now by all the evil gods," said Grahame, "but we have dropped into the very midst of the insurrection."

He was about to turn the donkey, when Honora cried out in alarm and pointed back over the road
which they had just traveled. Another scarlet troop was moving upon them from that direction.
Without a word Grahame turned the cart into the glen, and drove as far as the limits would
permit within the shade. They alighted.

"This is our only chance," he said. "The eight men with muskets are rebels whom the troops
have cornered. There may be a large force in the vicinity, ready to give the soldiers of Her
Majesty a stiff battle. The soldiers will be looking for rebels and not for harmless tourists,
and we may escape comfortably by keeping quiet until the two divisions marching towards each
other have met and had an explanation. If we are discovered, I shall do the talking, and explain
our embarrassment at meeting so many armed men first, and then so many soldiers. We are in
for it, I know."

No one seemed to mind particularly. Honora stole an anxious glance at her father, while she
pulled a little bunch of shamrock and handed it to Arthur. He felt like saying it would yet
be stained by his blood in defense of her country, but knew at the same moment how foolish
and weak the words would sound in her ears. He offered himself as a scout to examine the top
of the hill, and discover if the rebels were there, and was permitted to go under cautions
from Grahame, to return within fifteen minutes. He returned promptly full of enthusiasm. The
eight men were holding the top of the hill, almost over their heads, and would have it out
with the two hundred soldiers from the town. They had expected a body of one hundred insurgents
at this point, but the party had not turned up. Eager to have a brush with the enemy, they
intended to hold the hill as long as possible, and then scatter in different directions, sure
that pursuit could not catch them.

"The thing for them to do is to save us," said Grahame. "Let them move on to another hill northward,
and while they fight the soldiers we may be able to slip back to the ship."

The suggestion came too late. The troops were in full sight. Their scouts had met in front
of the glen, evidently acting upon information received earlier, and seemed disappointed at
finding no trace of a body of insurgents large enough to match their own battalion. The boys
on the top of the hill put an end to speculations as to the next move by firing a volley into
them. A great scattering followed, and the bid for a fight was cheerfully answered by the officer
in command of the troops. Having joined his companies, examined the position and made sure
that its defenders were few and badly armed, he ordered a charge. In five minutes the troops
were in possession of the hilltop, and the insurgents had fled; but on the hillside lay a score
of men wounded and dead. The rebels were good marksmen, and fleet-footed. The scouts beat the
bushes and scoured the wood in vain. The report to the commanding officer was the wounding
of two men, who were just then dying in a little glen close by, and the discovery of a party
of tourists in the glen, who had evidently turned aside to escape the trouble, and were now
ministering to the dying rebels.

Captain Sydenham went up to investigate. Before he arrived the little drama of death had passed,
and the two insurgents lay side by side at the margin of the brook like brothers asleep. When
the insurgents fled from their position, the two wounded ones dropped into the glen in the
hope of escaping notice for the time; but they were far spent when they fell headlong among
the party in hiding below. Grahame and Ledwith picked them up and laid them near the brook,
Honora pillowed their heads with coats, Arthur brought water to bathe their hands and faces,
grimy with dust of travel and sweat of death; for an examination of the wounds showed Ledwith
that they were speedily mortal. He dipped his handkerchief in the flowing blood of each, and
placed it reverently in his breast. There was nothing to do but bathe the faces and moisten
the lips of the dying and unconscious men. They were young, one rugged and hard, the other
delicate in shape and color; the same grace of youth belonged to both, and showed all the more
beautifully at this moment through the heavy veil of death.

Arthur gazed at them with eager curiosity, and at the red blood bubbling from their wounds.
For their country they were dying, as his father had died, on the field of battle. This blood,
of which he had so often read, was the price which man pays for liberty, which redeems the
slave; richer than molten gold, than sun and stars, priceless. Oh, sweet and glorious, unutterably
sweet to die like this for men!

"Do you recognize him?" said Ledwith to Grahame, pointing to the elder of the two. Grahame
bent forward, startled that he should know either unfortunate.

"It is young Devin, the poet," cried Ledwith with a burst of tears. Honora moaned, and Grahame
threw up his hands in despair.

"We must give the best to our mother," said Ledwith, "but I would prefer blood so rich to be
scattered over a larger soil."

He took the poet's hand in his own, and stroked it gently; Honora wiped the face of the other;
Grahame on his knees said the prayers he remembered for sinners and passing souls; secretly
Arthur put in his pocket a rag stained with death-sweat and life-blood. Almost in silence,
without painful struggle, the boys died. Devin opened his eyes one moment on the clear blue
sky and made an effort to sing. He chanted a single phrase, which summed up his life and its
ideals: "Mother, always the best for Ireland." Then his eyes closed and his heart stopped.
The little party remained silent, until Honora, looking at the still faces, so young and tender,
thought of the mothers sitting in her place, and began to weep aloud. At this moment Captain
Sydenham marched up the glen with clinking spur. He stopped at a distance and took off his
hat with the courtesy of a gentleman and the sympathy of a soldier. Grahame went forward to
meet him, and made his explanations.

"It is perfectly clear," said the Captain, "that you are tourists and free from all suspicion.
However, it will be necessary for you to accompany me to the town and make your declarations
to the magistrate as well. As you were going there anyhow it will be no hardship, and I shall
be glad to make matters as pleasant as possible for the young lady."

Grahame thanked him, and introduced him to the party. He bowed very low over the hand which
Honora gave him.

"A rather unfortunate scene for you to witness," he said.

Yet she had borne it like one accustomed to scenes of horror. Her training in Ledwith's school
bred calmness, and above all silence, amid anxiety, disappointment and calamity.

"I was glad to be here," she replied, the tears still coursing down her face, "to take their
mother's place."

"Two beautiful boys," said the Captain, looking into the dead faces. "Killing men is a bad
business anywhere, but when we have to kill our own, and such as these, it is so much worse."

Ledwith flashed the officer a look of gratitude.

"I shall have the bodies carried to the town along with our own dead, and let the authorities
take care of them. And now if you will have the goodness to take your places, I shall do myself
the pleasure of riding with you as far as the magistrate's."

Honora knelt and kissed the pale cheeks of the dead boys, and then accepted Captain Sydenham's
arm in the march out of the glen. The men followed sadly. Ledwith looked wild for a while.
The tears pressed against Arthur's eyes. What honor gilded these dead heroes!

The procession moved along the road splendidly, the soldiers in front and the cart in the rear,
while a detail still farther off carried the wounded and dead. Captain Sydenham devoted himself
to Honora, which gave Grahame the chance to talk matters over with Ledwith on the other side
of the car.

"Did you ever dream in all your rainbow dreams," said Grahame, "of marching thus into Cruarig
with escort of Her Majesty? It's damfunny. But the question now is, what are we to do with
the magistrate? Any sort of an inquiry will prove that we are more than suspicious characters.
If they run across the ship we shall go to jail. If they discover you and me, death or Botany
Bay will be our destination."

"It is simply a case of luck," Ledwith replied. "Scheming won't save us. If Lord Constantine
were in London now----"

"Great God!" cried Grahame in a whisper, "there's the luck. Say no more. I'll work that fine
name as it was never worked before."

He called out to Captain Sydenham to come around to his side of the car for a moment.

"I am afraid," he said, "that we have fallen upon evil conditions, and that, before we get
through with the magistrates, delays will be many and vexatious. I feel that we shall need
some of our English friends of last winter in New York. Do you know Lord Constantine?"

"Are you friends of Lord Leverett?" cried the Captain. "Well, then, that settles it. A telegram
from him will smooth the magistrate to the silkiness of oil. But I do not apprehend any annoyance.
I shall be happy to explain the circumstances, and you can get away to Dublin, or any port
where you hope to meet your ship."

The Captain went back to Honora, and talked Lord Constantine until they arrived in the town
and proceeded to the home of the magistrate. Unfortunately there was little cordiality between
Captain Sydenham and Folsom, the civil ruler of the district; and because the gallant Captain
made little of the episode therefore Folsom must make much of it.

"I can easily believe in the circumstances which threw tourists into so unpleasant a situation,"
said Folsom, "but at the same time I am compelled to observe all the formalities. Of course
the young lady is free. Messrs. Dillon and Grahame may settle themselves comfortably in the
town, on their word not to depart without permission. Mr. Ledwith has a name which my memory
connects with treasonable doings and sayings. He must remain for a few hours at least in the jail."

"This is not at all pleasant," said Captain Sydenham pugnaciously. "I could have let these
friends of my friends go without troubling you about them. I wished to make it easier for them
to travel to Dublin by bringing them before you, and here is my reward."

"I wish you had, Captain," said the magistrate. "But now you've done it, neither is free to
do more than follow the routine. We have enough real work without annoying honest travelers.
However, it's only a matter of a few hours."

"Then you had better telegraph to Lord Constantine," said Sydenham to Grahame.

Folsom started at the name and looked at the party with a puzzled frown. Grahame wrote on a
sheet of paper the legend: "A telegram from you to the authorities here will get Honora and
her party out of much trouble."

"Is it as warm as that?" said the Captain with a smile, as he read the lines and handed the
paper to Folsom with a broad grin.

"I'm in for it now," groaned Folsom to himself as he read. "Wish I'd let the Captain alone
and tended to strict business."

While the wires were humming between Dublin and Cruarig, Captain Sydenham spent his spare time
in atoning for his blunders against the comfort of the party. Ledwith having been put in jail
most honorably, the Captain led the others to the inn and located them sumptuously. He arranged
for lunch, at which he was to join them, and then left them to their ease while he transacted
his own affairs.

"One of the men you read about," said Grahame, as the three looked at one another dolorously.
"Sorry I didn't confide in him from the start. Now it's a dead certainty that your father stays
in jail, Honora, and I may be with him."

"I really can't see any reason for such despair," said Arthur.

"Of course not," replied Grahame. "But even Lord Constantine could not save Owen Ledwith from
prison in times like these, if the authorities learn his identity."

"What is to be done?" inquired Honora.

"You will stay with your father of course?" Honora nodded.

"I'm going to make a run for it at the first opportunity," said Grahame. "I can be of no use
here, and we must get back the ship safe and sound. Arthur, if they hold Ledwith you will have
the honor of working for his freedom. Owen is an American citizen. He ought to have all the
rights and privileges of a British subject in his trial, if it comes to that. He won't get
them unless the American minister to the court of St. James insists upon it. Said minister,
being a doughhead, will not insist. He will even help to punish him. It will be your business
to go up to London and make Livingstone do his duty if you have to choke him black in the face.
If the American minister interferes in this case Lord Constantine will be a power. If the said
minister hangs back, or says, hang the idiot, my Lord will not amount to a hill of beans."

"If it comes to a trial," said Arthur, "won't Ledwith get the same chance as any other lawbreaker?"

Honora and Grahame looked at each other as much as to say: "Poor innocent!"

"When there's a rising on, my dear boy, there is no trial for Irishmen. Arrest means condemnation,
and all that follows is only form. Go ahead now and do your best."

Before lunch the telegrams had done their best and worst. The party was free to go as they
came with the exception of Ledwith. They had a merry lunch, enlivened by a telegram from Lord
Constantine, and by Folsom's discomfiture. Then Grahame drove away to the ship, Arthur set
out for Dublin, and Honora was left alone with her dread and her sorrows, which Captain Sydenham
swore would be the shortest of her life.

CHAPTER XVI.

CASTLE MOYNA.

The Dillon party took possession of Castle Moyna, its mistress, and Captain Sydenham, who had
a fondness for Americans. Mona Everard owned any human being who looked at her the second time,
as the oriole catches the eye with its color and then the heart with its song; and Louis had
the same magnetism in a lesser degree. Life at the castle was not of the liveliest, but with
the Captain's aid it became as rapid as the neighboring gentry could have desired. Anne cared
little, so that her children had their triumph. Wrapped in her dreams of amethyst, the exquisiteness
of this new world kept her in ecstasy. Its smallest details seemed priceless. She performed
each function as if it were the last of her life. While rebuffs were not lacking, she parried
them easily, and even the refusal of the parish priest to accept her aid in his bazaar did
not diminish the delight of her happy situation. She knew the meaning of his refusal: she,
an upstart, having got within the gates of Castle Moyna by some servility, when her proper
place was a shebeen in Cruarig, offered him charity from a low motive. She felt a rebuke from
a priest as a courtier a blow from his king; but keeping her temper, she made many excuses
for him in her own mind, without losing the firm will to teach him better manners in her own
reverent way. The Countess heard of it, and made a sharp complaint to Captain Sydenham. The
old dowager had a short temper, and a deep gratitude for Anne's remarkable services in New
York. Nor did she care to see her guests slighted.

"Father Roslyn has treated her shabbily. She suggested a booth at his bazaar, offered to fit
it up herself and to bring the gentry to buy. She was snubbed: 'neither your money nor your
company.' You must set that right, Sydenham," said she.

"He shall weep tears of brine for it," answered the Captain cheerfully.

"Tell him," said the Dowager, "the whole story, if your priest can appreciate it, which I doubt.
A Cavan peasant, who can teach the fine ladies of Dublin how to dress and how to behave; whose
people are half the brains of New York; the prize-fighter turned senator, the Boss of Tammany,
the son with a gold mine. Above all, don't forget to tell how she may name the next ambassador
to England."

They laughed in sheer delight at her accomplishments and her triumphs.

"Gad, but she's the finest woman," the Captain declared. "At first I thought it was acting,
deuced fine acting. But it's only her nature finding expression. What d'ye think she's planning
now? An audience with the Pope, begad, special, to present an American flag and a thousand
pounds. And she laid out Lady Cruikshank yesterday, stone cold. Said her ladyship: 'Quite a
compliment to Ireland, Mrs. Dillon, that you kept the Cavan brogue so well.' Said Mrs. Dillon:
'It was all I ever got from Ireland, and a brogue in New York is always a recommendation to
mercy from the court; then abroad it marks one off from the common English and their common
Irish imitators.' Did she know of Lady Cruikshank's effort to file off the Dublin brogue?"

"Likely. She seems to know the right thing at the right minute."

Evidently Anne's footing among the nobility was fairly secure in spite of difficulties. There
were difficulties below stairs also, and Judy Haskell had the task of solving them, which she
did with a success quite equal to Anne's. She made no delay in seizing the position of arbiter
in the servants' hall, not only of questions touching the Dillons, and their present relations
with the Irish nobility, but also on such vital topics as the rising, the Fenians, the comparative
rank of the Irish at home and those in America, and the standing of the domestics in Castle
Moyna from the point of experience and travel. Inwardly Judy had a profound respect for domestics
in the service of a countess, and looked to find them as far above herself as a countess is
above the rest of the world. She would have behaved humbly among the servants of Castle Moyna,
had not their airs betrayed them for an inferior grade.

"These Americans," said the butler with his nose in the air.

"As if ye knew anythin' about Americans," said Judy promptly. "Have ye ever thraveled beyant
Donegal, me good little man?"

"It wasn't necessary, me good woman."

"Faith, it's yerself 'ud be blowin' about it if ye had. An' d'ye think people that thraveled
five thousan' miles to spind a few dollars on yer miserable country wud luk at the likes o'
ye? Keep yer criticisms on these Americans in yer own buzzum. It's not becomin' that an ould
gossoon shud make remarks on Mrs. Dillon, the finest lady in New York, an' the best dhressed
at this minnit in all Ireland. Whin ye've thraveled as much as I have ye can have me permission
to talk on what ye have seen."

"The impidence o' some people," said the cook with a loud and scornful laugh.

"If ye laughed that way in New York," said Judy, "ye'd be sint to the Island for breaking the
public peace. A laugh like that manes no increase o' wages."

"The Irish in New York are allowed to live there I belave," said a pert housemaid with a simper.

"Oh, yes, ma'am, an' they are also allowed to sind home the rint o' their houses to kape the
poor Irish from starvin', an' to help the lords an' ladies of yer fine castles to kape the
likes o' yees in a job."

"'Twas always a wondher to me," said the cook to the housemaid, as if no other was present,
"how these American bigbugs wid their inilligant ways ever got as far as the front door o'
the Countess."

"I can tell ye how Mrs. Dillon got in so far that her fut is on the neck of all o' yez this
minnit," said Judy. "If she crooked her finger at ye this hour, ye'd take yer pack on yer back
an' fut it over to yer father's shanty, wid no more chance for another place than if ye wor
in Timbuctoo. The Countess o' Skibbereen kem over to New York to hould a concert, an' to raise
money for the cooks an' housemaids an' butlers that were out of places in Donegal. Well, she
cudn't get a singer, nor she couldn't get a hall, nor she cudn't sell a ticket, till Mrs. Dillon
gathered around her the Boss of Tammany Hall, an' Senator Dillon, an' Mayor Birmingham, an'
Mayor Livingstone, an' says to thim, 'let the Countess o' Skibbereen have a concert an' let
Tammany Hall buy every ticket she has for sale, an' do yeez turn out the town to make the concert
a success.' An' thin she got the greatest singer in the world, Honora Ledwith, that ye cudn't
buy to sing in Ireland for all the little money there's in it, to do the singin', an' so the
Countess med enough money to buy shirts for the whole of Ireland. But not a door wud have opened
to her if Mrs. Dillon hadn't opened them all be wan word. That's why Castle Moyna is open to
her to the back door. For me I wondher she shtays in the poor little place, whin the palace
o' the American ambassador in London expects her."

The audience, awed at Judy's assurance, was urged by pride to laugh haughtily at this last
statement.

"An' why wudn't his palace be open to her," Judy continued with equal scorn. "He's afraid of
her. She kem widin an ace o' spoilin' his chances o' goin' to London an' bowin' to the Queen.
An, bedad, he's not sure of his futtin' while she's in it, for she has her mind on the place
for Mr. Vandervelt, the finest man in New York wid a family that goes back to the first Dutchman
that ever was, a little fellow that sat fishin' in the say the day St. Pathrick sailed for
Ireland. Now Mr. Livingstone sez to Mrs. Dillon whin he was leavin' for London, 'Come over,'
sez he, 'an' shtay at me palace as long as I'm in it.' She's goin' there whin she laves here,
but I don't see why she shtays in this miserable place, whin she cud be among her aquils, runnin'
in an out to visit the Queen like wan o' thimselves."

By degrees, as Judy's influence invaded the audience, alarm spread among them for their own
interests. They had not been over polite to the Americans, since it was not their habit to
treat any but the nobility with more than surface respect. New York most of them hoped to visit
and dwell within some day. What if they had offended the most influential of the great ladies
of the western city! Judy saw their fear and guessed its motive.

"Me last word to the whole o' yez is, get down an yer knees to Mrs. Dillon afore she l'aves,
if she'll let yez. I hear that some o' ye think of immigratin' to New York. Are yez fit for
that great city? What are yer wages here? Mebbe a pound a month. In our city the girls get
four pounds for doin' next to nothin'. An' to see the dhress an' the shtyle o' thim fine girls!
Why, yez cudn't tell them from their own misthresses. What wud yez be doin' in New York, wid
yer clothes thrun on yez be a pitchfork, an' lukkin' as if they were made in the ark? But if
ye wor as smart as the lady that waits on the Queen, not wan fut will ye set in New York if
Mrs. Dillon says no. Yez may go to Hartford or Newark, or some other little place, an' yez'll
be mighty lucky if ye're not sint sthraight on to quarantine wid the smallpox patients an'
the Turks."

