     "The people of this island and of all the others which I have
     discovered or heard of, both men and women, go naked as they were
     born, although some of the women wear leaves of herbs or a cotton
     covering made on purpose.  They have no iron or steel, nor any
     weapons; not that they are not a well-disposed people and of fine
     stature, but they are timid to a degree.  They have no other arms
     excepting spears made of cane, to which they fix at the end a sharp
     piece of wood, and then dare not use even these.  Frequently I had
     occasion to send two or three of my men onshore to some settlement
     for information, where there would be multitudes of them; and as
     soon as they saw our people they would run away every soul, the
     father leaving his child; and this was not because any one had done
     them harm, for rather at every cape where I had landed and been able
     to communicate with them I have made them presents of cloth and many
     other things without receiving anything in return; but because they
     are so timid.  Certainly, where they have confidence and forget
     their fears, they are so open-hearted and liberal with all they
     possess that it is scarcely to be believed without seeing it.  If
     anything that they have is asked of them they never deny it; on the
     contrary, they will offer it.  Their generosity is so great that
     they would give anything, whether it is costly or not, for anything
     of every kind that is offered them and be contented with it.  I was
     obliged to prevent such worth less things being given them as pieces
     of broken basins, broken glass, and bits of shoe-latchets, although
     when they obtained them they esteemed them as if they had been the
     greatest of treasures.  One of the seamen for a latchet received a
     piece of gold weighing two dollars and a half, and others, for other
     things of much less value, obtained more.  Again, for new silver
     coin they would give everything they possessed, whether it was worth
     two or three doubloons or one or two balls of cotton.  Even for
     pieces of broken pipe-tubes they would take them and give anything
     for them, until, when I thought it wrong, I prevented it.  And I
     made them presents of thousands of things which I had, that I might
     win their esteem, and also that they might be made good Christians
     and be disposed to the service of Your Majesties and the whole
     Spanish nation, and help us to obtain the things which we require
     and of which there is abundance in their country.

     "And these people appear to have neither religion nor idolatry,
     except that they believe that good and evil come from the skies; and
     they firmly believed that our ships and their crews, with myself,
     came from the skies, and with this persuasion,--after having lost
     their fears, they always received us.  And yet this does not proceed
     from ignorance, for they are very ingenious, and some of them
     navigate their seas in a wonderful manner and give good account of
     things, but because they never saw people dressed or ships like
     ours.

     "And as soon as I arrived in the Indies, at the first island at
     which I touched, I captured some of them, that we might learn from
     them and obtain intelligence of what there was in those parts.  And
     as soon as we understood each other they were of great service to
     us; but yet, from frequent conversation which I had with them, they
     still believe we came from the skies.  These were the first to
     express that idea, and others ran from house to house, and to the
     neighbouring villages, crying out, "Come and see the people from the
     skies."  And thus all of them, men and women, after satisfying
     themselves of their safety, came to us without reserve, great and
     small, bringing us something to eat and drink, and which they gave
     to us most affectionately.

     "They have many canoes in those islands propelled by oars, some of
     them large and others small, and many of them with eight or ten
     paddles of a side, not very wide, but all of one trunk, and a boat
     cannot keep way with them by oars, for they are incredibly fast; and
     with these they navigate all the islands, which are innumerable, and
     obtain their articles of traffic.  I have seen some of these canoes
     with sixty or eighty men in them, and each with a paddle.

     "Among the islands I did not find much diversity of formation in the
     people, nor in their customs, nor their language.  They all
     understand each other, which is remarkable; and I trust Your
     Highnesses will determine on their being converted to our faith, for
     which they are very well disposed.

     "I have already said that I went 107 leagues along the coast of
     Juana, from east to west.  Thus, according to my track, it is larger
     than England and Scotland together, for, besides these 107 leagues,
     there were further west two provinces to which I did not go, one of
     which is called Cibau, the people of which are born with tails;
     which provinces must be about fifty or sixty leagues long, according
     to what I can make out from the Indians I have with me, who know all
     the islands.  The other island (Espanola) is larger in circuit than
     the whole of Spain, from the Straits of Gibralter (the Columns) to
     Fuentarabia in Biscay, as I sailed 138 long leagues in a direct line
     from west to east.  Once known it must be desired, and once seen one
     desires never to leave it; and which, being taken possession of for
     their Highnesses, and the people being at present in a condition
     lower than I can possibly describe, the Sovereigns of Castile may
     dispose of it in any manner they please in the most convenient
     places.  In this Espanola, and in the best district, where are gold
     mines, and, on the other side, from thence to terra firma, as well
     as from thence to the Great Khan, where everything is on a splendid
     scale--I have taken possession of a large town, to which I gave the
     name of La Navidad, and have built a fort in it, in every respect
     complete.  And I have left sufficient people in it to take care of
     it, with artillery and provisions for more than a year; also a boat
     and coxswain with the equipments, in complete friendship with the
     King of the islands, to that degree that he delighted to call me and
     look on me as his brother.  And should they fall out with these
     people, neither he nor his subjects know anything of weapons, and go
     naked, as I have said, and they are the most timorous people in the
     world.  The few people left there are sufficient to conquer the
     country, and the island would thus remain without danger to them,
     they keeping order among themselves.

     "In all these islands it appeared to me the men are contented with
     one wife, but to their governor or king they allow twenty.  The
     women seem to work more than the men.  I have not been able to
     discover whether they respect personal property, for it appeared to
     me things were common to all, especially in the particular of
     provisions.  Hitherto I have not seen in any of these islands any
     monsters, as there were supposed to be; the people, on the contrary,
     are generally well formed, nor are they black like those of the
     Guinea, saving their hair, and they do not reside in places exposed
     to the sun's rays.  It is true that the sun is most powerful there,
     and it is only twenty-six degrees from the equator.  In this last
     winter those islands which were mountainous were cold, but they were
     accustomed to it, with good food and plenty of spices and hot
     nutriment.  Thus I have found no monsters nor heard of any, except
     at an island which is the second in going to the Indies, and which
     is inhabited by a people who are considered in all the islands as
     ferocious, and who devour human flesh.  These people have many
     canoes, which scour all the islands of India, and plunder all they
     can.  They are not worse formed than the others, but they wear the
     hair long like women, and use bows and arrows of the same kind of
     cane, pointed with a piece of hard wood instead of iron, of which
     they have none.  They are fierce compared with the other people, who
     are in general but sad cowards; but I do not consider them in any
     other way superior to them.  These are they who trade in women, who
     inhabit the first island met with in going from Spain to the Indies,
     in which there are no men whatever.  They have no effeminate
     exercise, but bows and arrows, as before said, of cane, with which
     they arm themselves, and use shields of copper, of which they have
     plenty.

     "There is another island, I am told, larger than Espanola, the
     natives of which have no hair.  In this there is gold without limit,
     and of this and the others I have Indians with me to witness.

     "In conclusion, referring only to what has been effected by this
     voyage, which was made with so much haste, Your Highnesses may see
     that I shall find as much gold as desired with the very little
     assistance afforded to me; there is as much spice and cotton as can
     be wished for, and also gum, which hitherto has only been found in
     Greece, in the island of Chios, and they may sell it as they please,
     and the mastich, as much as may be desired, and slaves, also, who
     will be idolators.  And I believe that I have rhubarb, and cinnamon,
     and a thousand other things I shall find, which will be discovered
     by those whom I have left behind, for I did not stop at any cape
     when the wind enabled me to navigate, except at the town of Navidad,
     where I was very safe and well taken care of.  And in truth much
     more I should have done if the ships had served me as might have
     been expected.  This is certain, that the Eternal God our Lord gives
     all things to those who obey Him, and the victory when it seems
     impossible, and this, evidently, is an instance of it, for although
     people have talked of these lands, all was conjecture unless proved
     by seeing them, for the greater part listened and judged more by
     hearsay than by anything else.

     "Since, then, our Redeemer has given this victory to our illustrious
     King and Queen and celebrated their reigns by such a great thing,
     all Christendom should rejoice and make great festivals, and give
     solemn thanks to the Blessed Trinity, with solemn praises for the
     exaltation of so much people to our holy faith; and next for the
     temporal blessings which not only Spain but they will enjoy in
     becoming Christians, and which last may shortly be accomplished.

     "Written in the caravel off Santa Maria; on the eighteenth of
     February, ninety-three."

The following postscript was added to the letter before it was despatched:

     "After writing the above, being in the Castilian Sea (off the coast
     of Castile), I experienced so severe a wind from south and
     south-east that I have been obliged to run to-day into this port of
     Lisbon, and only by a miracle got safely in, from whence I intended
     to write to Your Highnesses.  In all parts of the Indies I have
     found the weather like that of May, where I went in ninety-three
     days, and returned in seventy-eight, saving these thirteen days of
     bad weather that I have been detained beating about in this sea.
     Every seaman here says that never was so severe a winter, nor such
     loss of ships."

On the Friday a messenger came from the King in the person of Don Martin de Noronha, a relative
of Columbus by marriage, and one who had perhaps looked down upon him in the days when he attended
the convent chapel at Lisbon, but who was now the bearer of a royal invitation and in the position
of a mere envoy.  Columbus repaired to Paraiso where the King was, and where he was received
with great honour.

King John might well have been excused if he had felt some mortification at this glorious and
successful termination of a project which had been offered to him and which he had rejected;
but he evidently behaved with dignity and a good grace, and did everything that he could to
help Columbus.  It was extremely unlikely that he had anything to do with the insult offered
to Columbus at the Azores, for though he was bitterly disappointed that the glory of this discovery
belonged to Spain and not to Portugal, he was too much of a man to show it in this petty and
revengeful manner.  He offered to convey Columbus by land into Spain; but the Admiral, with
a fine dramatic sense, preferred to arrive by sea on board of all that was left of the fleet
with which he had sailed.  He sailed for Seville on Wednesday, March 13th, but during the next
day, when he was off Cape Saint Vincent, he evidently changed his mind and decided to make
for Palos.  Sunrise on Friday saw him off the bar of Saltes, with the white walls of La Rabida
shining on the promontory among the dark fir-trees.  During the hours in which he stood off
and on waiting for the tide he was able to recognise again all the old landmarks and the scenes
which had been so familiar to him in those busy days of preparation nine months before; and
at midday he sailed in with the flood tide and dropped his anchor again in the mud of the river
by Palos.

The caravel had been sighted some time before, probably when she was standing off, the bar
waiting for the tide; she was flying the Admiral's flag and there was no mistaking her identity;
and we can imagine the news spreading throughout the town of Palos, and reaching Huelva, and
one by one the bells beginning to ring, and the places of business to be closed, and the people
to come pouring out into the streets to be ready to greet their friends.  Some more impatient
than the others would sail out in fishing-boats to get the first news; and I should be surprised
to know that a boat did not put off from the little pier beneath La Rabida, to row round the
point and out to where the Nina was lying--to beyond the Manto Bank.  When the flood began
to make over the bar and to cover the long sandbank that stretches from the island of Saltes,
the Nina came gliding in, greeted by every joyful sound and signal that the inhabitants of
the two seaports could make.  Every one hurried down to Palos as the caravel rounded the Convent
Point.  Hernando, Marchena, and good old Juan Perez were all there, we may be sure.  Such excitements,
such triumphs as the bronzed, white-bearded Admiral steps ashore at last, and is seized by
dozens of eager hands!  Such excitements as all the wives and inamoratas of the Rodrigos and
Juans and Franciscos rush to meet the swarthy voyagers and cover them with embraces; such disappointments
also, when it is realised that some two score of the company are still on a sunbaked island
infinitely far over the western horizon.

Tears of joy and grief, shouts and feastings, firing of guns and flying of flags, processions
and receptions with these the deathless day is filled; and the little Nina, her purpose staunchly
fulfilled, swings deserted on the turning tide, the ripples of her native Tinto making a familiar
music under her bowsprit.

And in the evening, with the last of the flood, another ship comes gliding round the point
and up the estuary.  The inhabitants of Palos have all left the shore and are absorbed in the
business of welcoming the great man; and there is no one left to notice or welcome the Pinta.
For it is she that, by a strange coincidence, and after many dangers and distresses endured
since she had parted company from the Nina in the storm, now has made her native port on the
very same day as the Nina. Our old friend Martin Alonso Pinzon is on board, all the fight and
treachery gone out of him, and anxious only to get home unobserved.  For (according to the
story) he had made the port of Bayona on the north-west coast of Spain, and had written a letter
from there to the Sovereigns announcing his arrival and the discoveries that he had made; and
it is said that he had received an unpleasant letter in return, reproaching him for not waiting
for his commander and forbidding him to come to Court. This story is possible if his letter
reached the Sovereigns after the letter from the Admiral; for it is probable that Columbus
may have reported some of Martin's doings to them.

Be that as it may, there are no flags and guns for him as he comes creeping in up the river;
his one anxiety is to avoid the Admiral and to get home as quickly and quietly as he can. 
For he is ill, poor Martin Alonso; whether from a broken heart, as the early historians say,
or from pure chagrin and disappointment, or, as is more likely, from some illness contracted
on the voyage, it is impossible to say.  He has endured his troubles and hardships like all
the rest of them; no less skilfully than Columbus has he won through that terrible tempest
of February; and his foolish and dishonest conduct has deprived him not only of the rewards
that he tried to steal, but of those which would otherwise have been his by right.  He creeps
quietly ashore and to his home, where at any rate we may hope that there is some welcome for
him; takes to his bed, turns his face to the wall; and dies in a few days.  So farewell to
Martin Alonso, who has borne us company thus far.  He did not fail in the great matters of
pluck and endurance and nautical judgment, but only in the small matters of honesty and decent
manly conduct.  We will not weep for Martin Alonso; we will make our farewells in silence,
and leave his deathbed undisturbed by any more accusations or reproaches.