There is a silver-mine somewhere on the opposite mountain of Minsi, the knowledge of its location
having perished with the death of a recluse, who coined the metal he took from it into valuable
though illegal dollars, going townward every winter to squander his earnings. During the Revolution
"Oran the Hawk," a Tory and renegade, was vexatious to the people of Delaware Valley, and a
detachment of colonial troops was sent in pursuit of him. They overtook him at the Gap and
chased him up the slopes of Tammany, though he checked their progress by rolling stones among
them. One rock struck a trooper, crushed him, and bore him down to the base of a cliff, his
blood smearing it in his descent. But though he seemed to have eluded his pursuers, Oran was
shot in several places during his flight, and when at last he cast himself into a thicket,
to rest and get breath, it was never to rise again. His bones, cracked by bullets and gnawed
by beasts, were found there when the leaves fell.

THE PHANTOM DRUMMER

Colonel Howell, of the king's troops, was a gay fellow, framed to make women false; but when
he met the rosy, sweet-natured daughter of farmer Jarrett, near Valley Forge, he attempted
no dalliance, for he fell too seriously in love. He might not venture into the old man's presence,
for Jarrett had a son with Washington, and he hated a red-coat as he did the devil; but the
young officer met the girl in secret, and they plighted troth beneath the garden trees, hidden
in gray mist. As Howell bent to take his first kiss that night, a rising wind went past, bringing
from afar the roll of a drum, and as they talked the drum kept drawing nearer, until it seemed
at hand. The officer peered across the wall, then hurried to his mistress' side, as pale as
death. The fields outside were empty of life.

Louder came the rattling drum; it seemed to enter the gate, pass but a yard away, go through
the wall, and die in the distance. When it ceased, Howell started as if a spell had been lifted,
laxed his grip on the maiden's hand, then drew her to his breast convulsively. Ruth's terror
was more vague but no less genuine than his own, and some moments passed before she could summon
voice to ask him what this visitation meant. He answered, "Something is about to change my
fortunes for good or ill; probably for ill. Important events in my family for the past three
generations have been heralded by that drum, and those events were disasters oftener than benefits."
Few more words passed, and with another kiss the soldier scaled the wall and galloped away,
the triple beat of his charger's hoofs sounding back into the maiden's ears like drum-taps.
In a skirmish next day Colonel Howell was shot. He was carried to farmer Jarrett's house and
left there, in spite of the old man's protest, for he was willing to give no shelter to his
country's enemies. When Ruth saw her lover in this strait she was like to have fallen, but
when she learned that it would take but a few days of quiet and care to restore him to health,
she was ready to forgive her fellow-countrymen for inflicting an injury that might result in
happiness for both of them.

