At an offspring of a village of three Rivers we consult together that two should go the watter
side, the other in a wood hardby to warne us, for to advertise us if he accidentaly should
light [upon] or suspect any Barbars in ambush, we also retreat ourselves to him if we should
discover any thing uppon the River. Having comed to the first river, which was a mile distant
from our dwellings, wee mett a man who mett a man who kept cattell, and asked him if he had
knowne any appearance of Ennemy, and likewise demanded which way he would advise us to gett
better fortune, and what part he spied more danger; he guiding us the best way he could, prohibiting
us by no means not to render ourselves att the skirts of the mountains; ffor, said he, I discovered
oftentimes a multitude of people which rose up as it weare of a sudaine from of the Earth,
and that doubtless there weare some enemys that way; which sayings made us looke to ourselves
and charge two of our fowling peeces with great shot the one, and the other with small. Priming
our pistols, we went where our fancy first lead us, being impossible for us to avoid the destinies
of the heavens; no sooner tourned our backs, but my nose fell ableeding without any provocation
in the least. Certainly it was a warning for me of a beginning of a yeare and a half of hazards
and of miseryes that weare to befall mee. We did shoot sometime and killed some Duks, which
made one of my fellow travellers go no further. I seeing him taking such a resolution, I proferred
some words that did not like him, giving him the character of a timourous, childish humor;
so this did nothing prevaile with him, to the Contrary that had with him quite another isue
then what I hoped for; ffor offending him with my words he prevailed so much with the others
that he persuaded them to doe the same. I lett them goe, laughing them to scorne, beseeching
them to helpe me to my fowles, and that I would tell them the discovery of my designes, hoping
to kill meat to make us meate att my retourne.

I went my way along the wood some times by the side of the river, where I finde something to
shute att, though no considerable quantitie, which made me goe a league off and more, so I
could not go in all further then St. Peeter's, which is nine mile from the plantation by reason
of the river Ovamasis, which hindered me the pasage. I begun'd to think att my retourne how
I might transport my fowle. I hide one part in a hollow tree to keep them from the Eagles and
other devouring fowles, so as I came backe the same way where before had no bad incounter.
Arrived within one halfe a mile where my comrades had left me, I rested awhile by reason that
I was looden'd with three geese, tenn ducks, and one crane, with some teales.

After having layd downe my burden uppon the grasse, I thought to have heard a noise in the
wood by me, which made me to overlook my armes; I found one of my girdle pistols wette. I shott
it off and charged it againe, went up to the wood the soffliest I might, to discover and defend
myselfe the better against any surprise. After I had gone from tree to tree some 30 paces off
I espied nothing; as I came back from out of the wood to an adjacent brooke, I perceived a
great number of Ducks; my discovery imbouldened me, and for that there was a litle way to the
fort, I determined to shute once more; coming nigh preparing meselfe for to shute, I found
another worke, the two young men that I left some tenne houres before heere weare killed. Whether
they came after mee, or weare brought thither by the Barbars, I know not. However [they] weare
murthered. Looking over them, knew them albeit quite naked, and their hair standing up, the
one being shott through with three boulletts and two blowes of an hatchett on the head, and
the other runne thorough in severall places with a sword and smitten with an hatchett. Att
the same instance my nose begun'd to bleed, which made me afraid of my life; but withdrawing
myselfe to the watter side to see if any body followed mee, I espied twenty or thirty heads
in a long grasse. Mightily surprized att the view, I must needs passe through the midst of
them or tourne backe into the woode. I slipped a boullet uppon the shott and beate the paper
into my gunne. I heard a noise, which made me looke on that side; hopeing to save meselfe,
perswading myselfe I was not yet perceived by them that weare in the medow, and in the meane
while some gunns weare lett off with an horrid cry.

Seeing myselfe compassed round about by a multitude of dogges, or rather devils, that rose
from the grasse, rushesse, and bushesse, I shott my gunne, whether un warrs or purposly I know
not, but I shott with a pistolle confidently, but was seised on all sids by a great number
that threw me downe, taking away my arme without giving mee one blowe; ffor afterwards I felt
no paine att all, onely a great guidinesse in my heade, from whence it comes I doe not remember.
In the same time they brought me into the wood, where they shewed me the two heads all bloody.
After they consulted together for a while, retired into their boats, which weare four or five
miles from thence, and wher I have bin a while before. They layed mee hither, houlding me by
the hayre, to the imbarking place; there they began to errect their cottages, which consisted
only of some sticks to boyle their meate, whereof they had plenty, but stuncke, which was strange
to mee to finde such an alteration so sudaine. They made [me] sitt downe by. After this they
searched me and tooke what I had, then stripped me naked, and tyed a rope about my middle,
wherin I remained, fearing to persist, in the same posture the rest of the night. After this
they removed me, laughing and howling like as many wolves, I knowing not the reason, if not
for my skin, that was soe whit in respect of theirs. But their gaping did soone cease because
of a false alarme, that their Scout who stayed behind gave them, saying that the ffrench and
the wild Algongins, friends to the ffrench, came with all speed. They presently put out the
fire, and tooke hould of the most advantageous passages, and sent 25 men to discover what it
meant, who brought certaine tydings of assurance and liberty.

