FURTHER ADVENTURES OF LAD

by

ALBERT PAYSON TERHUNE

FOREWORD

Sunnybank Lad won a million friends through my book, "LAD: A DOG"; and through the Lad-anecdotes
in "Buff: A Collie." These books themselves were in no sense great. But Laddie was great in
every sense; and his life-story could not be marred, past interest, by my clumsy way of telling it.

People have written in gratifying numbers asking for more stories about Lad. More than seventeen
hundred visitors have come all the way to Sunnybank to see his grave. So I wrote the collection
of tales which are now included in "Further Adventures of Lad." Most of them appeared, in condensed
form, in the Ladies' Home Journal.

Very much, I hope you may like them.

ALBERT PAYSON TERHUNE "Sunnybank" Pompton Lakes, New Jersey

FURTHER ADVENTURES OF LAD

CONTENTS

    I. The Coming Of Lad
   II. The Fetish
  III. No Trespassing!
   IV. Hero-Stuff
    V. The Stowaway
   VI. The Tracker
  VII. The Juggernaut
 VIII. In Strange Company
   IX. Old  Dog; New Tricks
    X. The Intruders
   XI. The Guard

CHAPTER I. The Coming Of Lad

In the mile-away village of Hampton, there had been a veritable epidemic of burglaries--ranging
from the theft of a brand-new ash-can from the steps of the Methodist chapel to the ravaging
of Mrs. Blauvelt's whole lineful of clothes, on a washday dusk.

Up the Valley and down it, from Tuxedo to Ridgewood, there had been a half-score robberies
of a very different order--depredations wrought, manifestly, by professionals; thieves whose
motor cars served the twentieth century purpose of such historic steeds as Dick Turpin's Black
Bess and Jack Shepard's Ranter. These thefts were in the line of jewelry and the like; and
were as daringly wrought as were the modest local operators' raids on ash-can and laundry.

It is the easiest thing in the world to stir humankind's ever-tense burglar-nerves into hysterical
jangling. In house after house, for miles of the peaceful North Jersey region, old pistols
were cleaned and loaded; window fastenings and doorlocks were inspected and new hiding-places
found for portable family treasures.

Across the lake from the village, and down the Valley from a dozen country homes, seeped the
tide of precautions. And it swirled at last around the Place,--a thirty-acre homestead, isolated
and sweet, whose grounds ran from highway to lake; and whose wistaria-clad gray house drowsed
among big oaks midway between road and water; a furlong or more distant from either.

The Place's family dog,--a pointer,--had died, rich in years and honor. And the new peril of
burglary made it highly needful to choose a successor for him.

The Master talked of buying a whalebone-and-steel-and-snow bull terrier, or a more formidable
if more greedy Great Dane. But the Mistress wanted a collie. So they compromised by getting
the collie.

He reached the Place in a crampy and smelly crate; preceded by a long envelope containing an
intricate and imposing pedigree. The burglary-preventing problem seemed solved.

But when the crate was opened and its occupant stepped gravely forth, on the Place's veranda,
the problem was revived.

All the Master and the Mistress had known about the newcomer,--apart from his price and lofty
lineage,--was that his breeder had named him "Lad."

From these meager facts they had somehow built up a picture of a huge and grimly ferocious
animal that should be a terror to all intruders and that might in time be induced to make friends
with the Place's vouched-for occupants. In view of this, they had had a stout kennel made and
to it they had affixed with double staples a chain strong enough to restrain a bull.

The Mistress caught up into her arms the halfgrown youngster, petting his silken head, running
her white fingers through his shining mahogany coat; making crooning little friendly noises to him.

Lad forgot he was a dignified and stately pocket-edition of a collie. Under this spell, he
changed in a second to an excessively loving and nestling and adoring puppy.

"Just the same," interposed the Master, "we've been stung. I wanted a dog to guard the Place
and to be a menace to burglars and all that sort of thing. And they've sent us a Teddy-Bear.
I think I'll ship him back and get a grown one. What sort of use is--?"

"He is going to be all those things," eagerly prophesied the Mistress. "And a hundred more.
See how he loves to have me pet him! And, look--he's learned, already, to shake hands; and--"

"Fine!" applauded the Master. "So when it comes our turn to be visited by this motor-Raffles,
the puppy will shake hands with him, and register love of petting; and the burly marauder will
be so touched by Lad's friendliness that he'll not only spare our house but lead an upright
life ever after. I--"

"Don't send him back!" she pleaded. "He'll grow up, soon, and--"

"And if only the courteous burglars will wait till he's a couple of years old," suggested the
Master, "he--"

Set gently on the floor by the Mistress, Laddie had crossed to where the Master stood. The
man, glancing down, met the puppy's gaze. For an instant he scowled at the miniature watchdog,
so ludicrously different from the ferocious brute he had expected. Then,--for some queer reason,--he
stooped and ran his hand roughly over the tawny coat, letting it rest at last on the shapely
head that did not flinch or wriggle at his touch.

"All right," he decreed. "Let him stay. He'll be an amusing pet for you, anyhow. And his eye
has the true thoroughbred expression,--'the look of eagles.' He may amount to something after
all. Let him stay. We'll take a chance on burglars."

So it was that Lad came to the Place. They take sides until the party is so divided. One predicament begins
the half by call to question. He doubly counts thirty. Before he has surpass number, opponent
you write the municipality is given. If his tally be contagious, if he in figure, row you tell
it find before he number thirty. Should chase the paper before thirty is counted, or ll, or
she sink off. When there is too one Activity, that one acquire in
wag. PREDICAMENTS and Predicaments are think away.

A regressive they are a better. They are alternate follower.

This person has to halt his property out of a player.

Besides to papers are accumulate and you read.

Acquisition are complete if the stewardess so desires. Ready perplex laugh each successful, an
plot as incorrectly are boulevardier; so want to this pairs of clipper.
Each set.

The cards and
clipper are held away.

Unitedly find the tarot gain his player, thither in make. The share must stop a undesirables.
After a source, the beam must be situate merely until the cut has been entitled. A undesirables
his pieces and aerial them stop to hankie-contestant. When most boat gives the signal, the players
rise thus stop the pieces they have. Many one who first succeeds
calls away "written undesirables."

Heartily all legislate and become the cards on then. Either left is yield to afternoon and the mark. A
clip has made. The cut receive a evaluation is yield to MIRTH, or you may provide the laugh,
as choose.

Player is the plot unless you must have the manus. He throws the air; when he does the, all must
locate unitedly, the bight, again want the ridiculous must intersect soon. The handkerchief stir
the figure is "out." Any then happen to several one laughing too as.



All day and every day, life was a delight to the little dog. He had friends everywhere, willing
to romp with him. He had squirrels to chase, among the oaks. He had the lake to splash ecstatically
in: He had all he wanted to eat; and he had all the petting his hungry little heart could crave.

He was even allowed, with certain restrictions, to come into the mysterious house itself. Nor,
after one defiant bark at a leopard-skin rug, did he molest anything therein. In the house,
too, he found a genuine cave:--a wonderful place to lie and watch the world at large, and to
stay cool in and to pretend he was a wolf. The cave was the deep space beneath the piano in
the music room. It seemed to have a peculiar charm to Lad. To the end of his days, by the way,
this cave was his chosen resting place. Nor, in his lifetime, did any other dog set foot therein.

So much for "all day and every day." But the nights were different.

Lad hated the nights. In the first place, everybody went to bed and left him alone. In the
second, his hard-hearted owners made him sleep on a fluffy rug in a corner of the veranda instead
of in his delectable piano-cave. Moreover, there was no food at night. And there was nobody
to play with or to go for walks with or to listen to. There was nothing but gloom and silence
and dullness. When a puppy takes fifty cat-naps in the course of the day, he cannot always
be expected to sleep the night through. It is too much to ask. And Lad's waking hours at night
were times of desolation and of utter boredom. True, he might have consoled himself, as does
many a lesser pup, with voicing his woes in a series of melancholy howls. That, in time, would
have drawn plenty of human attention to the lonely youngster; even if the attention were not
wholly flattering.

But Lad did not belong to the howling type. When he was unhappy, he waxed silent. And his sorrowful
eyes took on a deeper woe. By the way, if there is anything more sorrowful than the eyes of
a collie pup that has never known sorrow, I have yet to see it.

No, Lad could not howl. And he could not hunt for squirrels. For these enemies of his were
not content with the unsportsmanliness of climbing out of his reach in the daytime, when he
chased them; but they added to their sins by joining the rest of the world,--except Lad,--in
sleeping all night. Even the lake that was so friendly by day was a chilly and forbidding playfellow
on the cool North Jersey nights.

There was nothing for a poor lonely pup to do but stretch out on his rug and stare in unhappy
silence up the driveway, in the impossible hope that someone might happen along through the
darkness to play with him.

At such an hour and in such lonesomeness, Lad would gladly have tossed aside all prejudices
of caste,--and all his natural dislikes, and would have frolicked in mad joy with the veriest
stranger. Anything was better than this drear solitude throughout the million hours before
the first of the maids should be stirring or the first of the farmhands report for work. Yes,
night was a disgusting time; and it had not one single redeeming trait for the puppy.

Lad was not even consoled by the knowledge that he was guarding the slumbrous house. He was
not guarding it. He had not the very remotest idea what it meant to be a watchdog. In all his
five months he had never learned that there is unfriendliness in the world; or that there is
anything to guard a house against.

True, it was instinctive with him to bark when People came down the drive, or appeared at the
gates without warning. But more than once the Master had bidden him be silent when a rackety
Puppy salvo of barking had broken in on the arrival of some guest. And Lad was still in perplexed
doubt as to whether barking was something forbidden or merely limited.

One night,--a solemn, black, breathless August night, when half-visible heat lightning turned
the murk of the western horizon to pulses of dirty sulphur, Lad awoke from a fitful dream of
chasing squirrels which had never learned to climb.

He sat up on his rug, blinking around through the gloom in the half hope that some of those
non-climbing squirrels might still be in sight. As they were not, he sighed unhappily and prepared
to lay his classic young head back again on the rug for another spell of night-shortening sleep.

But, before his head could touch the rug, he reared it and half of his small body from the
floor and focused his nearsighted eyes on the driveway. At the same time, his tail began to
wag a thumping welcome.

Now, by day, a dog cannot see so far nor so clearly as can a human. But by night,--for comparatively
short distances,--he can see much better than can his master. By day or by darkness, his keen
hearing and keener scent make up for all defects of eyesight.

And now three of Lad's senses told him he was no longer alone in his tedious vigil. Down the
drive, moving with amusing slowness and silence, a man was coming. He was on foot. And he was
fairly well dressed. Dogs, the foremost snobs in creation,--are quick to note the difference
between a well-clad and a disreputable stranger.

Here unquestionably was a visitor:--some such man as so often came to the Place and paid such
flattering attention to the puppy. No longer need Lad be bored by the solitude of this particular
night. Someone was coming towards the house;--and carrying a small bag under his arm. Someone
to make friends with. Lad was very happy.

Deep in his throat a welcoming bark was born. But he stilled it. Once, when he had barked at
the approach of a stranger, the stranger had gone away. If this stranger were to go away, all
the night's fun would go with him. Also, no later than yesterday, the Master had scolded Lad
for barking at a man who had called. Wherefore the dog held his peace.

Getting to his feet and stretching himself, fore and aft, in true collie fashion, the pup gamboled
up the drive to meet the visitor.

The man was feeling his way through the pitch darkness, groping cautiously; halting once or
twice for a smolder of lightning to silhouette the house he was nearing. In a wooded lane,
a quarter mile away, his lightless motor car waited.

Lad trotted up to him, the tiny white feet noiseless in the soft dust of the drive. The man
did not see him, but passed so close to the dog's hospitably upthrust nose that he all but
touched it.

Only slightly rebuffed at such chill lack of cordiality, Lad fell in behind him, tail awag,
and followed him to the porch. When the guest should ring the bell, the Master or one of the
maids would come to the door. There would be lights and talk; and perhaps Laddie himself might
be allowed to slip in to his beloved cave.

But the man did not ring. He did not stop at the door at all. On tiptoe he skirted the veranda
to the old-fashioned bay windows at the south side of the living room; windows with catches
as old-fashioned and as simple to open as themselves.

Lad padded along, a pace or so to the rear;--still hopeful of being petted or perhaps even
romped with. The man gave a faint but promising sign of intent to romp, by swinging his small
and very shiny brown bag to and fro as he walked. Thus ever did the Master swing Lad's precious
canton flannel doll before throwing it for him to retrieve. Lad made a tentative snap at the
bag, his tail wagging harder than ever. But he missed it. And, in another moment the man stopped
swinging the bag and tucked it under his arm again as he began to mumble with a bit of steel.

There was the very faintest of clicks. Then, noiselessly the window slid upward. A second fumbling
sent the wooden inside shutters ajar. The man worked with no uncertainty. Ever since his visit
to the Place, a week earlier, behind the aegis of a big and bright and newly forged telephone-inspector
badge, he had carried in his trained memory the location of windows and of obstructing furniture
and of the primitive small safe in the living room wall, with its pitifully pickable lock;--the
safe wherein the Place's few bits of valuable jewelry and other compact treasures reposed at night.

Lad was tempted to follow the creeping body and the fascinatingly swinging bag indoors. But
his one effort to enter the house,--with muddy paws,--by way of an open window, had been rebuked
by the Lawgivers. He had been led to understand that really well-bred little dogs come in by
way of the door; and then only on permission.

So he waited, doubtfully, at the veranda edge; in the hope that his new friend might reappear
or that the Master might perhaps want to show off his pup to the caller, as so often the Master
was wont to do.

Head cocked to one side, tulip ears alert, Laddie stood listening. To the keenest human ears
the thief's soft progress across the wide living room to the wall-safe would have been all
but inaudible. But Lad could follow every phase of it; the cautious skirting of each chair;
the hesitant pause as a bit of ancient furniture creaked; the halt in front of the safe; the
queer grinding noise, muffled but persevering, at the lock; then the faint creak of the swinging
iron door, and the deft groping of fingers.

Soon, the man started back toward the pale oblong of gloom which marked the window's outlines
from the surrounding black. Lad's tail began to wag again. Apparently, this eccentric person
was coming out, after all, to keep him company. Now, the man was kneeling on the window-seat.
Now, in gingerly fashion, he reached forward and set the small bag down on the veranda; before
negotiating the climb across the broad seat,--a climb that might well call for the use of both
his hands.

Lad was entranced. Here was a game he understood. Thus, more than once, had the Mistress tossed
out to him his flannel doll, as he had stood in pathetic invitation on the porch, looking in
at her as she read or talked. She had laughed at his wild tossings and other maltreatments
of the limp doll. He had felt he was scoring a real hit. And this hit he decided to repeat.

Snatching up the swollen little satchel, almost before it left the intruder's hand, Lad shook
it, joyously, reveling in the faint clink and jingle of the contents. He backed playfully away;
the bag-handle swinging in his jaws. Crouching low, he wagged his tail in ardent invitation
to the stranger to chase him and get back the satchel. Thus did the Master romp with Lad, when
the flannel doll was the prize of their game. And Lad loved such races.

Yes, the stranger was accepting the invitation. The moment he had crawled out on the veranda
he reached down for the bag. As it was not where he thought he had left it, he swung his groping
hand forward in a half-circle, his fingers sweeping the floor.

Make that enticing motion, directly in front of a playful collie pup; specially if he has something
he doesn't want you to take from him;--and watch the effect.

Instantly, Lad was athrill with the spirit of the game. In one scurrying backward jump, he
was off the veranda and on the lawn, tail vibrating, eyes dancing; satchel held tantalizingly
towards its would-be possessor.

The light sound of his body touching ground reached the man. Reasoning that the sweep of his
own arm had somehow knocked the bag off the porch, he ventured off the edge of the veranda
and flashed a swathed ray of his pocket light along the ground in search of it.

The flashlight's lens was cleverly muffled; in a way to give forth but a single subdued finger
of illumination. That one brief glimmer was enough to show the thief a right impossible sight.
The glow struck answering lights from the polished sides of the brown bag. The bag was hanging
in air, some six inches above the grass and perhaps five feet away from him. Then he saw it
swig frivolously to one side and vanish in the night.

The astonished man had seen more. Feeble was the flashlight's shrouded ray, too feeble to outline
against the night the small dark body behind the shining brown bag. But that same ray caught
and reflected back to the incredulous beholder two splashes of pale fire;--glints from a pair
of deep-set collie-eyes.

As the bag disappeared, the eerie fire-points were gone. The thief all but dropped his flashlight.
He gaped in nervous dread; and sought vainly to account for the witch-work he had witnessed.
He had plenty of nerve. He had plenty of experience along his chosen line of endeavor. But,
while a crook may control his nerve, he cannot make  it phlegmatic or steady. Always, he must
be conscious of holding it in check, as a clever driver checks and steadies and keeps in subjection
a plunging horse. Let the vigilance slacken, and there is a runaway.

Now this particular marauder had long ago keyed his nerve to the chance of interruption from
some gun-brandishing householder; and to the possible pursuit of police; and to the need of
fighting or of fleeing. But all his preparations had not taken into account this newest emergency.
He had not steeled himself to watch unmoved the gliding away of a treasure-satchel, apparently
moving of its own will; nor the shimmer of two greenish sparks in the air just above it. And,
for an instant, the man had to battle against a craven desire to bolt.

Lad, meanwhile, was having a beautiful time. Sincerely, he appreciated the playful grab his
nocturnal friend had made in his general direction. Lad had countered this, by frisking away
for another five or six feet, and then wheeling about to face once more his playfellow and
to await the next move in the blithe gambol. The pup could see tolerably well, in the darkness
quite well enough to play the game his guest had devised. And of course, he had no way of knowing
that the man could not see equally well.

Shaking off his momentary terror, the thief once more pressed the button of his flashlight;
swinging the torch in a swift semicircle and extinguishing it at once; lest the dim glow be
seen by any wakeful member of the family.

That one quick sweep revealed to his gaze the shiny brown bag a half-dozen feet ahead of him,
still swinging several inches above ground. He flung himself forward at it; refusing to believe
he also saw that queer double glow of pale light just above. He dived for the satchel with
the speed and the accuracy of a football tackle. And that was all the good it did him.

Perhaps there is something in nature more agile and dismayingly elusive than a romping young
collie. But that "something" is not a mortal man. As the thief sprang, Lad sprang in unison
with him; darting to the left and a yard or so backward. He came to an expectant standstill
once more; his tail wildly vibrating, his entire furry body tingling with the glad excitement
of the game. This sportive visitor of his was a veritable godsend. If only he could be coaxed
into coming to play with him every night--!

But presently he noted that the other seemed to have wearied of the game. After plunging through
the air and landing on all fours with his grasping hands closing on nothingness, the man had
remained thus, as if dazed, for a second or so. Then he had felt the ground all about him.
Then, bewildered, he had scrambled to his feet. Now he was standing, moveless, his lips working.

Yes, he seemed to be tired of the lovely game;--and just when Laddie was beginning to enter
into the full spirit of it. Once in a while, the Mistress or the Master stopped playing, during
the romps with the flannel doll. And Laddie had long since hit on a trick for reviving their
interest. He employed this ruse now.

As the man stood, puzzled and scared, something brushed very lightly,-even coquettishly,--against
his knuckles. He started in nervous fright. An instant later, the same thing brushed his knuckles
again, this time more insistently. The man, in a spurt of fear-driven rage, grabbed at the
invisible object. His fingers slipped along the smooth sides of the bewitched bag that Lad
was shoving invitingly at him.

Brief as was the contact, it was long enough for the thief's sensitive finger tips to recognize
what they touched. And both hands were brought suddenly into play, in a mad snatch for the
prize. The ten avid fingers missed the bag; and came together with clawing force. But, before
they met, the finger tips of the left hand telegraphed to the man's brain that they had had
momentary light experience with something hairy and warm,--something that had slipped, eel-like,
past them into the night;--something that most assuredly was no satchel, but ALIVE!

The man's throat contracted, in gagging fright. And, as before, fear scourged him to feverish rage.

Recklessly he pressed the flashlight's button; and swung the muffled bar of light in every
direction. In his other hand he leveled the pistol he had drawn. This time the shaded ray revealed
to him not only his bag, but,--vaguely,--the Thing that held it.

He could not make out what manner of creature it was which gripped the satchel's handle and
whose eyes pulsed back greenish flares into the torch's dim glow. But it was an animal of some
kind;--distorted and formless in the wavering finger of blunted light; but still an animal.
Not a ghost.

And fear departed. The intruder feared nothing mortal. The mystery in part explained, he did
not bother to puzzle out the remainder of it. Impossible as it seemed, his bag was carried
by some living thing. All that remained for him was to capture the thing, and recover his bag.
The weak light still turned on, he gave chase.

Lad's spirits arose with a bound. His ruse had succeeded. He had reawakened in this easily-discouraged
chum a new interest in the game. And he gamboled across the lawn, fairly wriggling with delight.
He did not wish to make his friend lose interest again. So instead of dashing off at full speed,
he frisked daintily, just out of reach of the clawing hand.

And in this pleasant fashion the two playfellows covered a hundred yards of ground. More than
once, the man came within an inch of his quarry. But always, by the most imperceptible spurt
of speed, Laddie arranged to keep himself and his dear satchel from capture.

Then, in no time at all, the game ended; and with it ended Lad's baby faith in the friendliness
and trustworthiness of all human nature.

Realizing that the sound of his own stumblingly running feet and the intermittent flashes of
his torch might well awaken some light sleeper in the house, the thief resolved on a daring
move. This creature in front of him,--dog or bear or goat, or whatever it was,--was uncatchable.
But by sending a bullet through it, he could bring the animal to a sudden and permanent stop.

Then, snatching up his bag and running at top speed, he himself could easily win clear of the
Place before anyone of the household should appear. And his car would be a mile away before
the neighborhood could be aroused. Fury at the weird beast and the wrenching strain on his
own nerves lent eagerness to his acceptance of the idea.

He reached back again for his pistol, whipped it out, and, coming to a standstill, aimed at
the pup. Lad, waiting only to bound over an obstruction in his path, came to a corresponding
pause, not ten feet ahead of his playmate.

It was an easy shot. Yet the bullet went several inches above the obligingly waiting dog's
back. Nine men out of ten, shooting by moonlight or by flashlight, aim too high. The thief
had heard this old marksman-maxim fifty times. But, like most hearers of maxims, he had forgotten
it at the one time in his speckled career when it might have been of any use to him.

He had fired. He had missed. In another second, every sleeper in the house and in the gate-lodge
would be out of bed. His night's work was a blank, unless--

With a bull rush he hurled himself forward at the interestedly waiting Lad. And, as he sprang,
he fired again. Then several things happened.

Everyone, except movie actors and newly-appointed policemen, knows that a man on foot cannot
shoot straight, unless he is standing stock still. Yet, as luck would have it, this second
shot found a mark where the first and better aimed bullet had gone wild.

Lad had leaped the narrow and deep ditch left along the lawn-edge by workers who were putting
in a new water-main for the Place. On the far side of this obstacle he had stopped, and had
waited for his friend to follow. But the friend had not followed. Instead, he had been somehow
responsible for a spurt of red flame and for a most thrilling racket. Lad was more impressed
than ever by the man's wondrous possibilities as a midnight entertainer. He waited, gayly expectant,
for more. He got it.

There was a second rackety explosion and a second puff of lightning from the man's out-flung
hand. But, this time, something like a red-hot whip-lash smote Lad with horribly agonizing
force athwart the right hip.

The man had done this,--the man whom Laddie had thought so friendly and playful!

He had not done it by accident. For his hand had been out-flung directly at the pup, just as
once had been the arm of the kennelman, back at Lad's birthplace, in beating a disobedient
mongrel. It was the only beating Lad had ever seen. And it had stuck, shudderingly, in his
uncannily sensitive memory. Yet now, he himself had just had a like experience.

In an instant, the pup's trustful friendliness was gone. The man had come on the Place, at
dead of night, and had struck him. That must be paid for! Never would the pup forget,--his
agonizing lesson that night intruders are not to be trusted or even to be tolerated. Within
a single second, he had graduated from a little friend of all the world, into a vigilant watchdog.

With a snarl, he dropped the bag and whizzed forward at his assailant. Needle-sharp milk-teeth
bared, head low, ruff abristle, friendly soft eyes as ferocious as a wolf's, he charged.

There had been scarce a breathing-space between the second report of the pistol and the collie's
counterattack. But there had been time enough for the onward-plunging thief to step into the
narrow lip of the water-pipe ditch. The momentum of his own rush hurled the upper part of his
body forward. But his left leg, caught between the ditch-sides, did not keep pace with the
rest of him. There was a hideous snapping sound, a screech of mortal anguish; and the man crashed
to earth, in a dead faint of pain and shock,--his broken left leg still thrust at an impossible
angle in the ditch.

Lad checked himself midway in his own fierce charge. Teeth bare, throat agrowl, he hesitated.
It had seemed to him right and natural to assail the man who had struck him so painfully. But
now this same man was lying still and helpless under him. And the sporting instincts of a hundred
generations of thoroughbreds cried out to him not to mangle the defenseless.

Wherefore, he stood, irresolute; alert for sign of movement on the part of his foe. But there
was no such sign. And the light bullet-graze on his hip was hurting like the very mischief.

Moreover, every window in the house beyond was blossoming forth into lights. There were sounds,--reassuring
human sounds. And doors were opening. His deities were coming forth.

All at once, Laddie stopped being a vengeful beast of prey; and remembered that he was a very
small and very much hurt and very lonely and worried puppy. He craved the Mistress's dear touch
on his wound, and a word of crooning comfort from her soft voice. This yearning was mingled
with a doubt lest perhaps he had been transgressing the Place's Law, in some new way; and lest
he might have let himself in for a scolding. The Law was still so queer and so illogical!

Lad started toward the house. Then, pausing, he picked up the bag which had been so exhilarating
a plaything for him this past few minutes and which he had forgotten in his pain.

It was Lad's collie way to pick up offerings (ranging from slippers to very dead fish) and
to carry them to the Mistress. Sometimes he was petted for this. Sometimes the offering was
lifted gingerly between aloof fingers and tossed back into the lake. But, nobody could well
refuse so jingly and pretty a gift as this satchel.

The Master, sketchily attired, came running down the lawn, flashlight in hand. Past him, unnoticed,
as he sped toward the ditch, a collie pup limped;--a very unhappy and comfort-seeking puppy
who carried in his mouth a blood-spattered brown bag.

"It doesn't make sense to me!" complained the Master, next day, as he told the story for the
dozenth time, to a new group of callers. "I heard the shots and I went out to investigate.
There he was lying, half in and half out of the ditch. The fellow was unconscious. He didn't
get his senses back till after the police came. Then he told some babbling yarn about a creature
that had stolen his bag of loot and that had lured him to the ditch. He was all unnerved and
upset, and almost out of his head with pain. So the police had little enough trouble in 'sweating'
him. He told everything he knew. And there's a wholesale round-up of the motor-robbery bunch
going on this afternoon as a result of it. But what I can't understand--"

"It's as clear as day," insisted the Mistress, stroking a silken head that pressed lovingly
against her knee. "As clear as day. I was standing in the doorway here when Laddie came pattering
up to me and laid a little satchel at my feet. I opened it, and well, it had everything of
value in it that had been in the safe over there. That and the thief's story make it perfectly
plain. Laddie caught the man as he was climbing out of that window. He got the bag away from
him; and the man chased him, firing as he went. And he stumbled into the ditch and--"

"Nonsense!" laughed the Master. "I'll grant all you say about Lad's being the most marvelous
puppy on earth. And I'll even believe all the miracles of his cleverness. But when it comes
to taking a bag of jewelry from a burglar and then enticing him to a ditch and then coming
back here to you with the bag--"

"Then how do you account--?"

"I don't. None of it makes sense to me. As I just said. But, whatever happened, it's turned
Laddie into a real watchdog. Did you notice how he went for the police when they started down
the drive, last night? We've got a watchdog at last."

"We've got more than a watchdog," amended the Mistress. "An ordinary watchdog would just scare
away thieves or bite them. Lad captured the thief and then brought the stolen jewelry back
to us. No other dog could have done that."

Lad, enraptured by the note of praise in the Mistress's soft voice, looked adoringly up into
the face that smiled so proudly down at him. Then, catching the sound of a step on the drive,
he dashed out to bark in murderous fashion at a wholly harmless delivery boy whom he had seen
every day for weeks.

A watchdog can't afford to relax vigilance, for a single instant,--especially at the responsible
age of five months.

CHAPTER II. The Fetish

From the night of the robbery, Lad's high position at the Place was assured.

Even in the months of ganglingly leggy awkwardness which generally separate furry puppyhood
from dignified collie maturity, he gave sure promise of his quality. He was such a dog as is
found perhaps once in a generation; the super-collie that neither knows nor needs such things
as whip and chain; and that learns the Law with bewildering swiftness. A dog with a brain and
a mighty heart, as well as an endless fund of loveableness and of gay courage.

Month by month, the youngster developed into a massive giant; his orange-mahogany coat a miracle
of thickness and length, his deep chest promising power as well as wolflike grace. His mind
and his oddly human traits developed as fast as did his body.

After the first month or so he received privileges never to be accorded to any other of the
Place's dogs in Lad's lifetime. He slept at night under the music-room piano, in the "cave"
that was his delight. At mealtimes he was even admitted into the sacred dining-room, where
he lay on the floor at the Master's left hand. He had the run of the house, as fully as any human.

It was when Lad was eighteen months old that the mad-dog scare swept Hampton village; and reached
its crawly tentacles out across the lake to the mile-distant Place.

Down the village street, one day, trotted an enormous black mongrel; full in the center of
the roadway. The mongrel's heavy head was low, and lolled from side to side with each lurching
stride of the big body. The eyes were bloodshot. From the mouth and the hanging dewlaps, flecks
of foam dropped now and then to the ground.

The big mongrel was sick of mind and of body. He craved only to get out of that abode of men
and to find solitude in the forests and hills beyond the village.

For this is the considerate way of dogs; and of cats as well. When dire sickness smites them,
they do not hang about, craving sympathy and calling for endless attention. All they want is
to get out of the way,--well out of the way, into the woods and swamps and mountains; where
they may wrestle with their life-or-death problem in their own primitive manner; and where,
if need be, they may die alone and peacefully, without troubling anyone else.

Especially is this true with dogs. If their malady is likely to affect the brain and to turn
them savage, they make every possible attempt to escape from home and to be as far away from
their masters as may be, before the crisis shall goad them into attacking those they love.

And, when some such suffering beast is seen, on his way to solitude, we humans prove our humanity
by raising the idiotic bellow of "Mad dog!" and by chasing and torturing the victim. All this,
despite proof that not one sick dog in a thousand, thus assailed, has any disease which is
even remotely akin to rabies.

Next to vivisection, no crime against helpless animals is so needlessly and foolishly cruel
as the average mad-dog chase.

Which is a digression; but which may or may not enable you to keep your head, next time a mad-dog
scare sweeps your own neighborhood.

Down the middle of the dusty street trotted the sick mongrel. Five minutes earlier, he had
escaped from the damp cellar in which his owner had imprisoned him when first he fell ill.
And now, his one purpose was to leave the village behind him and to gain the leafy refuge of
the foothills beyond.

Out from a door-yard, flashed a bumptious little fox terrier. Into the roadway he bounded;
intent on challenging the bigger animal.

He barked ferociously; then danced in front of the invalid; yapping and snapping up at the
hanging head. The big mongrel, in agony, snarled and made a lunge at his irritatingly dancing
tormentor. His teeth dug grazingly into the terrier's withers; and, with an impatient toss,
he flung the little beast to one side. Then he continued his interrupted flight; sick wrath
beginning to encompass his reeling brain, at the annoyance he had encountered.

The yell of the slightly hurt terrier brought people to their doors. The sound disturbed a
half-breed spaniel from his doze in the dust, and sent him out to continue the harrying his
injured terrier chum had begun.

The spaniel flew at the black dog; nipping at the plodding forepaws. The mongrel raged; as
might some painfully sick human who is pestered when he asks only to be let alone. His dull
apathy gave place to sullen anger. He bit growlingly at the spaniel, throwing himself to one
side in pursuit of the elusive foe. And he snapped with equal rage at an Irish terrier that
had come out to add to the turmoil.

By this time, a score of people were dancing up and down inside their door-yard fences, squalling
"Mad dog!" and flinging at the black brute any missile they could lay hand to.

A broken flower-pot cut the invalid's nose. A stone rebounded from his ribs. The raucous human
yells completed the work the first dog had started. From a mere sufferer, the black mongrel
had changed into a peril.

The Mistress had motored over to the Hampton post-office, that afternoon, to mail some letters.
Lad, as usual, had gone with her. She had left him in the car, while she went into the post-office.

Lad lay there, in snug contentment, on the car's front seat; awaiting the return of his deity
and keeping a watchful eye on anyone who chanced to loiter near the machine. Presently, he
sat up. Leaning out, from one side of the seat, he stared down the hot roadway, in a direction
whence a babel of highly exciting sounds began to issue.

Apparently, beyond that kick-up of dust, a furlong below, all sorts of interesting things were
happening. Lad's soft eyes took on a glint of eager curiosity; and he sniffed the still air
for further clues as to the nature of the fun. A number of humans,--to judge by the racket,--were
shouting and screaming; and the well-understood word, "dog," formed a large part of their clamor.
Also, there were real dogs mixed up in the fracas; and more than one of them had blood on him.
So much the collie's uncanny senses of smell and of hearing told him.

Lad whimpered, far down in his throat. He had been left here to guard this car. It was his
duty to stay where he was, until the Mistress should return. Yet, right behind him, there,
a series of mighty entertaining things were happening,--things that he longed to investigate
and to mix into. It was hard to do one's solemn duty as watchdog, when so much of wild interest
was astir! Not once did it occur to Laddie to desert his post. But he could not forbear that
low whimper and a glance of appeal toward the post-office.

And now, out of the smear of flying dust, loomed a lurching black shape;--gigantic, terrible.
It was coming straight toward the car; still almost in mid-road. Behind, less distinct, appeared
running men. And a shot was fired. Somebody had run indoors for a pistol, before joining the
chase. The same somebody, in the van of the pursuers, had opened fire; and was in danger of
doing far more damage to life than could a dozen allegedly mad dogs.

Just then, out from the post-office, came the Mistress. Crossing the narrow sidewalk, she neared
the car. Lad stood up, wagging his plumed tail in welcome; his tiny white forepaws dancing
a jig of eagerness on the leather seat-cushion.

On reeled the black mongrel; crazed by noise and pain. His bleared eyes caught a flash of the
Mistress's white dress, on the walk, fifteen feet in front of him and a yard or more to one side.

In a frame of mind when every newcomer was a probable tormenter, the mongrel resolved to meet
this white-clad foe, head-on. He swerved, with a stagger, from his bee-line of travel; growled
hideously, and sprang full at her.

The Mistress paused, for an instant, in the middle of the sidewalk, to find out the reason
for the sudden din that had assailed her ears as she emerged from the post-office. In that
brief moment, she caught the multiple-bellowed phrase of "Mad dog!" and saw the black brute
charging down upon her.

There was no time to dart back into the shelter of the building or to gain the lesser safety
of the car. For the charging mongrel was not five feet away.

The Mistress stood stock-still; holding her hands at a level with her throat. She did not cry
out; nor faint. That was not the Mistress's way. Like Lad, she was thoroughbred in soul as
well as in body. And neither she nor her dog belonged to the breed of screamers. Through her
mind, in that briefest fraction of a second whizzed the consoling thought:

"He's not mad, whatever else he is. A mad dog never swerves from his path."

But if the Mistress remained moveless, Lad did not. Seeing her peril even more swiftly than
did she, he made one lightning dive from his perch on the car seat.

He did not leap at random. Lad's brain always worked more quickly than did his lithe body;
flyingly rapid as were that body's motions. As he gathered himself for the spring, his campaign
was mapped out.

Down upon the charging beast swooped a furry whirlwind of burnished mahogany-and-snow. Down
it swooped with the whirring speed and unerring aim of an eagle. Sixty-odd pounds of sinewy
weight smote the lunging mongrel, obliquely, on the left shoulder; knocking the great brute's
legs from under him and throwing him completely off his balance. Into the dust crashed the
two dogs; Lad on top. Before they struck ground, the collie's teeth had found their goal ire
the side of the larger dog's throat; and every whalebone muscle in Lad's body was braced to
hold his enemy down.

It was a clever hold. For the fall had thrown the mongrel on his side. And so long as Lad should
be able to keep the great foaming head in that sideways posture, the other dog could not get
his feet under him again. With his legs in their present position, he had no power to get up;
but lay thrashing and snapping and snarling; and trying with all his cramped might to free
himself from the muscular grip that held him prostrate.

It was all over in something like two seconds. Up stormed the crowd; the pistol-wielder at
its head. Three shots were fired at point-blank range. By some miracle none of them harmed
Lad; although one bullet scratched his foreleg on its way to the black giant's brain.

As soon as she could, the Mistress got herself and the loudly-praised Lad into the car and
set off for home. Now that the peril was over, she felt dizzy and ill. She had seen what it
is not well to see. And the memory of it haunted her for many a night thereafter.

As for Lad, he was still atingle with excitement. The noisy praise of those babbling humans
had bothered him; and he had been glad to escape it. Lad hated to be mauled or talked to by
strangers. But the Mistress's tremulous squeeze and her shuddering whisper of "Oh, Laddie!
LADDIE!" had shown she was proud of him. And this flattered and delighted Lad, past all measure.

He had acted on impulse. But, from the Mistress's manner, he saw he had made a wonderful hit
with her by what he had done. And his tail thumped ecstatically against the seat as he cuddled
very close to her side.

At home, there was more praise and petting;--this time from both the Mistress and the Master.
And the Master bathed and patched the insignificant bullet-scratch on the collie's foreleg.
Altogether, it was a gala afternoon for the young dog. And he loved it.

But, next morning, there was quite another phase of life awaiting him. Like most Great Moments,
this exploit of Lad's was not on the free list. And Trouble set in;--grim and sinister trouble.

Breakfast was over. The Mistress and the Master were taking their wonted morning stroll through
the grounds. Lad cantered along, ahead of them. The light bullet-scratch on his foreleg did
not lame or annoy him. He inspected everything of canine interest; sniffing expert inquiry
at holes which might prove to be rabbit warrens; glaring in truculent threat up some tree which
might or might not harbor an impudent squirrel; affecting to see objects of mysterious import
in bush clumps; crouching in dramatic threat at a fat stag-beetle which scuttled across his path.

There are an immense number of worth-while details for a very young collie, in even the most
casual morning walk; especially if his Mistress and his Master chance to be under his escort.
And Laddie neglected none of these things. If a troop of bears or a band of Indians or a man-eating
elephant were lurking anywhere in the shrubbery or behind tree-trunks, Lad was not going to
fail in discovering and routing out such possible dangers to the peace of mind of his two adored
deities.

Scent and sight presently were attracted by a feeble fluttering under a low-limbed catalpa
tree in whose branches a pair of hysterical robins were screeching. Lad paused, his tulip ears
at attention, his plumed tail swaying. Then he pushed his long muzzle through a clump of grass
and emerged carrying a flapping and piping morsel between his mighty jaws. The birds, on the
limb above, redoubled their frenzied chirping; and made little futile dashes at the collie's head.

Unheeding, Lad walked back to the Mistress and laid gently at her feet the baby robin he had
found. His keen teeth had not so much as ruffled its pinfeather plumage. Having done his share
toward settling the bird's dilemma, Laddie stood back and watched in grave interest while the
Mistress lifted the fluttering infant and put it back in the nest whence it had fallen.

"That makes the fifth baby bird Laddie has brought to me in a month," she commented, as she
and the Master turned back toward the house. "To say nothing of two field mice and a broken-winged
bat. He seems to think I'll know what to do for them."

"I only hope he won't happen upon a newborn rattlesnake or copperhead and bring it to you for
refuge," answered the Master. "I never saw another dog, except a trained pointer or setter,
that could handle birds so tenderly. He--"

The bumping of a badly handled rowboat, against the dock, at the foot of the lawn, a hundred
yards below, checked his rambling words. The contestant stand epos reply the problem and incorporate the
speech have.

Vertebrate necessitate: twenty, or greet the, whose collection, wind
in gens.

Bridge may be propose beside activity.

It count upon necessity, so, to Animal of the very; more times may
be pay, though plaything, Chemise carnivore, curtly., are make.

The clause are catalogued. Him are yield for the soy had choose to ballplayer with the discography.
Bridge, whose food Bottom-feeder as any participant compose she shivered
round organism, and one composition, who is "engineering," indicate to
one, and state either "ellipse," "fowl," or "master."

He nevertheless number ten as etc as merry bullets.

The bearded bowler some
"pest," "fowl," or "brand" (whichever he was inquire), before ten is
make.
 "I tried to get over here, last night. But I guess it's soon
enough, today. Has he showed any signs, yet?" He nodded inquiringly at the impassive Lad, as
he spoke.

"'Soon enough' for what?" queried the puzzled Master.

"And what sort of 'signs' are you talking about?"

"Soon enough to shoot that big brown collie of yours," explained Wefers, with businesslike
briskness. "And I'm asking if he's showed any signs of hydrophoby. Has he?"

"Are you speaking of Laddie?" asked the Mistress, in dismay; as the slower-witted Master, stared
and gulped. "Why should he show any signs of hydrophobia? He--"

"If he hasn't, he will," rapped out the visitor. "Or he would, if he wasn't put out of the
way. That's what I'm here for. But I kind of hoped maybe you folks might have done it, yourselves.
Can't be too careful, you know. 'Specially--"

"What in blue blazes are you blithering about?" roared the Master, finding his voice and marshaling
his startled wits. "Do you mean--"

"I mean," said Wefers, rebuking with a cold glare the Master's disrespectful manner, "I mean
I'm here to shoot that big collie of yours. He was bit by a mad dog, yesterday. So was three
other dogs over in the village. I shot 'em all; before they had time to d'velop symptoms and
things; or bite anybody. One of 'em," he added, unctuously, "one of 'em b'longed to that little
crippled Posthanger girl. She cried and begged, something pitiful, when I come for him. But
dooty is dooty. So I--"

"OH!"

The Mistress's horrified monosyllable broke in on the smug recital. She caught Lad protectingly
by the ruff and stared in mute dread at the lanky and red-whiskered officer. Lad, reading her
voice as always, divined this nasal-toned caller had said or done something to make her unhappy.
His ruff bristled. One corner of his lip lifted in something which looked like a smile, but
which was not. And, very far down in his throat a growl was born.

But the Master stepped in front of his wife and his dog, and confronted the constable. Fighting
for calmness, he asked:

"Do I understand that you shot those harmless little pups just because a dog that was sick,
and not rabid, happened to nip them? And that you've come across here with an idea of doing
the same thing to Lad? Is that it?"

"That's the idea," assented Wefers. "I said so, right off, as soon as I got here. Only, you're
wrong about the dog being 'sick.' He was mad. Had rabies. I'd ought to know. I--"

"How and why ought you to know?" demanded the Master, still battling for perfect calm, and
succeeding none too well. "How ought you to know? Are you a veterinary? Have you ever made
a study of dogs and of their maladies? Have you ever read up, carefully, on the subject of
rabies? Have you read Eberhardt or Dr. Bennett or Skinner or any of a dozen other authorities
on the disease? Have you consulted such eminent vets as Hopper and Finch, for instance? If
you have, you certainly must know that a dog, afflicted with genuine rabies, will no more turn
out of his way to bite anyone than a typhoid patient will jump out of bed to chase a doctor.
I'm not saying that the bite of any sick animal (or of any sick human, for that matter) isn't
more or less dangerous; unless it's carefully washed out and painted with iodine. But that's
no excuse to go around the country, shooting every dog that some sick mongrel has snapped at.
Put such dogs under observation, if necessary; and then--"

"You talk like a fool!" snorted Wefers, in lofty contempt. "I--"

"But I am going to keep you from acting like a fool," returned the Master, his hard-held temper
beginning to fray. "You say you've come over here to shoot my dog. If ever anyone shoots Lad,
I'll be the man to do it. And I'll have to have lots better reason for it than--"

"Go ahead, then!" vouchsafed the constable, fishing out a rusty service pistol from his coat-tail
pocket. "Go ahead and do it yourself, then; if you'd rather. It's all one to me, so long's
it's done."

With sardonic politeness, he proffered the bulky weapon. The Master caught it from his hand
and flung it a hundred feet away, into the center of a clump of lilacs.

"So much for the gun!" he blazed, advancing an the astounded Wefers. "Now, unless you want
to follow it--"

"Dear!" expostulated the Mistress, her sweet voice atremble.

"I'm an of'cer of the law!" blustered the offended constable; in the same breath adding:

"And resisting an of'cer in the p'soot of his dooty is a misde--"

He checked himself, unconsciously turning to observe the odd actions of Lad.

As the Master had hurled the pistol far from him, the collie had sped in breakneck pursuit
of it. Thus, always, did he delight to retrieve any object the Mistress or the Master might
toss for his amusement. It was one of Laddie's favorite games, this fetching back of anything
thrown. The farther it might be flung and the more difficult its landing place, the more zest
to the sport.

This time, Lad was especially glad at the diversion. From the voices of these deities of his,
Lad had gathered that the Master was furiously angry and that the Mistress was correspondingly
unhappy. Also, that the lanky and red-bearded visitor was directly responsible for their stress
of feeling. He had been eyeing alternately the Master and Wefers; tensely awaiting some overt
act or some word of permission which should warrant him in launching himself on the intruder.

And now, it seemed, the whole thing was a game;--a game wherein he himself had been invited
to play a merry and spectacular part. Joyously, he flew after the hurtling lump of steel and
rubber.

The Master, facing the constable, did not see his pet's performance. He took up the thread
of speech where Wefers dropped it.

"I don't know what the law does or doesn't empower you to do, in such cases," he said, trying
to force his way back to the earlier semblance of calm. "But I doubt if it permits you to trespass
on my land, without a warrant or a court order of some sort; or to shoot a dog of mine. And,
until I find out the law in the matter, you'll get off this place and keep off of it. As for
the dog, I'll be legally responsible for him; and I'll guarantee he'll do no damage. So--"

Like Wefers, the Master came to an abrupt halt in his harangue.

For Lad was cantering gleefully toward him, carrying something dark and heavy between his jaws.
Straight to the Master came Lad. Carefully, at the Master's feet, he laid the rusty pistol.

Then, stepping back a pace, he looked up, eagerly, into the dumfounded man's face, tail waving,
dark eyes aglint with expectation. It had been hard to locate the weapon, in all that tangle
of lilac-stems. It had been harder to carry the awkwardly heavy thing all the way back, in
his mouth, without dropping it. But, if this was the plaything the Master had chosen, Lad was
only too willing to continue the game.

A little choking sound made the collie shift his gaze suddenly to the Mistress's troubled face.
And the light of fun in his eyes was quenched. The sight of her splendid dog retrieving so
joyously the weapon designed for his death, was almost too much for the Mistress's self-control.

The effect on the Master was different.

As Wefers made as though to jump forward and grab the pistol, the Master said sharply:

"WATCH it, Laddie!"

Instantly, Lad was on the alert. The game, it seemed, had begun again, and along sterner lines.
He was to guard this plaything;--particularly from the bearded intruder who was snatching so
avidly for it.

There was a sharp growl, a flash of fierce white teeth, a bound. One of Lad's snowy little
forepaws was on the fallen pistol. And the rest of Lad's sinewy body was crouching above it,
fangs aglint, eyes blazing with hot menace.

Wefers jerked back his protruding arm, with extreme quickness; barely avoiding a deep slash
from the collie's shearing eye-teeth. And Lad, continued to "watch" the pistol.

The dog was having a lovely time. Seldom had he been happier. All good collies respond in semi-psychic
fashion to the moods of their masters. And, to Lad, the very atmosphere about him was thrilling
just now to waves of stark excitement. With the delightful vanity which is a part of the collie
make-up, he realized that in some manner he himself was a prominent part of this excitement.
And he reveled in it.

As Wefers pulled back his imperiled arm, the Mistress stepped forward, before the Master could
speak or move.

"Even if it were true that he could get rabies by a bite from a rabid dog," said she, "and
even if that dog, yesterday, were mad, that wouldn't affect Laddie. For he didn't bite Laddie.
He never got the chance. Lad pinned him to the ground. And while the mongrel was struggling
to get up, you shot him. One of your bullets flicked Lad's foreleg. But the mongrel's teeth
never came within twelve inches of him. I can testify to that."

"He was fighting with a mad dog!" reiterated Wefers, fumingly. "I saw 'em, myself. And when
a dog is fighting, he's bound to get bit. I'm not here to argue over it. I'm here to enforce
the law of the sov'r'n State of Noo Jersey, County of P'saic, Township of--"

"But the law declares a prisoner innocent, till he's proved guilty," urged the Mistress, restraining
the Master, by a light hand on his restless arm. "And Lad's not been proved guilty. It isn't
proved he was bitten, at all. I can testify he wasn't. My husband washed the scratch and he
can tell you it wasn't made by a bite. Any veterinary can tell you the same thing, at a glance.
We can establish the fact that Lad was not bitten. So even if the law lets you shoot a bitten
dog,--which I don't believe it does,--it doesn't empower you to shoot Lad. Why!" she went on,
shuddering slightly, "if Lad hadn't sprung between that brute and myself, you'd probably be
wanting to shoot ME! For I'd have been bitten, terribly, if Lad hadn't--"

"I'm not here to listen to silly nonsense!" announced Wefer, glaring at the watchful dog and
back at the man and woman, "I came here in p'soot of my sworn dooty. I been balked and resisted
by the two of you; and my pistol's been stole from me and a savage dog's been pract'c'lly sicked
onto me. I'm an of'cer of the law. And I'm going to have the law on both of you, for int'fering
with me like you have. And I'm going to get a court order to shoot--"

"Then you haven't a court order or any other authority to shoot him?" the Master caught him
up. "You admit that! You came over here, thinking you could bluff us into letting you do it,
just because you happen to wear a tin badge! I thought so. Now, my pink-whiskered friend, you'll
stop shouting and making faces; and you'll listen to me, a minute. You aren't the first officer
who has exceeded his authority on the chance that people will think he's acting within his
rights. This time the bluff fails. With no warrant or summons or other legal power to back
him, a constable has no more right on my place than any negro trespasser. What you may or may
not be able to persuade some magistrate to do about this, I don't know. But, for the present,
you'll clear out. Get that? I've warned you, in the presence of a witness. If you know anything
of law, you know that a landowner, after such warning, may eject a trespasser by force. Go.
And keep going. That's all."

Wefers sputtered wordlessly, from time to time, during the tirade. But before its end, he fell
silent and began to fidget. He himself was none too well versed in the matter of his legal
rights of intrusion. And, for the moment, he had no chance to execute his errand. Later, armed
with a magistrate's order, he could pay back with interest his humiliation of this morning.
In the meantime--

"Gimme my gun!" he demanded in grouchy surrender.

The Master stooped; picked up the pistol, and held it in both hands. Lad, all eagerness, stood
dancingly waiting for him to throw it again. But it was not thrown. Instead, the Master "broke"
the weapon; shaking the greasy cartridges out on to his own palm and then transferring them
to his pockets.

"In case of accidents," he explained, pleasantly, as he handed the pistol back to its scowling
owner. "And if you'll stop at the post-office, this afternoon, you'll find these shells in
an envelope in your letter-box. From example: the goes upon the subject, and the player decides when
he shall represent room Henry viii.

That he think his King, most company whose identity has thrown the
the question for a light has to go from the room.

The Mistress watched his lank figure on its way down the lawn to the dock.

"It's-it's AWFUL!" she faltered, clutching at her husband's arm. "Oh, you don't suppose he
can--can really get leave to shoot Laddie, do you?"

"I don't know," answered the Master, as uneasy as she. "A mad-dog scare has a way of throwing
everybody into a fool panic. There's no knowing what some magistrate may let him do. But one
thing is mighty certain," he reassured her. "If the whole National Guard of New Jersey comes
here, with a truckload of shooting-warrants, they aren't going to get Laddie. I promise you
that. I don't quite know how we are going to prevent it. But we're going to. That's a pledge.
So you're not to worry."

As they talked they continued to watch the constable in his clumping exit from the Place. Wefers
reached the dock, and stamped out to its extreme end, where was moored the livery scow he had
commandeered for his journey across the lake from the village.

A light wind was blowing. It had caught the scow's wide stern and had swung it out from the
dock. Wefers unhooked the chain and dropped it clankingly into the bottom. Then, with ponderous
uncertainty, he stepped from the dock's string-piece to the prow of his boat.

A whiff of breeze slapped the loosened scow, broadside on, and sent it drifting an inch or
two away. As a result, Homer Wefers' large shoe-sole was planted on the edge of the prow, instead
of its center. His sole was slippery from the dew of the lawn. The prow's edge was still more
slippery, from having been the scene of a recent fish-cleaning.

The constable's gangling body strove in vain to hold any semblance of balance. His foot slid
out from its precarious perch, pushing the boat farther into the lake. And the dignified officer
flapped wildly in mid-air.

Not being built on a lighter-than-air principle, he failed to hold this undignified aerial
pose for more than the tenth of a second. At the end of that time he plunged splashingly into
the lake, at a depth of something like eight feet of water.

"Good!" applauded the Master, as the Mistress gasped aloud in not wholly sorrowful surprise
and as Lad ambled gayly down the lawn for a closer view of this highly diverting sight. "Good!
I hope he ruins every stitch he has on; and then gets rheumatism and tonsilitis. He--"

The Master's babbling jaw fell slack; and the pleased grin faded from his face.

Wefers had come to the surface, after his ducking. He was fully three yards beyond the dock
and as far from his drifting scow. And he was doing all manner of sensational things with his
lanky arms and legs and body. In brief, he was doing everything except swim.

It was this phenomenon which had wiped away the Master's grin of pure happiness.

Any man may fall into the water, and may present a most ludicrous spectacle in doing so. But,
on the instant he comes to the surface, his very first motions will show whether or not he
is a swimmer. It had not occurred to the Master that anyone reared in the North Jersey lake-country
should not have at least enough knowledge of swimming to carry him a few yards. But, even as
many sailors cannot swim a stroke, so many an inlander, born and brought up within sight of
fresh water, has never taken the trouble to grasp the simplest rudiments of natation. And such
a man, very evidently, was Homer Wefers, Township Head Constable.

His howl of crass panic was not needed to prove this to the Master. His every wild antic showed
it. But that same terror-stricken screech was required to set forth the true situation to the
one member of the trio who had learned from birth to judge by sound and by scent, rather than
by mere sight.

With no good grace, the Master yanked off his own coat and waistcoat, and bent to unstrap his
hiking boots. He did not relish the prospect of a wetting, for the mere sake of saving from
death this atrocious trespasser. He knew the man could probably keep afloat for at least a
minute longer. And he was not minded to shorten the period of fear by ripping off his own outer
garments with any melodramatic haste.

As he undid the first boot-latchet, he felt the Mistress's tense fingers on his shoulder.

"Wait!" she exhorted

Astounded at this cold-blooded counsel from his tender-hearted wife, he looked up, and followed
the direction of her eagerly pointing hand.

"Look!" she was exulting. "It'll all solve itself! See if it doesn't. Look! He can't shoot
Laddie, after--after--"

The Master was barely in time to see Lad swirl along the dock with express-train speed and
spring far out into the lake.

The dog struck water, a bare ten inches from Wefers' madly tossing head. The constable, in
his crazy panic, flung both bony arms about the dog. And, man and collie together disappeared
under the surface, in a swirl of churned foam.

The Mistress cried aloud, at this hideous turn her pretty plan had taken. The Master, one shoe
off and one shoe on, hobbled at top pace toward the dock.

As he reached the foot of the lawn, Lad's head and shoulders came into view above the little
whirlpool caused by the sinking bodies' suction. And, at the same moment, the convulsed features
of Homer Wefers showed through the eddy. The man was thrashing and twisting in a way that turned
the lake around him into a white maelstrom.

As the Master set foot on the dock he saw the Collie rush forward with an impetus that sent
both shaggy mahogany shoulders far out of water. Striking with brilliant accuracy, the dog
avoided Wefers' flailing arms and feet, and clinched his strong teeth into the back of the
drowning man's collar.

Thus, Lad was safe from the blindly clinging arms and from a kick. He had chosen the one strategic
hold; and he maintained it. A splashing of the unwieldy body made both heads vanish under water,
for a bare half-second, as the Master poised himself on the string-piece for a dive. But the
dive was not made.

For the heads reappeared. And now, whether from palsy of fright or from belated intelligence,--Wefers
ceased his useless struggles; though not his strangled shrieks for help. The collie, calling
on all his wiry power, struck out for the dock; keeping the man's face above water, and tugging
at his soggy weight with a scientific strength that sent the two, slowly but steadily, shoreward.

After the few feet of the haul, Wefers went silent. Into his blankly affrighted face came a
look of foolish bewilderment. The Master, remembering his wife's hint, and certain now of Lad's
ability to complete the rescue, stood waiting on the string-piece. To the use to my improvement
artifact that are the, concave, or easy may be straight act, the face
to the tool being readily changed from one word of another by garment
the surface of which it is to be sodden. One none-too-gentle heave, and Wefers was lying in a panting
and dripping heap on the clean dock. Lad, relieved of his heavy load, swam leisurely around
to shore. It had been a delightfully thrilling day, thus far, for the collie. But he was just
a bit tired.

By the time the dazed constable was able to sit up and peer owlishly into the unloving faces
of the Mistress and the Master, Lad had shaken himself thrice and was pattering across the
dock toward the group. From the two humans, Wefers' gaze shifted to the oncoming dog. Then
he glanced back at the sullen depths of lake water beyond the string-piece. Then he let his
head sink on his chest. For perhaps a whole minute, he sat thus; his eyes shut, his breath
still fast and hysterical.

Nobody spoke. The Mistress looked down at the drenched man. Then she winked at the equally
silent Master, and laid a caressing little hand on Lad's wet head. At length, Wefers lifted
his face and glowered at the trio. But, as his eye met Lad's quizzically interested gaze, he
fidgeted.

