On the ninth day after Madame Goesler's arrival the Duke died, and Lady Glencora Palliser became
Duchess of Omnium. But the change probably was much greater to Mr. Palliser than to his wife.
It would seem to be impossible to imagine a greater change than had come upon him. As to rank,
he was raised from that of a simple commoner to the very top of the tree. He was made master
of almost unlimited wealth, Garters, and lord-lieutenancies; and all the added grandeurs which
come from high influence when joined to high rank were sure to be his. But he was no more moved
by these things than would have been a god, or a block of wood. His uncle was dead; but his
uncle had been an old man, and his grief on that score was moderate. As soon as his uncle's
body had been laid in the family vault at Gatherum, men would call him Duke of Omnium; and
then he could never sit again in the House of Commons. It was in that light, and in that light
only, that he regarded the matter. To his uncle it had been everything to be Duke of Omnium.
To Plantagenet Palliser it was less than nothing. He had lived among men and women with titles
all his life, himself untitled, but regarded by them as one of themselves, till the thing,
in his estimation, had come to seem almost nothing. One man walked out of a room before another
man; and he, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, had, during a part of his career, walked out of
most rooms before most men. But he cared not at all whether he walked out first or last,--and
for him there was nothing else in it. It was a toy that would perhaps please his wife, but
he doubted even whether she would not cease to be Lady Glencora with regret. In himself this
thing that had happened had absolutely crushed him. He had won for himself by his own aptitudes
and his own industry one special position in the empire,--and that position, and that alone,
was incompatible with the rank which he was obliged to assume! His case was very hard, and
he felt it;--but he made no complaint to human ears. "I suppose you must give up the Exchequer,"
his wife said to him. He shook his head, and made no reply. Even to her he could not explain
his feelings.

I think, too, that she did regret the change in her name, though she was by no means indifferent
to the rank. As Lady Glencora she had made a reputation which might very possibly fall away
from her as Duchess of Omnium. Fame is a skittish jade, more fickle even than Fortune, and
apt to shy, and bolt, and plunge away on very trifling causes. As Lady Glencora Palliser she
was known to every one, and had always done exactly as she had pleased. The world in which
she lived had submitted to her fantasies, and had placed her on a pedestal from which, as Lady
Glencora, nothing could have moved her. She was by no means sure that the same pedestal would
be able to carry the Duchess of Omnium. She must begin again, and such beginnings are dangerous;
As Lady Glencora she had almost taken upon herself to create a rivalry in society to certain
very distinguished, and indeed illustrious, people. There were only two houses in London, she
used to say, to which she never went. The "never" was not quite true;--but there had been something
in it. She doubted whether as Duchess of Omnium she could go on with this. She must lay down
her mischief, and abandon her eccentricity, and in some degree act like other duchesses. "The
poor old man," she said to Madame Goesler; "I wish he could have gone on living a little longer."
At this time the two ladies were alone together at Matching. Mr. Palliser, with the cousins,
had gone to Gatherum, whither also had been sent all that remained of the late Duke, in order
that fitting funeral obsequies might be celebrated over the great family vault.

"He would hardly have wished it himself, I think."

"One never knows,--and as far as one can look into futurity one has no idea what would be one's
own feelings. I suppose he did enjoy life."

"Hardly, for the last twelve months," said Madame Goesler.

"I think he did. He was happy when you were about him; and he interested himself about things.
Do you remember how much he used to think of Lady Eustace and her diamonds? When I first knew
him he was too magnificent to care about anything."

"I suppose his nature was the same."

"Yes, my dear; his nature was the same, but he was strong enough to restrain his nature, and
wise enough to know that his magnificence was incompatible with ordinary interests. As he got
to be older he broke down, and took up with mere mortal gossip. But I think it must have made
him happier."

"He showed his weakness in coming to me," said Madame Goesler, laughing.

"Of course he did;--not in liking your society, but in wanting to give you his name. I have
often wondered what kind of things he used to say to that old Lady Hartletop. That was in his
full grandeur, and he never condescended to speak much then. I used to think him so hard; but
I suppose he was only acting his part. I used to call him the Grand Lama to Plantagenet when
we were first married,--before Planty was born. I shall always call him Silverbridge now instead
of Planty."

"I would let others do that."

"Of course I was joking; but others will, and he will be spoilt. I wonder whether he will live
to be a Grand Lama or a popular Minister. There cannot be two positions further apart. My husband,
no doubt, thinks a good deal of himself as a statesman and a clever politician,--at least I
suppose he does; but he has not the slightest reverence for himself as a nobleman. If the dear
old Duke were hobbling along Piccadilly, he was conscious that Piccadilly was graced by his
presence, and never moved without being aware that people looked at him, and whispered to each
other,--'There goes the Duke of Omnium.' Plantagenet considers himself inferior to a sweeper
while on the crossing, and never feels any pride of place unless he is sitting on the Treasury
Bench with his hat over his eyes."

"He'll never sit on the Treasury Bench again."

"No;--poor dear. He's an Othello now with a vengeance, for his occupation is gone. I spoke
to him about your friend and the foxes, and he told me to write to Mr. Fothergill. I will as
soon as it's decent. I fancy a new duchess shouldn't write letters about foxes till the old
Duke is buried. I wonder what sort of a will he'll have made. There's nothing I care twopence
for except his pearls. No man in England had such a collection of precious stones. They'd been
yours, my dear, if you had consented to be Mrs. O."

The Duke was buried and the will was read, and Plantagenet Palliser was addressed as Duke of
Omnium by all the tenantry and retainers of the family in the great hall of Gatherum Castle.
Mr. Fothergill, who had upon occasion in former days been driven by his duty to remonstrate
with the heir, was all submission. Planty Pall had come to the throne, and half a county was
ready to worship him. But he did not know how to endure worship, and the half county declared
that he was stern and proud, and more haughty even than his uncle. At every "Grace" that was
flung at him he winced and was miserable, and declared to himself that he should never become
accustomed to his new life. So he sat all alone, and meditated how he might best reconcile
the forty-eight farthings which go to a shilling with that thorough-going useful decimal, fifty.

But his meditations did not prevent him from writing to his wife, and on the following morning,
Lady Glencora,--as she shall be called now for the last time,--received a letter from him which
disturbed her a good deal. She was in her room when it was brought to her, and for an hour
after reading it hardly knew how to see her guest and friend, Madame Goesler. The passage in
the letter which produced this dismay was as follows:--"He has left to Madame Goesler twenty
thousand pounds and all his jewels. The money may be very well, but I think he has been wrong
about the jewellery. As to myself I do not care a straw, but you will be sorry; and then people
will talk. The lawyers will, of course, write to her, but I suppose you had better tell her.
They seem to think that the stones are worth a great deal of money; but I have long learned
never to believe any statement that is made to me. They are all here, and I suppose she will
have to send some authorised person to have them packed. There is a regular inventory, of which
a copy shall be sent to her by post as soon as it can be prepared." Now it must be owned that
the duchess did begrudge her friend the duke's collection of pearls and diamonds.

About noon they met. "My dear," she said, "you had better hear your good fortune at once. Read
that,--just that side. Plantagenet is wrong in saying that I shall regret it. I don't care
a bit about it. If I want a ring or a brooch he can buy me one. But I never did care about
such things, and I don't now. The money is all just as it should be." Madame Goesler read the
passage, and the blood mounted up into her face. She read it very slowly, and when she had
finished reading it she was for a moment or two at a loss for her words to express herself.
"You had better send one of Garnett's people," said the Duchess, naming the house of a distinguished
jeweller and goldsmith in London.

"It will hardly need," said Madame Goesler.

"You had better be careful. There is no knowing what they are worth. He spent half his income
on them, I believe, during part of his life." There was a roughness about the Duchess of which
she was herself conscious, but which she could not restrain, though she knew that it betrayed
her chagrin.

Madame Goesler came gently up to her and touched her arm caressingly. "Do you remember," said
Madame Goesler, "a small ring with a black diamond,--I suppose it was a diamond,--which he
always wore?"

"I remember that he always did wear such a ring."

"I should like to have that," said Madame Goesler.

"You have them all,--everything. He makes no distinction."

"I should like to have that, Lady Glen,--for the sake of the hand that wore it. But, as God
is great above us, I will never take aught else that has belonged to the Duke."

"Not take them!"

"Not a gem; not a stone; not a shilling."

"But you must."

"I rather think that I can be under no such obligation," she said, laughing. "Will you write
to Mr. Palliser,--or I should say, to the Duke,--to-night, and tell him that my mind is absolutely
made up?"

"I certainly shall not do that."

"Then I must. As it is, I shall have pleasant memories of his Grace. According to my ability
I have endeavoured to be good to him, and I have no stain on my conscience because of his friendship.
If I took his money and his jewels,--or rather your money and your jewels,--do you think I
could say as much?"

"Everybody takes what anybody leaves them by will."

"I will be an exception to the rule, Lady Glen. Don't you think that your friendship is more
to me than all the diamonds in London?"

"You shall have both, my dear," said the Duchess,--quite in earnest in her promise. Madame
Goesler shook her head. "Nobody ever repudiates legacies. The Queen would take the jewels if
they were left to her."

"I am not the Queen. I have to be more careful what I do than any queen. I will take nothing
under the Duke's will. I will ask a boon which I have already named, and if it be given me
as a gift by the Duke's heir, I will wear it till I die. You will write to Mr. Palliser?"

"I couldn't do it," said the Duchess.

"Then I will write myself." And she did write, and of all the rich things which the Duke of
Omnium had left to her, she took nothing but the little ring with the black stone which he
had always worn on his finger.

CHAPTER XXVII

An Editor's Wrath

On that Sunday evening in London Mr. Low was successful in finding the Vice-Chancellor, and
the great judge smiled and nodded, listened to the story, and acknowledged that the circumstances
were very peculiar. He thought that an injunction to restrain the publication might be given
at once upon Mr. Finn's affidavit; and that the peculiar circumstances justified the peculiarity
of Mr. Low's application. Whether he would have said as much had the facts concerned the families
of Mr. Joseph Smith and his son-in-law Mr. John Jones, instead of the Earl of Brentford and
the Right Honourable Robert Kennedy, some readers will perhaps doubt, and may doubt also whether
an application coming from some newly-fledged barrister would have been received as graciously
as that made by Mr. Low, Q.C. and M.P.,--who would probably himself soon sit on some lofty
legal bench. On the following morning Phineas and Mr. Low,--and no doubt also Mr. Vice-Chancellor
Pickering,--obtained early copies of the People's Banner, and were delighted to find that Mr.
Kennedy's letter did not appear in it. Mr. Low had made his calculation rightly. The editor,
considering that he would gain more by having the young member of Parliament and the Standish
family, as it were, in his hands than by the publication of a certain libellous letter, had
resolved to put the document back for at least twenty-four hours, even though the young member
neither came nor wrote as he had promised. The letter did not appear, and before ten o'clock
Phineas Finn had made his affidavit in a dingy little room behind the Vice-Chancellor's Court.
The injunction was at once issued, and was of such potency that should any editor dare to publish
any paper therein prohibited, that editor and that editor's newspaper would assuredly be crumpled
up in a manner very disagreeable, if not altogether destructive. Editors of newspapers are
self-willed, arrogant, and stiff-necked, a race of men who believe much in themselves and little
in anything else, with no feelings of reverence or respect for matters which are august enough
to other men;--but an injunction from a Court of Chancery is a power which even an editor respects.
At about noon Vice-Chancellor Pickering's injunction was served at the office of the People's
Banner in Quartpot Alley, Fleet Street. It was done in duplicate,--or perhaps in triplicate,--so
that there should be no evasion; and all manner of crumpling was threatened in the event of
any touch of disobedience. All this happened on Monday, March the first, while the poor dying
Duke was waiting impatiently for the arrival of his friend at Matching. Phineas was busy all
the morning till it was time that he should go down to the House. For as soon as he could leave
Mr. Low's chambers in Lincoln's Inn he had gone to Judd Street, to inquire as to the condition
of the man who had tried to murder him. He there saw Mr. Kennedy's cousin, and received an
assurance from that gentleman that Robert Kennedy should be taken down at once to Loughlinter.
Up to that moment not a word had been said to the police as to what had been done. No more
notice had been taken of the attempt to murder than might have been necessary had Mr. Kennedy
thrown a clothes-brush at his visitor's head. There was the little hole in the post of the
door with the bullet in it, just six feet above the ground; and there was the pistol, with
five chambers still loaded, which Macpherson had cunningly secured on his return from church,
and given over to the cousin that same evening. There was certainly no want of evidence, but
nobody was disposed to use it.

At noon the injunction was served in Quartpot Alley, and was put into Mr. Slide's hands on
his arrival at the office at three o'clock. That gentleman's duties required his attendance
from three till five in the afternoon, and then again from nine in the evening till any hour
in the morning at which he might be able to complete the People's Banner for that day's use.
He had been angry with Phineas when the Sunday night passed without a visit or letter at the
office, as a promise had been made that there should be either a visit or a letter; but he
had felt sure, as he walked into the city from his suburban residence at Camden Town, that
he would now find some communication on the great subject. The matter was one of most serious
importance. Such a letter as that which was in his possession would no doubt create much surprise,
and receive no ordinary attention. A People's Banner could hardly ask for a better bit of good
fortune than the privilege of first publishing such a letter. It would no doubt be copied into
every London paper, and into hundreds of provincial papers, and every journal so copying it
would be bound to declare that it was taken from the columns of the People's Banner. It was,
indeed, addressed "To the Editor of the People's Banner" in the printed slip which Mr. Slide
had shown to Phineas Finn, though Kennedy himself had not prefixed to it any such direction.
And the letter, in the hands of Quintus Slide, would not simply have been a letter. It might
have been groundwork for, perhaps, some half-dozen leading articles, all of a most attractive
kind. Mr. Slide's high moral tone upon such an occasion would have been qualified to do good
to every British matron, and to add virtues to the Bench of Bishops. All this he had postponed
with some inadequately defined idea that he could do better with the property in his hands
by putting himself into personal communication with the persons concerned. If he could manage
to reconcile such a husband to such a wife,--or even to be conspicuous in an attempt to do
so; and if he could make the old Earl and the young Member of Parliament feel that he had spared
them by abstaining from the publication, the results might be very beneficial. His conception
of the matter had been somewhat hazy, and he had certainly made a mistake. But, as he walked
from his home to Quartpot Alley, he little dreamed of the treachery with which he had been
treated. "Has Phineas Finn been here?" he asked as he took his accustomed seat within a small
closet, that might be best described as a glass cage. Around him lay the debris of many past
newspapers, and the germs of many future publications. To all the world except himself it would
have been a chaos, but to him, with his experience, it was admirable order. No; Mr. Finn had
not been there. And then, as he was searching among the letters for one from the Member for
Tankerville, the injunction was thrust into his hands. To say that he was aghast is but a poor
form of speech for the expression of his emotion.

He had been "done"--"sold,"--absolutely robbed by that wretchedly false Irishman whom he had
trusted with all the confidence of a candid nature and an open heart! He had been most treacherously
misused! Treachery was no adequate word for the injury inflicted on him. The more potent is
a man, the less accustomed to endure injustice, and the more his power to inflict it,--the
greater is the sting and the greater the astonishment when he himself is made to suffer. Newspaper
editors sport daily with the names of men of whom they do not hesitate to publish almost the
severest words that can be uttered;--but let an editor be himself attacked, even without his
name, and he thinks that the thunderbolts of heaven should fall upon the offender. Let his
manners, his truth, his judgment, his honesty, or even his consistency be questioned, and thunderbolts
are forthcoming, though they may not be from heaven. There should certainly be a thunderbolt
or two now, but Mr. Slide did not at first quite see how they were to be forged.

He read the injunction again and again. As far as the document went he knew its force, and
recognised the necessity of obedience. He might, perhaps, be able to use the information contained
in the letter from Mr. Kennedy, so as to harass Phineas and Lady Laura and the Earl, but he
was at once aware that it must not be published. An editor is bound to avoid the meshes of
the law, which are always infinitely more costly to companies, or things, or institutions,
than they are to individuals. Of fighting with Chancery he had no notion; but it should go
hard with him if he did not have a fight with Phineas Finn. And then there arose another cause
for deep sorrow. A paragraph was shown to him in a morning paper of that day which must, he
thought, refer to Mr. Kennedy and Phineas Finn. "A rumour has reached us that a member of Parliament,
calling yesterday afternoon upon a right honourable gentleman, a member of a late Government,
at his hotel, was shot at by the latter in his sitting room. Whether the rumour be true or
not we have no means of saying, and therefore abstain from publishing names. We are informed
that the gentleman who used the pistol was out of his mind. The bullet did not take effect."
How cruel it was that such information should have reached the hands of a rival, and not fallen
in the way of the People's Banner! And what a pity that the bullet should have been wasted!
The paragraph must certainly refer to Phineas Finn and Kennedy. Finn, a Member of Parliament,
had been sent by Slide himself to call upon Kennedy, a member of the late Government, at Kennedy's
hotel. And the paragraph must be true. He himself had warned Finn that there would be danger
in the visit. He had even prophesied murder,--and murder had been attempted! The whole transaction
had been, as it were, the very goods and chattels of the People's Banner, and the paper had
been shamefully robbed of its property. Mr. Slide hardly doubted that Phineas Finn had himself
sent the paragraph to an adverse paper, with the express view of adding to the injury inflicted
upon the Banner. That day Mr. Slide hardly did his work effectively within his glass cage,
so much was his mind affected, and at five o'clock, when he left his office, instead of going
at once home to Mrs. Slide at Camden Town, he took an omnibus, and went down to Westminster.
He would at once confront the traitor who had deceived him.

It must be acknowledged on behalf of this editor that he did in truth believe that he had been
hindered from doing good. The whole practice of his life had taught him to be confident that
the editor of a newspaper must be the best possible judge,--indeed the only possible good judge,--whether
any statement or story should or should not be published. Not altogether without a conscience,
and intensely conscious of such conscience as did constrain him, Mr. Quintus Slide imagined
that no law of libel, no injunction from any Vice-Chancellor, no outward power or pressure
whatever was needed to keep his energies within their proper limits. He and his newspaper formed
together a simply beneficent institution, any interference with which must of necessity be
an injury to the public. Everything done at the office of the People's Banner was done in the
interest of the People,--and, even though individuals might occasionally be made to suffer
by the severity with which their names were handled in its columns, the general result was
good. What are the sufferings of the few to the advantage of the many? If there be fault in
high places, it is proper that it be exposed. If there be fraud, adulteries, gambling, and
lasciviousness,--or even quarrels and indiscretions among those whose names are known, let
every detail be laid open to the light, so that the people may have a warning. That such details
will make a paper "pay" Mr. Slide knew also; but it is not only in Mr. Slide's path of life
that the bias of a man's mind may lead him to find that virtue and profit are compatible. An
unprofitable newspaper cannot long continue its existence, and, while existing, cannot be widely
beneficial. It is the circulation, the profitable circulation,--of forty, fifty, sixty, or
a hundred thousand copies through all the arteries and veins of the public body which is beneficent.
And how can such circulation be effected unless the taste of the public be consulted? Mr. Quintus
Slide, as he walked up Westminster Hall, in search of that wicked member of Parliament, did
not at all doubt the goodness of his cause. He could not contest the Vice-Chancellor's injunction,
but he was firm in his opinion that the Vice-Chancellor's injunction had inflicted an evil
on the public at large, and he was unhappy within himself in that the power and majesty and
goodness of the press should still be hampered by ignorance, prejudice, and favour for the
great. He was quite sure that no injunction would have been granted in favour of Mr. Joseph
Smith and Mr. John Jones.

He went boldly up to one of the policemen who sit guarding the door of the lobby of our House
of Commons, and asked for Mr. Finn. The Cerberus on the left was not sure whether Mr. Finn
was in the House, but would send in a card if Mr. Slide would stand on one side. For the next
quarter of an hour Mr. Slide heard no more of his message, and then applied again to the Cerberus.
The Cerberus shook his head, and again desired the applicant to stand on one side. He had done
all that in him lay. The other watchful Cerberus standing on the right, observing that the
intruder was not accommodated with any member, intimated to him the propriety of standing back
in one of the corners. Our editor turned round upon the man as though he would bite him;--but
he did stand back, meditating an article on the gross want of attention to the public shown
in the lobby of the House of Commons. Is it possible that any editor should endure any inconvenience
without meditating an article? But the judicious editor thinks twice of such things. Our editor
was still in his wrath when he saw his prey come forth from the House with a card,--no doubt
his own card. He leaped forward in spite of the policeman, in spite of any Cerberus, and seized
Phineas by the arm. "I want just to have a few words," he said. He made an effort to repress
his wrath, knowing that the whole world would be against him should he exhibit any violence
of indignation on that spot; but Phineas could see it all in the fire of his eye.

"Certainly," said Phineas, retiring to the side of the lobby, with a conviction that the distance
between him and the House was already sufficient.

"Can't you come down into Westminster Hall?"

"I should only have to come up again. You can say what you've got to say here."

"I've got a great deal to say. I never was so badly treated in my life;--never." He could not
quite repress his voice, and he saw that a policeman looked at him. Phineas saw it also.

"Because we have hindered you from publishing an untrue and very slanderous letter about a lady!"

"You promised me that you'd come to me yesterday."

"I think not. I think I said that you should hear from me,--and you did."

"You call that truth,--and honesty!"

"Certainly I do. Of course it was my first duty to stop the publication of the letter."

"You haven't done that yet."

"I've done my best to stop it. If you have nothing more to say I'll wish you good evening."

"I've a deal more to say. You were shot at, weren't you?"

"I have no desire to make any communication to you on anything that has occurred, Mr. Slide.
If I stayed with you all the afternoon I could tell you nothing more. Good evening."

"I'll crush you," said Quintus Slide, in a stage whisper; "I will, as sure as my name is Slide."

Phineas looked at him and retired into the House, whither Quintus Slide could not follow him,
and the editor of the People's Banner was left alone in his anger.

"How a cock can crow on his own dunghill!" That was Mr. Slide's first feeling, as with a painful
sense of diminished consequence he retraced his steps through the outer lobbies and down into
Westminster Hall. He had been browbeaten by Phineas Finn, simply because Phineas had been able
to retreat within those happy doors. He knew that to the eyes of all the policemen and strangers
assembled Phineas Finn had been a hero, a Parliamentary hero, and he had been some poor outsider,--to
be ejected at once should he make himself disagreeable to the Members. Nevertheless, had he
not all the columns of the People's Banner in his pocket? Was he not great in the Fourth Estate,--much
greater than Phineas Finn in his estate? Could he not thunder every night so that an audience
to be counted by hundreds of thousands should hear his thunder;--whereas this poor Member of
Parliament must struggle night after night for an opportunity of speaking; and could then only
speak to benches half deserted; or to a few Members half asleep,--unless the Press should choose
to convert his words into thunderbolts. Who could doubt for a moment with which lay the greater
power? And yet this wretched Irishman, who had wriggled himself into Parliament on a petition,
getting the better of a good, downright English John Bull by a quibble, had treated him with
scorn,--the wretched Irishman being for the moment like a cock on his own dunghill. Quintus
Slide was not slow to tell himself that he also had an elevation of his own, from which he
could make himself audible. In former days he had forgiven Phineas Finn more than once. If
he ever forgave Phineas Finn again might his right hand forget its cunning, and never again
draw blood or tear a scalp.

CHAPTER XXVIII

The First Thunderbolt

It was not till after Mr. Slide had left him that Phineas wrote the following letter to Lady
Laura:--

   House of Commons, 1st March, 18--

   MY DEAR FRIEND,

   I have a long story to tell, which I fear I shall find
   difficult in the telling; but it is so necessary that you
   should know the facts that I must go through with it as
   best I may. It will give you very great pain; but the
   result as regards your own position will not I think be
   injurious to you.

   Yesterday, Sunday, a man came to me who edits a newspaper,
   and whom I once knew. You will remember when I used to
   tell you in Portman Square of the amenities and angers of
   Mr. Slide,--the man who wanted to sit for Loughton. He is
   the editor. He brought me a long letter from Mr. Kennedy
   himself, intended for publication, and which was already
   printed, giving an elaborate and, I may say, a most
   cruelly untrue account of your quarrel. I read the letter,
   but of course cannot remember the words. Nor if I could
   remember them should I repeat them. They contained all the
   old charges with which you are familiar, and which your
   unfortunate husband now desired to publish in consummation
   of his threats. Why Mr. Slide should have brought me the
   paper before publishing it I can hardly understand. But he
   did so;--and told me that Mr. Kennedy was in town. We have
   managed among us to obtain a legal warrant for preventing
   the publication of the letter, and I think I may say that
   it will not see the light.

   When Mr. Slide left me I called on Mr. Kennedy, whom I
   found in a miserable little hotel, in Judd Street, kept
   by Scotch people named Macpherson. They had come from the
   neighbourhood of Loughlinter, and knew Mr. Kennedy well.
   This was yesterday afternoon, Sunday, and I found some
   difficulty in making my way into his presence. My object
   was to induce him to withdraw the letter;--for at that
   time I doubted whether the law could interfere quickly
   enough to prevent the publication.

   I found your husband in a very sad condition. What he said
   or what I said I forget; but he was as usual intensely
   anxious that you should return to him. I need not hesitate
   now to say that he is certainly mad. After a while, when I
   expressed my assured opinion that you would not go back to
   Loughlinter, he suddenly turned round, grasped a revolver,
   and fired at my head. How I got out of the room I don't
   quite remember. Had he repeated the shot, which he might
   have done over and over again, he must have hit me. As
   it was I escaped, and blundered down the stairs to Mrs.
   Macpherson's room.

   They whom I have consulted in the matter, namely,
   Barrington Erle and my particular friend, Mr. Low,--to
   whom I went for legal assistance in stopping the
   publication,--seem to think that I should have at once
   sent for the police, and given Mr. Kennedy in charge. But
   I did not do so, and hitherto the police have, I believe,
   no knowledge of what occurred. A paragraph appeared in one
   of the morning papers to-day, giving almost an accurate
   account of the matter, but mentioning neither the place
   nor any of the names. No doubt it will be repeated in
   all the papers, and the names will soon be known. But
   the result will be simply a general conviction as to the
   insanity of poor Mr. Kennedy,--as to which they who know
   him have had for a long time but little doubt.

   The Macphersons seem to have been very anxious to screen
   their guest. At any other hotel no doubt the landlord
   would have sent for the police;--but in this case the
   attempt was kept quite secret. They did send for George
   Kennedy, a cousin of your husband's, whom I think you
   know, and whom I saw this morning. He assures me that
   Robert Kennedy is quite aware of the wickedness of the
   attempt he made, and that he is plunged in deep remorse.
   He is to be taken down to Loughlinter to-morrow, and
   is,--so says his cousin,--as tractable as a child. What
   George Kennedy means to do, I cannot say; but for myself,
   as I did not send for the police at the moment, as I am
   told I ought to have done, I shall now do nothing. I don't
   know that a man is subject to punishment because he does
   not make complaint. I suppose I have a right to regard it
   all as an accident if I please.

   But for you this must be very important. That Mr. Kennedy
   is insane there cannot now, I think, be a doubt; and
   therefore the question of your returning to him,--as far
   as there has been any question,--is absolutely settled.
   None of your friends would be justified in allowing you to
   return. He is undoubtedly mad, and has done an act which
   is not murderous only on that conclusion. This settles the
   question so perfectly that you could, no doubt, reside in
   England now without danger. Mr. Kennedy himself would feel
   that he could take no steps to enforce your return after
   what he did yesterday. Indeed, if you could bring yourself
   to face the publicity, you could, I imagine, obtain a
   legal separation which would give you again the control of
   your own fortune. I feel myself bound to mention this; but
   I give you no advice. You will no doubt explain all the
   circumstances to your father.

   I think I have now told you everything that I need tell
   you. The thing only happened yesterday, and I have been
   all the morning busy, getting the injunction, and seeing
   Mr. George Kennedy. Just before I began this letter that
   horrible editor was with me again, threatening me with
   all the penalties which an editor can inflict. To tell
   the truth, I do feel confused among them all, and still
   fancy that I hear the click of the pistol. That newspaper
   paragraph says that the ball went through my whiskers,
   which was certainly not the case;--but a foot or two off
   is quite near enough for a pistol ball.

   The Duke of Omnium is dying, and I have heard to-day that
   Madame Goesler, our old friend, has been sent for to
   Matching. She and I renewed our acquaintance the other day
   at Harrington.

   God bless you.

   Your most sincere friend,

   PHINEAS FINN.

   Do not let my news oppress you. The firing of the pistol
   is a thing done and over without evil results. The state
   of Mr. Kennedy's mind is what we have long suspected; and,
   melancholy though it be, should contain for you at any
   rate this consolation,--that the accusations made against
   you would not have been made had his mind been unclouded.

Twice while Finn was writing this letter was he rung into the House for a division, and once
it was suggested to him to say a few words of angry opposition to the Government on some not
important subject under discussion. Since the beginning of the Session hardly a night had passed
without some verbal sparring, and very frequently the limits of parliamentary decorum had been
almost surpassed. Never within the memory of living politicians had political rancour been
so sharp, and the feeling of injury so keen, both on the one side and on the other. The taunts
thrown at the Conservatives, in reference to the Church, had been almost unendurable,--and
the more so because the strong expressions of feeling from their own party throughout the country
were against them. Their own convictions also were against them. And there had for a while
been almost a determination through the party to deny their leader and disclaim the bill. But
a feeling of duty to the party had prevailed, and this had not been done. It had not been done;
but the not doing of it was a sore burden on the half-broken shoulders of many a man who sat
gloomily on the benches behind Mr. Daubeny. Men goaded as they were, by their opponents, by
their natural friends, and by their own consciences, could not bear it in silence, and very
bitter things were said in return. Mr. Gresham was accused of a degrading lust for power. No
other feeling could prompt him to oppose with a factious acrimony never before exhibited in
that House,--so said some wretched Conservative with broken back and broken heart,--a measure
which he himself would only be too willing to carry were he allowed the privilege of passing
over to the other side of the House for the purpose. In these encounters, Phineas Finn had
already exhibited his prowess, and, in spite of his declarations at Tankerville, had become
prominent as an opponent to Mr. Daubeny's bill. He had, of course, himself been taunted, and
held up in the House to the execration of his own constituents; but he had enjoyed his fight,
and had remembered how his friend Mr. Monk had once told him that the pleasure lay all on the
side of opposition. But on this evening he declined to speak. "I suppose you have hardly recovered
from Kennedy's pistol," said Mr. Ratler, who had, of course, heard the whole story. "That,
and the whole affair together have upset me," said Phineas. "Fitzgibbon will do it for you;
he's in the House." And so it happened that on that occasion the Honourable Laurence Fitzgibbon
made a very effective speech against the Government.

On the next morning from the columns of the People's Banner was hurled the first of those thunderbolts
with which it was the purpose of Mr. Slide absolutely to destroy the political and social life
of Phineas Finn. He would not miss his aim as Mr. Kennedy had done. He would strike such blows
that no constituency should ever venture to return Mr. Finn again to Parliament; and he thought
that he could also so strike his blows that no mighty nobleman, no distinguished commoner,
no lady of rank should again care to entertain the miscreant and feed him with the dainties
of fashion. The first thunderbolt was as follows:--

   We abstained yesterday from alluding to a circumstance
   which occurred at a small hotel in Judd Street on Sunday
   afternoon, and which, as we observe, was mentioned by one
   of our contemporaries. The names, however, were not given,
   although the persons implicated were indicated. We can
   see no reason why the names should be concealed. Indeed,
   as both the gentlemen concerned have been guilty of very
   great criminality, we think that we are bound to tell the
   whole story,--and this the more especially as certain
   circumstances have in a very peculiar manner placed us in
   possession of the facts.

   It is no secret that for the last two years Lady
   Laura Kennedy has been separated from her husband,
   the Honourable Robert Kennedy, who, in the last
   administration, under Mr. Mildmay, held the office of
   Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster; and we believe as
   little a secret that Mr. Kennedy has been very persistent
   in endeavouring to recall his wife to her home. With equal
   persistence she has refused to obey, and we have in our
   hands the clearest possible evidence that Mr. Kennedy has
   attributed her obstinate refusal to influence exercised
   over her by Mr. Phineas Finn, who three years since was
   her father's nominee for the then existing borough of
   Loughton, and who lately succeeded in ousting poor Mr.
   Browborough from his seat for Tankerville by his impetuous
   promises to support that very measure of Church Reform
   which he is now opposing with that venom which makes him
   valuable to his party. Whether Mr. Phineas Finn will ever
   sit in another Parliament we cannot, of course, say, but
   we think we can at least assure him that he will never
   again sit for Tankerville.

   On last Sunday afternoon Mr. Finn, knowing well the
   feeling with which he is regarded by Mr. Kennedy, outraged
   all decency by calling upon that gentleman, whose address
   he obtained from our office. What took place between them
   no one knows, and, probably, no one ever will know. But
   the interview was ended by Mr. Kennedy firing a pistol at
   Mr. Finn's head. That he should have done so without the
   grossest provocation no one will believe. That Mr. Finn
   had gone to the husband to interfere with him respecting
   his wife is an undoubted fact,--a fact which, if
   necessary, we are in a position to prove. That such
   interference must have been most heartrending every one
   will admit. This intruder, who had thrust himself upon the
   unfortunate husband on the Sabbath afternoon, was the very
   man whom the husband accuses of having robbed him of the
   company and comfort of his wife. But we cannot, on that
   account, absolve Mr. Kennedy of the criminality of his
   act. It should be for a jury to decide what view should
   be taken of that act, and to say how far the outrageous
   provocation offered should be allowed to palliate the
   offence. But hitherto the matter has not reached the
   police. Mr. Finn was not struck, and managed to escape
   from the room. It was his manifest duty as one of
   the community, and more especially so as a member of
   Parliament, to have reported all the circumstances at
   once to the police. This was not done by him, nor by the
   persons who keep the hotel. That Mr. Finn should have
   reasons of his own for keeping the whole affair secret,
   and for screening the attempt at murder, is clear enough.
   What inducements have been used with the people of the
   house we cannot, of course, say. But we understand that
   Mr. Kennedy has been allowed to leave London without
   molestation.

   Such is the true story of what occurred on Sunday
   afternoon in Judd Street, and, knowing what we do, we
   think ourselves justified in calling upon Major Mackintosh
   to take the case into his own hands.

Now Major Mackintosh was at this time the head of the London constabulary.

   It is quite out of the question that such a transaction
   should take place in the heart of London at three o'clock
   on a Sunday afternoon, and be allowed to pass without
   notice. We intend to keep as little of what we know
   from the public as possible, and do not hesitate to
   acknowledge that we are debarred by an injunction of
   the Vice-Chancellor from publishing a certain document
   which would throw the clearest light upon the whole
   circumstance. As soon as possible after the shot was
   fired Mr. Finn went to work, and, as we think, by
   misrepresentations, obtained the injunction early on
   yesterday morning. We feel sure that it would not have
   been granted had the transaction in Judd Street been at
   the time known to the Vice-Chancellor in all its enormity.
   Our hands are, of course, tied. The document in question
   is still with us, but it is sacred. When called upon to
   show it by any proper authority we shall be ready; but,
   knowing what we do know, we should not be justified in
   allowing the matter to sleep. In the meantime we call upon
   those whose duty it is to preserve the public peace to
   take the steps necessary for bringing the delinquents to
   justice.

   The effect upon Mr. Finn, we should say, must be his
   immediate withdrawal from public life. For the last year
   or two he has held some subordinate but permanent place
   in Ireland, which he has given up on the rumour that the
   party to which he has attached himself is likely to return
   to office. That he is a seeker after office is notorious.
   That any possible Government should now employ him, even
   as a tide-waiter, is quite out of the question; and it
   is equally out of the question that he should be again
   returned to Parliament, were he to resign his seat on
   accepting office. As it is, we believe, notorious that
   this gentlemen cannot maintain the position which he holds
   without being paid for his services, it is reasonable to
   suppose that his friends will recommend him to retire, and
   seek his living in some obscure, and, let us hope, honest
   profession.

Mr. Slide, when his thunderbolt was prepared, read it over with delight, but still with some
fear as to probable results. It was expedient that he should avoid a prosecution for libel,
and essential that he should not offend the majesty of the Vice-Chancellor's injunction. Was
he sure that he was safe in each direction? As to the libel, he could not tell himself that
he was certainly safe. He was saying very hard things both of Lady Laura and of Phineas Finn,
and sailing very near the wind. But neither of those persons would probably be willing to prosecute;
and, should he be prosecuted, he would then, at any rate, be able to give in Mr. Kennedy's
letter as evidence in his own defence. He really did believe that what he was doing was all
done in the cause of morality. It was the business of such a paper as that which he conducted
to run some risk in defending morals, and exposing distinguished culprits on behalf of the
public. And then, without some such risk, how could Phineas Finn be adequately punished for
the atrocious treachery of which he had been guilty? As to the Chancellor's order, Mr. Slide
thought that he had managed that matter very completely. No doubt he had acted in direct opposition
to the spirit of the injunction, but legal orders are read by the letter, and not by the spirit.
It was open to him to publish anything he pleased respecting Mr. Kennedy and his wife, subject,
of course, to the general laws of the land in regard to libel. The Vice-Chancellor's special
order to him referred simply to a particular document, and from that document he had not quoted
a word, though he had contrived to repeat all the bitter things which it contained, with much
added venom of his own. He felt secure of being safe from any active anger on the part of the
Vice-Chancellor.

The article was printed and published. The reader will perceive that it was full of lies. It
began with a lie in that statement that "we abstained yesterday from alluding to circumstances"
which had been unknown to the writer when his yesterday's paper was published. The indignant
reference to poor Finn's want of delicacy in forcing himself upon Mr. Kennedy on the Sabbath
afternoon, was, of course, a tissue of lies. The visit had been made almost at the instigation
of the editor himself. The paper from beginning to end was full of falsehood and malice, and
had been written with the express intention of creating prejudice against the man who had offended
the writer. But Mr. Slide did not know that he was lying, and did not know that he was malicious.
The weapon which he used was one to which his hand was accustomed, and he had been led by practice
to believe that the use of such weapons by one in his position was not only fair, but also
beneficial to the public. Had anybody suggested to him that he was stabbing his enemy in the
dark, he would have averred that he was doing nothing of the kind, because the anonymous accusation
of sinners in high rank was, on behalf of the public, the special duty of writers and editors
attached to the public press. Mr. Slide's blood was running high with virtuous indignation
against our hero as he inserted those last cruel words as to the choice of an obscure but honest
profession.

Phineas Finn read the article before he sat down to breakfast on the following morning, and
the dagger went right into his bosom. Every word told upon him. With a jaunty laugh within
his own sleeve he had assured himself that he was safe against any wound which could be inflicted
on him from the columns of the People's Banner. He had been sure that he would be attacked,
and thought that he was armed to bear it. But the thin blade penetrated every joint of his
harness, and every particle of the poison curdled in his blood. He was hurt about Lady Laura;
he was hurt about his borough of Tankerville; he was hurt by the charges against him of having
outraged delicacy; he was hurt by being handed over to the tender mercies of Major Mackintosh;
he was hurt by the craft with which the Vice-Chancellor's injunction had been evaded; but he
was especially hurt by the allusions to his own poverty. It was necessary that he should earn
his bread, and no doubt he was a seeker after place. But he did not wish to obtain wages without
working for them; and he did not see why the work and wages of a public office should be less
honourable than those of any other profession. To him, with his ideas, there was no profession
so honourable, as certainly there were none which demanded greater sacrifices or were more
precarious. And he did believe that such an article as that would have the effect of shutting
against him the gates of that dangerous Paradise which he desired to enter. He had no great
claim upon his party; and, in giving away the good things of office, the giver is only too
prone to recognise any objections against an individual which may seem to relieve him from
the necessity of bestowing aught in that direction. Phineas felt that he would almost be ashamed
to show his face at the clubs or in the House. He must do so as a matter of course, but he
knew that he could not do so without confessing by his visage that he had been deeply wounded
by the attack in the People's Banner.

He went in the first instance to Mr. Low, and was almost surprised that Mr. Low should not
have yet even have heard that such an attack had been made. He had almost felt, as he walked
to Lincoln's Inn, that everybody had looked at him, and that passers-by in the street had declared
to each other that he was the unfortunate one who had been doomed by the editor of the People's
Banner to seek some obscure way of earning his bread. Mr. Low took the paper, read, or probably
only half read, the article, and then threw the sheet aside as worthless. "What ought I to do?"

"Nothing at all."

"One's first desire would be to beat him to a jelly."

"Of all courses that would be the worst, and would most certainly conduce to his triumph."

"Just so;--I only allude to the pleasure one would have, but which one has to deny oneself.
I don't know whether he has laid himself open for libel."

"I should think not. I have only just glanced at it, and therefore can't give an opinion; but
I should think you would not dream of such a thing. Your object is to screen Lady Laura's name."

"I have to think of that first."

"It may be necessary that steps should be taken to defend her character. If an accusation be
made with such publicity as to enforce belief if not denied, the denial must be made, and may
probably be best made by an action for libel. But that must be done by her or her friends,--but
certainly not by you."

"He has laughed at the Vice-Chancellor's injunction."

"I don't think that you can interfere. If, as you believe, Mr. Kennedy be insane, that fact
will probably soon be proved, and will have the effect of clearing Lady Laura's character.
A wife may be excused for leaving a mad husband."

"And you think I should do nothing?"

"I don't see what you can do. You have encountered a chimney sweeper, and of course you get
some of the soot. What you do do, and what you do not do, must depend at any rate on the wishes
of Lady Laura Kennedy and her father. It is a matter in which you must make yourself subordinate
to them."

Fuming and fretting, and yet recognising the truth of Mr. Low's words, Phineas left the chambers,
and went down to his club. It was a Wednesday, and the House was to sit in the morning; but
before he went to the House he put himself in the way of certain of his associates in order
that he might hear what would be said, and learn if possible what was thought. Nobody seemed
to treat the accusations in the newspaper as very serious, though all around him congratulated
him on his escape from Mr. Kennedy's pistol. "I suppose the poor man really is mad," said Lord
Cantrip, whom he met on the steps of one of the clubs.

"No doubt, I should say."

"I can't understand why you didn't go to the police."

"I had hoped the thing would not become public," said Phineas.

"Everything becomes public;--everything of that kind. It is very hard upon poor Lady Laura."

"That is the worst of it, Lord Cantrip."

"If I were her father I should bring her to England, and demand a separation in a regular and
legal way. That is what he should do now in her behalf. She would then have an opportunity
of clearing her character from imputations which, to a certain extent, will affect it, even
though they come from a madman, and from the very scum of the press."

"You have read that article?"

"Yes;--I saw it but a minute ago."

"I need not tell you that there is not the faintest ground in the world for the imputation
made against Lady Laura there."

"I am sure that there is none;--and therefore it is that I tell you my opinion so plainly.
I think that Lord Brentford should be advised to bring Lady Laura to England, and to put down
the charges openly in Court. It might be done either by an application to the Divorce Court
for a separation, or by an action against the newspaper for libel. I do not know Lord Brentford
quite well enough to intrude upon him with a letter, but I have no objection whatever to having
my name mentioned to him. He and I and you and poor Mr. Kennedy sat together in the same Government,
and I think that Lord Brentford would trust my friendship so far." Phineas thanked him, and
assured him that what he had said should be conveyed to Lord Brentford.

CHAPTER XXIX

The Spooner Correspondence

It will be remembered that Adelaide Palliser had accepted the hand of Mr. Maule, junior, and
that she and Lady Chiltern between them had despatched him up to London on an embassy to his
father, in which he failed very signally. It had been originally Lady Chiltern's idea that
the proper home for the young couple would be the ancestral hall, which must be theirs some
day, and in which, with exceeding prudence, they might be able to live as Maules of Maule Abbey
upon the very limited income which would belong to them. How slight were the grounds for imputing
such stern prudence to Gerard Maule both the ladies felt;--but it had become essential to do
something; the young people were engaged to each other, and a manner of life must be suggested,
discussed, and as far as possible arranged. Lady Chiltern was useful at such work, having a
practical turn of mind, and understanding well the condition of life for which it was necessary
that her friend should prepare herself. The lover was not vicious, he neither drank nor gambled,
nor ran himself hopelessly in debt. He was good-humoured and tractable, and docile enough when
nothing disagreeable was asked from him. He would have, he said, no objection to live at Maule
Abbey if Adelaide liked it. He didn't believe much in farming, but would consent at Adelaide's
request to be the owner of bullocks. He was quite ready to give up hunting, having already
taught himself to think that the very few good runs in a season were hardly worth the trouble
of getting up before daylight all the winter. He went forth, therefore, on his embassy, and
we know how he failed. Another lover would have communicated the disastrous tidings at once
to the lady; but Gerard Maule waited a week before he did so, and then told his story in half-a-dozen
words. "The governor cut up rough about Maule Abbey, and will not hear of it. He generally
does cut up rough."

"But he must be made to hear of it," said Lady Chiltern. Two days afterwards the news reached
Harrington of the death of the Duke of Omnium. A letter of an official nature reached Adelaide
from Mr. Fothergill, in which the writer explained that he had been desired by Mr. Palliser
to communicate to her and the relatives the sad tidings. "So the poor old man has gone at last,"
said Lady Chiltern, with that affectation of funereal gravity which is common to all of us.

"Poor old Duke!" said Adelaide. "I have been hearing of him as a sort of bugbear all my life.
I don't think I ever saw him but once, and then he gave me a kiss and a pair of earrings. He
never paid any attention to us at all, but we were taught to think that Providence had been
very good to us in making the Duke our uncle."

"He was very rich?"

"Horribly rich, I have always heard."

"Won't he leave you something? It would be very nice now that you are engaged to find that
he has given you five thousand pounds."

"Very nice indeed;--but there is not a chance of it. It has always been known that everything
is to go to the heir. Papa had his fortune and spent it. He and his brother were never friends,
and though the Duke did once give me a kiss I imagine that he forgot my existence immediately
afterwards."

"So the Duke of Omnium is dead," said Lord Chiltern when he came home that evening.

"Adelaide has had a letter to tell her so this afternoon."

"Mr. Fothergill wrote to me," said Adelaide;--"the man who is so wicked about the foxes."

"I don't care a straw about Mr. Fothergill; and now my mouth is closed against your uncle.
But it's quite frightful to think that a Duke of Omnium must die like anybody else."

"The Duke is dead;--long live the Duke," said Lady Chiltern. "I wonder how Mr. Palliser will
like it."

"Men always do like it, I suppose," said Adelaide.

"Women do," said Lord Chiltern. "Lady Glencora will be delighted to reign,--though I can hardly
fancy her by any other name. By the bye, Adelaide, I have got a letter for you."

"A letter for me, Lord Chiltern!"

"Well,--yes; I suppose I had better give it you. It is not addressed to you, but you must answer
it."

"What on earth is it?"

"I think I can guess," said Lady Chiltern, laughing. She had guessed rightly, but Adelaide
Palliser was still altogether in the dark when Lord Chiltern took a letter from his pocket
and handed it to her. As he did so he left the room, and his wife followed him. "I shall be
upstairs, Adelaide, if you want advice," said Lady Chiltern.

The letter was from Mr. Spooner. He had left Harrington Hall after the uncourteous reception
which had been accorded to him by Miss Palliser in deep disgust, resolving that he would never
again speak to her, and almost resolving that Spoon Hall should never have a mistress in his
time. But with his wine after dinner his courage came back to him, and he began to reflect
once more that it is not the habit of young ladies to accept their lovers at the first offer.
There was living with Mr. Spooner at this time a very attached friend, whom he usually consulted
in all emergencies, and to whom on this occasion he opened his heart. Mr. Edward Spooner, commonly
called Ned by all who knew him, and not unfrequently so addressed by those who did not, was
a distant cousin of the Squire's, who unfortunately had no particular income of his own. For
the last ten years he had lived at Spoon Hall, and had certainly earned his bread. The Squire
had achieved a certain credit for success as a country gentleman. Nothing about his place was
out of order. His own farming, which was extensive, succeeded. His bullocks and sheep won prizes.
His horses were always useful and healthy. His tenants were solvent, if not satisfied, and
he himself did not owe a shilling. Now many people in the neighbourhood attributed all this
to the judicious care of Mr. Edward Spooner, whose eye was never off the place, and whose discretion
was equal to his zeal. In giving the Squire his due, one must acknowledge that he recognised
the merits of his cousin, and trusted him in everything. That night, as soon as the customary
bottle of claret had succeeded the absolutely normal bottle of port after dinner, Mr. Spooner
of Spoon Hall opened his heart to his cousin.

"I shall have to walk, then," said Ned.

"Not if I know it," said the Squire. "You don't suppose I'm going to let any woman have the
command of Spoon Hall?"

"They do command,--inside, you know."

"No woman shall ever turn you out of this house, Ned."

"I'm not thinking of myself, Tom," said the cousin. "Of course you'll marry some day, and of
course I must take my chance. I don't see why it shouldn't be Miss Palliser as well as another."

"The jade almost made me angry."

"I suppose that's the way with most of 'em. 'Ludit exultim metuitque tangi'." For Ned Spooner
had himself preserved some few tattered shreds of learning from his school days. "You don't
remember about the filly?"

"Yes I do; very well," said the Squire.

"'Nuptiarum expers.' That's what it is, I suppose. Try it again." The advice on the part of
the cousin was genuine and unselfish. That Mr. Spooner of Spoon Hall should be rejected by
a young lady without any fortune seemed to him to be impossible. At any rate it is the duty
of a man in such circumstances to persevere. As far as Ned knew the world, ladies always required
to be asked a second or a third time. And then no harm can come from such perseverance. "She
can't break your bones, Tom."

There was much honesty displayed on this occasion. The Squire, when he was thus instigated
to persevere, did his best to describe the manner in which he had been rejected. His powers
of description were not very great, but he did not conceal anything wilfully. "She was as hard
as nails, you know."

"I don't know that that means much. Horace's filly kicked a few, no doubt."

"She told me that if I'd go one way, she'd go the other!"

"They always say about the hardest things that come to their tongues. They don't curse and
swear as we do, or there'd be no bearing them. If you really like her--"

"She's such a well-built creature! There's a look of blood about her I don't see in any of
'em. That sort of breeding is what one wants to get through the mud with."

Then it was that the cousin recommended a letter to Lord Chiltern. Lord Chiltern was at the
present moment to be regarded as the lady's guardian, and was the lover's intimate friend.
A direct proposal had already been made to the young lady, and this should now be repeated
to the gentleman who for the time stood in the position of her father. The Squire for a while
hesitated, declaring that he was averse to make his secret known to Lord Chiltern. "One doesn't
want every fellow in the country to know it," he said. But in answer to this the cousin was
very explicit. There could be but little doubt that Lord Chiltern knew the secret already;
and he would certainly be rather induced to keep it as a secret than to divulge it if it were
communicated to him officially. And what other step could the Squire take? It would not be
likely that he should be asked again to Harrington Hall with the express view of repeating
his offer. The cousin was quite of opinion that a written proposition should be made; and on
that very night the cousin himself wrote out a letter for the Squire to copy in the morning.
On the morning the Squire copied the letter,--not without additions of his own, as to which
he had very many words with his discreet cousin,--and in a formal manner handed it to Lord
Chiltern towards the afternoon of that day, having devoted his whole morning to the finding
of a proper opportunity for doing so. Lord Chiltern had read the letter, and had, as we see,
delivered it to Adelaide Palliser. "That's another proposal from Mr. Spooner," Lady Chiltern
said, as soon as they were alone.

"Exactly that."

"I knew he'd go on with it. Men are such fools."

"I don't see that he's a fool at all;" said Lord Chiltern, almost in anger. "Why shouldn't
he ask a girl to be his wife? He's a rich man, and she hasn't got a farthing."

"You might say the same of a butcher, Oswald."

"Mr. Spooner is a gentleman."

"You do not mean to say that he's fit to marry such a girl as Adelaide Palliser?"

"I don't know what makes fitness. He's got a red nose, and if she don't like a red nose,--that's
unfitness. Gerard Maule's nose isn't red, and I dare say therefore he's fitter. Only, unfortunately,
he has no money."

"Adelaide Palliser would no more think of marrying Mr. Spooner than you would have thought
of marrying the cook."

"If I had liked the cook I should have asked her, and I don't see why Mr. Spooner shouldn't
ask Miss Palliser. She needn't take him."

In the meantime Miss Palliser was reading the following letter:--

   Spoon Hall, 11th March, 18--.

   MY DEAR LORD CHILTERN,--

   I venture to suppose that at present you are acting as the
   guardian of Miss Palliser, who has been staying at your
   house all the winter. If I am wrong in this I hope you
   will pardon me, and consent to act in that capacity for
   this occasion. I entertain feelings of the greatest
   admiration and warmest affection for the young lady I have
   named, which I ventured to express when I had the pleasure
   of staying at Harrington Hall in the early part of last
   month. I cannot boast that I was received on that occasion
   with much favour; but I know that I am not very good at
   talking, and we are told in all the books that no man has
   a right to expect to be taken at the first time of asking.
   Perhaps Miss Palliser will allow me, through you, to
   request her to consider my proposal with more deliberation
   than was allowed to me before, when I spoke to her perhaps
   with injudicious hurry.

So far the Squire adopted his cousin's words without alteration.

   I am the owner of my own property,--which is more than
   everybody can say. My income is nearly £4,000 a year. I
   shall be willing to make any proper settlement that may
   be recommended by the lawyers,--though I am strongly of
   opinion that an estate shouldn't be crippled for the
   sake of the widow. As to refurnishing the old house, and
   all that, I'll do anything that Miss Palliser may please.
   She knows my taste about hunting, and I know hers, so that
   there need not be any difference of opinion on that score.

   Miss Palliser can't suspect me of any interested motives.
   I come forward because I think she is the most charming
   girl I ever saw, and because I love her with all my heart.
   I haven't got very much to say for myself, but if she'll
   consent to be the mistress of Spoon Hall, she shall have
   all that the heart of a woman can desire.

   Pray believe me,

   My dear Lord Chiltern,

   Yours very sincerely,

   THOMAS PLATTER SPOONER.

   As I believe that Miss Palliser is fond of books, it may
   be well to tell her that there is an uncommon good library
   at Spoon Hall. I shall have no objection to go abroad for
   the honeymoon for three or four months in the summer.

The postscript was the Squire's own, and was inserted in opposition to the cousin's judgment.
"She won't come for the sake of the books," said the cousin. But the Squire thought that the
attractions should be piled up. "I wouldn't talk of the honeymoon till I'd got her to come
round a little," said the cousin. The Squire thought that the cousin was falsely delicate,
and pleaded that all girls like to be taken abroad when they're married. The second half of
the body of the letter was very much disfigured by the Squire's petulance; so that the modesty
with which he commenced was almost put to the blush by a touch of arrogance in the conclusion.
That sentence in which the Squire declared that an estate ought not to be crippled for the
sake of the widow was very much questioned by the cousin. "Such a word as 'widow' never ought
to go into such a letter as this." But the Squire protested that he would not be mealy-mouthed.
"She can bear to think of it, I'll go bail; and why shouldn't she hear about what she can think
about?" "Don't talk about furniture yet, Tom," the cousin said; but the Squire was obstinate,
and the cousin became hopeless. That word about loving her with all his heart was the cousin's
own, but what followed, as to her being mistress of Spoon Hall, was altogether opposed to his
judgment. "She'll be proud enough of Spoon Hall if she comes here," said the Squire. "I'd let
her come first," said the cousin.

We all know that the phraseology of the letter was of no importance whatever. When it was received
the lady was engaged to another man; and she regarded Mr. Spooner of Spoon Hall as being guilty
of unpardonable impudence in approaching her at all.

"A red-faced vulgar old man, who looks as if he did nothing but drink," she said to Lady Chiltern.

"He does you no harm, my dear."

"But he does do harm. He makes things very uncomfortable. He has no business to think it possible.
People will suppose that I gave him encouragement."

"I used to have lovers coming to me year after year,--the same people,--whom I don't think
I ever encouraged; but I never felt angry with them."

"But you didn't have Mr. Spooner."

"Mr. Spooner didn't know me in those days, or there is no saying what might have happened."
Then Lady Chiltern argued the matter on views directly opposite to those which she had put
forward when discussing the matter with her husband. "I always think that any man who is privileged
to sit down to table with you is privileged to ask. There are disparities of course which may
make the privilege questionable,--disparities of age, rank, and means."

"And of tastes," said Adelaide.

"I don't know about that.--A poet doesn't want to marry a poetess, nor a philosopher a philosopheress.
A man may make himself a fool by putting himself in the way of certain refusal; but I take
it the broad rule is that a man may fall in love with any lady who habitually sits in his company."

"I don't agree with you at all. What would be said if the curate at Long Royston were to propose
to one of the FitzHoward girls?"

"The Duchess would probably ask the Duke to make the young man a bishop out of hand, and the
Duke would have to spend a morning in explaining to her the changes which have come over the
making of bishops since she was young. There is no other rule that you can lay down, and I
think that girls should understand that they have to fight their battles subject to that law.
It's very easy to say, 'No.'"

"But a man won't take 'No.'"

"And it's lucky for us sometimes that they don't," said Lady Chiltern, remembering certain
passages in her early life.

The answer was written that night by Lord Chiltern after much consultation. As to the nature
of the answer,--that it should be a positive refusal,--of course there could be no doubt; but
then arose a question whether a reason should be given, or whether the refusal should be simply
a refusal. At last it was decided that a reason should be given, and the letter ran as follows:--

   MY DEAR MR. SPOONER,

   I am commissioned to inform you that Miss Palliser is
   engaged to be married to Mr. Gerard Maule.

   Yours faithfully,

   CHILTERN.

The young lady had consented to be thus explicit because it had been already determined that
no secret should be kept as to her future prospects.

"He is one of those poverty-stricken wheedling fellows that one meets about the world every
day," said the Squire to his cousin--"a fellow that rides horses that he can't pay for, and
owes some poor devil of a tailor for the breeches that he sits in. They eat, and drink, and
get along heaven only knows how. But they're sure to come to smash at last. Girls are such
fools nowadays."

"I don't think there has ever been much difference in that," said the cousin.

"Because a man greases his whiskers, and colours his hair, and paints his eyebrows, and wears
kid gloves, by George, they'll go through fire and water after him. He'll never marry her."

"So much the better for her."

"But I hate such d---- impudence. What right has a man to come forward in that way who hasn't
got a house over his head, or the means of getting one? Old Maule is so hard up that he can
barely get a dinner at his club in London. What I wonder at is that Lady Chiltern shouldn't
know better."

CHAPTER XXX

Regrets

Madame Goesler remained at Matching till after the return of Mr. Palliser--or, as we must now
call him, the Duke of Omnium--from Gatherum Castle, and was therefore able to fight her own
battle with him respecting the gems and the money which had been left her. He brought to her
with his own hands the single ring which she had requested, and placed it on her finger. "The
goldsmith will soon make that all right," she said, when it was found to be much too large
for the largest finger on which she could wear a ring. "A bit shall be taken out, but I will
not have it reset."

"You got the lawyer's letter and the inventory, Madame Goesler?"

"Yes, indeed. What surprises me is that the dear old man should never have spoken of so magnificent
a collection of gems."

"Orders have been given that they shall be packed."

"They may be packed or unpacked, of course, as your Grace pleases, but pray do not connect
me with the packing."

"You must be connected with it."

"But I wish not to be connected with it, Duke. I have written to the lawyer to renounce the
legacy, and, if your Grace persists, I must employ a lawyer of my own to renounce them after
some legal form. Pray do not let the case be sent to me, or there will be so much trouble,
and we shall have another great jewel robbery. I won't take it in, and I won't have the money,
and I will have my own way. Lady Glen will tell you that I can be very obstinate when I please."

Lady Glencora had told him so already. She had been quite sure that her friend would persist
in her determination as to the legacy, and had thought that her husband should simply accept
Madame Goesler's assurances to that effect. But a man who had been Chancellor of the Exchequer
could not deal with money, or even with jewels, so lightly. He assured his wife that such an
arrangement was quite out of the question. He remarked that property was property, by which
he meant to intimate that the real owner of substantial wealth could not be allowed to disembarrass
himself of his responsibilities or strip himself of his privileges by a few generous but idle
words. The late Duke's will was a very serious thing, and it seemed to the heir that this abandoning
of a legacy bequeathed by the Duke was a making light of the Duke's last act and deed. To refuse
money in such circumstances was almost like refusing rain from heaven, or warmth from the sun.
It could not be done. The things were her property, and though she might, of course, chuck
them into the street, they would no less be hers. "But I won't have them, Duke," said Madame
Goesler; and the late Chancellor of the Exchequer found that no proposition made by him in
the House had ever been received with a firmer opposition. His wife told him that nothing he
could say would be of any avail, and rather ridiculed his idea of the solemnity of wills. "You
can't make a person take a thing because you write it down on a thick bit of paper, any more
than if you gave it her across a table. I understand it all, of course. She means to show that
she didn't want anything from the Duke. As she refused the name and title, she won't have the
money and jewels. You can't make her take them, and I'm quite sure you can't talk her over."
The young Duke was not persuaded, but had to give the battle up,--at any rate, for the present.

On the 19th of March Madame Goesler returned to London, having been at Matching Priory for
more than three weeks. On her journey back to Park Lane many thoughts crowded on her mind.
Had she, upon the whole, done well in reference to the Duke of Omnium? The last three years
of her life had been sacrificed to an old man with whom she had not in truth possessed aught
in common. She had persuaded herself that there had existed a warm friendship between them;--but
of what nature could have been a friendship with one whom she had not known till he had been
in his dotage? What words of the Duke's speaking had she ever heard with pleasure, except certain
terms of affection which had been half mawkish and half senile? She had told Phineas Finn,
while riding home with him from Broughton Spinnies, that she had clung to the Duke because
she loved him, but what had there been to produce such love? The Duke had begun his acquaintance
with her by insulting her,--and had then offered to make her his wife. This,--which would have
conferred upon her some tangible advantages, such as rank, and wealth, and a great name,--she
had refused, thinking that the price to be paid for them was too high, and that life might
even yet have something better in store for her. After that she had permitted herself to become,
after a fashion, head nurse to the old man, and in that pursuit had wasted three years of what
remained to her of her youth. People, at any rate, should not say of her that she had accepted
payment for the three years' service by taking a casket of jewels. She would take nothing that
should justify any man in saying that she had been enriched by her acquaintance with the Duke
of Omnium. It might be that she had been foolish, but she would be more foolish still were
she to accept a reward for her folly. As it was there had been something of romance in it,--though
the romance of friendship at the bedside of a sick and selfish old man had hardly been satisfactory.

Even in her close connection with the present Duchess there was something which was almost
hollow. Had there not been a compact between them, never expressed, but not the less understood?
Had not her dear friend, Lady Glen, agreed to bestow upon her support, fashion, and all kinds
of worldly good things,--on condition that she never married the old Duke? She had liked Lady
Glencora,--had enjoyed her friend's society, and been happy in her friend's company,--but she
had always felt that Lady Glencora's attraction to herself had been simply on the score of
the Duke. It was necessary that the Duke should be pampered and kept in good humour. An old
man, let him be ever so old, can do what he likes with himself and his belongings. To keep
the Duke out of harm's way Lady Glencora had opened her arms to Madame Goesler. Such, at least,
was the interpretation which Madame Goesler chose to give to the history of the last three
years. They had not, she thought, quite understood her. When once she had made up her mind
not to marry the Duke, the Duke had been safe from her;--as his jewels and money should be
safe now that he was dead.

Three years had passed by, and nothing had been done of that which she had intended to do.
Three years had passed, which to her, with her desires, were so important. And yet she hardly
knew what were her desires, and had never quite defined her intentions. She told herself on
this very journey that the time had now gone by, and that in losing these three years she had
lost everything. As yet,--so she declared to herself now,--the world had done but little for
her. Two old men had loved her; one had become her husband, and the other had asked to become
so;--and to both she had done her duty. To both she had been grateful, tender, and self-sacrificing.
From the former she had, as his widow, taken wealth which she valued greatly; but the wealth
alone had given her no happiness. From the latter, and from his family, she had accepted a
certain position. Some persons, high in repute and fashion, had known her before, but everybody
knew her now. And yet what had all this done for her? Dukes and duchesses, dinner-parties and
drawing-rooms,--what did they all amount to? What was it that she wanted?

She was ashamed to tell herself that it was love. But she knew this,--that it was necessary
for her happiness that she should devote herself to some one. All the elegancies and outward
charms of life were delightful, if only they could be used as the means to some end. As an
end themselves they were nothing. She had devoted herself to this old man who was now dead,
and there had been moments in which she had thought that that sufficed. But it had not sufficed,
and instead of being borne down by grief at the loss of her friend, she found herself almost
rejoicing at relief from a vexatious burden. Had she been a hypocrite then? Was it her nature
to be false? After that she reflected whether it might not be best for her to become a devotee,--it
did not matter much in what branch of the Christian religion, so that she could assume some
form of faith. The sour strictness of the confident Calvinist or the asceticism of St. Francis
might suit her equally,--if she could only believe in Calvin or in St. Francis. She had tried
to believe in the Duke of Omnium, but there she had failed. There had been a saint at whose
shrine she thought she could have worshipped with a constant and happy devotion, but that saint
had repulsed her from his altar.

Mr. Maule, Senior, not understanding much of all this, but still understanding something, thought
that he might perhaps be the saint. He knew well that audacity in asking is a great merit in
a middle-aged wooer. He was a good deal older than the lady, who, in spite of all her experiences,
was hardly yet thirty. But then he was,--he felt sure,--very young for his age, whereas she
was old. She was a widow; he was a widower. She had a house in town and an income. He had a
place in the country and an estate. She knew all the dukes and duchesses, and he was a man
of family. She could make him comfortably opulent. He could make her Mrs. Maule of Maule Abbey.
She, no doubt, was good-looking. Mr. Maule, Senior, as he tied on his cravat, thought that
even in that respect there was no great disparity between them. Considering his own age, Mr.
Maule, Senior, thought there was not perhaps a better-looking man than himself about Pall Mall.
He was a little stiff in the joints and moved rather slowly, but what was wanting in suppleness
was certainly made up in dignity.

He watched his opportunity, and called in Park Lane on the day after Madame Goesler's return.
There was already between them an amount of acquaintance which justified his calling, and,
perhaps, there had been on the lady's part something of that cordiality of manner which is
wont to lead to intimate friendship. Mr. Maule had made himself agreeable, and Madame Goesler
had seemed to be grateful. He was admitted, and on such an occasion it was impossible not to
begin the conversation about the "dear Duke." Mr. Maule could afford to talk about the Duke,
and to lay aside for a short time his own cause, as he had not suggested to himself the possibility
of becoming pressingly tender on his own behalf on this particular occasion. Audacity in wooing
is a great virtue, but a man must measure even his virtues. "I heard that you had gone to Matching,
as soon as the poor Duke was taken ill," he said.

She was in mourning, and had never for a moment thought of denying the peculiarity of the position
she had held in reference to the old man. She could not have been content to wear her ordinary
coloured garments after sitting so long by the side of the dying man. A hired nurse may do
so, but she had not been that. If there had been hypocrisy in her friendship the hypocrisy
must be maintained to the end.

"Poor old man! I only came back yesterday."

"I never had the pleasure of knowing his Grace," said Mr. Maule. "But I have always heard him
named as a nobleman of whom England might well be proud."

Madame Goesler was not at the moment inclined to tell lies on the matter, and did not think
that England had much cause to be proud of the Duke of Omnium. "He was a man who held a very
peculiar position," she said.

"Most peculiar;--a man of infinite wealth, and of that special dignity which I am sorry to
say so many men of rank among us are throwing aside as a garment which is too much for them.
We can all wear coats, but it is not every one that can carry a robe. The Duke carried his
to the last." Madame Goesler remembered how he looked with his nightcap on, when he had lost
his temper because they would not let him have a glass of curaçoa. "I don't know that we have
any one left that can be said to be his equal," continued Mr. Maule.

"No one like him, perhaps. He was never married, you know."

"But was once willing to marry," said Mr. Maule, "if all that we hear be true." Madame Goesler,
without a smile and equally without a frown, looked as though the meaning of Mr. Maule's words
had escaped her. "A grand old gentleman! I don't know that anybody will ever say as much for
his heir."

"The men are very different."

"Very different indeed. I dare say that Mr. Palliser, as Mr. Palliser, has been a useful man.
But so is a coal-heaver a useful man. The grace and beauty of life will be clean gone when
we all become useful men."

"I don't think we are near that yet."

"Upon my word, Madame Goesler, I am not so sure about it. Here are sons of noblemen going into
trade on every side of us. We have earls dealing in butter, and marquises sending their peaches
to market. There was nothing of that kind about the Duke. A great fortune had been entrusted
to him, and he knew that it was his duty to spend it. He did spend it, and all the world looked
up to him. It must have been a great pleasure to you to know him so well."

Madame Goesler was saved the necessity of making any answer to this by the announcement of
another visitor. The door was opened, and Phineas Finn entered the room. He had not seen Madame
Goesler since they had been together at Harrington Hall, and had never before met Mr. Maule.
When riding home with the lady after their unsuccessful attempt to jump out of the wood, Phineas
had promised to call in Park Lane whenever he should learn that Madame Goesler was not at Matching.
Since that the Duke had died, and the bond with Matching no longer existed. It seemed but the
other day that they were talking about the Duke together, and now the Duke was gone. "I see
you are in mourning," said Phineas, as he still held her hand. "I must say one word to condole
with you for your lost friend."

"Mr. Maule and I were now speaking of him," she said, as she introduced the two gentlemen.
"Mr. Finn and I had the pleasure of meeting your son at Harrington Hall a few weeks since,
Mr. Maule."

"I heard that he had been there. Did you know the Duke, Mr. Finn?"

"After the fashion in which such a one as I would know such a one as the Duke, I knew him.
He probably had forgotten my existence."

"He never forgot any one," said Madame Goesler.

"I don't know that I was ever introduced to him," continued Mr. Maule, "and I shall always
regret it. I was telling Madame Goesler how profound a reverence I had for the Duke's character."
Phineas bowed, and Madame Goesler, who was becoming tired of the Duke as a subject of conversation,
asked some question as to what had been going on in the House. Mr. Maule, finding it to be
improbable that he should be able to advance his cause on that occasion, took his leave. The
moment he was gone Madame Goesler's manner changed altogether. She left her former seat and
came near to Phineas, sitting on a sofa close to the chair he occupied; and as she did so she
pushed her hair back from her face in a manner that he remembered well in former days.

"I am so glad to see you," she said. "Is it not odd that he should have gone so soon after
what we were saying but the other day?"

"You thought then that he would not last long."

"Long is comparative. I did not think he would be dead within six weeks, or I should not have
been riding there. He was a burden to me, Mr. Finn."

"I can understand that."

"And yet I shall miss him sorely. He had given all the colour to my life which it possessed.
It was not very bright, but still it was colour."

"The house will be open to you just the same."

"I shall not go there. I shall see Lady Glencora in town, of course; but I shall not go to
Matching; and as to Gatherum Castle, I would not spend another week there, if they would give
it me. You haven't heard of his will?"

"No;--not a word. I hope he remembered you,--to mention your name. You hardly wanted more."

"Just so. I wanted no more than that."

"It was made, perhaps, before you knew him."

"He was always making it, and always altering it. He left me money, and jewels of enormous value."

"I am so glad to hear it."

"But I have refused to take anything. Am I not right?"

"I don't know why you should refuse."

"There are people who will say that--I was his mistress. If a woman be young, a man's age never
prevents such scandal. I don't know that I can stop it, but I can perhaps make it seem to be
less probable. And after all that has passed, I could not bear that the Pallisers should think
that I clung to him for what I could get. I should be easier this way."

"Whatever is best to be done, you will do it;--I know that."

"Your praise goes beyond the mark, my friend. I can be both generous and discreet;--but the
difficulty is to be true. I did take one thing,--a black diamond that he always wore. I would
show it you, but the goldsmith has it to make it fit me. When does the great affair come off
at the House?"

"The bill will be read again on Monday, the first."

"What an unfortunate day!--You remember young Mr. Maule? Is he not like his father? And yet
in manners they are as unlike as possible."

"What is the father?" Phineas asked.

"A battered old beau about London, selfish and civil, pleasant and penniless, and I should
think utterly without a principle. Come again soon. I am so anxious to hear that you are getting
on. And you have got to tell me all about that shooting with the pistol." Phineas as he walked
away thought that Madame Goesler was handsomer even than she used to be.

CHAPTER XXXI

The Duke and Duchess in Town

At the end of March the Duchess of Omnium, never more to be called Lady Glencora by the world
at large, came up to London. The Duke, though he was now banished from the House of Commons,
was nevertheless wanted in London; and what funereal ceremonies were left might be accomplished
as well in town as at Matching Priory. No old Ministry could be turned out and no new Ministry
formed without the assistance of the young Duchess. It was a question whether she should not
be asked to be Mistress of the Robes, though those who asked it knew very well that she was
the last woman in England to hamper herself by dependence on the Court. Up to London they came;
and, though of course they went into no society, the house in Carlton Gardens was continually
thronged with people who had some special reason for breaking the ordinary rules of etiquette
in their desire to see how Lady Glencora carried herself as Duchess of Omnium. "Do you think
she's altered much?" said Aspasia Fitzgibbon, an elderly spinster, the daughter of Lord Claddagh,
and sister of Laurence Fitzgibbon, member for one of the western Irish counties. "I don't think
she was quite so loud as she used to be."

Mrs. Bonteen was of opinion that there was a change. "She was always uncertain, you know, and
would scratch like a cat if you offended her."

"And won't she scratch now?" asked Miss Fitzgibbon.

"I'm afraid she'll scratch oftener. It was always a trick of hers to pretend to think nothing
of rank;--but she values her place as highly as any woman in England."

This was Mrs. Bonteen's opinion; but Lady Baldock, who was present, differed. This Lady Baldock
was not the mother, but the sister-in-law of that Augusta Boreham who had lately become Sister
Veronica John. "I don't believe it," said Lady Baldock. "She always seems to me to be like
a great schoolgirl who has been allowed too much of her own way. I think people give way to
her too much, you know." As Lady Baldock was herself the wife of a peer, she naturally did
not stand so much in awe of a duchess as did Mrs. Bonteen, or Miss Fitzgibbon.

"Have you seen the young Duke?" asked Mr. Ratler of Barrington Erle.

"Yes; I have been with him this morning."

"How does he like it?"

"He's bothered out of his life,--as a hen would be if you were to throw her into water. He's
so shy, he hardly knows how to speak to you; and he broke down altogether when I said something
about the Lords."

"He'll not do much more."

"I don't know about that," said Erle. "He'll get used to it, and go into harness again. He's
a great deal too good to be lost."

"He didn't give himself airs?"

"What!--Planty Pall! If I know anything of a man he's not the man to do that because he's a
duke. He can hold his own against all comers, and always could. Quiet as he always seemed,
he knew who he was, and who other people were. I don't think you'll find much difference in
him when he has got over the annoyance." Mr. Ratler, however, was of a different opinion. Mr.
Ratler had known many docile members of the House of Commons who had become peers by the death
of uncles and fathers, and who had lost all respect for him as soon as they were released from
the crack of the whip. Mr. Ratler rather despised peers who had been members of the House of
Commons, and who passed by inheritance from a scene of unparalleled use and influence to one
of idle and luxurious dignity.

Soon after their arrival in London the Duchess wrote the following very characteristic letter:--

   DEAR LORD CHILTERN,

   Mr. Palliser-- [Then having begun with a mistake, she
   scratched the word through with her pen.] The Duke has
   asked me to write about Trumpeton Wood, as he knows
   nothing about it, and I know just as little. But if you
   say what you want, it shall be done. Shall we get foxes
   and put them there? Or ought there to be a special
   fox-keeper? You mustn't be angry because the poor old Duke
   was too feeble to take notice of the matter. Only speak,
   and it shall be done.

   Yours faithfully,

   GLENCORA O.

   Madame Goesler spoke to me about it; but at that time we
   were in trouble.

The answer was as characteristic:--

   DEAR DUCHESS OF OMNIUM,

   Thanks. What is wanted, is that keepers should know that
   there are to be foxes. When keepers know that foxes are
   really expected, there always are foxes. The men latterly
   have known just the contrary. It is all a question of
   shooting. I don't mean to say a word against the late
   Duke. When he got old the thing became bad. No doubt it
   will be right now.

   Faithfully yours,

   CHILTERN.

   Our hounds have been poisoned in Trumpeton Wood. This
   would never have been done had not the keepers been
   against the hunting.

Upon receipt of this she sent the letter to Mr. Fothergill, with a request that there might
be no more shooting in Trumpeton Wood. "I'll be shot if we'll stand that, you know," said Mr.
Fothergill to one of his underlings. "There are two hundred and fifty acres in Trumpeton Wood,
and we're never to kill another pheasant because Lord Chiltern is Master of the Brake Hounds.
Property won't be worth having at that rate."

The Duke by no means intended to abandon the world of politics, or even the narrower sphere
of ministerial work, because he had been ousted from the House of Commons, and from the possibility
of filling the office which he had best liked. This was proved to the world by the choice of
his house for a meeting of the party on the 30th of March. As it happened, this was the very
day on which he and the Duchess returned to London; but nevertheless the meeting was held there,
and he was present at it. Mr. Gresham then repeated his reasons for opposing Mr. Daubeny's
bill; and declared that even while doing so he would, with the approbation of his party, pledge
himself to bring in a bill somewhat to the same effect, should he ever again find himself in
power. And he declared that he would do this solely with the view of showing how strong was
his opinion that such a measure should not be left in the hands of the Conservative party.
It was doubted whether such a political proposition had ever before been made in England. It
was a simple avowal that on this occasion men were to be regarded, and not measures. No doubt
such is the case, and ever has been the case, with the majority of active politicians. The
double pleasure of pulling down an opponent, and of raising oneself, is the charm of a politician's
life. And by practice this becomes extended to so many branches, that the delights,--and also
the disappointments,--are very widespread. Great satisfaction is felt by us because by some
lucky conjunction of affairs our man, whom we never saw, is made Lord-Lieutenant of a county,
instead of another man, of whom we know as little. It is a great thing to us that Sir Samuel
Bobwig, an excellent Liberal, is seated high on the bench of justice, instead of that time-serving
Conservative, Sir Alexander McSilk. Men and not measures are, no doubt, the very life of politics.
But then it is not the fashion to say so in public places. Mr. Gresham was determined to introduce
that fashion on the present occasion. He did not think very much of Mr. Daubeny's Bill. So
he told his friends at the Duke's house. The Bill was full of faults,--went too far in one
direction, and not far enough in another. It was not difficult to pick holes in the Bill. But
the sin of sins consisted in this,--that it was to be passed, if passed at all, by the aid
of men who would sin against their consciences by each vote they gave in its favour. What but
treachery could be expected from an army in which every officer, and every private, was called
upon to fight against his convictions? The meeting passed off with dissension, and it was agreed
that the House of Commons should be called upon to reject the Church Bill simply because it
was proposed from that side of the House on which the minority was sitting. As there were more
than two hundred members present on the occasion, by none of whom were any objections raised,
it seemed probable that Mr. Gresham might be successful. There was still, however, doubt in
the minds of some men. "It's all very well," said Mr. Ratler, "but Turnbull wasn't there, you
know."

But from what took place the next day but one in Park Lane it would almost seem that the Duchess
had been there. She came at once to see Madame Goesler, having very firmly determined that
the Duke's death should not have the appearance of interrupting her intimacy with her friend.
"Was it not very disagreeable,"--asked Madame Goesler,--"just the day you came to town?"

"We didn't think of that at all. One is not allowed to think of anything now. It was very improper,
of course, because of the Duke's death;--but that had to be put on one side. And then it was
quite contrary to etiquette that Peers and Commoners should be brought together. I think there
was some idea of making sure of Plantagenet, and so they all came and wore out our carpets.
There wasn't above a dozen peers; but they were enough to show that all the old landmarks have
been upset. I don't think any one would have objected if I had opened the meeting myself, and
called upon Mrs. Bonteen to second me."

"Why Mrs. Bonteen?"

"Because next to myself she's the most talkative and political woman we have. She was at our
house yesterday, and I'm not quite sure that she doesn't intend to cut me out."

"We must put her down, Lady Glen."

"Perhaps she'll put me down now that we're half shelved. The men did make such a racket, and
yet no one seemed to speak for two minutes except Mr. Gresham, who stood upon my pet footstool,
and kicked it almost to pieces."

"Was Mr. Finn there?"

"Everybody was there, I suppose. What makes you ask particularly about Mr. Finn?"

"Because he's a friend."

"That's come up again, has it? He's the handsome Irishman, isn't he, that came to Matching,
the same day that brought you there?"

"He is an Irishman, and he was at Matching, that day."

"He's certainly handsome. What a day that was, Marie! When one thinks of it all,--of all the
perils and all the salvations, how strange it is! I wonder whether you would have liked it
now if you were the Dowager Duchess."

"I should have had some enjoyment, I suppose."

"I don't know that it would have done us any harm, and yet how keen I was about it. We can't
give you the rank now, and you won't take the money."

"Not the money, certainly."

"Plantagenet says you'll have to take it;--but it seems to me he's always wrong. There are
so many things that one must do that one doesn't do. He never perceives that everything gets
changed every five years. So Mr. Finn is the favourite again?"

"He is a friend whom I like. I may be allowed to have a friend, I suppose."

"A dozen, my dear;--and all of them good-looking. Good-bye, dear. Pray come to us. Don't stand
off and make yourself disagreeable. We shan't be giving dinner parties, but you can come whenever
you please. Tell me at once;--do you mean to be disagreeable?"

Then Madame Goesler was obliged to promise that she would not be more disagreeable than her
nature had made her.

CHAPTER XXXII

The World Becomes Cold

A great deal was said by very many persons in London as to the murderous attack which had been
made by Mr. Kennedy on Phineas Finn in Judd Street, but the advice given by Mr. Slide in The
People's Banner to the police was not taken. No public or official inquiry was made into the
circumstance. Mr. Kennedy, under the care of his cousin, retreated to Scotland; and, as it
seemed, there was to be an end of it. Throughout the month of March various smaller bolts were
thrust both at Phineas and at the police by the editor of the above-named newspaper, but they
seemed to fall without much effect. No one was put in prison; nor was any one ever examined.
But, nevertheless, these missiles had their effect. Everybody knew that there had been a "row"
between Mr. Kennedy and Phineas Finn, and that the "row" had been made about Mr. Kennedy's
wife. Everybody knew that a pistol had been fired at Finn's head; and a great many people thought
that there had been some cause for the assault. It was alleged at one club that the present
member for Tankerville had spent the greater part of the last two years at Dresden, and at
another that he had called on Mr. Kennedy twice, once down in Scotland, and once at the hotel
in Judd Street, with a view of inducing that gentleman to concede to a divorce. There was also
a very romantic story afloat as to an engagement which had existed between Lady Laura and Phineas
Finn before the lady had been induced by her father to marry the richer suitor. Various details
were given in corroboration of these stories. Was it not known that the Earl had purchased
the submission of Phineas Finn by a seat for his borough of Loughton? Was it not known that
Lord Chiltern, the brother of Lady Laura, had fought a duel with Phineas Finn? Was it not known
that Mr. Kennedy himself had been as it were coerced into quiescence by the singular fact that
he had been saved from garotters in the street by the opportune interference of Phineas Finn?
It was even suggested that the scene with the garotters had been cunningly planned by Phineas
Finn, that he might in this way be able to restrain the anger of the husband of the lady whom
he loved. All these stories were very pretty; but as the reader, it is hoped, knows, they were
all untrue. Phineas had made but one short visit to Dresden in his life. Lady Laura had been
engaged to Mr. Kennedy before Phineas had ever spoken to her of his love. The duel with Lord
Chiltern had been about another lady, and the seat at Loughton had been conferred upon Phineas
chiefly on account of his prowess in extricating Mr. Kennedy from the garotters,--respecting
which circumstance it may be said that as the meeting in the street was fortuitous, the reward
was greater than the occasion seemed to require.

While all these things were being said Phineas became something of a hero. A man who is supposed
to have caused a disturbance between two married people, in a certain rank of life, does generally
receive a certain meed of admiration. A man who was asked out to dinner twice a week before
such rumours were afloat, would probably receive double that number of invitations afterwards.
And then to have been shot at by a madman in a room, and to be the subject of the venom of
a People's Banner, tends also to Fame. Other ladies besides Madame Goesler were anxious to
have the story from the very lips of the hero, and in this way Phineas Finn became a conspicuous
man. But Fame begets envy, and there were some who said that the member for Tankerville had
injured his prospects with his party. It may be very well to give a dinner to a man who has
caused the wife of a late Cabinet Minister to quarrel with her husband; but it can hardly be
expected that he should be placed in office by the head of the party to which that late Cabinet
Minister belonged. "I never saw such a fellow as you are," said Barrington Erle to him. "You
are always getting into a mess."

"Nobody ought to know better than you how false all these calumnies are." This he said because
Erle and Lady Laura were cousins.

"Of course they are calumnies; but you had heard them before, and what made you go poking your
head into the lion's mouth?"

Mr. Bonteen was very much harder upon him than was Barrington Erle. "I never liked him from
the first, and always knew he would not run straight. No Irishman ever does." This was said
to Viscount Fawn, a distinguished member of the Liberal party, who had but lately been married,
and was known to have very strict notions as to the bonds of matrimony. He had been heard to
say that any man who had interfered with the happiness of a married couple should be held to
have committed a capital offence.

"I don't know whether the story about Lady Laura is true."

"Of course it's true. All the world knows it to be true. He was always there; at Loughlinter,
and at Saulsby, and in Portman Square after she had left her husband. The mischief he has done
is incalculable. There's a Conservative sitting in poor Kennedy's seat for Dunross-shire."

"That might have been the case anyway."

"Nothing could have turned Kennedy out. Don't you remember how he behaved about the Irish Land
Question? I hate such fellows."

"If I thought it true about Lady Laura--"

Lord Fawn was again about to express his opinion in regard to matrimony, but Mr. Bonteen was
too impetuous to listen to him. "It's out of the question that he should come in again. At
any rate if he does, I won't. I shall tell Gresham so very plainly. The women will do all that
they can for him. They always do for a fellow of that kind."

Phineas heard of it;--not exactly by any repetition of the words that were spoken, but by chance
phrases, and from the looks of men. Lord Cantrip, who was his best friend among those who were
certain to hold high office in a Liberal Government, did not talk to him cheerily,--did not
speak as though he, Phineas, would as a matter of course have some place assigned to him. And
he thought that Mr. Gresham was hardly as cordial to him as he might be when they met in the
closer intercourse of the House. There was always a word or two spoken, and sometimes a shaking
of hands. He had no right to complain. But yet he knew that something was wanting. We can generally
read a man's purpose towards us in his manner, if his purposes are of much moment to us.

Phineas had written to Lady Laura, giving her an account of the occurrence in Judd Street on
the 1st of March, and had received from her a short answer by return of post. It contained
hardly more than a thanksgiving that his life had not been sacrificed, and in a day or two
she had written again, letting him know that she had determined to consult her father. Then
on the last day of the month he received the following letter:--

   Dresden, March 27th, 18--.

   MY DEAR FRIEND,--

   At last we have resolved that we will go back to England,
   --almost at once. Things have gone so rapidly that I
   hardly know how to explain them all, but that is Papa's
   resolution. His lawyer, Mr. Forster, tells him that it
   will be best, and goes so far as to say that it is
   imperative on my behalf that some steps should be taken
   to put an end to the present state of things. I will
   not scruple to tell you that he is actuated chiefly by
   considerations as to money. It is astonishing to me that
   a man who has all his life been so liberal should now in
   his old age think so much about it. It is, however, in no
   degree for himself. It is all for me. He cannot bear to
   think that my fortune should be withheld from me by Mr.
   Kennedy while I have done nothing wrong. I was obliged to
   show him your letter, and what you said about the control
   of money took hold of his mind at once. He thinks that
   if my unfortunate husband be insane, there can be no
   difficulty in my obtaining a separation on terms which
   would oblige him or his friends to restore this horrid
   money.

   Of course I could stay if I chose. Papa would not refuse
   to find a home for me here. But I do agree with Mr.
   Forster that something should be done to stop the tongues
   of ill-conditioned people. The idea of having my name
   dragged through the newspapers is dreadful to me; but if
   this must be done one way or the other, it will be better
   that it should be done with truth. There is nothing that
   I need fear,--as you know so well.

   I cannot look forward to happiness anywhere. If the
   question of separation were once settled, I do not know
   whether I would not prefer returning here to remaining in
   London. Papa has got tired of the place, and wants, he
   says, to see Saulsby once again before he dies. What can I
   say in answer to this, but that I will go? We have sent to
   have the house in Portman Square got ready for us, and I
   suppose we shall be there about the 15th of next month.
   Papa has instructed Mr. Forster to tell Mr. Kennedy's
   lawyer that we are coming, and he is to find out, if he
   can, whether any interference in the management of the
   property has been as yet made by the family. Perhaps I
   ought to tell you that Mr. Forster has expressed surprise
   that you did not call on the police when the shot was
   fired. Of course I can understand it all. God bless you.

   Your affectionate friend,

   L. K.

Phineas was obliged to console himself by reflecting that if she understood him of course that
was everything. His first and great duty in the matter had been to her. If in performing that
duty he had sacrificed himself, he must bear his undeserved punishment like a man. That he
was to be punished he began to perceive too clearly. The conviction that Mr. Daubeny must recede
from the Treasury Bench after the coming debate became every day stronger, and within the little
inner circles of the Liberal party the usual discussions were made as to the Ministry which
Mr. Gresham would, as a matter of course, be called upon to form. But in these discussions
Phineas Finn did not find himself taking an assured and comfortable part. Laurence Fitzgibbon,
his countryman,--who in the way of work had never been worth his salt,--was eager, happy, and
without a doubt. Others of the old stagers, men who had been going in and out ever since they
had been able to get seats in Parliament, stood about in clubs, and in lobbies, and chambers
of the House, with all that busy, magpie air which is worn only by those who have high hopes
of good things to come speedily. Lord Mount Thistle was more sublime and ponderous than ever,
though they who best understood the party declared that he would never again be invited to
undergo the cares of office. His lordship was one of those terrible political burdens, engendered
originally by private friendship or family considerations, which one Minister leaves to another.
Sir Gregory Grogram, the great Whig lawyer, showed plainly by his manner that he thought himself
at last secure of reaching the reward for which he had been struggling all his life; for it
was understood by all men who knew anything that Lord Weazeling was not to be asked again to
sit on the Woolsack. No better advocate or effective politician ever lived; but it was supposed
that he lacked dignity for the office of first judge in the land. That most of the old lot
would come back was a matter of course.

There would be the Duke,--the Duke of St. Bungay, who had for years past been "the Duke" when
Liberal administrations were discussed, and the second Duke, whom we know so well; and Sir
Harry Coldfoot, and Legge Wilson, Lord Cantrip, Lord Thrift, and the rest of them. There would
of course be Lord Fawn, Mr. Ratler, and Mr. Erle. The thing was so thoroughly settled that
one was almost tempted to think that the Prime Minister himself would have no voice in the
selections to be made. As to one office it was acknowledged on all sides that a doubt existed
which would at last be found to be very injurious,--as some thought altogether crushing,--to
the party. To whom would Mr. Gresham entrust the financial affairs of the country? Who would
be the new Chancellor of the Exchequer? There were not a few who inferred that Mr. Bonteen
would be promoted to that high office. During the last two years he had devoted himself to
decimal coinage with a zeal only second to that displayed by Plantagenet Palliser, and was
accustomed to say of himself that he had almost perished under his exertions. It was supposed
that he would have the support of the present Duke of Omnium,--and that Mr. Gresham, who disliked
the man, would be coerced by the fact that there was no other competitor. That Mr. Bonteen
should go into the Cabinet would be gall and wormwood to many brother Liberals; but gall and
wormwood such as this have to be swallowed. The rising in life of our familiar friends is,
perhaps, the bitterest morsel of the bitter bread which we are called upon to eat in life.
But we do eat it; and after a while it becomes food to us,--when we find ourselves able to
use, on behalf, perhaps, of our children, the influence of those whom we had once hoped to
leave behind in the race of life. When a man suddenly shoots up into power few suffer from
it very acutely. The rise of a Pitt can have caused no heart-burning. But Mr. Bonteen had been
a hack among the hacks, had filled the usual half-dozen places, had been a junior Lord, a Vice-President,
a Deputy Controller, a Chief Commissioner, and a Joint Secretary. His hopes had been raised
or abased among the places of £1,000, £1,200, or £1,500 a year. He had hitherto culminated
at £2,000, and had been supposed with diligence to have worked himself up to the top of the
ladder, as far as the ladder was accessible to him. And now he was spoken of in connection
with one of the highest offices of the State! Of course this created much uneasiness, and gave
rise to many prophecies of failure. But in the midst of it all no office was assigned to Phineas
Finn; and there was a general feeling, not expressed, but understood, that his affair with
Mr. Kennedy stood in his way.

Quintus Slide had undertaken to crush him! Could it be possible that so mean a man should be
able to make good so monstrous a threat? The man was very mean, and the threat had been absurd
as well as monstrous; and yet it seemed that it might be realised. Phineas was too proud to
ask questions, even of Barrington Erle, but he felt that he was being "left out in the cold,"
because the editor of The People's Banner had said that no government could employ him; and
at this moment, on the very morning of the day which was to usher in the great debate, which
was to be so fatal to Mr. Daubeny and his Church Reform, another thunderbolt was hurled. The
"we" of The People's Banner had learned that the very painful matter, to which they had been
compelled by a sense of duty to call the public attention in reference to the late member for
Dunross-shire and the present member for Tankerville, would be brought before one of the tribunals
of the country, in reference to the matrimonial differences between Mr. Kennedy and his wife.
It would be in the remembrance of their readers that the unfortunate gentleman had been provoked
to fire a pistol at the head of the member for Tankerville,--a circumstance which, though publicly
known, had never been brought under the notice of the police. There was reason to hope that
the mystery might now be cleared up, and that the ends of justice would demand that a certain
document should be produced, which they,--the "we,"--had been vexatiously restrained from giving
to their readers, although it had been most carefully prepared for publication in the columns
of The People's Banner. Then the thunderbolt went on to say that there was evidently a great
move among the members of the so-called Liberal party, who seemed to think that it was only
necessary that they should open their mouths wide enough in order that the sweets of office
should fall into them. The "we" were quite of a different opinion. The "we" believed that no
Minister for many a long day had been so firmly fixed on the Treasury Bench as was Mr. Daubeny
at the present moment. But this at any rate might be inferred;--that should Mr. Gresham by
any unhappy combination of circumstances be called upon to form a Ministry, it would be quite
impossible for him to include within it the name of the member for Tankerville. This was the
second great thunderbolt that fell,--and so did the work of crushing our poor friend proceed.

There was a great injustice in all this; at least so Phineas thought;--injustice, not only
from the hands of Mr. Slide, who was unjust as a matter of course, but also from those who
ought to have been his staunch friends. He had been enticed over to England almost with a promise
of office, and he was sure that he had done nothing which deserved punishment, or even censure.
He could not condescend to complain,--nor indeed as yet could he say that there was ground
for complaint. Nothing had been done to him. Not a word had been spoken,--except those lying
words in the newspapers which he was too proud to notice. On one matter, however, he was determined
to be firm. When Barrington Erle had absolutely insisted that he should vote upon the Church
Bill in opposition to all that he had said upon the subject at Tankerville, he had stipulated
that he should have an opportunity in the great debate which would certainly take place of
explaining his conduct,--or, in other words, that the privilege of making a speech should be
accorded to him at a time in which very many members would no doubt attempt to speak and would
attempt in vain. It may be imagined,--probably still is imagined by a great many,--that no
such pledge as this could be given, that the right to speak depends simply on the Speaker's
eye, and that energy at the moment in attracting attention would alone be of account to an
eager orator. But Phineas knew the House too well to trust to such a theory. That some preliminary
assistance would be given to the travelling of the Speaker's eye, in so important a debate,
he knew very well; and he knew also that a promise from Barrington Erle or from Mr. Ratler
would be his best security. "That will be all right, of course," said Barrington Erle to him
on the evening the day before the debate: "We have quite counted on your speaking." There had
been a certain sullenness in the tone with which Phineas had asked his question as though he
had been labouring under a grievance, and he felt himself rebuked by the cordiality of the
reply. "I suppose we had better fix it for Monday or Tuesday," said the other. "We hope to
get it over by Tuesday, but there is no knowing. At any rate you shan't be thrown over." It
was almost on his tongue,--the entire story of his grievance, the expression of his feeling
that he was not being treated as one of the chosen; but he restrained himself. He liked Barrington
Erle well enough, but not so well as to justify him in asking for sympathy.

Nor had it been his wont in any of the troubles of his life to ask for sympathy from a man.
He had always gone to some woman;--in old days to Lady Laura, or to Violet Effingham, or to
Madame Goesler. By them he could endure to be petted, praised, or upon occasion even pitied.
But pity or praise from any man had been distasteful to him. On the morning of the 1st of April
he again went to Park Lane, not with any formed plan of telling the lady of his wrongs, but
driven by a feeling that he wanted comfort, which might perhaps be found there. The lady received
him very kindly, and at once inquired as to the great political tournament which was about
to be commenced. "Yes; we begin to-day," said Phineas. "Mr. Daubeny will speak, I should say,
from half-past four till seven. I wonder you don't go and hear him."

"What a pleasure! To hear a man speak for two hours and a half about the Church of England.
One must be very hard driven for amusement! Will you tell me that you like it?"

"I like to hear a good speech."

"But you have the excitement before you of making a good speech in answer. You are in the fight.
A poor woman, shut up in a cage, feels there more acutely than anywhere else how insignificant
a position she fills in the world."

"You don't advocate the rights of women, Madame Goesler?"

"Oh, no. Knowing our inferiority I submit without a grumble; but I am not sure that I care
to go and listen to the squabbles of my masters. You may arrange it all among you, and I will
accept what you do, whether it be good or bad,--as I must; but I cannot take so much interest
in the proceeding as to spend my time in listening where I cannot speak, and in looking when
I cannot be seen. You will speak?"

"Yes; I think so."

"I shall read your speech, which is more than I shall do for most of the others. And when it
is all over, will your turn come?"

"Not mine individually, Madame Goesler."

"But it will be yours individually;--will it not?" she asked with energy. Then gradually, with
half-pronounced sentences, he explained to her that even in the event of the formation of a
Liberal Government, he did not expect that any place would be offered to him. "And why not?
We have been all speaking of it as a certainty."

He longed to inquire who were the all of whom she spoke, but he could not do it without an
egotism which would be distasteful to him. "I can hardly tell;--but I don't think I shall be
asked to join them."

"You would wish it?"

"Yes;--talking to you I do not see why I should hesitate to say so."

"Talking to me, why should you hesitate to say anything about yourself that is true? I can
hold my tongue. I do not gossip about my friends. Whose doing is it?"

"I do not know that it is any man's doing."

"But it must be. Everybody said that you were to be one of them if you could get the other
people out. Is it Mr. Bonteen?"

"Likely enough. Not that I know anything of the kind; but as I hate him from the bottom of
my heart, it is natural to suppose that he has the same feeling in regard to me."

"I agree with you there."

"But I don't know that it comes from any feeling of that kind."

"What does it come from?"

"You have heard all the calumny about Lady Laura Kennedy."

"You do not mean to say that a story such as that has affected your position."

"I fancy it has. But you must not suppose, Madame Goesler, that I mean to complain. A man must
take these things as they come. No one has received more kindness from friends than I have,
and few perhaps more favours from fortune. All this about Mr. Kennedy has been unlucky,--but
it cannot be helped."

"Do you mean to say that the morals of your party will be offended?" said Madame Goesler, almost
laughing.

"Lord Fawn, you know, is very particular. In sober earnest one cannot tell how these things
operate; but they do operate gradually. One's friends are sometimes very glad of an excuse
for not befriending one."

"Lady Laura is coming home?"

"Yes."

"That will put an end to it."

"There is nothing to put an end to except the foul-mouthed malice of a lying newspaper. Nobody
believes anything against Lady Laura."

"I'm not so sure of that. I believe nothing against her."

"I'm sure you do not, Madame Goesler. Nor do I think that anybody does. It is too absurd for
belief from beginning to end. Good-bye. Perhaps I shall see you when the debate is over."

"Of course you will. Good-bye, and success to your oratory." Then Madame Goesler resolved that
she would say a few judicious words to her friend, the Duchess, respecting Phineas Finn.

CHAPTER XXXIII

The Two Gladiators

The great debate was commenced with all the solemnities which are customary on such occasions,
and which make men think for the day that no moment of greater excitement has ever blessed
or cursed the country. Upon the present occasion London was full of clergymen. The specially
clerical clubs,--the Oxford and Cambridge, the Old University, and the Athenaeum,--were black
with them. The bishops and deans, as usual, were pleasant in their manner and happy-looking,
in spite of adverse circumstances. When one sees a bishop in the hours of the distress of the
Church, one always thinks of the just and firm man who will stand fearless while the ruins
of the world are falling about his ears. But the parsons from the country were a sorry sight
to see. They were in earnest with all their hearts, and did believe,--not that the crack of
doom was coming, which they could have borne with equanimity if convinced that their influence
would last to the end,--but that the Evil One was to be made welcome upon the earth by Act
of Parliament. It is out of nature that any man should think it good that his own order should
be repressed, curtailed, and deprived of its power. If we go among cab-drivers or letter-carriers,
among butlers or gamekeepers, among tailors or butchers, among farmers or graziers, among doctors
or attorneys, we shall find in each set of men a conviction that the welfare of the community
depends upon the firmness with which they,--especially they,--hold their own. This is so manifestly
true with the Bar that no barrister in practice scruples to avow that barristers in practice
are the salt of the earth. The personal confidence of a judge in his own position is beautiful,
being salutary to the country, though not unfrequently damaging to the character of the man.
But if this be so with men who are conscious of no higher influence than that exercised over
the bodies and minds of their fellow creatures, how much stronger must be the feeling when
the influence affects the soul! To the outsider, or layman, who simply uses a cab, or receives
a letter, or goes to law, or has to be tried, these pretensions are ridiculous or annoying,
according to the ascendancy of the pretender at the moment. But as the clerical pretensions
are more exacting than all others, being put forward with an assertion that no answer is possible
without breach of duty and sin, so are they more galling. The fight has been going on since
the idea of a mitre first entered the heart of a priest,--since dominion in this world has
found itself capable of sustentation by the exercise of fear as to the world to come. We do
believe,--the majority among us does so,--that if we live and die in sin we shall after some
fashion come to great punishment, and we believe also that by having pastors among us who shall
be men of God, we may best aid ourselves and our children in avoiding this bitter end. But
then the pastors and men of God can only be human,--cannot be altogether men of God; and so
they have oppressed us, and burned us, and tortured us, and hence come to love palaces, and
fine linen, and purple, and, alas, sometimes, mere luxury and idleness. The torturing and the
burning, as also to speak truth the luxury and the idleness, have, among us, been already conquered,
but the idea of ascendancy remains. What is a thoughtful man to do who acknowledges the danger
of his soul, but cannot swallow his parson whole simply because he has been sent to him from
some source in which he has no special confidence, perhaps by some distant lord, perhaps by
a Lord Chancellor whose political friend has had a son with a tutor? What is he to do when,
in spite of some fine linen and purple left among us, the provision for the man of God in his
parish or district is so poor that no man of God fitted to teach him will come and take it?
In no spirit of animosity to religion he begins to tell himself that Church and State together
was a monkish combination, fit perhaps for monkish days, but no longer having fitness, and
not much longer capable of existence in this country. But to the parson himself,--to the honest,
hardworking, conscientious priest who does in his heart of hearts believe that no diminution
in the general influence of his order can be made without ruin to the souls of men,--this opinion,
when it becomes dominant, is as though the world were in truth breaking to pieces over his
head. The world has been broken to pieces in the same way often;--but extreme Chaos does not
come. The cabman and the letter-carrier always expect that Chaos will very nearly come when
they are disturbed. The barristers are sure of Chaos when the sanctity of Benchers is in question.
What utter Chaos would be promised to us could any one with impunity contemn the majesty of
the House of Commons! But of all these Chaoses there can be no Chaos equal to that which in
the mind of a zealous Oxford-bred constitutional country parson must attend that annihilation
of his special condition which will be produced by the disestablishment of the Church. Of all
good fellows he is the best good fellow. He is genial, hospitable, well-educated, and always
has either a pretty wife or pretty daughters. But he has so extreme a belief in himself that
he cannot endure to be told that absolute Chaos will not come at once if he be disturbed. And
now disturbances,--ay, and utter dislocation and ruin were to come from the hands of a friend!
Was it wonderful that parsons should be seen about Westminster in flocks with "Et tu, Brute"
written on their faces as plainly as the law on the brows of a Pharisee?

The Speaker had been harassed for orders. The powers and prowess of every individual member
had been put to the test. The galleries were crowded. Ladies' places had been ballotted for
with desperate enthusiasm, in spite of the sarcasm against the House which Madame Goesler had
expressed. Two royal princes and a royal duke were accommodated within the House in an irregular
manner. Peers swarmed in the passages, and were too happy to find standing room. Bishops jostled
against lay barons with no other preference than that afforded to them by their broader shoulders.
Men, and especially clergymen, came to the galleries loaded with sandwiches and flasks, prepared
to hear all there was to be heard should the debate last from 4 P.M. to the same hour on the
following morning. At two in the afternoon the entrances to the House were barred, and men
of all ranks,--deans, prebends, peers' sons, and baronets,--stood there patiently waiting till
some powerful nobleman should let them through. The very ventilating chambers under the House
were filled with courteous listeners, who had all pledged themselves that under no possible
provocation would they even cough during the debate.

A few minutes after four, in a House from which hardly more than a dozen members were absent,
Mr. Daubeny took his seat with that air of affected indifference to things around him which
is peculiar to him. He entered slowly, amidst cheers from his side of the House, which no doubt
were loud in proportion to the dismay of the cheerers as to the matter in hand. Gentlemen lacking
substantial sympathy with their leader found it to be comfortable to deceive themselves, and
raise their hearts at the same time by the easy enthusiasm of noise. Mr. Daubeny having sat
down and covered his head just raised his hat from his brows, and then tried to look as though
he were no more than any other gentleman present. But the peculiar consciousness of the man
displayed itself even in his constrained absence of motion. You could see that he felt himself
to be the beheld of all beholders, and that he enjoyed the position,--with some slight inward
trepidation lest the effort to be made should not equal the greatness of the occasion. Immediately
after him Mr. Gresham bustled up the centre of the House amidst a roar of good-humoured welcome.
We have had many Ministers who have been personally dearer to their individual adherents in
the House than the present leader of the Opposition and late Premier, but none, perhaps, who
has been more generally respected by his party for earnestness and sincerity. On the present
occasion there was a fierceness, almost a ferocity, in his very countenance, to the fire of
which friends and enemies were equally anxious to add fuel,--the friends in order that so might
these recreant Tories be more thoroughly annihilated, and the enemies, that their enemy's indiscretion
might act back upon himself to his confusion. For, indeed, it never could be denied that as
a Prime Minister Mr. Gresham could be very indiscreet.

A certain small amount of ordinary business was done, to the disgust of expectant strangers,
which was as trivial as possible in its nature,--so arranged, apparently, that the importance
of what was to follow might be enhanced by the force of contrast. And, to make the dismay of
the novice stranger more thorough, questions were asked and answers were given in so low a
voice, and Mr. Speaker uttered a word or two in so quick and shambling a fashion, that he,
the novice stranger, began to fear that no word of the debate would reach him up there in his
crowded back seat. All this, however, occupied but a few minutes, and at twenty minutes past
four Mr. Daubeny was on his legs. Then the novice stranger found that, though he could not
see Mr. Daubeny without the aid of an opera glass, he could hear every word that fell from
his lips.

Mr. Daubeny began by regretting the hardness of his position, in that he must, with what thoroughness
he might be able to achieve, apply himself to two great subjects, whereas the right honourable
gentleman opposite had already declared, with all the formality which could be made to attach
itself to a combined meeting of peers and commoners, that he would confine himself strictly
to one. The subject selected by the right honourable gentleman opposite on the present occasion
was not the question of Church Reform. The right honourable gentleman had pledged himself with
an almost sacred enthusiasm to ignore that subject altogether. No doubt it was the question
before the House, and he, himself,--the present speaker,--must unfortunately discuss it at
some length. The right honourable gentleman opposite would not, on this great occasion, trouble
himself with anything of so little moment. And it might be presumed that the political followers
of the right honourable gentleman would be equally reticent, as they were understood to have
accepted his tactics without a dissentient voice. He, Mr. Daubeny, was the last man in England
to deny the importance of the question which the right honourable gentleman would select for
discussions in preference to that of the condition of the Church. That question was a very
simple one, and might be put to the House in a very few words. Coming from the mouth of the
right honourable gentleman, the proposition would probably be made in this form:--"That this
House does think that I ought to be Prime Minister now, and as long as I may possess a seat
in this House." It was impossible to deny the importance of that question; but perhaps he,
Mr. Daubeny, might be justified in demurring to the preference given to it over every other
matter, let that matter be of what importance it might be to the material welfare of the country.

He made his point well; but he made it too often. And an attack of that kind, personal and
savage in its nature, loses its effect when it is evident that the words have been prepared.
A good deal may be done in dispute by calling a man an ass or a knave,--but the resolve to
use the words should have been made only at the moment, and they should come hot from the heart.
There was much neatness and some acuteness in Mr. Daubeny's satire, but there was no heat,
and it was prolix. It had, however, the effect of irritating Mr. Gresham,--as was evident from
the manner in which he moved his hat and shuffled his feet.

A man destined to sit conspicuously on our Treasury Bench, or on the seat opposite to it, should
ask the gods for a thick skin as a first gift. The need of this in our national assembly is
greater than elsewhere, because the differences between the men opposed to each other are smaller.
When two foes meet together in the same Chamber, one of whom advocates the personal government
of an individual ruler, and the other that form of State, which has come to be called a Red
Republic, they deal, no doubt, weighty blows of oratory at each other, but blows which never
hurt at the moment. They may cut each other's throats if they can find an opportunity; but
they do not bite each other like dogs over a bone. But when opponents are almost in accord,
as is always the case with our parliamentary gladiators, they are ever striving to give maddening
little wounds through the joints of the harness. What is there with us to create the divergence
necessary for debate but the pride of personal skill in the encounter? Who desires among us
to put down the Queen, or to repudiate the National Debt, or to destroy religious worship,
or even to disturb the ranks of society? When some small measure of reform has thoroughly recommended
itself to the country,--so thoroughly that all men know that the country will have it,--then
the question arises whether its details shall be arranged by the political party which calls
itself Liberal,--or by that which is termed Conservative. The men are so near to each other
in all their convictions and theories of life that nothing is left to them but personal competition
for the doing of the thing that is to be done. It is the same in religion. The apostle of Christianity
and the infidel can meet without a chance of a quarrel; but it is never safe to bring together
two men who differ about a saint or a surplice.

Mr. Daubeny, having thus attacked and wounded his enemy, rushed boldly into the question of
Church Reform, taking no little pride to himself and to his party that so great a blessing
should be bestowed upon the country from so unexpected a source. "See what we Conservatives
can do. In fact we will conserve nothing when we find that you do not desire to have it conserved
any longer. 'Quod minime reris Graiâ pandetur ab urbe.'" It was exactly the reverse of the
complaint which Mr. Gresham was about to make. On the subject of the Church itself he was rather
misty but very profound. He went into the question of very early Churches indeed, and spoke
of the misappropriation of endowments in the time of Eli. The establishment of the Levites
had been no doubt complete; but changes had been effected as circumstances required. He was
presumed to have alluded to the order of Melchisedek, but he abstained from any mention of
the name. He roamed very wide, and gave many of his hearers an idea that his erudition had
carried him into regions in which it was impossible to follow him. The gist of his argument
was to show that audacity in Reform was the very backbone of Conservatism. By a clearly pronounced
disunion of Church and State the theocracy of Thomas à Becket would be restored, and the people
of England would soon again become the faithful flocks of faithful shepherds. By taking away
the endowments from the parishes, and giving them back in some complicated way to the country,
the parishes would be better able than ever to support their clergymen. Bishops would be bishops
indeed, when they were no longer the creatures of a Minister's breath. As to the deans, not
seeing a clear way to satisfy aspirants for future vacancies in the deaneries, he became more
than usually vague, but seemed to imply that the Bill which was now with the leave of the House
to be read a second time, contained no clause forbidding the appointment of deans, though the
special stipend of the office must be matter of consideration with the new Church Synod.

The details of this part of his speech were felt to be dull by the strangers. As long as he
would abuse Mr. Gresham, men could listen with pleasure; and could keep their attention fixed
while he referred to the general Conservatism of the party which he had the honour of leading.
There was a raciness in the promise of so much Church destruction from the chosen leader of
the Church party, which was assisted by a conviction in the minds of most men that it was impossible
for unfortunate Conservatives to refuse to follow this leader, let him lead where he might.
There was a gratification in feeling that the country party was bound to follow, even should
he take them into the very bowels of a mountain, as the pied piper did the children of Hamelin;--and
this made listening pleasant. But when Mr. Daubeny stated the effect of his different clauses,
explaining what was to be taken and what left,--with a fervent assurance that what was to be
left would, under the altered circumstances, go much further than the whole had gone before,--then
the audience became weary, and began to think that it was time that some other gentleman should
be upon his legs. But at the end of the Minister's speech there was another touch of invective
which went far to redeem him. He returned to that personal question to which his adversary
had undertaken to confine himself, and expressed a holy horror at the political doctrine which
was implied. He, during a prolonged Parliamentary experience, had encountered much factious
opposition. He would even acknowledge that he had seen it exercised on both sides of the House,
though he had always striven to keep himself free from its baneful influence. But never till
now had he known a statesman proclaim his intention of depending upon faction, and upon faction
alone, for the result which he desired to achieve. Let the right honourable gentleman raise
a contest on either the principles or the details of the measure, and he would be quite content
to abide the decision of the House; but he should regard such a raid as that threatened against
him and his friends by the right honourable gentleman as unconstitutional, revolutionary, and
tyrannical. He felt sure that an opposition so based, and so maintained, even if it be enabled
by the heated feelings of the moment to obtain an unfortunate success in the House, would not
be encouraged by the sympathy and support of the country at large. By these last words he was
understood to signify that should he be beaten on the second reading, not in reference to the
merits of the Bill, but simply on the issue as proposed by Mr. Gresham, he would again dissolve
the House before he would resign. Now it was very well understood that there were Liberal members
in the House who would prefer even the success of Mr. Daubeny to a speedy reappearance before
their constituents.

Mr. Daubeny spoke till nearly eight, and it was surmised at the time that he had craftily arranged
his oratory so as to embarrass his opponent. The House had met at four, and was to sit continuously
till it was adjourned for the night. When this is the case, gentlemen who speak about eight
o'clock are too frequently obliged to address themselves to empty benches. On the present occasion
it was Mr. Gresham's intention to follow his opponent at once, instead of waiting, as is usual
with a leader of his party, to the close of the debate. It was understood that Mr. Gresham
would follow Mr. Daubeny, with the object of making a distinct charge against Ministers, so
that the vote on this second reading of the Church Bill might in truth be a vote of want of
confidence. But to commence his speech at eight o'clock when the House was hungry and uneasy,
would be a trial. Had Mr. Daubeny closed an hour sooner there would, with a little stretching
of the favoured hours, have been time enough. Members would not have objected to postpone their
dinner till half-past eight, or perhaps nine, when their favourite orator was on his legs.
But with Mr. Gresham beginning a great speech at eight, dinner would altogether become doubtful,
and the disaster might be serious. It was not probable that Mr. Daubeny had even among his
friends proclaimed any such strategy; but it was thought by the political speculators of the
day that such an idea had been present to his mind.

But Mr. Gresham was not to be turned from his purpose. He waited for a few moments, and then
rose and addressed the Speaker. A few members left the House;--gentlemen, doubtless, whose
constitutions, weakened by previous service, could not endure prolonged fasting. Some who had
nearly reached the door returned to their seats, mindful of Messrs. Roby and Ratler. But for
the bulk of those assembled the interest of the moment was greater even than the love of dinner.
Some of the peers departed, and it was observed that a bishop or two left the House; but among
the strangers in the gallery, hardly a foot of space was gained. He who gave up his seat then,
gave it up for the night.

Mr. Gresham began with a calmness of tone which seemed almost to be affected, but which arose
from a struggle on his own part to repress that superabundant energy of which he was only too
conscious. But the calmness soon gave place to warmth, which heated itself into violence before
he had been a quarter of an hour upon his legs. He soon became even ferocious in his invective,
and said things so bitter that he had himself no conception of their bitterness. There was
this difference between the two men,--that whereas Mr. Daubeny hit always as hard as he knew
how to hit, having premeditated each blow, and weighed its results beforehand, having calculated
his power even to the effect of a blow repeated on a wound already given, Mr. Gresham struck
right and left and straightforward with a readiness engendered by practice, and in his fury
might have murdered his antagonist before he was aware that he had drawn blood. He began by
refusing absolutely to discuss the merits of the bill. The right honourable gentleman had prided
himself on his generosity as a Greek. He would remind the right honourable gentleman that presents
from Greeks had ever been considered dangerous. "It is their gifts, and only their gifts, that
we fear," he said. The political gifts of the right honourable gentleman, extracted by him
from his unwilling colleagues and followers, had always been more bitter to the taste than
Dead Sea apples. That such gifts should not be bestowed on the country by unwilling hands,
that reform should not come from those who themselves felt the necessity of no reform, he believed
to be the wish not only of that House, but of the country at large. Would any gentleman on
that bench, excepting the right honourable gentleman himself,--and he pointed to the crowded
phalanx of the Government,--get up and declare that this measure of Church Reform, this severance
of Church and State, was brought forward in consonance with his own long-cherished political
conviction? He accused that party of being so bound to the chariot wheels of the right honourable
gentleman, as to be unable to abide by their own convictions. And as to the right honourable
gentleman himself, he would appeal to his followers opposite to say whether the right honourable
gentleman was possessed of any one strong political conviction.

He had been accused of being unconstitutional, revolutionary, and tyrannical. If the House
would allow him he would very shortly explain his idea of constitutional government as carried
on in this country. It was based and built on majorities in that House, and supported solely
by that power. There could be no constitutional government in this country that was not so
maintained. Any other government must be both revolutionary and tyrannical. Any other government
was a usurpation; and he would make bold to tell the right honourable gentleman that a Minister
in this country who should recommend Her Majesty to trust herself to advisers not supported
by a majority of the House of Commons, would plainly be guilty of usurping the powers of the
State. He threw from him with disdain the charge which had been brought against himself of
hankering after the sweets of office. He indulged and gloried in indulging the highest ambition
of an English subject. But he gloried much more in the privileges and power of that House,
within the walls of which was centred all that was salutary, all that was efficacious, all
that was stable in the political constitution of his country. It had been his pride to have
acted during nearly all his political life with that party which had commanded a majority,
but he would defy his most bitter adversary, he would defy the right honourable gentleman himself,
to point to any period of his career in which he had been unwilling to succumb to a majority
when he himself had belonged to the minority.

He himself would regard the vote on this occasion as a vote of want of confidence. He took
the line he was now taking because he desired to bring the House to a decision on that question.
He himself had not that confidence in the right honourable gentleman which would justify him
in accepting a measure on so important a subject as the union or severance of Church and State
from his hands. Should the majority of the House differ from him and support the second reading
of the Bill, he would at once so far succumb as to give his best attention to the clauses of
the bill, and endeavour with the assistance of those gentlemen who acted with him to make it
suitable to the wants of the country by omissions and additions as the clauses should pass
through Committee. But before doing that he would ask the House to decide with all its solemnity
and all its weight whether it was willing to accept from the hands of the right honourable
gentleman any measure of reform on a matter so important as this now before them. It was nearly
ten when he sat down; and then the stomach of the House could stand it no longer, and an adjournment
at once took place.

On the next morning it was generally considered that Mr. Daubeny had been too long and Mr.
Gresham too passionate. There were some who declared that Mr. Gresham had never been finer
than when he described the privileges of the House of Commons; and others who thought that
Mr. Daubeny's lucidity had been marvellous; but in this case, as in most others, the speeches
of the day were generally thought to have been very inferior to the great efforts of the past.

CHAPTER XXXIV

The Universe

Before the House met again, the quidnuncs about the clubs, on both sides of the question, had
determined that Mr. Gresham's speech, whether good or not as an effort of oratory, would serve
its intended purpose. He would be backed by a majority of votes, and it might have been very
doubtful whether such would have been the case had he attempted to throw out the Bill on its
merits. Mr. Ratler, by the time that prayers had been read, had become almost certain of success.
There were very few Liberals in the House who were not anxious to declare by their votes that
they had no confidence in Mr. Daubeny. Mr. Turnbull, the great Radical, and, perhaps, some
two dozen with him, would support the second reading, declaring that they could not reconcile
it with their consciences to record a vote in favour of a union of Church and State. On all
such occasions as the present Mr. Turnbull was sure to make himself disagreeable to those who
sat near to him in the House. He was a man who thought that so much was demanded of him in
order that his independence might be doubted by none. It was nothing to him, he was wont to
say, who called himself Prime Minister, or Secretary here, or President there. But then there
would be quite as much of this independence on the Conservative as on the Liberal side of the
House. Surely there would be more than two dozen gentlemen who would be true enough to the
cherished principles of their whole lives to vote against such a Bill as this! It was the fact
that there were so very few so true which added such a length to the faces of the country parsons.
Six months ago not a country gentleman in England would have listened to such a proposition
without loud protests as to its revolutionary wickedness. And now, under the sole pressure
of one man's authority, the subject had become so common that men were assured that the thing
would be done even though of all things that could be done it were the worst. "It is no good
any longer having any opinion upon anything," one parson said to another, as they sat together
at their club with their newspapers in their hands. "Nothing frightens any one,--no infidelity,
no wickedness, no revolution. All reverence is at an end, and the Holy of Holies is no more
even to the worshipper than the threshold of the Temple." Though it became known that the Bill
would be lost, what comfort was there in that, when the battle was to be won, not by the chosen
Israelites to whom the Church with all its appurtenances ought to be dear, but by a crew of
Philistines who would certainly follow the lead of their opponents in destroying the holy structure?

On the Friday the debate was continued with much life on the Ministerial side of the House.
It was very easy for them to cry Faction! Faction! and hardly necessary for them to do more.
A few parrot words had been learned as to the expediency of fitting the great and increasing
Church of England to the growing necessity of the age. That the CHURCH OF ENGLAND would still
be the CHURCH OF ENGLAND was repeated till weary listeners were sick of the unmeaning words.
But the zeal of the combatants was displayed on that other question. Faction was now the avowed
weapon of the leaders of the so-called Liberal side of the House, and it was very easy to denounce
the new doctrine. Every word that Mr. Gresham had spoken was picked in pieces, and the enormity
of his theory was exhibited. He had boldly declared to them that they were to regard men and
not measures, and they were to show by their votes whether they were prepared to accept such
teaching. The speeches were, of course, made by alternate orators, but the firing from the
Conservative benches was on this evening much the louder.

It would have seemed that with such an issue between them they might almost have consented
to divide after the completion of the two great speeches. The course on which they were to
run had been explained to them, and it was not probable that any member's intention as to his
running would now be altered by anything that he might hear. Mr. Turnbull's two dozen defaulters
were all known, and the two dozen and four true Conservatives were known also. But, nevertheless,
a great many members were anxious to speak. It would be the great debate of the Session, and
the subject to be handled,--that, namely, of the general merits and demerits of the two political
parties,--was wide and very easy. On that night it was past one o'clock when Mr. Turnbull adjourned
the House.

"I'm afraid we must put you off till Tuesday," Mr. Ratler said on the Sunday afternoon to Phineas
Finn.

"I have no objection at all, so long as I get a fair place on that day."

"There shan't be a doubt about that. Gresham particularly wants you to speak, because you are
pledged to a measure of disestablishment. You can insist on his own views,--that even should
such a measure be essentially necessary--"

"Which I think it is," said Phineas.

"Still it should not be accepted from the old Church-and-State party."

There was something pleasant in this to Phineas Finn,--something that made him feel for the
moment that he had perhaps mistaken the bearing of his friend towards him. "We are sure of
a majority, I suppose," he said.

"Absolutely sure," said Ratler. "I begin to think it will amount to half a hundred,--perhaps more."

"What will Daubeny do?"

"Go out. He can't do anything else. His pluck is certainly wonderful, but even with his pluck
he can't dissolve again. His Church Bill has given him a six months' run, and six months is
something."

"Is it true that Grogram is to be Chancellor?" Phineas asked the question, not from any particular
solicitude as to the prospects of Sir Gregory Grogram, but because he was anxious to hear whether
Mr. Ratler would speak to him with anything of the cordiality of fellowship respecting the
new Government. But Mr. Ratler became at once discreet and close, and said that he did not
think that anything as yet was known as to the Woolsack. Then Phineas retreated again within
his shell, with a certainty that nothing would be done for him.

And yet to whom could this question of place be of such vital importance as it was to him?
He had come back to his old haunts from Ireland, abandoning altogether the pleasant safety
of an assured income, buoyed by the hope of office. He had, after a fashion, made his calculations.
In the present disposition of the country it was, he thought, certain that the Liberal party
must, for the next twenty years, have longer periods of power than their opponents; and he
had thought also that were he in the House, some place would eventually be given to him. He
had been in office before, and had been especially successful. He knew that it had been said
of him that of the young debutants of latter years he had been the best. He had left his party
by opposing them; but he had done so without creating any ill-will among the leaders of his
party,--in a manner that had been regarded as highly honourable to him, and on departing had
received expressions of deep regret from Mr. Gresham himself. When Barrington Erle had wanted
him to return to his old work, his own chief doubt had been about the seat. But he had been
bold and had adventured all, and had succeeded. There had been some little trouble about those
pledges given at Tankerville, but he would be able to turn them even to the use of his party.
It was quite true that nothing had been promised him; but Erle, when he had written, bidding
him to come over from Ireland, must have intended him to understand that he would be again
enrolled in the favoured regiment, should he be able to show himself as the possessor of a
seat in the House. And yet,--yet he felt convinced that when the day should come it would be
to him a day of disappointment, and that when the list should appear his name would not be
on it. Madame Goesler had suggested to him that Mr. Bonteen might be his enemy, and he had
replied by stating that he himself hated Mr. Bonteen. He now remembered that Mr. Bonteen had
hardly spoken to him since his return to London, though there had not in fact been any quarrel
between them. In this condition of mind he longed to speak openly to Barrington Erle, but he
was restrained by a feeling of pride, and a still existing idea that no candidate for office,
let his claim be what it might, should ask for a place. On that Sunday evening he saw Bonteen
at the club. Men were going in and out with that feverish excitement which always prevails
on the eve of a great parliamentary change. A large majority against the Government was considered
to be certain; but there was an idea abroad that Mr. Daubeny had some scheme in his head by
which to confute the immediate purport of his enemies. There was nothing to which the audacity
of the man was not equal. Some said that he would dissolve the House,--which had hardly as
yet been six months sitting. Others were of opinion that he would simply resolve not to vacate
his place,--thus defying the majority of the House and all the ministerial traditions of the
country. Words had fallen from him which made some men certain that such was his intention.
That it should succeed ultimately was impossible. The whole country would rise against him.
Supplies would be refused. In every detail of Government he would be impeded. But then,--such
was the temper of the man,--it was thought that all these horrors would not deter him. There
would be a blaze and a confusion, in which timid men would doubt whether the constitution would
be burned to tinder or only illuminated; but that blaze and that confusion would be dear to
Mr. Daubeny if he could stand as the centre figure,--the great pyrotechnist who did it all,
red from head to foot with the glare of the squibs with which his own hands were filling all
the spaces. The anticipation that some such display might take place made men busy and eager;
so that on that Sunday evening they roamed about from one place of meeting to another, instead
of sitting at home with their wives and daughters. There was at this time existing a small
club,--so called though unlike other clubs,--which had entitled itself the Universe. The name
was supposed to be a joke, as it was limited to ninety-nine members. It was domiciled in one
simple and somewhat mean apartment. It was kept open only one hour before and one hour after
midnight, and that only on two nights of the week, and that only when Parliament was sitting.
Its attractions were not numerous, consisting chiefly of tobacco and tea. The conversation
was generally listless and often desultory; and occasionally there would arise the great and
terrible evil of a punster whom every one hated but no one had life enough to put down. But
the thing had been a success, and men liked to be members of the Universe. Mr. Bonteen was
a member, and so was Phineas Finn. On this Sunday evening the club was open, and Phineas, as
he entered the room, perceived that his enemy was seated alone on a corner of a sofa. Mr. Bonteen
was not a man who loved to be alone in public places, and was apt rather to make one of congregations,
affecting popularity, and always at work increasing his influence. But on this occasion his
own greatness had probably isolated him. If it were true that he was to be the new Chancellor
of the Exchequer,--to ascend from demi-godhead to the perfect divinity of the Cabinet,--and
to do so by a leap which would make him high even among first-class gods, it might be well
for himself to look to himself and choose new congregations. Or, at least, it would be becoming
that he should be chosen now instead of being a chooser. He was one who could weigh to the
last ounce the importance of his position, and make most accurate calculations as to the effect
of his intimacies. On that very morning Mr. Gresham had suggested to him that in the event
of a Liberal Government being formed, he should hold the high office in question. This, perhaps,
had not been done in the most flattering manner, as Mr. Gresham had deeply bewailed the loss
of Mr. Palliser, and had almost demanded a pledge from Mr. Bonteen that he would walk exactly
in Mr. Palliser's footsteps;--but the offer had been made, and could not be retracted; and
Mr. Bonteen already felt the warmth of the halo of perfect divinity.

There are some men who seem to have been born to be Cabinet Ministers,--dukes mostly, or earls,
or the younger sons of such,--who have been trained to it from their very cradles, and of whom
we may imagine that they are subject to no special awe when they first enter into that august
assembly, and feel but little personal elevation. But to the political aspirant not born in
the purple of public life, this entrance upon the counsels of the higher deities must be accompanied
by a feeling of supreme triumph, dashed by considerable misgivings. Perhaps Mr. Bonteen was
revelling in his triumph;--perhaps he was anticipating his misgivings. Phineas, though disinclined
to make any inquiries of a friend which might seem to refer to his own condition, felt no such
reluctance in regard to one who certainly could not suspect him of asking a favour. He was
presumed to be on terms of intimacy with the man, and he took his seat beside him, asking some
question as to the debate. Now Mr. Bonteen had more than once expressed an opinion among his
friends that Phineas Finn would throw his party over, and vote with the Government. The Ratlers
and Erles and Fitzgibbons all knew that Phineas was safe, but Mr. Bonteen was still in doubt.
It suited him to affect something more than doubt on the present occasion. "I wonder that you
should ask me," said Mr. Bonteen.

"What do you mean by that?"

"I presume that you, as usual, will vote against us."

"I never voted against my party but once," said Phineas, "and then I did it with the approbation
of every man in it for whose good opinion I cared a straw." There was insult in his tone as
he said this, and something near akin to insult in his words.

"You must do it again now, or break every promise that you made at Tankerville."

"Do you know what promise I made at Tankerville? I shall break no promise."

"You must allow me to say, Mr. Finn, that the kind of independence which is practised by you
and Mr. Monk, grand as it may be on the part of men who avowedly abstain from office, is a
little dangerous when it is now and again adopted by men who have taken place. I like to be
sure that the men who are in the same boat with me won't take it into their heads that their
duty requires them to scuttle the ship." Having so spoken, Mr. Bonteen, with nearly all the
grace of a full-fledged Cabinet Minister, rose from his seat on the corner of the sofa and
joined a small congregation.

Phineas felt that his ears were tingling and that his face was red. He looked round to ascertain
from the countenances of others whether they had heard what had been said. Nobody had been
close to them, and he thought that the conversation had been unnoticed. He knew now that he
had been imprudent in addressing himself to Mr. Bonteen, though the question that he had first
asked had been quite commonplace. As it was, the man, he thought, had been determined to affront
him, and had made a charge against him which he could not allow to pass unnoticed. And then
there was all the additional bitterness in it which arose from the conviction that Bonteen
had spoken the opinion of other men as well as his own, and that he had plainly indicated that
the gates of the official paradise were to be closed against the presumed offender. Phineas
had before believed that it was to be so, but that belief had now become assurance. He got
up in his misery to leave the room, but as he did so he met Laurence Fitzgibbon. "You have
heard the news about Bonteen?" said Laurence.

"What news?"

"He's to be pitchforked up to the Exchequer. They say it's quite settled. The higher a monkey
climbs--; you know the proverb." So saying Laurence Fitzgibbon passed into the room, and Phineas
Finn took his departure in solitude.

And so the man with whom he had managed to quarrel utterly was to be one in the Cabinet, a
man whose voice would probably be potential in the selection of minor members of the Government.
It seemed to him to be almost incredible that such a one as Mr. Bonteen should be chosen for
such an office. He had despised almost as soon as he had known Mr. Bonteen, and had rarely
heard the future manager of the finance of the country spoken of with either respect or regard.
He had regarded Mr. Bonteen as a useful, dull, unscrupulous politician, well accustomed to
Parliament, acquainted with the bye-paths and back doors of official life,--and therefore certain
of employment when the Liberals were in power; but there was no one in the party he had thought
less likely to be selected for high place. And yet this man was to be made Chancellor of the
Exchequer, while he, Phineas Finn, very probably at this man's instance, was to be left out
in the cold.

He knew himself to be superior to the man he hated, to have higher ideas of political life,
and to be capable of greater political sacrifices. He himself had sat shoulder to shoulder
with many men on the Treasury Bench whose political principles he had not greatly valued; but
of none of them had he thought so little as he had done of Mr. Bonteen. And yet this Mr. Bonteen
was to be the new Chancellor of the Exchequer! He walked home to his lodgings in Marlborough
Street, wretched because of his own failure;--doubly wretched because of the other man's success.

He laid awake half the night thinking of the words that had been spoken to him, and after breakfast
on the following morning he wrote the following note to his enemy:--

   House of Commons, 5th April, 18--.

   DEAR MR. BONTEEN,

   It is matter of extreme regret to me that last night at
   the Universe I should have asked you some chance question
   about the coming division. Had I guessed to what it might
   have led, I should not have addressed you. But as it is I
   can hardly abstain from noticing what appeared to me to be
   a personal charge made against myself with a great want of
   the courtesy which is supposed to prevail among men who
   have acted together. Had we never done so my original
   question to you might perhaps have been deemed an
   impertinence.

   As it was, you accused me of having been dishonest to my
   party, and of having "scuttled the ship." On the occasion
   to which you alluded I acted with much consideration,
   greatly to the detriment of my own prospects,--and as I
   believed with the approbation of all who knew anything of
   the subject. If you will make inquiry of Mr. Gresham, or
   Lord Cantrip who was then my chief, I think that either
   will tell you that my conduct on that occasion was not
   such as to lay me open to reproach. If you will do this,
   I think that you cannot fail afterwards to express regret
   for what you said to me last night.

   Yours sincerely,

   PHINEAS FINN.

   Thos. Bonteen, Esq., M.P.

He did not like the letter when he had written it, but he did not know how to improve it, and
he sent it.

CHAPTER XXXV

Political Venom

On the Monday Mr. Turnbull opened the ball by declaring his reasons for going into the same
lobby with Mr. Daubeny. This he did at great length. To him all the mighty pomp and all the
little squabbles of office were, he said, as nothing. He would never allow himself to regard
the person of the Prime Minister. The measure before the House ever had been and ever should
be all in all to him. If the public weal were more regarded in that House, and the quarrels
of men less considered, he thought that the service of the country would be better done. He
was answered by Mr. Monk, who was sitting near him, and who intended to support Mr. Gresham.
Mr. Monk was rather happy in pulling his old friend, Mr. Turnbull, to pieces, expressing his
opinion that a difference in men meant a difference in measures. The characters of men whose
principles were known were guarantees for the measures they would advocate. To him,--Mr. Monk,--it
was matter of very great moment who was Prime Minister of England. He was always selfish enough
to wish for a Minister with whom he himself could agree on the main questions of the day. As
he certainly could not say that he had political confidence in the present Ministry, he should
certainly vote against them on this occasion.

In the course of the evening Phineas found a letter addressed to himself from Mr. Bonteen.
It was as follows:--

   House of Commons, April 5th, 18--.

   DEAR MR. FINN,

   I never accused you of dishonesty. You must have mis-heard
   or misunderstood me if you thought so. I did say that you
   had scuttled the ship;--and as you most undoubtedly did
   scuttle it,--you and Mr. Monk between you,--I cannot
   retract my words.

   I do not want to go to any one for testimony as to your
   merits on the occasion. I accused you of having done
   nothing dishonourable or disgraceful. I think I said that
   there was danger in the practice of scuttling. I think so
   still, though I know that many fancy that those who
   scuttle do a fine thing. I don't deny that it's fine, and
   therefore you can have no cause of complaint against me.

   Yours truly,

   J. BONTEEN.

He had brought a copy of his own letter in his pocket to the House, and he showed the correspondence
to Mr. Monk. "I would not have noticed it, had I been you," said he.

"You can have no idea of the offensive nature of the remark when it was made."

"It's as offensive to me as to you, but I should not think of moving in such a matter. When
a man annoys you, keep out of his way. It is generally the best thing you can do."

"If a man were to call you a liar?"

"But men don't call each other liars. Bonteen understands the world much too well to commit
himself by using any word which common opinion would force him to retract. He says we scuttled
the ship. Well;--we did. Of all the political acts of my life it is the one of which I am most
proud. The manner in which you helped me has entitled you to my affectionate esteem. But we
did scuttle the ship. Before you can quarrel with Bonteen you must be able to show that a metaphorical
scuttling of a ship must necessarily be a disgraceful act. You see how he at once retreats
behind the fact that it need not be so."

"You wouldn't answer his letter."

"I think not. You can do yourself no good by a correspondence in which you cannot get a hold
of him. And if you did get a hold of him you would injure yourself much more than him. Just
drop it." This added much to our friend's misery, and made him feel that the weight of it was
almost more than he could bear. His enemy had got the better of him at every turn. He had now
rushed into a correspondence as to which he would have to own by his silence that he had been
confuted. And yet he was sure that Mr. Bonteen had at the club insulted him most unjustifiably,
and that if the actual truth were known, no man, certainly not Mr. Monk, would hesitate to
say that reparation was due to him. And yet what could he do? He thought that he would consult
Lord Cantrip, and endeavour to get from his late Chief some advice more palatable than that
which had been tendered to him by Mr. Monk.

In the meantime animosities in the House were waxing very furious; and, as it happened, the
debate took a turn that was peculiarly injurious to Phineas Finn in his present state of mind.
The rumour as to the future promotion of Mr. Bonteen, which had been conveyed by Laurence Fitzgibbon
to Phineas at the Universe, had, as was natural, spread far and wide, and had reached the ears
of those who still sat on the Ministerial benches. Now it is quite understood among politicians
in this country that no man should presume that he will have imposed upon him the task of forming
a Ministry until he has been called upon by the Crown to undertake that great duty. Let the
Gresham or the Daubeny of the day be ever so sure that the reins of the State chariot must
come into his hands, he should not visibly prepare himself for the seat on the box till he
has actually been summoned to place himself there. At this moment it was alleged that Mr. Gresham
had departed from the reticence and modesty usual in such a position as his, by taking steps
towards the formation of a Cabinet, while it was as yet quite possible that he might never
be called upon to form any Cabinet. Late on this Monday night, when the House was quite full,
one of Mr. Daubeny's leading lieutenants, a Secretary of State, Sir Orlando Drought by name,--a
gentleman who if he had any heart in the matter must have hated this Church Bill from the very
bottom of his heart, and who on that account was the more bitter against opponents who had
not ceased to throw in his teeth his own political tergiversation,--fell foul of Mr. Gresham
as to this rumoured appointment to the Chancellorship of the Exchequer. The reader will easily
imagine the things that were said. Sir Orlando had heard, and had been much surprised at hearing,
that a certain honourable member of that House, who had long been known to them as a tenant
of the Ministerial bench, had already been appointed to a high office. He, Sir Orlando, had
not been aware that the office had been vacant, or that if vacant it would have been at the
disposal of the right honourable gentleman; but he believed that there was no doubt that the
place in question, with a seat in the Cabinet, had been tendered to, and accepted by, the honourable
member to whom he alluded. Such was the rabid haste with which the right honourable gentleman
opposite, and his colleagues, were attempting, he would not say to climb, but to rush into
office, by opposing a great measure of Reform, the wisdom of which, as was notorious to all
the world, they themselves did not dare to deny. Much more of the same kind was said, during
which Mr. Gresham pulled about his hat, shuffled his feet, showed his annoyance to all the
House, and at last jumped upon his legs.

"If," said Sir Orlando Drought,--"if the right honourable gentleman wishes to deny the accuracy
of any statements that I have made, I will give way to him for the moment, that he may do so."

"I deny utterly, not only the accuracy, but every detail of the statement made by the right
honourable gentleman opposite," said Mr. Gresham, still standing and holding his hat in his
hand as he completed his denial.

"Does the right honourable gentleman mean to assure me that he has not selected his future
Chancellor of the Exchequer?"

"The right honourable gentleman is too acute not to be aware that we on this side of the House
may have made such selection, and that yet every detail of the statement which he has been
rash enough to make to the House may be--unfounded. The word, sir, is weak; but I would fain
avoid the use of any words which, justifiable though they might be, would offend the feelings
of the House. I will explain to the House exactly what has been done."

Then there was a great hubbub--cries of "Order," "Gresham," "Spoke," "Hear, hear," and the
like,--during which Sir Orlando Drought and Mr. Gresham both stood on their legs. So powerful
was Mr. Gresham's voice that, through it all, every word that he said was audible to the reporters.
His opponent hardly attempted to speak, but stood relying upon his right. Mr. Gresham said
he understood that it was the desire of the House that he should explain the circumstances
in reference to the charge that had been made against him, and it would certainly be for the
convenience of the House that this should be done at the moment. The Speaker of course ruled
that Sir Orlando was in possession of the floor, but suggested that it might be convenient
that he should yield to the right honourable gentleman on the other side for a few minutes.
Mr. Gresham, as a matter of course, succeeded. Rights and rules, which are bonds of iron to
a little man, are packthread to a giant. No one in all that assembly knew the House better
than did Mr. Gresham, was better able to take it by storm, or more obdurate in perseverance.
He did make his speech, though clearly he had no right to do so. The House, he said, was aware,
that by the most unfortunate demise of the late Duke of Omnium, a gentleman had been removed
from this House to another place, whose absence from their counsels would long be felt as a
very grievous loss. Then he pronounced a eulogy on Plantagenet Palliser, so graceful and well
arranged, that even the bitterness of the existing opposition was unable to demur to it. The
House was well aware of the nature of the labours which now for some years past had occupied
the mind of the noble duke; and the paramount importance which the country attached to their
conclusion. The noble duke no doubt was not absolutely debarred from a continuance of his work
by the change which had fallen upon him; but it was essential that some gentleman, belonging
to the same party with the noble duke, versed in office, and having a seat in that House, should
endeavour to devote himself to the great measure which had occupied so much of the attention
of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer. No doubt it must be fitting that the gentleman so
selected should be at the Exchequer, in the event of their party coming into office. The honourable
gentleman to whom allusion had been made had acted throughout with the present noble duke in
arranging the details of the measure in question; and the probability of his being able to
fill the shoes left vacant by the accession to the peerage of the noble duke had, indeed, been
discussed;--but the discussion had been made in reference to the measure, and only incidentally
in regard to the office. He, Mr. Gresham, held that he had done nothing that was indiscreet,--nothing
that his duty did not demand. If right honourable gentlemen opposite were of a different opinion,
he thought that that difference came from the fact that they were less intimately acquainted
than he unfortunately had been with the burdens and responsibilities of legislation.

There was very little in the dispute which seemed to be worthy of the place in which it occurred,
or of the vigour with which it was conducted; but it served to show the temper of the parties,
and to express the bitterness of the political feelings of the day. It was said at the time,
that never within the memory of living politicians had so violent an animosity displayed itself
in the House as had been witnessed on this night. While Mr. Gresham was giving his explanation,
Mr. Daubeny had arisen, and with a mock solemnity that was peculiar to him on occasions such
as these, had appealed to the Speaker whether the right honourable gentleman opposite should
not be called upon to resume his seat. Mr. Gresham had put him down with a wave of his hand.
An affected stateliness cannot support itself but for a moment; and Mr. Daubeny had been forced
to sit down when the Speaker did not at once support his appeal. But he did not forget that
wave of the hand, nor did he forgive it. He was a man who in public life rarely forgot, and
never forgave. They used to say of him that "at home" he was kindly and forbearing, simple
and unostentatious. It may be so. Who does not remember that horrible Turk, Jacob Asdrubal,
the Old Bailey barrister, the terror of witnesses, the bane of judges,--who was gall and wormwood
to all opponents. It was said of him that "at home" his docile amiability was the marvel of
his friends, and delight of his wife and daughters. "At home," perhaps, Mr. Daubeny might have
been waved at, and have forgiven it; but men who saw the scene in the House of Commons knew
that he would never forgive Mr. Gresham. As for Mr. Gresham himself, he triumphed at the moment,
and exulted in his triumph.

Phineas Finn heard it all, and was disgusted to find that his enemy thus became the hero of
the hour. It was, indeed, the opinion generally of the Liberal party that Mr. Gresham had not
said much to flatter his new Chancellor of the Exchequer. In praise of Plantagenet Palliser
he had been very loud, and he had no doubt said that which implied the capability of Mr. Bonteen,
who, as it happened, was sitting next to him at the time; but he had implied also that the
mantle which was to be transferred from Mr. Palliser to Mr. Bonteen would be carried by its
new wearer with grace very inferior to that which had marked all the steps of his predecessor.
Ratler, and Erle, and Fitzgibbon, and others had laughed in their sleeves at the expression,
understood by them, of Mr. Gresham's doubt as to the qualifications of his new assistant, and
Sir Orlando Drought, in continuing his speech, remarked that the warmth of the right honourable
gentleman had been so completely expended in abusing his enemies that he had had none left
for the defence of his friend. But to Phineas it seemed that this Bonteen, who had so grievously
injured him, and whom he so thoroughly despised, was carrying off all the glories of the fight.
A certain amount of consolation was, however, afforded to him. Between one and two o'clock
he was told by Mr. Ratler that he might enjoy the privilege of adjourning the debate,--by which
would accrue to him the right of commencing on the morrow,--and this he did at a few minutes
before three.

CHAPTER XXXVI

Seventy-Two

On the next morning Phineas, with his speech before him, was obliged for a while to forget,
or at least to postpone, Mr. Bonteen and his injuries. He could not now go to Lord Cantrip,
as the hours were too precious to him, and, as he felt, too short. Though he had been thinking
what he would say ever since the debate had become imminent, and knew accurately the line which
he would take, he had not as yet prepared a word of his speech. But he had resolved that he
would not prepare a word otherwise than he might do by arranging certain phrases in his memory.
There should be nothing written; he had tried that before in old days, and had broken down
with the effort. He would load himself with no burden of words in itself so heavy that the
carrying of it would incapacitate him for any other effort.

After a late breakfast he walked out far away, into the Regent's Park, and there, wandering
among the uninteresting paths, he devised triumphs of oratory for himself. Let him resolve
as he would to forget Mr. Bonteen, and that charge of having been untrue to his companions,
he could not restrain himself from efforts to fit the matter after some fashion into his speech.
Dim ideas of a definition of political honesty crossed his brain, bringing with him, however,
a conviction that his thought must be much more clearly worked out than it could be on that
day before he might venture to give it birth in the House of Commons. He knew that he had been
honest two years ago in separating himself from his colleagues. He knew that he would be honest
now in voting with them, apparently in opposition to the pledges he had given at Tankerville.
But he knew also that it would behove him to abstain from speaking of himself unless he could
do so in close reference to some point specially in dispute between the two parties. When he
returned to eat a mutton chop at Great Marlborough Street at three o'clock he was painfully
conscious that all his morning had been wasted. He had allowed his mind to run revel, instead
of tying it down to the formation of sentences and construction of arguments.

He entered the House with the Speaker at four o'clock, and took his seat without uttering a
word to any man. He seemed to be more than ever disjoined from his party. Hitherto, since he
had been seated by the Judge's order, the former companions of his Parliamentary life,--the
old men whom he had used to know,--had to a certain degree admitted him among them. Many of
them sat on the front Opposition bench, whereas he, as a matter of course, had seated himself
behind. But he had very frequently found himself next to some man who had held office and was
living in the hope of holding it again, and had felt himself to be in some sort recognised
as an aspirant. Now it seemed to him that it was otherwise. He did not doubt but that Bonteen
had shown the correspondence to his friends, and that the Ratlers and Erles had conceded that
he, Phineas, was put out of court by it. He sat doggedly still, at the end of a bench behind
Mr. Gresham, and close to the gangway. When Mr. Gresham entered the House he was received with
much cheering; but Phineas did not join in the cheer. He was studious to avoid any personal
recognition of the future giver-away of places, though they two were close together; and he
then fancied that Mr. Gresham had specially and most ungraciously abstained from any recognition
of him. Mr. Monk, who sat near him, spoke a kind word to him. "I shan't be very long," said
Phineas; "not above twenty minutes, I should think." He was able to assume an air of indifference,
and yet at the moment he heartily wished himself back in Dublin. It was not now that he feared
the task immediately before him, but that he was overcome by the feeling of general failure
which had come upon him. Of what use was it to him or to any one else that he should be there
in that assembly, with the privilege of making a speech that would influence no human being,
unless his being there could be made a step to something beyond? While the usual preliminary
work was being done, he looked round the House, and saw Lord Cantrip in the Peers' gallery.
Alas! of what avail was that? He had always been able to bind to him individuals with whom
he had been brought into close contact; but more than that was wanted in this most precarious
of professions, in which now, for a second time, he was attempting to earn his bread.

At half-past four he was on his legs in the midst of a crowded House. The chance,--perhaps
the hope,--of some such encounter as that of the former day, brought members into their seats,
and filled the gallery with strangers. We may say, perhaps, that the highest duty imposed upon
us as a nation is the management of India; and we may also say that in a great national assembly
personal squabbling among its members is the least dignified work in which it can employ itself.
But the prospect of an explanation,--or otherwise of a fight,--between two leading politicians
will fill the House; and any allusion to our Eastern Empire will certainly empty it. An aptitude
for such encounters is almost a necessary qualification for a popular leader in Parliament,
as is a capacity for speaking for three hours to the reporters, and to the reporters only,--a
necessary qualification for an Under-Secretary of State for India.

Phineas had the advantage of the temper of the moment in a House thoroughly crowded, and he
enjoyed it. Let a man doubt ever so much his own capacity for some public exhibition which
he has undertaken; yet he will always prefer to fail,--if fail he must,--before a large audience.
But on this occasion there was no failure. That sense of awe from the surrounding circumstances
of the moment, which had once been heavy on him, and which he still well remembered, had been
overcome, and had never returned to him. He felt now that he should not lack words to pour
out his own individual grievances were it not that he was prevented by a sense of the indiscretion
of doing so. As it was, he did succeed in alluding to his own condition in a manner that brought
upon him no reproach. He began by saying that he should not have added to the difficulty of
the debate,--which was one simply of length,--were it not that he had been accused in advance
of voting against a measure as to which he had pledged himself at the hustings to do all that
he could to further it. No man was more anxious than he, an Irish Roman Catholic, to abolish
that which he thought to be the anomaly of a State Church, and he did not in the least doubt
that he should now be doing the best in his power with that object in voting against the second
reading of the present bill. That such a measure should be carried by the gentlemen opposite,
in their own teeth, at the bidding of the right honourable gentleman who led them, he thought
to be impossible. Upon this he was hooted at from the other side with many gestures of indignant
denial, and was, of course, equally cheered by those around him. Such interruptions are new
breath to the nostrils of all orators, and Phineas enjoyed the noise. He repeated his assertion
that it would be an evil thing for the country that the measure should be carried by men who
in their hearts condemned it, and was vehemently called to order for this assertion about the
hearts of gentlemen. But a speaker who can certainly be made amenable to authority for vilipending
in debate the heart of any specified opponent, may with safety attribute all manner of ill
to the agglomerated hearts of a party. To have told any individual Conservative,--Sir Orlando
Drought for instance,--that he was abandoning all the convictions of his life, because he was
a creature at the command of Mr. Daubeny, would have been an insult that would have moved even
the Speaker from his serenity; but you can hardly be personal to a whole bench of Conservatives,--to
bench above bench of Conservatives. The charge had been made and repeated over and over again,
till all the Orlando Droughts were ready to cut some man's throat,--whether their own, or Mr.
Daubeny's, or Mr. Gresham's, they hardly knew. It might probably have been Mr. Daubeny's for
choice, had any real cutting of a throat been possible. It was now made again by Phineas Finn,--with
the ostensible object of defending himself,--and he for the moment became the target for Conservative
wrath. Some one asked him in fury by what right he took upon himself to judge of the motives
of gentlemen on that side of the House of whom personally he knew nothing. Phineas replied
that he did not at all doubt the motives of the honourable gentleman who asked the question,
which he was sure were noble and patriotic. But unfortunately the whole country was convinced
that the Conservative party as a body was supporting this measure, unwillingly, and at the
bidding of one man;--and, for himself, he was bound to say that he agreed with the country.
And so the row was renewed and prolonged, and the gentlemen assembled, members and strangers
together, passed a pleasant evening.

Before he sat down, Phineas made one allusion to that former scuttling of the ship,--an accusation
as to which had been made against him so injuriously by Mr. Bonteen. He himself, he said, had
been called impractical, and perhaps he might allude to a vote which he had given in that House
when last he had the honour of sitting there, and on giving which he resigned the office which
he had then held. He had the gratification of knowing that he had been so far practical as
to have then foreseen the necessity of a measure which had since been passed. And he did not
doubt that he would hereafter be found to have been equally practical in the view that he had
expressed on the hustings at Tankerville, for he was convinced that before long the anomaly
of which he had spoken would cease to exist under the influence of a Government that would
really believe in the work it was doing.

There was no doubt as to the success of his speech. The vehemence with which his insolence
was abused by one after another of those who spoke later from the other side was ample evidence
of its success. But nothing occurred then or at the conclusion of the debate to make him think
that he had won his way back to Elysium. During the whole evening he exchanged not a syllable
with Mr. Gresham,--who indeed was not much given to converse with those around him in the House.
Erle said a few good-natured words to him, and Mr. Monk praised him highly. But in reading
the general barometer of the party as regarded himself, he did not find that the mercury went
up. He was wretchedly anxious, and angry with himself for his own anxiety. He scorned to say
a word that should sound like an entreaty; and yet he had placed his whole heart on a thing
which seemed to be slipping from him for the want of asking. In a day or two it would be known
whether the present Ministry would or would not go out. That they must be out of office before
a month was over seemed to him the opinion of everybody. His fate,--and what a fate it was!--would
then be absolutely in the hands of Mr. Gresham. Yet he could not speak a word of his hopes
and fears even to Mr. Gresham. He had given up everything in the world with the view of getting
into office; and now that the opportunity had come,--an opportunity which if allowed to slip
could hardly return again in time to be of service to him,--the prize was to elude his grasp!

But yet he did not say a word to any one on the subject that was so near his heart, although
in the course of the night he spoke to Lord Cantrip in the gallery of the House. He told his
friend that a correspondence had taken place between himself and Mr. Bonteen, in which he thought
that he had been ill-used, and as to which he was quite anxious to ask His Lordship's advice.
"I heard that you and he had been tilting at each other," said Lord Cantrip, smiling.

"Have you seen the letters?"

"No;--but I was told of them by Lord Fawn, who has seen them."

"I knew he would show them to every newsmonger about the clubs," said Phineas angrily.

"You can't quarrel with Bonteen for showing them to Fawn, if you intend to show them to me."

"He may publish them at Charing Cross if he likes."

"Exactly. I am sure that there will have been nothing in them prejudicial to you. What I mean
is that if you think it necessary, with a view to your own character, to show them to me or
to another friend, you cannot complain that he should do the same."

An appointment was made at Lord Cantrip's house for the next morning, and Phineas could but
acknowledge to himself that the man's manner to himself had been kind and constant. Nevertheless,
the whole affair was going against him. Lord Cantrip had not said a word prejudicial to that
wretch Bonteen; much less had he hinted at any future arrangements which would be comfortable
to poor Phineas. They two, Lord Cantrip and Phineas, had at one period been on most intimate
terms together;--had worked in the same office, and had thoroughly trusted each other. The
elder of the two,--for Lord Cantrip was about ten years senior to Phineas,--had frequently
expressed the most lively interest in the prospects of the other; and Phineas had felt that
in any emergency he could tell his friend all his hopes and fears. But now he did not say a
word of his position, nor did Lord Cantrip allude to it. They were to meet on the morrow in
order that Lord Cantrip might read the correspondence;--but Phineas was sure that no word would
be said about the Government.

At five o'clock in the morning the division took place, and the Government was beaten by a
majority of 72. This was much higher than any man had expected. When the parties were marshalled
in the opposite lobbies it was found that in the last moment the number of those Conservatives
who dared to rebel against their Conservative leaders was swelled by the course which the debate
had taken. There were certain men who could not endure to be twitted with having deserted the
principles of their lives, when it was clear that nothing was to be gained by the party by
such desertion.

CHAPTER XXXVII

The Conspiracy

On the morning following the great division Phineas was with his friend, Lord Cantrip, by eleven
o'clock; and Lord Cantrip, when he had read the two letters in which were comprised the whole
correspondence, made to our unhappy hero the following little speech. "I do not think that
you can do anything. Indeed, I am sure that Mr. Monk is quite right. I don't quite see what
it is that you wish to do. Privately,--between our two selves,--I do not hesitate to say that
Mr. Bonteen has intended to be ill-natured. I fancy that he is an ill-natured--or at any rate
a jealous--man; and that he would be willing to run down a competitor in the race who had made
his running after a fashion different from his own. Bonteen has been a useful man,--a very
useful man; and the more so perhaps because he has not entertained any high political theory
of his own. You have chosen to do so,--and undoubtedly when you and Monk left us, to our very
great regret, you did scuttle the ship."

"We had no intention of that kind."

"Do not suppose that I blame you. That which was odious to the eyes of Mr. Bonteen was to my
thinking high and honourable conduct. I have known the same thing done by members of a Government
perhaps half-a-dozen times, and the men by whom it has been done have been the best and noblest
of our modern statesmen. There has generally been a hard contest in the man's breast between
loyalty to his party and strong personal convictions, the result of which has been an inability
on the part of the struggler to give even a silent support to a measure which he has disapproved.
That inability is no doubt troublesome at the time to the colleagues of the seceder, and constitutes
an offence hardly to be pardoned by such gentlemen as Mr. Bonteen."

"For Mr. Bonteen personally I care nothing."

"But of course you must endure the ill-effects of his influence,--be they what they may. When
you seceded from our Government you looked for certain adverse consequences. If you did not,
where was your self-sacrifice? That such men as Mr. Bonteen should feel that you had scuttled
the ship, and be unable to forgive you for doing so,--that is exactly the evil which you knew
you must face. You have to face it now, and surely you can do so without showing your teeth.
Hereafter, when men more thoughtful than Mr. Bonteen shall have come to acknowledge the high
principle by which your conduct has been governed, you will receive your reward. I suppose
Mr. Daubeny must resign now."

"Everybody says so."

"I am by no means sure that he will. Any other Minister since Lord North's time would have
done so, with such a majority against him on a vital measure; but he is a man who delights
in striking out some wonderful course for himself."

"A prime minister so beaten surely can't go on."

"Not for long, one would think. And yet how are you to turn him out? It depends very much on
a man's power of endurance."

"His colleagues will resign, I should think."

"Probably;--and then he must go. I should say that that will be the way in which the matter
will settle itself. Good morning, Finn;--and take my word for it, you had better not answer
Mr. Bonteen's letter."

Not a word had fallen from Lord Cantrip's friendly lips as to the probability of Phineas being
invited to join the future Government. An attempt had been made to console him with the hazy
promise of some future reward,--which however was to consist rather of the good opinion of
good men than of anything tangible and useful. But even this would never come to him. What
would good men know of him and of his self-sacrifice when he should have been driven out of
the world by poverty, and forced probably to go to some New Zealand or back Canadian settlement
to look for his bread? How easy, thought Phineas, must be the sacrifices of rich men, who can
stay their time, and wait in perfect security for their rewards! But for such a one as he,
truth to a principle was political annihilation. Two or three years ago he had done what he
knew to be a noble thing;--and now, because he had done that noble thing, he was to be regarded
as unfit for that very employment for which he was peculiarly fitted. But Bonteen and Co. had
not been his only enemies. His luck had been against him throughout. Mr. Quintus Slide, with
his People's Banner, and the story of that wretched affair in Judd Street, had been as strong
against him probably as Mr. Bonteen's ill-word. Then he thought of Lady Laura, and her love
for him. His gratitude to Lady Laura was boundless. There was nothing he would not do for Lady
Laura,--were it in his power to do anything. But no circumstance in his career had been so
unfortunate for him as this affection. A wretched charge had been made against him which, though
wholly untrue, was as it were so strangely connected with the truth, that slanderers might
not improbably be able almost to substantiate their calumnies. She would be in London soon,
and he must devote himself to her service. But every act of friendship that he might do for
her would be used as proof of the accusation that had been made against him. As he thought
of all this he was walking towards Park Lane in order that he might call upon Madame Goesler
according to his promise. As he went up to the drawing-room he met old Mr. Maule coming down,
and the two bowed to each other on the stairs. In the drawing-room, sitting with Madame Goesler,
he found Mrs. Bonteen. Now Mrs. Bonteen was almost as odious to him as was her husband.

"Did you ever know anything more shameful, Mr. Finn," said Mrs. Bonteen, "than the attack made
upon Mr. Bonteen the night before last?" Phineas could see a smile on Madame Goesler's face
as the question was asked;--for she knew, and he knew that she knew, how great was the antipathy
between him and the Bonteens.

"The attack was upon Mr. Gresham, I thought," said Phineas.

"Oh, yes; nominally. But of course everybody knows what was meant. Upon my word there is twice
more jealousy among men than among women. Is there not, Madame Goesler?"

"I don't think any man could be more jealous than I am myself," said Madame Goesler.

"Then you're fit to be a member of a Government, that's all. I don't suppose that there is
a man in England has worked harder for his party than Mr. Bonteen."

"I don't think there is," said Phineas.

"Or made himself more useful in Parliament. As for work, only that his constitution is so strong,
he would have killed himself."

"He should take Thorley's mixture,--twice a day," said Madame Goesler.

"Take!--he never has time to take anything. He breakfasts in his dressing-room, carries his
lunch in his pocket, and dines with the division bell ringing him up between his fish and his
mutton chop. Now he has got their decimal coinage in hand, and has not a moment to himself,
even on Sundays!"

"He'll be sure to go to Heaven for it,--that's one comfort."

"And because they are absolutely obliged to make him Chancellor of the Exchequer,--just as
if he had not earned it,--everybody is so jealous that they are ready to tear him to pieces!"

"Who is everybody?" asked Phineas.

"Oh! I know. It wasn't only Sir Orlando Drought. Who told Sir Orlando? Never mind, Mr. Finn."

"I don't in the least, Mrs. Bonteen."

"I should have thought you would have been so triumphant," said Madame Goesler.

"Not in the least, Madame Goesler. Why should I be triumphant? Of course the position is very
high,--very high indeed. But it's no more than what I have always expected. If a man give up
his life to a pursuit he ought to succeed. As for ambition, I have less of it than any woman.
Only I do hate jealousy, Mr. Finn." Then Mrs. Bonteen took her leave, kissing her dear friend,
Madame Goesler, and simply bowing to Phineas.

"What a detestable woman!" said Phineas.

"I know of old that you don't love her."

"I don't believe that you love her a bit better than I do, and yet you kiss her."

"Hardly that, Mr. Finn. There has come up a fashion for ladies to pretend to be very loving,
and so they put their faces together. Two hundred years ago ladies and gentlemen did the same
thing with just as little regard for each other. Fashions change, you know."

"That was a change for the worse, certainly, Madame Goesler."

"It wasn't of my doing. So you've had a great victory."

"Yes;--greater than we expected."

"According to Mrs. Bonteen, the chief result to the country will be that the taxes will be
so very safe in her husband's hands! I am sure she believes that all Parliament has been at
work in order that he might be made a Cabinet Minister. I rather like her for it."

"I don't like her, or her husband."

"I do like a woman that can thoroughly enjoy her husband's success. When she is talking of
his carrying about his food in his pocket she is completely happy. I don't think Lady Glencora
ever cared in the least about her husband being Chancellor of the Exchequer."

"Because it added nothing to her own standing."

"That's very ill-natured, Mr. Finn; and I find that you are becoming generally ill-natured.
You used to be the best-humoured of men."

"I hadn't so much to try my temper as I have now, and then you must remember, Madame Goesler,
that I regard these people as being especially my enemies."

"Lady Glencora was never your enemy."

"Nor my friend,--especially."

"Then you wrong her. If I tell you something you must be discreet."

"Am I not always discreet?"

"She does not love Mr. Bonteen. She has had too much of him at Matching. And as for his wife,
she is quite as unwilling to be kissed by her as you can be. Her Grace is determined to fight
your battle for you."

"I want her to do nothing of the kind, Madame Goesler."

"You will know nothing about it. We have put our heads to work, and Mr. Palliser,--that is,
the new Duke,--is to be made to tell Mr. Gresham that you are to have a place. It is no good
you being angry, for the thing is done. If you have enemies behind your back, you must have
friends behind your back also. Lady Cantrip is to do the same thing."

"For Heaven's sake, not."

"It's all arranged. You'll be called the ladies' pet, but you mustn't mind that. Lady Laura
will be here before it's arranged, and she will get hold of Mr. Erle."

"You are laughing at me, I know."

"Let them laugh that win. We thought of besieging Lord Fawn through Lady Chiltern, but we are
not sure that anybody cares for Lord Fawn. The man we specially want now is the other Duke.
We're afraid of attacking him through the Duchess because we think that he is inhumanly indifferent
to anything that his wife says to him."

"If that kind of thing is done I shall not accept place even if it is offered me."

"Why not? Are you going to let a man like Mr. Bonteen bowl you over? Did you ever know Lady
Glen fail in anything that she attempted? She is preparing a secret with the express object
of making Mr. Ratler her confidant. Lord Mount Thistle is her slave, but then I fear Lord Mount
Thistle is not of much use. She'll do anything and everything,--except flatter Mr. Bonteen."

"Heaven forbid that anybody should do that for my sake."

"The truth is that he made himself so disagreeable at Matching that Lady Glen is broken-hearted
at finding that he is to seem to owe his promotion to her husband's favour. Now you know all
about it."

"You have been very wrong to tell me."

"Perhaps I have, Mr. Finn. But I thought it better that you should know that you have friends
at work for you. We believe,--or rather, the Duchess believes,--that falsehoods have been used
which are as disparaging to Lady Laura Kennedy as they are injurious to you, and she is determined
to put it right. Some one has told Mr. Gresham that you have been the means of breaking the
hearts both of Lord Brentford and Mr. Kennedy,--two members of the late Cabinet,--and he must
be made to understand that this is untrue. If only for Lady Laura's sake you must submit."

"Lord Brentford and I are the best friends in the world."

"And Mr. Kennedy is a madman,--absolutely in custody of his friends, as everybody knows; and
yet the story has been made to work."

"And you do not feel that all this is derogatory to me?"

Madame Goesler was silent for a moment, and then she answered boldly, "Not a whit. Why should
it be derogatory? It is not done with the object of obtaining an improper appointment on behalf
of an unimportant man. When falsehoods of that kind are told you can't meet them in a straightforward
way. I suppose I know with fair accuracy the sort of connection there has been between you
and Lady Laura." Phineas very much doubted whether she had any such knowledge; but he said
nothing, though the lady paused a few moments for reply. "You can't go and tell Mr. Gresham
all that; nor can any friend do so on your behalf. It would be absurd."

"Most absurd."

"And yet it is essential to your interests that he should know it. When your enemies are undermining
you, you must countermine or you'll be blown up."

"I'd rather fight above ground."

"That's all very well, but your enemies won't stay above ground. Is that newspaper man above
ground? And for a little job of clever mining, believe me, that there is not a better engineer
going than Lady Glen;--not but what I've known her to be very nearly 'hoist with her own petard,'"--added
Madame Goesler, as she remembered a certain circumstance in their joint lives.

All that Madame Goesler said was true. A conspiracy had been formed, in the first place at
the instance of Madame Goesler, but altogether by the influence of the young Duchess, for forcing
upon the future Premier the necessity of admitting Phineas Finn into his Government. On the
Wednesday following the conclusion of the debate,--the day on the morning of which the division
was to take place,--there was no House. On the Thursday, the last day on which the House was
to sit before the Easter holidays, Mr. Daubeny announced his intention of postponing the declaration
of his intentions till after the adjournment. The House would meet, he said, on that day week,
and then he would make his official statement. This communication he made very curtly, and
in a manner that was thought by some to be almost insolent to the House. It was known that
he had been grievously disappointed by the result of the debate,--not probably having expected
a majority since his adversary's strategy had been declared, but always hoping that the deserters
from his own standard would be very few. The deserters had been very many, and Mr. Daubeny
was majestic in his wrath.

Nothing, however, could be done till after Easter. The Ratlers of the Liberal party were very
angry at the delay, declaring that it would have been much to the advantage of the country
at large that the vacation week should have been used for constructing a Liberal Cabinet. This
work of construction always takes time, and delays the business of the country. No one can
have known better than did Mr. Daubeny how great was the injury of delay, and how advantageously
the short holiday might have been used. With a majority of seventy-two against him, there could
be no reason why he should not have at once resigned, and advised the Queen to send for Mr.
Gresham. Nothing could be worse than his conduct. So said the Liberals, thirsting for office.
Mr. Gresham himself did not open his mouth when the announcement was made;--nor did any man,
marked for future office, rise to denounce the beaten statesman. But one or two independent
Members expressed their great regret at the unnecessary delay which was to take place before
they were informed who was to be the Minister of the Crown. But Mr. Daubeny, as soon as he
had made his statement, stalked out of the House, and no reply whatever was made to the independent
Members. Some few sublime and hot-headed gentlemen muttered the word "impeachment." Others,
who were more practical and less dignified, suggested that the Prime Minister "ought to have
his head punched."

It thus happened that all the world went out of town that week,--so that the Duchess of Omnium
was down at Matching when Phineas called at the Duke's house in Carlton Terrace on Friday.
With what object he had called he hardly knew himself; but he thought that he intended to assure
the Duchess that he was not a candidate for office, and that he must deprecate her interference.
Luckily,--or unluckily,--he did not see her, and he felt that it would be impossible to convey
his wishes in a letter. The whole subject was one which would have defied him to find words
sufficiently discreet for his object.

The Duke and Duchess of St. Bungay were at Matching for the Easter,--as also was Barrington
Erle, and also that dreadful Mr. Bonteen, from whose presence the poor Duchess of Omnium could
in these days never altogether deliver herself. "Duke," she said, "you know Mr. Finn?"

"Certainly. It was not very long ago that I was talking to him."

"He used to be in office, you remember."

"Oh yes;--and a very good beginner he was. Is he a friend of Your Grace's?"

"A great friend. I'll tell you what I want you to do. You must have some place found for him."

"My dear Duchess, I never interfere."

"Why, Duke, you've made more Cabinets than any man living."

"I fear, indeed, that I have been at the construction of more Governments than most men. It's
forty years ago since Lord Melbourne first did me the honour of consulting me. When asked for
advice, my dear, I have very often given it. It has occasionally been my duty to say that I
could not myself give my slender assistance to a Ministry unless I were supported by the presence
of this or that political friend. But never in my life have I asked for an appointment as a
personal favour; and I am sure you won't be angry with me if I say that I cannot begin to do
so now."

"But Mr. Finn ought to be there. He did so well before."

"If so, let us presume that he will be there. I can only say, from what little I know of him,
that I shall be happy to see him in any office to which the future Prime Minister may consider
it to be his duty to appoint him." "To think," said the Duchess of Omnium afterwards to her
friend Madame Goesler,--"to think that I should have had that stupid old woman a week in the
house, and all for nothing!"

"Upon my word, Duchess," said Barrington Erle, "I don't know why it is, but Gresham seems to
have taken a dislike to him."

"It's Bonteen's doing."

"Very probably."

"Surely you can get the better of that?"

"I look upon Phineas Finn, Duchess, almost as a child of my own. He has come back to Parliament
altogether at my instigation."

"Then you ought to help him."

"And so I would if I could. Remember I am not the man I used to be when dear old Mr. Mildmay
reigned. The truth is, I never interfere now unless I'm asked."

"I believe that every one of you is afraid of Mr. Gresham."

"Perhaps we are."

"I'll tell you what. If he's passed over I'll make such a row that some of you shall hear it."

"How fond all you women are of Phineas Finn."

"I don't care that for him," said the Duchess, snapping her fingers--"more than I do, that
is, for any other mere acquaintance. The man is very well, as most men are."

"Not all."

"No, not all. Some are as little and jealous as a girl in her tenth season. He is a decently
good fellow, and he is to be thrown over, because--"

"Because of what?"

"I don't choose to name any one. You ought to know all about it, and I do not doubt but you
do. Lady Laura Kennedy is your own cousin."

"There is not a spark of truth in all that."

"Of course there is not; and yet he is to be punished. I know very well, Mr. Erle, that if
you choose to put your shoulder to the wheel you can manage it; and I shall expect to have
it managed."

"Plantagenet," she said the next day to her husband, "I want you to do something for me."

"To do something! What am I to do? It's very seldom you want anything in my line."

"This isn't in your line at all, and yet I want you to do it."

"Ten to one it's beyond my means."

"No, it isn't. I know you can if you like. I suppose you are all sure to be in office within
ten days or a fortnight?"

"I can't say, my dear. I have promised Mr. Gresham to be of use to him if I can."

"Everybody knows all that. You're going to be Privy Seal, and to work just the same as ever
at those horrible two farthings."

"And what is it you want, Glencora?"

"I want you to say that you won't take any office unless you are allowed to bring in one or
two friends with you."

"Why should I do that? I shall not doubt any Cabinet chosen by Mr. Gresham."

"I'm not speaking of the Cabinet; I allude to men in lower offices, lords, and Under-Secretaries,
and Vice-people. You know what I mean."

"I never interfere."

"But you must. Other men do continually. It's quite a common thing for a man to insist that
one or two others should come in with him."

"Yes. If a man feels that he cannot sustain his own position without support, he declines to
join the Government without it. But that isn't my case. The friends who are necessary to me
in the Cabinet are the very men who will certainly be there. I would join no Government without
the Duke; but--"

"Oh, the Duke--the Duke! I hate dukes--and duchesses too. I'm not talking about a duke. I want
you to oblige me by making a point with Mr. Gresham that Mr. Finn shall have an office."

"Mr. Finn!"

"Yes, Mr. Finn. I'll explain it all if you wish it."

"My dear Glencora, I never interfere."

"Who does interfere? Everybody says the same. Somebody interferes, I suppose. Mr. Gresham can't
know everybody so well as to be able to fit all the pegs into all the holes without saying
a word to anybody."

"He would probably speak to Mr. Bonteen."

"Then he would speak to a very disagreeable man, and one I'm as sick of as I ever was of any
man I ever knew. If you can't manage this for me, Plantagenet, I shall take it very ill. It's
a little thing, and I'm sure you could have it done. I don't very often trouble you by asking
for anything."

The Duke in his quiet way was an affectionate man, and an indulgent husband. On the following
morning he was closeted with Mr. Bonteen, two private Secretaries, and a leading clerk from
the Treasury for four hours, during which they were endeavouring to ascertain whether the commercial
world of Great Britain would be ruined or enriched if twelve pennies were declared to contain
fifty farthings. The discussion had been grievously burdensome to the minds of the Duke's assistants
in it, but he himself had remembered his wife through it all. "By the way," he said, whispering
into Mr. Bonteen's private ear as he led that gentleman away to lunch, "if we do come in--"

"Oh, we must come in."

"If we do, I suppose something will be done for that Mr. Finn. He spoke well the other night."

Mr. Bonteen's face became very long. "He helped to upset the coach when he was with us before."

"I don't think that that is much against him."

"Is he--a personal friend of Your Grace's?"

"No--not particularly. I never care about such things for myself; but Lady Glencora--"

"I think the Duchess can hardly know what has been his conduct to poor Kennedy. There was a
most disreputable row at a public-house in London, and I am told that he behaved--very badly."

"I never heard a word about it," said the Duke.

"I'll tell you just the truth," said Mr. Bonteen. "I've been asked about him, and I've been
obliged to say that he would weaken any Government that would give him office."

"Oh, indeed!"

That evening the Duke told the Duchess nearly all that he had heard, and the Duchess swore
that she wasn't going to be beaten by Mr. Bonteen.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

Once Again in Portman Square

On the Wednesday in Easter week Lord Brentford and Lady Laura Kennedy reached Portman Square
from Dresden, and Phineas, who had remained in town, was summoned thither by a note written
at Dover. "We arrived here to-day, and shall be in town to-morrow afternoon, between four and
five. Papa wants to see you especially. Can you manage to be with us in the Square at about
eight? I know it will be inconvenient, but you will put up with inconvenience. I don't like
to keep Papa up late; and if he is tired he won't speak to you as he would if you came early.--L.
K." Phineas was engaged to dine with Lord Cantrip; but he wrote to excuse himself,--telling
the simple truth. He had been asked to see Lord Brentford on business, and must obey the summons.

He was shown into a sitting-room on the ground floor, which he had always known as the Earl's
own room, and there he found Lord Brentford alone. The last time he had been there he had come
to plead with the Earl on behalf of Lord Chiltern, and the Earl had then been a stern self-willed
man, vigorous from a sense of power, and very able to maintain and to express his own feelings.
Now he was a broken-down old man,--whose mind had been, as it were, unbooted and put into moral
slippers for the remainder of its term of existence upon earth. He half shuffled up out of
his chair as Phineas came up to him, and spoke as though every calamity in the world were oppressing
him. "Such a passage! Oh, very bad, indeed! I thought it would have been the death of me. Laura
thought it better to come on." The fact, however, had been that the Earl had so many objections
to staying at Calais, that his daughter had felt herself obliged to yield to him.

"You must be glad at any rate to have got home," said Phineas.

"Home! I don't know what you call home. I don't suppose I shall ever feel any place to be home
again."

"You'll go to Saulsby;--will you not?"

"How can I tell? If Chiltern would have kept the house up, of course I should have gone there.
But he never would do anything like anybody else. Violet wants me to go to that place they've
got there, but I shan't do that."

"It's a comfortable house."

"I hate horses and dogs, and I won't go."

There was nothing more to be said on that point. "I hope Lady Laura is well."

"No, she's not. How should she be well? She's anything but well. She'll be in directly, but
she thought I ought to see you first. I suppose this wretched man is really mad."

"I am told so."

"He never was anything else since I knew him. What are we to do now? Forster says it won't
look well to ask for a separation only because he's insane. He tried to shoot you?"

"And very nearly succeeded."

"Forster says that if we do anything, all that must come out."

"There need not be the slightest hesitation as far as I am concerned, Lord Brentford."

"You know he keeps all her money."

"At present I suppose he couldn't give it up."

"Why not? Why shouldn't he give it up? God bless my soul! Forty thousand pounds and all for
nothing. When he married he declared that he didn't care about it! Money was nothing to him!
So she lent it to Chiltern."

"I remember."

"But they hadn't been together a year before he asked for it. Now there it is;--and if she
were to die to-morrow it would be lost to the family. Something must be done, you know. I can't
let her money go in that way."

"You'll do what Mr. Forster suggests, no doubt."

"But he won't suggest anything. They never do. He doesn't care what becomes of the money. It
never ought to have been given up as it was."

"It was settled, I suppose."

"Yes;--if there were children. And it will come back to her if he dies first. But mad people
never do die. That's a well-known fact. They've nothing to trouble them, and they live for
ever. It'll all go to some cousin of his that nobody ever saw."

"Not as long as Lady Laura lives."

"But she does not get a penny of the income;--not a penny. There never was anything so cruel.
He has published all manner of accusations against her."

"Nobody believes a word of that, my lord."

"And then when she is dragged forward by the necessity of vindicating her character, he goes
mad and keeps all her money! There never was anything so cruel since the world began."

This continued for half-an-hour, and then Lady Laura came in. Nothing had come, or could have
come, from the consultation with the Earl. Had it gone on for another hour, he would simply
have continued to grumble, and have persevered in insisting upon the hardships he endured.
Lady Laura was in black, and looked sad, and old, and careworn; but she did not seem to be
ill. Phineas could not but think at the moment how entirely her youth had passed away from
her. She came and sat close by him, and began at once to speak of the late debate. "Of course
they'll go out," she said.

"I presume they will."

"And our party will come in."

"Oh, yes;--Mr. Gresham, and the two dukes, and Lord Cantrip,--with Legge Wilson, Sir Harry
Coldfoot, and the rest of them."

"And you?"

Phineas smiled, and tried to smile pleasantly, as he answered, "I don't know that they'll put
themselves out by doing very much for me."

"They'll do something."

"I fancy not. Indeed, Lady Laura, to tell the truth at once, I know that they don't mean to
offer me anything."

"After making you give up your place in Ireland?"

"They didn't make me give it up. I should never dream of using such an argument to any one.
Of course I had to judge for myself. There is nothing to be said about it;--only it is so."
As he told her this he strove to look light-hearted, and so to speak that she should not see
the depth of his disappointment;--but he failed altogether. She knew him too well not to read
his whole heart in the matter.

"Who has said it?" she asked.

"Nobody says things of that kind, and yet one knows."

"And why is it?"

"How can I say? There are various reasons,--and, perhaps, very good reasons. What I did before
makes men think that they can't depend on me. At any rate it is so."

"Shall you not speak to Mr. Gresham?"

"Certainly not."

"What do you say, Papa?"

"How can I understand it, my dear? There used to be a kind of honour in these things, but that's
all old-fashioned now. Ministers used to think of their political friends; but in these days
they only regard their political enemies. If you can make a Minister afraid of you, then it
becomes worth his while to buy you up. Most of the young men rise now by making themselves
thoroughly disagreeable. Abuse a Minister every night for half a session, and you may be sure
to be in office the other half,--if you care about it."

"May I speak to Barrington Erle?" asked Lady Laura.

"I had rather you did not. Of course I must take it as it comes."

"But, my dear Mr. Finn, people do make efforts in such cases. I don't doubt but that at this
moment there are a dozen men moving heaven and earth to secure something. No one has more friends
than you have."

Had not her father been present he would have told her what his friends were doing for him,
and how unhappy such interferences made him; but he could not explain all this before the Earl.
"I would so much rather hear about yourself," he said, again smiling.

"There is but little to say about us. I suppose Papa has told you?"

But the Earl had told him nothing, and indeed, there was nothing to tell. The lawyer had advised
that Mr. Kennedy's friends should be informed that Lady Laura now intended to live in England,
and that they should be invited to make to her some statement as to Mr. Kennedy's condition.
If necessary he, on her behalf, would justify her departure from her husband's roof by a reference
to the outrageous conduct of which Mr. Kennedy had since been guilty. In regard to Lady Laura's
fortune, Mr. Forster said that she could no doubt apply for alimony, and that if the application
were pressed at law she would probably obtain it;--but he could not recommend such a step at
the present moment. As to the accusation which had been made against her character, and which
had become public through the malice of the editor of The People's Banner, Mr. Forster thought
that the best refutation would be found in her return to England. At any rate he would advise
no further step at the present moment. Should any further libel appear in the columns of the
newspaper, then the question might be again considered. Mr. Forster had already been in Portman
Square, and this had been the result of the conference.

"There is not much comfort in it all,--is there?" said Lady Laura.

"There is no comfort in anything," said the Earl.

When Phineas took his leave Lady Laura followed him out into the hall, and they went together
into the large, gloomy dining-room, --gloomy and silent now, but which in former days he had
known to be brilliant with many lights, and cheerful with eager voices. "I must have one word
with you," she said, standing close to him against the table, and putting her hand upon his
arm. "Amidst all my sorrow, I have been so thankful that he did not--kill you."

"I almost wish he had."

"Oh, Phineas!--how can you say words so wicked! Would you have had him a murderer?"

"A madman is responsible for nothing."

"Where should I have been? What should I have done? But of course you do not mean it. You have
everything in life before you. Say some word to me more comfortable than that. You cannot think
how I have looked forward to meeting you again. It has robbed the last month of half its sadness."
He put his arm round her waist and pressed her to his side, but he said nothing. "It was so
good of you to go to him as you did. How was he looking?"

"Twenty years older than when you saw him last."

"But how in health?"

"He was thin and haggard."

"Was he pale?"

"No; flushed and red. He had not shaved himself for days; nor, as I believe, had he been out
of his room since he came up to London. I fancy that he will not live long."

"Poor fellow;--unhappy man! I was very wrong to marry him, Phineas."

"I have never said so;--nor, indeed, thought so."

"But I have thought so; and I say it also,--to you. I owe him any reparation that I can make
him; but I could not have lived with him. I had no idea, before, that the nature of two human
beings could be so unlike. I so often remember what you told me of him,--here; in this house,
when I first brought you together. Alas, how sad it has been!"

"Sad, indeed."

"But can this be true that you tell me of yourself?

"It is quite true. I could not say so before your father, but it is Mr. Bonteen's doing. There
is no remedy. I am sure of that. I am only afraid that people are interfering for me in a manner
that will be as disagreeable to me as it will be useless."

"What friends?" she asked.

He was still standing with his arm round her waist, and he did not like to mention the name
of Madame Goesler.

"The Duchess of Omnium,--whom you remember as Lady Glencora Palliser."

"Is she a friend of yours?"

"No;--not particularly. But she is an indiscreet woman, and hates Bonteen, and has taken it
into her stupid head to interest herself in my concerns. It is no doing of mine, and yet I
cannot help it."

"She will succeed."

"I don't want assistance from such a quarter; and I feel sure that she will not succeed."

"What will you do, Phineas?"

"What shall I do? Carry on the battle as long as I can without getting into debt, and then--vanish."

"You vanished once before,--did you not,--with a wife?"

"And now I shall vanish alone. My poor little wife! It seems all like a dream. She was so good,
so pure, so pretty, so loving!"

"Loving! A man's love is so easily transferred;--as easily as a woman's hand;--is it not, Phineas?
Say the word, for it is what you are thinking."

"I was thinking of no such thing."

"You must think it--You need not be afraid to reproach me. I could bear it from you. What could
I not bear from you? Oh, Phineas;--if I had only known myself then, as I do now!"

"It is too late for regrets," he said. There was something in the words which grated on her
feelings, and induced her at length to withdraw herself from his arm. Too late for regrets!
She had never told herself that it was not too late. She was the wife of another man, and therefore,
surely it was too late. But still the word coming from his mouth was painful to her. It seemed
to signify that for him at least the game was all over.

"Yes, indeed," she said,--"if our regrets and remorse were at our own disposal! You might as
well say that it is too late for unhappiness, too late for weariness, too late for all the
misery that comes from a life's disappointment."

"I should have said that indulgence in regrets is vain."

"That is a scrap of philosophy which I have heard so often before! But we will not quarrel,
will we, on the first day of my return?"

"I hope not."

"And I may speak to Barrington?"

"No; certainly not."

"But I shall. How can I help it? He will be here to-morrow, and will be full of the coming
changes. How should I not mention your name? He knows--not all that has passed, but too much
not to be aware of my anxiety. Of course your name will come up?"

"What I request,--what I demand is, that you ask no favour for me. Your father will miss you,--will
he not? I had better go now."

"Good night, Phineas."

"Good night, dear friend."

"Dearest, dearest friend," she said. Then he left her, and without assistance, let himself
out into the square. In her intercourse with him there was a passion the expression of which
caused him sorrow and almost dismay. He did not say so even to himself, but he felt that a
time might come in which she would resent the coldness of demeanour which it would be imperative
upon him to adopt in his intercourse with her. He knew how imprudent he had been to stand there
with his arm round her waist.

CHAPTER XXXIX

Cagliostro

It had been settled that Parliament should meet on the Thursday in Easter week, and it was
known to the world at large that Cabinet Councils were held on the Friday previous, on the
Monday, and on the Tuesday; but nobody knew what took place at those meetings. Cabinet Councils
are, of course, very secret. What kind of oath the members take not to divulge any tittle of
the proceedings at these awful conferences, the general public does not know; but it is presumed
that oaths are taken very solemn, and it is known that they are very binding. Nevertheless,
it is not an uncommon thing to hear openly at the clubs an account of what has been settled;
and, as we all know, not a council is held as to which the editor of The People's Banner does
not inform its readers next day exactly what took place. But as to these three Cabinet Councils
there was an increased mystery abroad. Statements, indeed, were made, very definite and circumstantial,
but then they were various,--and directly opposed one to another. According to The People's
Banner, Mr. Daubeny had resolved, with that enduring courage which was his peculiar characteristic,
that he would not be overcome by faction, but would continue to exercise all the functions
of Prime Minister until he had had an opportunity of learning whether his great measure had
been opposed by the sense of the country, or only by the tactics of an angry and greedy party.
Other journals declared that the Ministry as a whole had decided on resigning. But the clubs
were in a state of agonising doubt. At the great stronghold of conservative policy in Pall
Mall men were silent, embarrassed, and unhappy. The party was at heart divorced from its leaders,--and
a party without leaders is powerless. To these gentlemen there could be no triumph, whether
Mr. Daubeny went out or remained in office. They had been betrayed;--but as a body were unable
even to accuse the traitor. As regarded most of them they had accepted the treachery and bowed
their heads beneath it, by means of their votes. And as to the few who had been staunch,--they
also were cowed by a feeling that they had been instrumental in destroying their own power
by endeavouring to protect a doomed institution. Many a thriving county member in those days
expressed a wish among his friends that he had never meddled with the affairs of public life,
and hinted at the Chiltern Hundreds. On the other side, there was undoubtedly something of
a rabid desire for immediate triumph, which almost deserved that epithet of greedy which was
then commonly used by Conservatives in speaking of their opponents. With the Liberal leaders,--such
men as Mr. Gresham and the two dukes,--the anxiety displayed was, no doubt, on behalf of the
country. It is right, according to our constitution, that the Government should be entrusted
to the hands of those whom the constituencies of the country have most trusted. And, on behalf
of the country, it behoves the men in whom the country has placed its trust to do battle in
season and out of season,--to carry on war internecine,--till the demands of the country are
obeyed. A sound political instinct had induced Mr. Gresham on this occasion to attack his opponent
simply on the ground of his being the leader only of a minority in the House of Commons. But
from among Mr. Gresham's friends there had arisen a noise which sounded very like a clamour
for place, and this noise of course became aggravated in the ears of those who were to be displaced.
Now, during Easter week, the clamour became very loud. Could it be possible that the archfiend
of a Minister would dare to remain in office till the end of a hurried Session, and then again
dissolve Parliament? Men talked of rows in London,--even of revolution, and there were meetings
in open places both by day and night. Petitions were to be prepared, and the country was to
be made to express itself.

When, however, Thursday afternoon came, Mr. Daubeny "threw up the sponge." Up to the last moment
the course which he intended to pursue was not known to the country at large. He entered the
House very slowly,--almost with a languid air, as though indifferent to its performances, and
took his seat at about half-past four. Every man there felt that there was insolence in his
demeanour,--and yet there was nothing on which it was possible to fasten in the way of expressed
complaint. There was a faint attempt at a cheer,--for good soldiers acknowledge the importance
of supporting even an unpopular general. But Mr. Daubeny's soldiers on this occasion were not
very good. When he had been seated about five minutes he rose, still very languidly, and began
his statement. He and his colleagues, he said, in their attempt to legislate for the good of
their country had been beaten in regard to a very great measure by a large majority, and in
compliance with what he acknowledged to be the expressed opinion of the House, he had considered
it to be his duty--as his colleagues had considered it to be theirs--to place their joint resignations
in the hands of Her Majesty. This statement was received with considerable surprise, as it
was not generally known that Mr. Daubeny had as yet even seen the Queen. But the feeling most
predominant in the House was one almost of dismay at the man's quiescence. He and his colleagues
had resigned, and he had recommended Her Majesty to send for Mr. Gresham. He spoke in so low
a voice as to be hardly audible to the House at large, and then paused,--ceasing to speak,
as though his work were done. He even made some gesture, as though stepping back to his seat;--deceived
by which Mr. Gresham, at the other side of the table, rose to his legs. "Perhaps," said Mr.
Daubeny,--"Perhaps the right honourable gentleman would pardon him, and the House would pardon
him, if still, for a moment, he interposed between the House and the right honourable gentleman.
He could well understand the impatience of the right honourable gentleman,--who no doubt was
anxious to reassume that authority among them, the temporary loss of which he had not perhaps
borne with all the equanimity which might have been expected from him. He would promise the
House and the right honourable gentleman that he would not detain them long." Mr. Gresham threw
himself back into his seat, evidently not without annoyance, and his enemy stood for a moment
looking at him. Unless they were angels these two men must at that moment have hated each other;--and
it is supposed that they were no more than human. It was afterwards said that the little ruse
of pretending to resume his seat had been deliberately planned by Mr. Daubeny with the view
of seducing Mr. Gresham into an act of seeming impatience, and that these words about his opponent's
failing equanimity had been carefully prepared.

Mr. Daubeny stood for a minute silent, and then began to pour forth that which was really his
speech on the occasion. Those flaccid half-pronounced syllables in which he had declared that
he had resigned,--had been studiously careless, purposely flaccid. It was his duty to let the
House know the fact, and he did his duty. But now he had a word to say in which he himself
could take some little interest. Mr. Daubeny could be fiery or flaccid as it suited himself;--and
now it suited him to be fiery. He had a prophecy to make, and prophets have ever been energetic
men. Mr. Daubeny conceived it to be his duty to inform the House, and through the House the
country, that now, at last, had the day of ruin come upon the British Empire, because it had
bowed itself to the dominion of an unscrupulous and greedy faction. It cannot be said that
the language which he used was unmeasured, because no word that he uttered would have warranted
the Speaker in calling him to order; but, within the very wide bounds of parliamentary etiquette,
there was no limit to the reproach and reprobation which he heaped on the House of Commons
for its late vote. And his audacity equalled his insolence. In announcing his resignation,
he had condescended to speak of himself and his colleagues; but now he dropped his colleagues
as though they were unworthy of his notice, and spoke only of his own doings,--of his own efforts
to save the country, which was indeed willing to be saved, but unable to select fitting instruments
of salvation. "He had been twitted," he said, "with inconsistency to his principles by men
who were simply unable to understand the meaning of the word Conservatism. These gentlemen
seemed to think that any man who did not set himself up as an apostle of constant change must
therefore be bound always to stand still and see his country perish from stagnation. It might
be that there were gentlemen in that House whose timid natures could not face the dangers of
any movement; but for himself he would say that no word had ever fallen from his lips which
justified either his friends or his adversaries in classing him among the number. If a man
be anxious to keep his fire alight, does he refuse to touch the sacred coals as in the course
of nature they are consumed? Or does he move them with the salutary poker and add fresh fuel
from the basket? They all knew that enemy to the comfort of the domestic hearth, who could
not keep his hands for a moment from the fire-irons. Perhaps he might be justified if he said
that they had been very much troubled of late in that House by gentlemen who could not keep
their fingers from poker and tongs. But there had now fallen upon them a trouble of a nature
much more serious in its effects than any that had come or could come from would-be reformers.
A spirit of personal ambition, a wretched thirst for office, a hankering after the power and
privileges of ruling, had not only actuated men,--as, alas, had been the case since first the
need for men to govern others had arisen in the world,--but had been openly avowed and put
forward as an adequate and sufficient reason for opposing a measure in disapprobation of which
no single argument had been used! The right honourable gentleman's proposition to the House
had been simply this;--'I shall oppose this measure, be it good or bad, because I desire, myself,
to be Prime Minister, and I call upon those whom I lead in politics to assist me in doing so,
in order that they may share the good things on which we may thus be enabled to lay our hands!'"

Then there arose a great row in the House, and there seemed to be a doubt whether the still
existing Minister of the day would be allowed to continue his statement. Mr. Gresham rose to
his feet, but sat down again instantly, without having spoken a word that was audible. Two
or three voices were heard calling upon the Speaker for protection. It was, however, asserted
afterwards that nothing had been said which demanded the Speaker's interference. But all moderate
voices were soon lost in the enraged clamour of members on each side. The insolence showered
upon those who generally supported Mr. Daubeny had equalled that with which he had exasperated
those opposed to him; and as the words had fallen from his lips, there had been no purpose
of cheering him from the conservative benches. But noise creates noise, and shouting is a ready
and easy mode of contest. For a while it seemed as though the right side of the Speaker's chair
was only beaten by the majority of lungs on the left side;--and in the midst of it all Mr.
Daubeny still stood, firm on his feet, till gentlemen had shouted themselves silent,--and then
he resumed his speech.

The remainder of what he said was profound, prophetic, and unintelligible. The gist of it,
so far as it could be understood when the bran was bolted from it, consisted in an assurance
that the country had now reached that period of its life in which rapid decay was inevitable,
and that, as the mortal disease had already shown itself in its worst form, national decrepitude
was imminent, and natural death could not long be postponed. They who attempted to read the
prophecy with accuracy were of opinion that the prophet had intimated that had the nation,
even in this its crisis, consented to take him, the prophet, as its sole physician and to obey
his prescription with childlike docility, health might not only have been re-established, but
a new juvenescence absolutely created. The nature of the medicine that should have been taken
was even supposed to have been indicated in some very vague terms. Had he been allowed to operate
he would have cut the tap-roots of the national cancer, have introduced fresh blood into the
national veins, and resuscitated the national digestion, and he seemed to think that the nation,
as a nation, was willing enough to undergo the operation, and be treated as he should choose
to treat it;--but that the incubus of Mr. Gresham, backed by an unworthy House of Commons,
had prevented, and was preventing, the nation from having its own way. Therefore the nation
must be destroyed. Mr. Daubeny as soon as he had completed his speech took up his hat and stalked
out of the House.

It was supposed at the time that the retiring Prime Minister had intended, when he rose to
his legs, not only to denounce his opponents, but also to separate himself from his own unworthy
associates. Men said that he had become disgusted with politics, disappointed, and altogether
demoralized by defeat, and great curiosity existed as to the steps which might be taken at
the time by the party of which he had hitherto been the leader. On that evening, at any rate,
nothing was done. When Mr. Daubeny was gone, Mr. Gresham rose and said that in the present
temper of the House he thought it best to postpone any statement from himself. He had received
Her Majesty's commands only as he had entered that House, and in obedience to those commands,
he should wait upon Her Majesty early to-morrow. He hoped to be able to inform the House at
the afternoon sitting, what was the nature of the commands with which Her Majesty might honour him.

"What do you think of that?" Phineas asked Mr. Monk as they left the House together.

"I think that our Chatham of to-day is but a very poor copy of him who misbehaved a century ago."

"Does not the whole thing distress you?"

"Not particularly. I have always felt that there has been a mistake about Mr. Daubeny. By many
he has been accounted as a statesman, whereas to me he has always been a political Cagliostro.
Now a conjuror is I think a very pleasant fellow to have among us, if we know that he is a
conjuror;--but a conjuror who is believed to do his tricks without sleight of hand is a dangerous
man. It is essential that such a one should be found out and known to be a conjuror,--and I
hope that such knowledge may have been communicated to some men this afternoon."

"He was very great," said Ratler to Bonteen. "Did you not think so?"

"Yes, I did,--very powerful indeed. But the party is broken up to atoms."

"Atoms soon come together again in politics," said Ratler. "They can't do without him. They
haven't got anybody else. I wonder what he did when he got home."

"Had some gruel and went to bed," said Bonteen. "They say these scenes in the House never disturb
him at home." From which conversations it may be inferred that Mr. Monk and Messrs. Ratler
and Bonteen did not agree in their ideas respecting political conjurors.

CHAPTER XL

The Prime Minister is Hard Pressed

It can never be a very easy thing to form a Ministry. The one chosen chief is readily selected.
Circumstances, indeed, have probably left no choice in the matter. Every man in the country
who has at all turned his thoughts that way knows very well who will be the next Prime Minister
when it comes to pass that a change is imminent. In these days the occupant of the throne can
have no difficulty. Mr. Gresham recommends Her Majesty to send for Mr. Daubeny, or Mr. Daubeny
for Mr. Gresham,--as some ten or a dozen years since Mr. Mildmay told her to send for Lord
de Terrier, or Lord de Terrier for Mr. Mildmay. The Prime Minister is elected by the nation,
but the nation, except in rare cases, cannot go below that in arranging details, and the man
for whom the Queen sends is burdened with the necessity of selecting his colleagues. It may
be,--probably must always be the case,--that this, that, and the other colleagues are clearly
indicated to his mind, but then each of these colleagues may want his own inferior coadjutors,
and so the difficulty begins, increases, and at length culminates. On the present occasion
it was known at the end of a week that Mr. Gresham had not filled all his offices, and that
there were difficulties. It was announced that the Duke of St. Bungay could not quite agree
on certain points with Mr. Gresham, and that the Duke of Omnium would do nothing without the
other Duke. The Duke of St. Bungay was very powerful, as there were three or four of the old
adherents of Mr. Mildmay who would join no Government unless he was with them. Sir Harry Coldfoot
and Lord Plinlimmon would not accept office without the Duke. The Duke was essential, and now,
though the Duke's character was essentially that of a practical man who never raised unnecessary
trouble, men said that the Duke was at the bottom of it all. The Duke did not approve of Mr.
Bonteen. Mr. Gresham, so it was said, insisted on Mr. Bonteen,--appealing to the other Duke.
But that other Duke, our own special Duke, Planty Pall that was, instead of standing up for
Mr. Bonteen, was cold and unsympathetic. He could not join the Ministry without his friend,
the Duke of St. Bungay, and as to Mr. Bonteen, he thought that perhaps a better selection might
be made.

Such were the club rumours which took place as to the difficulties of the day, and, as is generally
the case, they were not far from the truth. Neither of the dukes had absolutely put a veto
on poor Mr. Bonteen's elevation, but they had expressed themselves dissatisfied with the appointment,
and the younger duke had found himself called upon to explain that although he had been thrown
much into communication with Mr. Bonteen he had never himself suggested that that gentleman
should follow him at the Exchequer. This was one of the many difficulties which beset the Prime
Minister elect in the performance of his arduous duty.

Lady Glencora, as people would still persist in calling her, was at the bottom of it all. She
had sworn an oath inimical to Mr. Bonteen, and did not leave a stone unturned in her endeavours
to accomplish it. If Phineas Finn might find acceptance, then Mr. Bonteen might be allowed
to enter Elysium. A second Juno, she would allow the Romulus she hated to sit in the seats
of the blessed, to be fed with nectar, and to have his name printed in the lists of unruffled
Cabinet meetings,--but only on conditions. Phineas Finn must be allowed a seat also, and a
little nectar,--though it were at the second table of the gods. For this she struggled, speaking
her mind boldly to this and that member of her husband's party, but she struggled in vain.
She could obtain no assurance on behalf of Phineas Finn. The Duke of St. Bungay would do nothing
for her. Barrington Erle had declared himself powerless. Her husband had condescended to speak
to Mr. Bonteen himself, and Mr. Bonteen's insolent answer had been reported to her. Then she
went sedulously to work, and before a couple of days were over she did make her husband believe
that Mr. Bonteen was not fit to be Chancellor of the Exchequer. This took place before Mr.
Daubeny's statement, while the Duke and Duchess of St. Bungay were still at Matching,--while
Mr. Bonteen, unconscious of what was being done, was still in the House. Before the two days
were over, the Duke of St. Bungay had a very low opinion of Mr. Bonteen, but was quite ignorant
of any connection between that low opinion and the fortunes of Phineas Finn.

"Plantagenet, of all your men that are coming up, your Mr. Bonteen is the worst. I often think
that you are going down hill, both in character and intellect, but if you go as low as that
I shall prefer to cross the water, and live in America." This she said in the presence of the
two dukes.

"What has Mr. Bonteen done?" asked the elder, laughing.

"He was boasting this morning openly of whom he intended to bring with him into the Cabinet."
Truth demands that the chronicler should say that this was a positive fib. Mr. Bonteen, no
doubt, had talked largely and with indiscretion, but had made no such boast as that of which
the Duchess accused him. "Mr. Gresham will get astray if he doesn't allow some one to tell
him the truth."

She did not press the matter any further then, but what she had said was not thrown away. "Your
wife is almost right about that man," the elder Duke said to the younger.

"It's Mr. Gresham's doing,--not mine," said the younger.

"She is right about Gresham, too," said the elder. "With all his immense intellect and capacity
for business no man wants more looking after."

That evening Mr. Bonteen was singled out by the Duchess for her special attention, and in the
presence of all who were there assembled he made himself an ass. He could not save himself
from talking about himself when he was encouraged. On this occasion he offended all those feelings
of official discretion and personal reticence which had been endeared to the old duke by the
lessons which he had learned from former statesmen and by the experience of his own life. To
be quiet, unassuming, almost affectedly modest in any mention of himself, low-voiced, reflecting
always more than he resolved, and resolving always more than he said, had been his aim. Conscious
of his high rank, and thinking, no doubt, much of the advantages in public life which his birth
and position had given him, still he would never have ventured to speak of his own services
as necessary to any Government. That he had really been indispensable to many he must have
known, but not to his closest friend would he have said so in plain language. To such a man
the arrogance of Mr. Bonteen was intolerable.

There is probably more of the flavour of political aristocracy to be found still remaining
among our liberal leading statesmen than among their opponents. A conservative Cabinet is,
doubtless, never deficient in dukes and lords, and the sons of such; but conservative dukes
and lords are recruited here and there, and as recruits, are new to the business, whereas among
the old Whigs a halo of statecraft has, for ages past, so strongly pervaded and enveloped certain
great families, that the power in the world of politics thus produced still remains, and is
even yet efficacious in creating a feeling of exclusiveness. They say that "misfortune makes
men acquainted with strange bedfellows". The old hereditary Whig Cabinet ministers must, no
doubt, by this time have learned to feel themselves at home with strange neighbours at their
elbows. But still with them something of the feeling of high blood, of rank, and of living
in a park with deer about it, remains. They still entertain a pride in their Cabinets, and
have, at any rate, not as yet submitted themselves to a conjuror. The Charles James Fox element
of liberality still holds its own, and the fragrance of Cavendish is essential. With no man
was this feeling stronger than with the Duke of St. Bungay, though he well knew how to keep
it in abeyance,--even to the extent of self-sacrifice. Bonteens must creep into the holy places.
The faces which he loved to see,--born chiefly of other faces he had loved when young,--could
not cluster around the sacred table without others which were much less welcome to him. He
was wise enough to know that exclusiveness did not suit the nation, though human enough to
feel that it must have been pleasant to himself. There must be Bonteens;--but when any Bonteen
came up, who loomed before his eyes as specially disagreeable, it seemed to him to be a duty
to close the door against such a one, if it could be closed without violence. A constant, gentle
pressure against the door would tend to keep down the number of the Bonteens.

"I am not sure that you are not going a little too quick in regard to Mr. Bonteen," said the
elder duke to Mr. Gresham before he had finally assented to a proposition originated by himself,--that
he should sit in the Cabinet without a portfolio.

"Palliser wishes it," said Mr. Gresham, shortly.

"He and I think that there has been some mistake about that. You suggested the appointment
to him, and he felt unwilling to raise an objection without giving the matter very mature consideration.
You can understand that."

"Upon my word I thought that the selection would be peculiarly agreeable to him." Then the
duke made a suggestion. "Could not some special office at the Treasury be constructed for Mr.
Bonteen's acceptance, having special reference to the question of decimal coinage?"

"But how about the salary?" asked Mr. Gresham. "I couldn't propose a new office with a salary
above £2,000."

"Couldn't we make it permanent," suggested the duke;--"with permission to hold a seat if he
can get one?"

"I fear not," said Mr. Gresham.

"He got into a very unpleasant scrape when he was Financial Secretary," said the Duke.

   But whither would'st thou, Muse? Unmeet
      For jocund lyre are themes like these.
   Shalt thou the talk of Gods repeat,
   Debasing by thy strains effete
      Such lofty mysteries?

The absolute words of a conversation so lofty shall no longer be attempted, but it may be said
that Mr. Gresham was too wise to treat as of no account the objections of such a one as the
Duke of St. Bungay. He saw Mr. Bonteen, and he saw the other duke, and difficulties arose.
Mr. Bonteen made himself very disagreeable indeed. As Mr. Bonteen had never absolutely been
as yet more than a demigod, our Muse, light as she is, may venture to report that he told Mr.
Ratler that "he'd be d---- if he'd stand it. If he were to be thrown over now, he'd make such
a row, and would take such care that the fat should be in the fire, that his enemies, whoever
they were, should wish that they had kept their fingers off him. He knew who was doing it."
If he did not know, his guess was right. In his heart he accused the young duchess, though
he mentioned her name to no one. And it was the young duchess. Then there was made an insidious
proposition to Mr. Gresham,--which reached him at last through Barrington Erle,--that matters
would go quieter if Phineas Finn were placed in his old office at the Colonies instead of Lord
Fawn, whose name had been suggested, and for whom,--as Barrington Erle declared,--no one cared
a brass farthing. Mr. Gresham, when he heard this, thought that he began to smell a rat, and
was determined to be on his guard. Why should the appointment of Mr. Phineas Finn make things
go easier in regard to Mr. Bonteen? There must be some woman's fingers in the pie. Now Mr.
Gresham was firmly resolved that no woman's fingers should have anything to do with his pie.

How the thing went from bad to worse, it would be bootless here to tell. Neither of the two
dukes absolutely refused to join the Ministry; but they were persistent in their objection
to Mr. Bonteen, and were joined in it by Lord Plinlimmon and Sir Harry Coldfoot. It was in
vain that Mr. Gresham urged that he had no other man ready and fit to be Chancellor of the
Exchequer. That excuse could not be accepted. There was Legge Wilson, who twelve years since
had been at the Treasury, and would do very well. Now Mr. Gresham had always personally hated
Legge Wilson,--and had, therefore, offered him the Board of Trade. Legge Wilson had disgusted
him by accepting it, and the name had already been published in connection with the office.
But in the lists which had appeared towards the end of the week, no name was connected with
the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, and no office was connected with the name of Mr.
Bonteen. The editor of The People's Banner, however, expressed the gratification of that journal
that even Mr. Gresham had not dared to propose Mr. Phineas Finn for any place under the Crown.

At last Mr. Bonteen was absolutely told that he could not be Chancellor of the Exchequer. If
he would consent to give his very valuable services to the country with the view of carrying
through Parliament the great measure of decimal coinage he should be President of the Board
of Trade,--but without a seat in the Cabinet. He would thus become the Right Honourable Bonteen,
which, no doubt, would be a great thing for him,--and, not busy in the Cabinet, must be able
to devote his time exclusively to the great measure above-named. What was to become of "Trade"
generally, was not specially explained; but, as we all know, there would be a Vice-President
to attend to details.

The proposition very nearly broke the man's heart. With a voice stopped by agitation, with
anger flashing from his eyes, almost in a convulsion of mixed feelings, he reminded his chief
of what had been said about his appointment in the House. Mr. Gresham had already absolutely
defended it. After that did Mr. Gresham mean to withdraw a promise that had so formally been
made? But Mr. Gresham was not to be caught in that way. He had made no promise;--had not even
stated to the House that such appointment was to be made. A very improper question had been
asked as to a rumour,--in answering which he had been forced to justify himself by explaining
that discussions respecting the office had been necessary. "Mr. Bonteen," said Mr. Gresham,
"no one knows better than you the difficulties of a Minister. If you can act with us I shall
be very grateful to you. If you cannot, I shall regret the loss of your services." Mr. Bonteen
took twenty-four hours to consider, and was then appointed President of the Board of Trade
without a seat in the Cabinet. Mr. Legge Wilson became Chancellor of the Exchequer. When the
lists were completed, no office whatever was assigned to Phineas Finn. "I haven't done with
Mr. Bonteen yet," said the young duchess to her friend Madame Goesler.

The secrets of the world are very marvellous, but they are not themselves half so wonderful
as the way in which they become known to the world. There could be no doubt that Mr. Bonteen's
high ambition had foundered, and that he had been degraded through the secret enmity of the
Duchess of Omnium. It was equally certain that his secret enmity to Phineas Finn had brought
this punishment on his head. But before the Ministry had been a week in office almost everybody
knew that it was so. The rumours were full of falsehood, but yet they contained the truth.
The duchess had done it. The duchess was the bosom friend of Lady Laura Kennedy, who was in
love with Phineas Finn. She had gone on her knees to Mr. Gresham to get a place for her friend's
favourite, and Mr. Gresham had refused. Consequently, at her bidding, half-a-dozen embryo Ministers--her
husband among the number--had refused to be amenable to Mr. Gresham. Mr. Gresham had at last
consented to sacrifice Mr. Bonteen, who had originally instigated him to reject the claims
of Phineas Finn. That the degradation of the one man had been caused by the exclusion of the
other all the world knew.

"It shuts the door to me for ever and ever," said Phineas to Madame Goesler.

"I don't see that."

"Of course it does. Such an affair places a mark against a man's name which will never be forgotten."

"Is your heart set upon holding some trifling appointment under a Minister?"

"To tell you the truth, it is;--or rather it was. The prospect of office to me was more than
perhaps to any other expectant. Even this man, Bonteen, has some fortune of his own, and can
live if he be excluded. I have given up everything for the chance of something in this line."

"Other lines are open."

"Not to me, Madame Goesler. I do not mean to defend myself. I have been very foolish, very
sanguine, and am now very unhappy."

"What shall I say to you?"

"The truth."

"In truth, then, I do not sympathise with you. The thing lost is too small, too mean to justify
unhappiness."

"But, Madame Goesler, you are a rich woman."

"Well?"

"If you were to lose it all, would you not be unhappy? It has been my ambition to live here
in London as one of a special set which dominates all other sets in our English world. To do
so a man should have means of his own. I have none; and yet I have tried it,--thinking that
I could earn my bread at it as men do at other professions. I acknowledge that I should not
have thought so. No man should attempt what I have attempted without means, at any rate to
live on if he fail; but I am not the less unhappy because I have been silly."

"What will you do?"

"Ah,--what? Another friend asked me that the other day, and I told her that I should vanish."

"Who was that friend?"

"Lady Laura."

"She is in London again now?"

"Yes; she and her father are in Portman Square."

"She has been an injurious friend to you."

"No, by heaven," exclaimed Phineas. "But for her I should never have been here at all, never
have had a seat in Parliament, never have been in office, never have known you."

"And might have been the better without any of these things."

"No man ever had a better friend than Lady Laura has been to me. Malice, wicked and false as
the devil, has lately joined our names together to the incredible injury of both of us; but
it has not been her fault."

"You are energetic in defending her."

"And so would she be in defending me. Circumstances threw us together and made us friends.
Her father and her brother were my friends. I happened to be of service to her husband. We
belonged to the same party. And therefore--because she has been unfortunate in her marriage--people
tell lies of her."

"It is a pity he should--not die, and leave her," said Madame Goesler slowly.

"Why so?"

"Because then you might justify yourself in defending her by making her your wife." She paused,
but he made no answer to this. "You are in love with her," she said.

"It is untrue."

"Mr. Finn!"

"Well, what would you have? I am not in love with her. To me she is no more than my sister.
Were she as free as air I should not ask her to be my wife. Can a man and woman feel no friendship
without being in love with each other?"

"I hope they may," said Madame Goesler. Had he been lynx-eyed he might have seen that she blushed;
but it required quick eyes to discover a blush on Madame Goesler's face. "You and I are friends."

"Indeed we are," he said, grasping her hand as he took his leave.

VOLUME II

CHAPTER XLI

"I hope I'm not distrusted"

Gerard Maule, as the reader has been informed, wrote three lines to his dearest Adelaide to
inform her that his father would not assent to the suggestion respecting Maule Abbey which
had been made by Lady Chiltern, and then took no further steps in the matter. In the fortnight
next after the receipt of his letter nothing was heard of him at Harrington Hall, and Adelaide,
though she made no complaint, was unhappy. Then came the letter from Mr. Spooner,--with all
its rich offers, and Adelaide's mind was for a while occupied with wrath against her second
suitor. But as the egregious folly of Mr. Spooner,--for to her thinking the aspirations of
Mr. Spooner were egregiously foolish,--died out of her mind, her thoughts reverted to her engagement.
Why did not the man come to her, or why did he not write?

She had received from Lady Chiltern an invitation to remain with them,--the Chilterns,--till
her marriage. "But, dear Lady Chiltern, who knows when it will be?" Adelaide had said. Lady
Chiltern had good-naturedly replied that the longer it was put off the better for herself.
"But you'll be going to London or abroad before that day comes." Lady Chiltern declared that
she looked forward to no festivities which could under any circumstances remove her four-and-twenty
hours travelling distance from the kennels. Probably she might go up to London for a couple
of months as soon as the hunting was over, and the hounds had been drafted, and the horses
had been coddled, and every covert had been visited. From the month of May till the middle
of July she might, perhaps, be allowed to be in town, as communications by telegram could now
be made day and night. After that, preparations for cub-hunting would be imminent, and, as
a matter of course, it would be necessary that she should be at Harrington Hall at so important
a period of the year. During those couple of months she would be very happy to have the companionship
of her friend, and she hinted that Gerard Maule would certainly be in town. "I begin to think
it would have been better that I should never have seen Gerard Maule," said Adelaide Palliser.

This happened about the middle of March, while hunting was still in force. Gerard's horses
were standing in the neighbourhood, but Gerard himself was not there. Mr. Spooner, since that
short, disheartening note had been sent to him by Lord Chiltern, had not been seen at Harrington.
There was a Harrington Lawn Meet on one occasion, but he had not appeared till the hounds were
at the neighbouring covert side. Nevertheless he had declared that he did not intend to give
up the pursuit, and had even muttered something of the sort to Lord Chiltern. "I am one of
those fellows who stick to a thing, you know," he said.

"I am afraid you had better give up sticking to her, because she's going to marry somebody else."

"I've heard all about that, my lord. He's a very nice sort of young man, but I'm told he hasn't
got his house ready yet for a family." All which Lord Chiltern repeated to his wife. Neither
of them spoke to Adelaide again about Mr. Spooner; but this did cause a feeling in Lady Chiltern's
mind that perhaps this engagement with young Maule was a foolish thing, and that, if so, she
was in a great measure responsible for the folly.

"Don't you think you'd better write to him?" she said, one morning.

"Why does he not write to me?"

"But he did,--when he wrote you that his father would not consent to give up the house. You
did not answer him then."

"It was two lines,--without a date. I don't even know where he lives."

"You know his club?"

"Yes,--I know his club. I do feel, Lady Chiltern, that I have become engaged to marry a man
as to whom I am altogether in the dark. I don't like writing to him at his club."

"You have seen more of him here and in Italy than most girls see of their future husbands."

"So I have,--but I have seen no one belonging to him. Don't you understand what I mean? I feel
all at sea about him. I am sure he does not mean any harm."

"Certainly he does not."

"But then he hardly means any good."

"I never saw a man more earnestly in love," said Lady Chiltern.

"Oh yes,--he's quite enough in love. But--"

"But what?"

"He'll just remain up in London thinking about it, and never tell himself that there's anything
to be done. And then, down here, what is my best hope? Not that he'll come to see me, but that
he'll come to see his horse, and that so, perhaps, I may get a word with him." Then Lady Chiltern
suggested, with a laugh, that perhaps it might have been better that she should have accepted
Mr. Spooner. There would have been no doubt as to Mr. Spooner's energy and purpose. "Only that
if there was not another man in the world I wouldn't marry him, and that I never saw any other
man except Gerard Maule whom I even fancied I could marry."

About a fortnight after this, when the hunting was all over, in the beginning of April, she
did write to him as follows, and did direct her letter to his club. In the meantime Lord Chiltern
had intimated to his wife that if Gerard Maule behaved badly he should consider himself to
be standing in the place of Adelaide's father or brother. His wife pointed out to him that
were he her father or her brother he could do nothing,--that in these days let a man behave
ever so badly, no means of punishing was within reach of the lady's friends. But Lord Chiltern
would not assent to this. He muttered something about a horsewhip, and seemed to suggest that
one man could, if he were so minded, always have it out with another, if not in this way, then
in that. Lady Chiltern protested, and declared that horsewhips could not under any circumstances
be efficacious. "He had better mind what he is about," said Lord Chiltern. It was after this
that Adelaide wrote her letter:--

   Harrington Hall, 5th April.

   DEAR GERARD,--

   I have been thinking that I should hear from you, and have
   been surprised,--I may say unhappy,--because I have not
   done so. Perhaps you thought I ought to have answered the
   three words which you wrote to me about your father; if
   so, I will apologise; only they did not seem to give me
   anything to say. I was very sorry that your father should
   have 'cut up rough,' as you call it, but you must remember
   that we both expected that he would refuse, and that
   we are only therefore where we thought we should be.
   I suppose we shall have to wait till Providence does
   something for us,--only, if so, it would be pleasanter to
   me to hear your own opinion about it.

   The Chilterns are surprised that you shouldn't have come
   back, and seen the end of the season. There were some very
   good runs just at last;--particularly one on last Monday.
   But on Wednesday Trumpeton Wood was again blank, and there
   was some row about wires. I can't explain it all; but you
   must come, and Lord Chiltern will tell you. I have gone
   down to see the horses ever so often;--but I don't care to
   go now as you never write to me. They are all three quite
   well, and Fan looks as silken and as soft as any lady need
   do.

   Lady Chiltern has been kinder than I can tell you. I go
   up to town with her in May, and shall remain with her
   while she is there. So far I have decided. After that
   my future home must, sir, depend on the resolution and
   determination, or perhaps on the vagaries and caprices, of
   him who is to be my future master. Joking apart, I must
   know to what I am to look forward before I can make up my
   mind whether I will or will not go back to Italy towards
   the end of the summer. If I do, I fear I must do so just
   in the hottest time of the year; but I shall not like
   to come down here again after leaving London,--unless
   something by that time has been settled.

   I shall send this to your club, and I hope that it will
   reach you. I suppose that you are in London.

   Good-bye, dearest Gerard.

   Yours most affectionately,

   ADELAIDE.

   If there is anything that troubles you, pray tell me. I
   ask you because I think it would be better for you that I
   should know. I sometimes think that you would have written
   if there had not been some misfortune. God bless you.

Gerard was in London, and sent the following note by return of post:--

   ---- Club, Tuesday.

   DEAREST ADELAIDE,

   All right. If Chiltern can take me for a couple of nights,
   I'll come down next week, and settle about the horses, and
   will arrange everything.

   Ever your own, with all my heart,

   G. M.

"He will settle about his horses, and arrange everything," said Adelaide, as she showed the
letter to Lady Chiltern. "The horses first, and everything afterwards. The everything, of course,
includes all my future happiness, the day of my marriage, whether to-morrow or in ten years'
time, and the place where we shall live."

"At any rate, he's coming."

"Yes;--but when? He says next week, but he does not name any day. Did you ever hear or see
anything so unsatisfactory?"

"I thought you would be glad to see him."

"So I should be,--if there was any sense in him. I shall be glad, and shall kiss him."

"I dare say you will."

"And let him put his arm round my waist and be happy. He will be happy because he will think
of nothing beyond. But what is to be the end of it?"

"He says that he will settle everything."

"But he will have thought of nothing. What must I settle? That is the question. When he was
told to go to his father, he went to his father. When he failed there the work was done, and
the trouble was off his mind. I know him so well."

"If you think so ill of him why did you consent to get into his boat?" said Lady Chiltern,
seriously.

"I don't think ill of him. Why do you say that I think ill of him? I think better of him than
of anybody else in the world;--but I know his fault, and, as it happens, it is a fault so very
prejudicial to my happiness. You ask me why I got into his boat. Why does any girl get into
a man's boat? Why did you get into Lord Chiltern's?"

"I promised to marry him when I was seven years old;--so he says."

"But you wouldn't have done it, if you hadn't had a sort of feeling that you were born to be
his wife. I haven't got into this man's boat yet; but I never can be happy unless I do, simply
because--"

"You love him."

"Yes;--just that. I have a feeling that I should like to be in his boat, and I shouldn't like
to be anywhere else. After you have come to feel like that about a man I don't suppose it makes
any difference whether you think him perfect or imperfect. He's just my own,--at least I hope
so;--the one thing that I've got. If I wear a stuff frock, I'm not going to despise it because
it's not silk."

"Mr. Spooner would be the stuff frock."

"No;--Mr. Spooner is shoddy, and very bad shoddy, too."

On the Saturday in the following week Gerard Maule did arrive at Harrington Hall,--and was
welcomed as only accepted lovers are welcomed. Not a word of reproach was uttered as to his
delinquencies. No doubt he got the kiss with which Adelaide had herself suggested that his
coming would be rewarded. He was allowed to stand on the rug before the fire with his arm round
her waist. Lady Chiltern smiled on him. His horses had been specially visited that morning,
and a lively report as to their condition was made to him. Not a word was said on that occasion
which could distress him. Even Lord Chiltern when he came in was gracious to him. "Well, old
fellow," he said, "you've missed your hunting."

"Yes; indeed. Things kept me in town."

"We had some uncommonly good runs."

"Have the horses stood pretty well?" asked Gerard.

"I felt uncommonly tempted to borrow yours; and should have done so once or twice if I hadn't
known that I should have been betrayed."

"I wish you had, with all my heart," said Gerard. And then they went to dress for dinner.

In the evening, when the ladies had gone to bed, Lord Chiltern took his friend off to the smoking-room.
At Harrington Hall it was not unusual for the ladies and gentlemen to descend together into
the very comfortable Pandemonium which was so called, when,--as was the case at present,--the
terms of intimacy between them were sufficient to warrant such a proceeding. But on this occasion
Lady Chiltern went very discreetly upstairs, and Adelaide, with equal discretion, followed
her. It had been arranged beforehand that Lord Chiltern should say a salutary word or two to
the young man. Maule began about the hunting, asking questions about this and that, but his
host stopped him at once. Lord Chiltern, when he had a task on hand, was always inclined to
get through it at once,--perhaps with an energy that was too sudden in its effects. "Maule,"
he said, "you ought to make up your mind what you mean to do about that girl."

"Do about her! How?"

"You and she are engaged, I suppose?"

"Of course we are. There isn't any doubt about it."

"Just so. But when things come to be like that, all delays are good fun to the man, but they're
the very devil to the girl."

"I thought it was always the other way up, and that girls wanted delay?"

"That's only a theoretical delicacy which never means much. When a girl is engaged she likes
to have the day fixed. When there's a long interval the man can do pretty much as he pleases,
while the girl can do nothing except think about him. Then it sometimes turns out that when
he's wanted, he's not there."

"I hope I'm not distrusted," said Gerard, with an air that showed that he was almost disposed
to be offended.

"Not in the least. The women here think you the finest paladin in the world, and Miss Palliser
would fly at my throat if she thought that I said a word against you. But she's in my house,
you see; and I'm bound to do exactly as I should if she were my sister."

"And if she were your sister?"

"I should tell you that I couldn't approve of the engagement unless you were prepared to fix
the time of your marriage. And I should ask you where you intended to live."

"Wherever she pleases. I can't go to Maule Abbey while my father lives, without his sanction."

"And he may live for the next twenty years."

"Or thirty."

"Then you are bound to decide upon something else. It's no use saying that you leave it to
her. You can't leave it to her. What I mean is this, that now you are here, I think you are
bound to settle something with her. Good-night, old fellow."

CHAPTER XLII

Boulogne

Gerard Maule, as he sat upstairs half undressed in his bedroom that night didn't like it. He
hardly knew what it was that he did not like,--but he felt that there was something wrong.
He thought that Lord Chiltern had not been warranted in speaking to him with a tone of authority,
and in talking of a brother's position,--and the rest of it. He had lacked the presence of
mind for saying anything at the moment; but he must say something sooner or later. He wasn't
going to be driven by Lord Chiltern. When he looked back at his own conduct he thought that
it had been more than noble,--almost romantic. He had fallen in love with Miss Palliser, and
spoken his love out freely, without any reference to money. He didn't know what more any fellow
could have done. As to his marrying out of hand, the day after his engagement, as a man of
fortune can do, everybody must have known that that was out of the question. Adelaide of course
had known it. It had been suggested to him that he should consult his father as to living at
Maule Abbey. Now if there was one thing he hated more than another, it was consulting his father;
and yet he had done it. He had asked for a loan of the old house in perfect faith, and it was
not his fault that it had been refused. He could not make a house to live in, nor could he
coin a fortune. He had £800 a-year of his own, but of course he owed a little money. Men with
such incomes always do owe a little money. It was almost impossible that he should marry quite
at once. It was not his fault that Adelaide had no fortune of her own. When he fell in love
with her he had been a great deal too generous to think of fortune, and that ought to be remembered
now to his credit. Such was the sum of his thoughts, and his anger spread itself from Lord
Chiltern even on to Adelaide herself. Chiltern would hardly have spoken in that way unless
she had complained. She, no doubt, had been speaking to Lady Chiltern, and Lady Chiltern had
passed it on to her husband. He would have it out with Adelaide on the next morning,--quite
decidedly. And he would make Lord Chiltern understand that he would not endure interference.
He was quite ready to leave Harrington Hall at a moment's notice if he were ill-treated. This
was the humour in which Gerard Maule put himself to bed that night.

On the following morning he was very late at breakfast,--so late that Lord Chiltern had gone
over to the kennels. As he was dressing he had resolved that it would be fitting that he should
speak again to his host before he said anything to Adelaide that might appear to impute blame
to her. He would ask Chiltern whether anything was meant by what had been said over-night.
But, as it happened, Adelaide had been left alone to pour out his tea for him, and,--as the
reader will understand to have been certain on such an occasion,--they were left together for
an hour in the breakfast parlour. It was impossible that such an hour should be passed without
some reference to the grievance which was lying heavy on his heart. "Late; I should think you
are," said Adelaide laughing. "It is nearly eleven. Lord Chiltern has been out an hour. I suppose
you never get up early except for hunting."

"People always think it is so wonderfully virtuous to get up. What's the use of it?"

"Your breakfast is so cold."

"I don't care about that. I suppose they can boil me an egg. I was very seedy when I went to bed."

"You smoked too many cigars, sir."

"No, I didn't; but Chiltern was saying things that I didn't like." Adelaide's face at once
became very serious. "Yes, a good deal of sugar, please. I don't care about toast, and anything
does for me. He has gone to the kennels, has he?"

"He said he should. What was he saying last night?"

"Nothing particular. He has a way of blowing up, you know; and he looks at one just as if he
expected that everybody was to do just what he chooses."

"You didn't quarrel?"

"Not at all; I went off to bed without saying a word. I hate jaws. I shall just put it right
this morning; that's all."

"Was it about me, Gerard?"

"It doesn't signify the least."

"But it does signify. If you and he were to quarrel would it not signify to me very much? How
could I stay here with them, or go up to London with them, if you and he had really quarrelled?
You must tell me. I know that it was about me." Then she came and sat close to him. "Gerard,"
she continued, "I don't think you understand how much everything is to me that concerns you."

