Out from his dark retreat now came the trout, and settling quietly at the bottom of the brook,
he appeared to regard the venturesome insect with a certain interest. But he must have detected
the iron-barb of vice beneath the mask of blitheful innocence, for, after a short deliberation,
the trout turned and disappeared under the bank. As he slowly moved away, he seemed to be bigger
than ever. I must catch that fish! Surely he would bite at something. It was quite evident
that his mind was not wholly unsusceptible to emotions emanating from an awakening appetite,
and I believed that if he saw exactly what he wanted, he would not neglect an opportunity of
availing himself of it. But what did he want? I must certainly find out. Drawing myself back
again, I took off the yellow fly, and put on another. This was a white one, with black blotches,
like a big miller moth which had fallen into an ink-pot. It was surely a conspicuous creature,
and as I crept forward and sent it swooping over the stream, I could not see how any trout,
with a single insectivorous tooth in his head, could fail to rise to such an occasion. But
this trout did not rise. He would not even come out from under his bank to look at the swiftly
flitting creature. He probably could see it well enough from where he was.

But I was not to be discouraged. I put on another fly; a green one with a red tail. It did
not look like any insect that I had ever seen, but I thought that the trout might know more
about such things than I. He did come out to look at it, but probably considering it a product
of that modern æstheticism which sacrifices natural beauty to mediæval crudeness of color and
form, he retired without evincing any disposition to countenance this style of art.

It was evident that it would be useless to put on any other flies, for the two I had left were
a good deal bedraggled, and not nearly so attractive as those I had used. Just before leaving
the house that morning, Peter's son had given me a wooden match-box filled with worms for bait,
which, although I did not expect to need, I put in my pocket. As a last resort I determined
to try the trout with a worm. I selected the plumpest and most comely of the lot; I put a new
hook on my line; I looped him about it in graceful coils, and cautiously approached the water,
as before. Now a worm never attempts to wildly leap across a flowing brook, nor does he flit
in thoughtless innocence through the sunny air, and over the bright transparent stream. If
he happens to fall into the water, he sinks to the bottom; and if he be of a kind not subject
to drowning, he generally endeavors to secrete himself under a stone, or to burrow in the soft
mud. With this knowledge of his nature I gently dropped my worm upon the surface of the stream,
and then allowed him slowly to sink. Out sailed the trout from under the bank, but stopped
before reaching the sinking worm. There was a certain something in his action which seemed
to indicate a disgust at the sight of such plebeian food, and a fear seized me that he might
now swim off, and pay no further attention to my varied baits. Suddenly there was a ripple
in the water, and I felt a pull on the line. Instantly I struck; and then there was a tug.
My blood boiled through every vein and artery, and I sprang to my feet. I did not give him
the butt; I did not let him run with yards of line down the brook; nor reel him in, and let
him make another mad course up stream; I did not turn him over as he jumped into the air; nor
endeavor, in any way, to show him that I understood those tricks, which his depraved nature
prompted him to play upon the angler. With an absolute dependence upon the strength of old
Peter's tackle, I lifted the fish.