Mason's face clouded with disappointment.  In the kitchen Heap banged the saucepan-lids, and
wanted to know what was the use of doing your best in a despicable world where you never got
nothing for your pains! Mary repaired dolefully upstairs to take away the hot water, and shroud
the furniture in dust-sheets; even the tweeny felt a sudden dampening of spirits, while in
the dining-room the mistress of her house sat at her solitary meal with anger smouldering in
her heart!

A delay to the boat would, of course, have been inevitable; if Cornelia had been so fatigued
that she felt it necessary to break her journey half-way, that would have been a disappointment
pure and simple, but that the girl had chosen to delay her arrival for her own amusement and
gratification, this was an offence indeed--a want of respect and consideration well-nigh unforgivable.
Staying in town with friends!-- Staying where?--With what friends?  Doing the sights to-morrow
morning!  Miss Briskett's lip curled in disdain.  Then that ridiculous ending!  What would
Miss Brewster, the telegraph clerk at the post- office, think of such frivolity!  In this tiny
township, everyone was as well acquainted with their neighbour's business as with their own,
and while Emily Brewster at the post-office was keenly interested in the advent of the American
visitor, Miss Briskett, in her turn, knew all about Emily's parentage and education, the nature
and peculiarities of the diseases which she had enjoyed, and vouchsafed a patronising interest
in her prospects.  It was gall and wormwood to feel sure that Emily had laughed and made merry
over a message addressed to a Briskett, from a member of her own house!

Everyone has experienced the flatness which ensues when an expected excitement is postponed
at the last moment, leaving the hours to drag along a slow, uneventful course.  It was long
since Miss Briskett had felt so consciously lonely and depressed as at her solitary dinner
that evening.  In the drawing-room, even Patience lost its wonted charm, and she was thankful
when the time arrived to sip her tumbler of hot water, and retire to bed.

Next day it seemed somewhat flat to make the same preparations a second time over, but as no
contradictory message had been received, it did not appear possible that a second disappointment
could supervene.  The tea- table was set out with special care, and a supply of home-made cakes
placed on the three-storied brass stand.  Once more Miss Briskett donned her best gown, and
sat gazing through the lace window curtains.

At last!  A cab drove up to the gate; two cabs, laden with enough luggage for a family journeying
to the seaside.  The door of the first was thrown open and there jumped out--a man! a tall,
alert young man clad in a suit of light-checked tweed, who turned and gave his hand to a girl
in blue serge, carefully assisting her to alight.  They sauntered up the path together, laughing
and chattering in leisurely enjoyment; half-way to the house the girl turned round, and stood
for a moment to stare at the view, pointing, as she did so, in frank, unabashed fashion. Then
they approached the door, held hospitably open in Mason's hand.

"Why, Aunt Soph, is that you?" cried a high, clear voice, with a pronounced American accent,
which rang strangely in the unaccustomed ears.  "This is me, anyhow, and I'm real glad to see
you.  I've had a lovely ride!  This is Mr Eustace C Ross, who crossed with us in the Lucania.
He's brought me right here in case I got lost, or fell over the edge.  England's sweet!  I've
been all over London this morning, and we did a theatre last night. ...  Aunt Soph, you have
a look of father about the nose!  Makes me feel kinder homesick to see your nose.  I'm going
to kiss it right away?"

And kiss it she did, on its thin, chilly tip, with Mason sniggering with delight in the background,
and the strange young man chuckling in the foreground.  Miss Briskett retreated hastily into
the drawing-room, and her niece followed, casting curious glances to right and to left.

"You've got a real cosy little house, Aunt Soph.  It looks real English--not a mite like our
place at home.  Is that tea?  I'm just about dying for a cup of tea, and so's Mr Ross.  Don't
you want a cup of tea more than anything in the world, Mr Ross?  I see you do by the way you look!"

She sank into an easy chair, and flashed a mischievous glance at the young man by her side.
He was a tall, well-built young fellow, with the square shoulders and aggressive chin which
to the English eye are the leading characteristics of American men.  He had the air of being
exceedingly well able to look after himself, but even his self- possession wavered before the
frosty nature of his reception.  He stood irresolutely, hat in hand, waiting for a repetition
of Cornelia's invitation, but none came, and with an almost imperceptible shrug of the shoulders,
he resigned himself to the inevitable, and announced that it was imperative that he should
hasten back to the station to catch a return train to town.  He proceeded, therefore, to take
leave of his travelling companion, a proceeding characterised on his side by transparent regret,
on hers by an equally transparent indifference.

"You'll be sure to let me know when you come home!"

"Yes, indeed!  I'll write when I start, and you shall come down to meet the boat.  Good-bye!
You've been real kind!  I'm ever so much obliged!"

"Oh, I've enjoyed it enormously.  You must be sure to let me know if there is anything I can
do--at any time--anywhere!" repeated the young fellow, ardently.

He bowed to Miss Briskett, who extended her hand in patronising farewell, accompanying him
to the door of the room, less, it appeared, from motives of kindliness, than to satisfy herself
that he had really departed.

On her return she found that her niece had taken off her hat, and was leaning back in her chair,
sticking hat-pins through the crown with smiling complacence.  Miss Briskett surveyed her with
not unnatural curiosity, and came to the swift conclusion that she was not at all pretty, but
most objectionably remarkable in appearance.  The sort of girl whom people would stare at in
the street; the sort of girl whom Norton would emphatically disapprove!  Her hair in itself
was arresting. Miss Briskett had never seen such hair.  It was not red, it was not gold, it
was not brown; but rather a blending of all three colours.  It was, moreover, extraordinarily
thick, and stood out from the head in a crisp mass, rippling into big natural waves, while
behind each ear was a broad streak of a lighter shade, almost flaxen in colour.  No artificial
means could have produced such an effect; it was obviously the work of nature.  "American nature!"
Miss Briskett told herself with a sniff.  A respectably brought-up English girl could never
have possessed such a head!  Underneath this glorious mass of hair was a pale, little face,
lighted up by a pair of golden-brown eyes.  The eyebrows were well- marked and remarkably flexible;
the nose was thin and pointed, a youthful replica of Miss Briskett's own.  The only really
good feature was the mouth, and that was adorable, with coral red lips curling up at the corners;
tempting, kissable lips, made for love and laughter.  For the rest, it was difficult to understand
how a plain blue serge gown could possibly contrive to look so smart, or how those tiniest
of tiny brown boots had managed to keep so dazzlingly free from dust throughout a railway journey.

Miss Briskett sat herself down by the tea-table, and cleared her throat ominously.  Her niece
had not been ten minutes in the house, yet already an occasion had arisen for a serious rebuke.

"Are you engaged to that young man, may I ask, Cornelia?"

Cornelia gave a little jump upon her seat, and opened her golden eyes in a stare of amazement.

"Mussy, no!  What in the land put such an idea in your head?"

"Your tone and manner, my dear, and the fact of his accompanying you all the way from town.
It is not usual for young men to put themselves to so much trouble for a mere acquaintance."

"He don't think it a trouble.  He loves flying around!  He's a sweet thing," said Miss Cornelia,
with smiling recollection, "but he's not my Chubb!  I'm sorry he couldn't stay to tea, for
he's real amusing when he once gets started.  He'd have made you screech with laughter."

Miss Briskett looked down her nose, in her most dignified and rebuking fashion.

"I am not accustomed to `screech' about anything, and in this country, my dear, it is not considered
convenable for young girls to accept the escort of a gentleman to whom they are not engaged.
No English girl would think of doing such a thing!"

"They must have a middling dull time of it," retorted Cornelia, calmly, "I must teach them
a thing or two while I'm over."  She rose to take the teacup from her aunt's hand, and to help
herself to a couple of sandwiches from a dainty heart-shaped dish.  "Well--aren't you pleased
to have me, Aunt Soph?  I've wanted years to come over and see you.  It seemed too bad that
I knew none of Poppar's people.  And now I'm here!" She wheeled round, teacup in hand, staring
curiously around the handsome, over-furnished room; at the big ebony console table, ornamented
with bunches of fruit manufactured out of coloured pebbles; at the grand piano in its walnut
case; the piano which was never opened, but which served as a stand for innumerable photographs
and ornaments; at the old-fashioned sofas and chairs in their glazey chintz covers; at the
glass-shaded vases on the marble mantelshelf.  "I'm here, and it's too quaint for words!  Everything's--different!
I suppose England is different, isn't it, Aunt Soph?"

"Very different!"  Miss Briskett's tones fairly bubbled with innuendoes. She put down her rolled
slice of bread and butter, and added frostily, "Before we go any further, Cornelia, I must
really beg you to address me by my proper name.  My name is Sophia.  You have no intention
of being disrespectful, I feel sure, but I am not accustomed to abbreviations.  I have never
had a nickname in my life, and I have no wish to begin at this late date."

"My! you poor sufferer, how lonesome for you!  Nicknames are so homely and cosy.  I have about
as many as I have toes.  One of my friends calls me `Corney.'  He's a bit of a wag--(`He,'
indeed!)--Another one calls me `Nelia,'--`Neel-ya!'"  She threw a lingering sentiment into
the repetition, and chuckled reminiscently.  "To most of my chums I'm just `Neely.'  Life's
too short for three syllables every day of the week!"

"Over here in England we are not too hurried to address people in a proper manner.  I shall
call you by your full name, and expect you to do the same by me."

"All right, Aunt Sophia Ann, just as you please," cried Cornelia, naughtily.  She was standing
up, cup in hand, but even as she spoke she subsided on to a footstool by Miss Briskett's side,
with a sudden lithe collapse of the body, which made that good lady gasp in dismay.  She had
never seen anybody but a professional acrobat move so quickly or unexpectedly, and felt convinced
that the tea must have been spilt, and crumbs scattered wholesale over the carpet.  But no!
not even a drop had fallen into the saucer, and there sat Cornelia nibbling at an undamaged
sandwich with little, strong, white teeth, as cool and composed as if such feats were of everyday
occurrence.

"This is how I sit by Poppar at home; it's more sociable than right across the room.  Poppar
and I are just the greatest chums, and I hate it when he's away.  There was a real nice woman
wanted to come and keep house, and take me around--Mrs Van Dusen, widow of Henry P Van Dusen,
who made a boom in cheese.  Maybe you've heard of him.  He made a pile, and lost it all, trying
to do it again.  Then he got tired of himself and took the grippe and died, and it was pretty
dull for Mrs Van. She visits round, and puts in her time the best way she can.  She'd have
liked quite well to settle down at our place for three or four months, and I'd have liked it
too, if it hadn't been for you.  I wanted to see you Aunt Soph--ia Ann!"

She put up a thin little hand, and rubbed it ingratiatingly up and down the shiny silk lap,
to the stupefaction of Mason, who came in at that moment bearing a plate of hot scones, and
retired to give a faithful rendering of the position to her allies in the kitchen, sitting
down on the fender stool, and stroking the cook's apron in dramatic imitation, while that good
lady and her satellites went into helpless fits of laughter.

"I'd as soon stroke a nettle myself," said the cook, "but there's no accounting for taste!
You take my word for it, if she goes on stroking much longer, she'll get a sting as she won't
forget in a hurry!"

Upstairs in the drawing-room, Miss Briskett's fidgeting uncomfortably beneath that caressing
hand.  In her lonely, self-contained life, she was so unused to demonstrations of the kind
that she was at a loss how to receive them when they came.  Instinctively she drew herself
away, shrinking into the corners of her chair and busying herself with the re- arrangement
of the tray, while Cornelia asked one question after another in her high-pitched, slightly
monotonous voice.

"It's mighty quiet out here, Aunt Soph--ia Ann!  Does it always go on being just as still?
Do you live all the year round, right here in this house by your lonesome, listening to the
grass growing across the lane? What do you do, anyway?  That's a real smart-looking maid! 
Will she be the one to wait upon me?  Most all my shirt waists fasten up the back, and there's
got to be someone round to fix them, or I'm all undone.  I guess you're pretty tidy by the
looks of you, Aunt Soph.  I can't see after things myself, but I fidget the life out of everybody
if I'm not just so.  I've got the sweetest clothes.--Do you have gay times over here in Norton?
Is there a good deal of young society?  I love prancing round and having a good time.  Poppar
says the boys spoil me; there's always a crowd of them hanging round, ready to do everything
I want, and to send me flowers and bon-bons.  I'm just crazed on bonbons! My state-room was
piled full of bouquets and chocolates coming over.  I had more than any other girl on board!"

Miss Briskett's lips tightened ominously.  "If by `boys' you mean young men, Cornelia, I am
surprised that your father allows you to receive indiscriminate gifts from strangers.  I fear
he hag become a thorough American, and forgotten his early training.  In England no young man
would venture to send a gift to a lady to whom he was not either related, or engaged to be
married."

"My! how mean!  Amurican men are for ever sending things, and the girls just love to have them
do it.  Seems to me, Aunt Soph, it's about time I came over to teach you how to do things in
this benighted isle!  Poppar says you're all pretty mouldy, but, short of an earthquake, he
can't think of anything better calculated to shake you up, than a good spell of me waltzing
around.  I guess he's about right.  I'm never quiet unless I'm sick.  There's not much of the
Sleeping Beauty about Cornelia E Briskett!"

Miss Briskett sat still, a pillar of outraged propriety.  This was worse than anything she
had expected!  The girl appeared to have no modesty, no decorum, no sense of shame.  She might
straighten her back until it was as stiff as a poker, might arch her brows into semicircles,
and purse her lips into an expression of disapproval which would have frightened Elma Ramsden
out of her senses, but Cornelia never appeared to notice that anything was amiss, and continued
her meal with bland enjoyment.  When she had finished the sandwiches she rested her left arm
more firmly on her aunt's knee, and raised her pointed chin until it rested, actually rested,
upon the edge of the table, the while she carefully scrutinised the different varieties of
cake, and selected the piece most to her taste.  At this she proceeded to nibble with evident
satisfaction, lifting it to her lips in one thin hand, while the other still rested caressingly
on that shiny silk lap.  Miss Briskett's dumb swellings of anger gradually subsided to the
point when it became possible to put them into words.  She cleared her throat with the usual
preliminary grunt, whereupon the girl turned her stag-like head, to gaze questioningly upwards,
her expression sweetly alert, her eyes--limpid, golden eyes--widely opened between the double
line of lashes!

Miss Briskett looked, and the remonstrance died on her lips.  The scene shifted, and in an
instant she had travelled back through the years to a day long, long ago, when she sat, a girl
in her teens, talking to the little boy brother who was the dearest of all created things,
telling him stories, and watching the wonder in his eyes!  Pert, self- sufficient, and presumptuous
as she might be, by some contradictory freak of nature, that divine innocence still lingered
in this young girl's eyes.  The sight of it arrested the words on the spinster's lips. She
realised with shame that almost every word which she had spoken to the girl since her arrival
had been tinged with reproof, and blushed for her own lack of hospitality.  The frown faded,
and was replaced by a struggling smile.  With a half-strained movement she advanced a chilly
hand to meet the girl's warm grasp.

Cornelia drew a long, fluttering sigh; a sigh of utter contentment, and laid her russet head
on the folds of the stiff grey silk.

"Oh, Aunt Soph--ia! you are just as sweet!" she murmured beneath her breath.

CHAPTER FOUR.

Perfect health, radiant spirits, supreme self-confidence, a sweetly smiling determination to
have her own way, and go her own course, though the skies fell, and all creation conspired
to prevent her--these were the characteristics of Miss Cornelia Briskett most apparent on a
superficial acquaintance.  On the morning after her arrival, when Mary the housemaid carried
the cup of early morning tea to her bedside, she found the young lady leaning back against
the pillows, enveloped in a garment which suggested a garden party, rather than a night-gown,
wide awake, and ready for conversation.  Really a most affable young lady, who instead of vouchsafing
a cool good-morning, launched out into quite a confidential talk, inquiring after the different
members of Mary's family, their names, ages, and occupations, and showing a most sympathetic
interest in the girl's own future.

"I guess you are going to be married pretty soon!  You've got a marrying face!" she said shrewdly,
whereupon Mary, blushing, acknowledged that she had a friend, and that he did speak of early
next spring.

"Told you so!" cried Cornelia, dimpling.  "Well, Mury, see here, you nip round and wait upon
me the best you know, and I'll give you an elegant present!  I wear muslins most all the time
in summer, and I can't endoor to have them mussed.  You keep carrying them away and ironing
them out nice and smooth, without bothering me to tell you.  See!  I need lots of attention;
there's no getting away from that, but I'll make it worth your while.  You just put your mind
to it, and I guess you'll make a tip-top maid!"

Mary was at least prepared to perish in the attempt.  She related the conversation downstairs,
with the natural result that each of the other three maids registered a vow to be second to
none in her attentions to the young visitor.

The breakfast-gong rang at eight o'clock, but it was a good ten minutes later before Cornelia
came sauntering downstairs, singing an unknown ditty at the pitch of a sweet, if somewhat nasal
voice.  She was dressed in white of the most elaborate simplicity, and her shaded hair looked
even more crisply conspicuous than on the night before.  The last line of the song did not
come to an end until she was half-way across the dining-room floor, and so far from being dismayed
by her aunt's stare of disapproval, she only laughed, waved her hands, and threw an extra flourish
into the rallentando.  Then she swooped down upon the stiff figure, hugged it affectionately,
and planted three kisses on the cold, grey face; one on the lips, one on the brow, a third--deliberately--on
the tip of the nose.

"Cornelia, please!  Recollect yourself, my dear!  Have a little respect. You must never do
that again!" cried Miss Briskett, irritably, but the girl showed not the faintest sign of being
awed.

"It's the nose of my father, and I've just got to kiss it!  It's not a mite of use promising
that I won't.  I've got to kiss it regularly every morning, and every night, until he comes
over to be kissed himself!" she announced calmly, seating herself at the opposite side of the
square dining-table, and peering curiously at the various dishes.  "Poppar says you never have
anything for breakfast in England but bacon and eggs, but I don't see any here.  What's under
this cover?--Fish?"

"If you wait a few minutes your bacon will be brought in.  It had grown cold with waiting so
long, so I sent it away to be kept hot.  The breakfast hour is eight; not a quarter past."

"It's not a mite of use telling me the hours.  I'm always late!  I don't suppose I've ever
been down in time in my life, unless by a mistake," returned Cornelia, cheerfully.  "I like
to stay in bed and let the day get sorter warmed up and comfortable, before I begin.  What
makes you want to get up so early, anyway?  I should have thought nine would have been heaps
early enough, when you have nothing to do."

It was not a promising beginning to the day.  In her own household Miss Briskett was accustomed
to an authority as complete as that of the general of an army.  She was just, and she was generous;
her servants were treated with kindness and consideration, but if they wished to retain their
places, they had to learn the lesson of dumb, unquestioning obedience.  She might be right,
she might be wrong, she might remember, she might forget--no matter! it was not their business
to enlighten her. "Theirs but to do, and die!"  She would not brook a question as to her own
authority.  It was, therefore, a distinct blow to the good lady to find her decrees ignored
by her young guest with a smiling good-nature, more baffling than the most determined opposition.

She remained stolidly silent throughout the meal, but Cornelia apparently regarded he attitude
as a tactful abdication in her own favour, and kept up an incessant flow of conversation from
start to finish.  When the bell was rung for prayers, she seated herself in a low chair, directly
facing the servants' seats, and smiled a dazzling greeting to each in turn.  They sat down
in their usual positions, heads bent, hands folded on the middle of their clean white aprons;
feet tucked carefully out of sight; there was no outward sign of irreverence or inattention
in their demeanour, but Miss Briskett felt, that every single woman of them was absorbed--utterly,
consumedly absorbed--in casting sly glances at that distracting white vision in the easy chair;
at the dully glowing hair, the floating folds of white, the tiny, extended feet.  She might
have read a page of the dictionary, and they would not have noticed; even Heap, who was old
enough to know better, was edging sideways in her chair, to get a better view!

When the four stiffly-starched dresses had rustled out of the room, Cornelia yawned, and stretched
herself like a sleepy, luxurious kitten, then snoodled down once more in her comfortable chair.
Her eyes were fixed upon her aunt's face, while that good lady bustled about the room, folding
the newspaper into an accurate square, and putting it away in a brass-bound cage; collecting
scattered envelopes and putting them in the waste-paper basket, moving the flower-vases on
the chimney-piece, so that they should stand at mathematically the same distance from the central
clock.  At every movement she waited to hear the expected, "Can I help you, Aunt Sophia?" which
right feeling would surely prompt in any well-principled damsel, and though her reply would
of a certainty have been in the negative, she felt aggrieved that the opportunity was not vouchsafed.

She was determined not to look in the girl's direction, nor to meet those watching eyes, but
presently, in spite of herself, she felt a magnetic compulsion to turn her head to answer the
bright, expectant glance.

"Well?" queried Cornelia, smiling.

"Well what, my dear?"

"How are you going to amuse me this forenoon?"

Miss Briskett sat down suddenly in the nearest chair, and suffered a mental collapse.  Positively
this view of the situation had never once dawned upon her unimaginative brain!  Mrs Ramsden
had dimly wrestled with the problem, solving it at last with an easy, "She can talk to Elma!"
but the aunt and hostess had been too much occupied with consideration for her own comfort
to think of anyone else.  It had crossed her mind that the girl might tire her, bore her, worry
her, or humiliate her before the neighbours; in an occasional giddy flight of fancy she had
even supposed it possible that Cornelia might amuse her, and make life more agreeable, but
never for the fraction of a second had she realised that she herself was fated either to bore,
or to amuse Cornelia in return!

The discovery was a shock.  Being a just woman, Miss Briskett was forced to the conclusion
that she had been selfish and self-engrossed; but such self-revelations do not as a rule soften
our hearts towards the fellow- creature who has been the means of our enlightenment.  Miss
Briskett was annoyed with herself, but she was much more annoyed with Cornelia, and considered
that she had good reason to be so.

"I have no time to think of frivolities in the morning, my dear.  I am too busy with household
duties.  I am now going to the kitchen to interview my cook, then to the store-room to give
out what is needed for the day, and when that is accomplished I shall go to the shops to give
my orders.  If you wish, I shall be pleased to have your company!"

"Right oh!" cried Cornelia, nodding.  "It will be a lesson in your silly old pounds and pence.
What do you keep in your store-room, Aunt Soph? Nice things?  Fruits?  Candy?  Cake?  I wouldn't
mind giving out the stores for a spell, now and again.  Well! ...  I'll just mouch round, and
be ready for you when you set out for your walk."

Miss Briskett left the room, in blissful ignorance of what "mouch" might mean, and much too
dignified to inquire, but by the time that ten o'clock had struck, she had learnt to connect
the expression with all that was irritating and presumptuous.  In the midst of her discussion
with the cook, for instance, the sound of music burst upon her ears; the echo of that disused
piano which had almost forgotten to be anything but a stand for ornaments and lamps.  Bang
went the bass, crash went the treble, the tune a well-known dance, played with a dash and a
spirt, a rollicking marking of time irresistible to any human creature under forty, who did
not suffer from corns on their toes.  In the recesses of the scullery a subdued scuffling was
heard.  Tweeny was stepping it to and fro, saucepans in hand; from the dining-room overhead,
where Mason was clearing away the breakfast dishes, came a succession of mysterious bumping
sounds.  Heap stood stolid as a rock, but her eyes--her small, pale, querulous eyes--danced
a deliberate waltz round the table and back...

"I must request Cornelia not to play the piano in the morning!" said Miss Briskett to herself.

From the store-room upstairs a sound of talking and laughing was heard from within the visitor's
bedroom, where sat that young lady in state, issuing orders to Mary, who was blissfully employed
in unpacking the contents of one of the big dress boxes, and hanging up skirts in the mahogany
wardrobe.

"I must beg Cornelia not to interfere with the servants' work in the morning!" said Miss Briskett
once more.  At half-past ten silence reigned, and she went downstairs, equipped in her black
silk mantle and her third best bonnet, to announce her readiness to start on the usual morning
round.

Cornelia was not in the morning-room; she was not in the drawing-room, though abundant signs
of her recent presence were visible in the littered ornaments on the open piano.

"I must beg Cornelia to put things back in their proper places!" said Miss Briskett a third
time as she crossed the hall to the dining-room. This room also was empty, but even as she
grasped the fact, Miss Briskett started with dismay to behold a bareheaded figure leaning over
the garden gate, elbows propped on the topmost bar, and chin supported on clasped hands.  This
time she did not pause to determine what commands she should issue in the future, but stepped
hastily down the path to take immediate and peremptory measures.

"My dear! in the front garden--without a hat--leaning over the gate! What can you be thinking
of?  The neighbours might see you!"

Cornelia turned in lazy amusement.  "Well, if it's going to be a shock to them, they might
as well begin early, and get it over."  She ran a surprised eye over her aunt's severe attire.
"My, Aunt Soph, you look too good to live!  I'm 'most frightened of you in that bonnet.  If
you'd given a hoot from the window I'd have hustled up, and not kept you waiting.  Just hang
on two shakes while I get my hat.  I won't stay to prink!"

"I am not accustomed--" began Miss Briskett, automatically, but she spoke to thin air.  Cornelia
had flown up the path in a cloud of swirling skirts; cries of "Mury!  Mury!" sounded from within,
and the mistress of the house slowly retraced her steps and seated herself to await the next
appearance of the whirlwind with what patience she could command.

It was long in coming.  The clock ticked a slow quarter of an hour, and was approaching twenty
minutes, when footsteps sounded once more, and Cornelia appeared in the doorway.  She had not
changed her dress, she had not donned her jacket; her long, white gloves dangled from her hand;
to judge from appearances she had spent a solid twenty minutes in putting on a tip-tilted hat
which had been trimmed with bows of dainty flowered ribbon, on the principle of the more the
merrier.  Miss Briskett disapproved of the hat.  It dipped over the forehead, giving an obviously
artificial air of demureness to the features; it tilted up at the back, revealing the objectionable
hair in all its wanton profusion. It looked--odd, and if there was one thing more than another
to which Norton objected, it was a garment which differentiated itself from its fellows.

Aunt and niece walked down the path together in the direction of the South Lodge, the latter
putting innumerable questions, to which the former replied in shocked surprise.  "What were
those gardens across the road?"--They were private property of householders in the Park.--"Did
they have fine jinks over there in summer time?"--The householders in the park never, under
any circumstances, indulged in "jinks."  They disapproved thoroughly, and on principle, of
anything connected with jinks!--"Think of that now--the poor, deluded creatures!  What did
they use the gardens for, anyway?"--The gardens were used for an occasional promenade; and
were also valuable as forming a screen between the Park and the houses on the Western Road.--"What
was wrong with the houses on the Western Road?"--There was nothing wrong with the houses in
question. The residents in the Park objected to see, or to be seen by, any houses, however
desirable.  They wished to ensure for themselves an unbroken and uninterrupted privacy.--"My
gracious!"

Mrs Phipps, the dragon of the South Lodge, came out to the doorstep, and bobbed respectfully
as Miss Briskett passed by, but curiosity was rampant upon her features.  Cornelia smiled radiantly
upon her; she smiled upon everyone she met, and threw bright, curious glances to right and to left.

"My! isn't it green?  My! isn't it still?  Where is everyone, anyway?  Have they got a funeral
in every house?  Seems kind of unsociable, muffling themselves up behind these hedgerows! 
Over with us, if we've got a good thing, we're not so eager to hide it away.  You can walk
along the sidewalk and see everything that's going on.  In the towns the families camp out
on the doorsteps.  It's real lively and sociable. ...  Are these your stores?  They look as
if they'd been made in the year one."

They were, in truth, a quaint little row--butcher, grocer, greengrocer, and linen-draper, all
nestled into a little angle between two long, outstanding buildings, which seemed threatening
at every moment to fall down and crush them to atoms.  The windows were small, and the space
inside decidedly limited, and this morning there was an unusual rush of customers.  It seemed
as if every housewife in the neighbourhood had sallied forth to make her purchases at the exact
hour when Miss Briskett was known to do her daily shopping.  At the grocer's counter Cornelia
was introduced to Mrs Beaumont, of The Croft.

"My niece, Miss Cornelia Briskett.  Mrs Beaumont," murmured Miss Briskett.

"Mrs Beaumont!" repeated Cornelia, loudly, with a gracious, sidelong observance, at which unusual
manner of receiving an introduction both ladies stared in surprise.

Presently Mrs Beaumont recovered herself sufficiently to put an all- important question.

"How do you like England?"

"I think it's lovely," said Cornelia.

In the fishmonger's shop Mrs Rhodes and Mrs Muir came up in their turn, and opened wide eyes
of surprise as the strange girl again repeated their names in her high monotone.  Evidently
this was an American custom.  Strange people, the Americans!  The ladies simpered, and put
the inevitable query: "How do you like England?"

"I think it's sweet," said Cornelia.

