Moggs's bill became due before the 20th of September, and Ralph Newton received due notice,--as
of course he had known that he would do,--that it had not been cashed at his banker's. How
should it be cashed at his banker's, seeing that he had not had a shilling there for the last
three months? Moggs himself, Moggs senior, came to Ralph, and made himself peculiarly disagreeable.
He had never heard of such a thing on the part of a gentleman! Not to have his bill taken up!
To have his paper dishonoured! Moggs spoke of it as though the heavens would fall; and he spoke
of it, too, as though, even should the heavens not fall, the earth would be made a very tumultuous
and unpleasant place for Mr. Newton, if Mr. Newton did not see at once that these two hundred
and odd pounds were forthcoming. Moggs said so much that Ralph became very angry, turned him
out of the room, and told him that he should have his dirty money on the morrow. On the morrow
the dirty money was paid, Ralph having borrowed the amount from Mr. Neefit. Mr. Moggs was quite
content. His object had been achieved, and, when the cash was paid, he was quite polite. But
Ralph Newton was not happy as he made the payment. He had declared to himself, after writing
that letter to his brother, that the thing was settled by the very declaration made by him
therein. When he assured his brother that he would not sell his interest in the property, he
did, in fact, resolve that he would make Polly Neefit his wife. And he did no more than follow
up that resolution when he asked Neefit for a small additional advance. His due would not be
given to the breeches-maker if it were not acknowledged that on this occasion he behaved very
well. He had told Ralph to come to him when Moggs's "bit of stiff" came round. Moggs's "bit
of stiff" did come round, and "the Captain" did as he had been desired to do. Neefit wrote
out the cheque without saying a word about his daughter. "Do you just run across to Argyle
Street, Captain," said the breeches-maker, "and get the stuff in notes." For Mr. Neefit's bankers
held an establishment in Argyle Street. "There ain't no need, you know, to let on, Captain;
is there?" said the breeches-maker. Ralph Newton, clearly seeing that there was no need to
"let on," did as he was bid, and so the account was settled with Mr. Moggs. But now as to settling
the account with Mr. Neefit? Neefit had his own idea of what was right between gentlemen. As
the reader knows, he could upon an occasion make his own views very clearly intelligible. He
was neither reticent nor particularly delicate. But there was something within him which made
him give the cheque to Ralph without a word about Polly. That something, let it be what it
might, was not lost upon Ralph.

Any further doubt on his part was quite out of the question. If his mind had not been made
up before it must, at least, be made up now. He had twice borrowed Mr. Neefit's money, and
on this latter occasion had taken it on the express understanding that he was to propose to
Mr. Neefit's daughter. And then, in this way, and in this way only, he could throw over his
uncle and save the property. As soon as he had paid the money to Moggs, he went to his room
and dressed himself for the occasion. As he arranged his dress with some small signs of an
intention to be externally smart, he told himself that it signified nothing at all, that the
girl was only a breeches-maker's daughter, and that there was hardly a need that he should
take a new pair of gloves for such an occasion as this. In that he was probably right. An old
pair of gloves would have done just as well, though Polly did like young men to look smart.

He went out in a hansom of course. A man does not become economical because he is embarrassed.
And as for embarrassment, he need not trouble himself with any further feelings on that score.
When once he should be the promised husband of Polly Neefit, he would have no scruple about
the breeches-maker's money. Why should he, when he did the thing with the very view of getting
it? They couldn't expect him to be married till next spring at the earliest, and he would take
another winter out of himself at the Moonbeam. As the sacrifice was to be made he might as
well enjoy all that would come of the sacrifice. Then as he sat in the cab he took to thinking
whether, after any fashion at all, he did love Polly Neefit. And from that he got to thinking,--not
of poor Clary,--but of Mary Bonner. If his uncle could at once be translated to his fitting
place among the immortals, oh,--what a life might be his! But his uncle was still mortal, and,--after
all,--Polly Neefit was a very jolly girl.

When he got to the house he asked boldly for Miss Neefit. He had told himself that no repulse
could be injurious to him. If Mrs. Neefit were to refuse him admission into the house, the
breeches-maker would be obliged to own that he had done his best. But there was no repulse.
In two minutes he found himself in the parlour, with Polly standing up to receive him. "Dear
me, Mr. Newton; how odd! You might have come weeks running before you'd find me here and mother
out. She's gone to fetch father home. She don't do it,--not once a month." Ralph assured her
that he was quite contented as it was, and that he did not in the least regret the absence
of Mrs. Neefit. "But she'll be ever so unhappy. She likes to see gentlemen when they call."

"And you dislike it?" asked Ralph.

"Indeed I don't then," said Polly.

And now in what way was he to do it? Would it be well to allude to her father's understanding
with himself? In the ordinary way of love-making Ralph was quite as much at home as another.
He had found no difficulty in saying a soft word to Clarissa Underwood, and in doing more than
that. But with Polly the matter was different. There was an inappropriateness in his having
to do the thing at all, which made it difficult to him,--unless he could preface what he did
by an allusion to his agreement with her father. He could hardly ask Polly to be his wife without
giving her some reason for the formation of so desperate a wish on his own part. "Polly," he
said at last, "that was very awkward for us all,--that evening when Mr. Moggs was here."

"Indeed it was, Mr. Newton. Poor Mr. Moggs! He shouldn't have stayed;--but mother asked him."

"Has he been here since?"

"He was then, and he and I were walking together. There isn't a better fellow breathing than
Ontario Moggs,--in his own way. But he's not company for you, Mr. Newton, of course."

Ralph quailed at this. To be told that his own boot-maker wasn't "company" for him,--and that
by the young lady whom he intended to make his wife! "I don't think he is company for you either
Polly," he said.

"Why not, Mr. Newton? He's as good as me. What's the difference between him and father?" He
wondered whether, when she should be his own, he would be able to teach her to call Mr. Neefit
her papa. "Mr. Newton, when you know me better, you'll know that I'm not one to give myself
airs. I've known Mr. Moggs all my life, and he's equal to me, anyways,--only he's a deal better."

"I hope there's nothing more than friendship, Polly."

"What business have you to hope?"

Upon that theme he spoke, and told her in plain language that his reason for so hoping was
that he trusted to be able to persuade her to become his own wife. Polly, when the word was
spoken, blushed ruby red, and trembled a little. The thing had come to her, and, after all,
she might be a real lady if she pleased. She blushed ruby red, and trembled, but she said not
a word for a while. And then, having made his offer, he began to speak of love. In speaking
of it, he was urgent enough, but his words had not that sort of suasiveness which they would
have possessed had he been addressing himself to Clary Underwood. "Polly," he said, "I hope
you can love me. I will love you very dearly, and do all that I can to make you happy. To me
you shall be the first woman in the world. Do you think that you can love me, Polly?"

Polly was, perhaps, particular. She had not quite approved of the manner in which Ontario had
disclosed his love, though there had been something of the eloquence of passion even in that;--and
now she was hardly satisfied with Ralph Newton. She had formed to herself, perhaps, some idea
of a soft, insinuating, coaxing whisper, something that should be half caress and half prayer,
but something that should at least be very gentle and very loving. Ontario was loving, but
he was not gentle. Ralph Newton was gentle, but then she doubted whether he was loving. "Will
you say that it shall be so?" he asked, standing over her, and looking down upon her with his
most bewitching smile.

Polly amidst her blushing and her trembling made up her mind that she would say nothing of
the kind at this present moment. She would like to be a lady though she was not ashamed of
being a tradesman's daughter;--but she would not buy the privilege of being a lady at too dear
a price. The price would be very high indeed were she to give herself to a man who did not
love her, and perhaps despised her. And then she was not quite sure that she could love this
man herself, though she was possessed of a facility for liking nice young men. Ralph Newton
was well enough in many ways. He was good looking, he could speak up for himself, he did not
give himself airs,--and then, as she had been fully instructed by her father, he must ultimately
inherit a large property. Were she to marry him her position would be absolutely that of one
of the ladies of the land. But then she knew,--she could not but know,--that he sought her
because he was in want of money for his present needs. To be made a lady of the land would
be delightful; but to have a grand passion,--in regard to which Polly would not be satisfied
unless there were as much love on one side as on the other,--would be more delightful. That
latter was essentially necessary to her. The man must take an absolute pleasure in her company,
or the whole thing would be a failure. So she blushed and trembled, and thought and was silent.
"Dear Polly, do you mean that you cannot love me?" said Ralph.

"I don't know," said Polly.

"Will you try?" demanded Ralph.

"And I don't know that you can love me."

"Indeed, indeed, I can."

"Ah, yes;--you can say so, I don't doubt. There's a many of them as can say so, and yet it's
not in 'em to do it. And there's men as don't know hardly how to say it, and yet it's in their
hearts all the while." Polly must have been thinking of Ontario as she made this latter oracular
observation.

"I don't know much about saying it; but I can do it, Polly."

"Oh, as for talking, you can talk. You've been brought up that way. You've had nothing else
much to do."

She was very hard upon him, and so he felt it. "I think that's not fair, Polly. What can I
say to you better than that I love you, and will be good to you?"

"Oh, good to me! People are always good to me. Why shouldn't they?"

"Nobody will be so good as I will be,--if you will take me. Tell me, Polly, do you not believe
me when I say I love you?"

"No;--I don't."

"Why should I be false to you?"

"Ah;--well;--why? It's not for me to say why. Father's been putting you up to this. That's why."

"Your father could put me up to nothing of the kind if it were not that I really loved you."

"And there's another thing, Mr. Newton."

"What's that, Polly?"

"I'm not at all sure that I'm so very fond of you."

"That's unkind."

"Better be true than to rue," said Polly. "Why, Mr. Newton, we don't know anything about each
other,--not as yet. I may be, oh, anything bad, for what you know. And for anything I know
you may be idle, and extravagant, and a regular man flirt." Polly had a way of speaking the
truth without much respect to persons. "And then, Mr. Newton, I'm not going to be given away
by father just as he pleases. Father thinks this and that, and he means it all for the best.
I love father dearly. But I don't mean to take any body as I don't feel I'd pretty nigh break
my heart if I wasn't to have him. I ain't come to breaking my heart for you yet, Mr. Newton."

"I hope you never will break your heart."

"I don't suppose you understand, but that's how it is. Let it just stand by for a year or so,
Mr. Newton, and see how it is then. Maybe we might get to know each other. Just now, marrying
you would be like taking a husband out of a lottery." Ralph stood looking at her, passing his
hand over his head, and not quite knowing how to carry on his suit. "I'll tell father what
you was saying to me and what I said to you," continued Polly, who seemed quite to understand
that Ralph had done his duty by his creditor in making the offer, and that justice to him demanded
that this should be acknowledged by the whole family.

"And is that to be all, Polly?" asked Ralph in a melancholy voice.

"All at present, Mr. Newton."

Ralph, as he returned to London in his cab, felt more hurt by the girl's refusal of him than
he would before have thought to be possible. He was almost disposed to resolve that he would
at once renew the siege and carry it on as though there were no question of twenty thousand
pounds, and of money borrowed from the breeches-maker. Polly had shown so much spirit in the
interview, and had looked so well in showing it, had stood up such a perfect specimen of healthy,
comely, honest womanhood, that he thought that he did love her. There was, however, one comfort
clearly left to him. He had done his duty by old Neefit. The money due must of course be paid;--but
he had in good faith done that which he had pledged himself to do in taking the money.

As to the surrender of the estate there were still left to him four days in which to think of it.

CHAPTER XX.

THE CONSERVATIVES OF PERCYCROSS.

Early in this month of September there had come a proposition to Sir Thomas, which had thoroughly
disturbed him, and made him for a few days a most miserable man. By the tenth of the month,
however, he had so far recovered himself as to have made up his mind in regard to the proposition
with some feeling of triumphant expectation. On the following day he went home to Fulham, and
communicated his determination to his eldest daughter in the following words; "Patience, I
am going to stand for the borough of Percycross."

"Papa!"

"Yes. I dare say I'm a fool for my pains. It will cost me some money which I oughtn't to spend;
and if I get in I don't know that I can do any good, or that it can do me any good. I suppose
you think I'm very wrong?"

"I am delighted,--and so will Clary be. I'm so much pleased! Why shouldn't you be in Parliament?
I have always longed that you should go back to public life, though I have never liked to say
so to you."

"It is very kind of you to say it now, my dear."

"And I feel it." There was no doubt of that, for, as she spoke, the tears were streaming from
her eyes. "But will you succeed? Is there to be anybody against you?"

"Yes, my dear; there is to be somebody against me. In fact, there will be three people against
me; and probably I shall not succeed. Men such as I am do not have seats offered to them without
a contest. But there is a chance. I was down at Percycross for two days last week, and now
I've put out an address. There it is." Upon which he handed a copy of a placard to his daughter,
who read it, no doubt, with more enthusiasm than did any of the free and independent electors
to whom it was addressed.

The story in regard to the borough of Percycross was as follows. There were going forward in
the country at this moment preparations for a general election, which was to take place in
October. The readers of this story have not as yet been troubled on this head, there having
been no connection between that great matter and the small matters with which our tale has
concerned itself. In the Parliament lately dissolved, the very old borough of Percycross,--or
Percy St. Cross, as the place was properly called,--had displayed no political partiality,
having been represented by two gentlemen, one of whom always followed the conservative leader,
and the other the liberal leader, into the respective lobbies of the House of Commons. The
borough had very nearly been curtailed of the privilege in regard to two members in the great
Reform Bill which had been initiated and perfected and carried through as a whole by the almost
unaided intellect and exertions of the great reformer of his age; but it had had its own luck,
as the Irishmen say, and had been preserved intact. Now the wise men of Percycross, rejoicing
in their salvation, and knowing that there might still be danger before them should they venture
on a contest,--for bribery had not been unknown in previous contests at Percycross, nor petitions
consequent upon bribery; and some men had marvelled that the borough should have escaped so
long; and there was now supposed to be abroad a spirit of assumed virtue in regard to such
matters under which Percycross might still be sacrificed if Percycross did not look very sharp
after itself;--thinking of all this, the wise men at Percycross had concluded that it would
be better, just for the present, to let things run smoothly, and to return their two old members.
When the new broom which was to sweep up the dirt of corruption was not quite so new, they
might return to the old game,--which was, in truth, a game very much loved in the old town
of Percycross. So thought the wise men, and for a while it seemed that the wise men were to
have their own way. But there were men at Percycross who were not wise, and who would have
it that such an arrangement as this showed lack of spirit. The conservative foolish men at
Percycross began by declaring that they could return two members for the borough if they pleased,
and that they would do so, unless this and that were conceded to them. The liberal foolish
men swore that they were ready for the battle. They would concede nothing, and would stand
up and fight if the word concession were named to them. They would not only have one member,
but would have half the aldermen, half the town-councillors, half the mayor, half the patronage
in beadles, bell-ringers and bumbledom in general. Had the great reformer of the age given
them household suffrage for nothing? The liberal foolish men of Percycross declared, and perhaps
thought, that they could send two liberal members to Parliament. And so the borough grew hot.
There was one very learned pundit in those parts, a pundit very learned in political matters,
who thus prophesied to one of the proposed candidates;--"You'll spend a thousand pounds in
the election. You won't get in, of course, but you'll petition. That'll be another thousand.
You'll succeed there, and disfranchise the borough. It will be a great career, and no doubt
you'll find it satisfactory. You mustn't show yourself in Percycross afterwards;--that's all."
But the spirit was afloat, and the words of the pundit were of no avail. The liberal spirit
had been set a going, and men went to work with the new lists of borough voters. By the end
of August it was seen that there must be a contest. But who should be the new candidates?

The old candidates were there,--one on each side: an old Tory and a young Radical. In telling
our tale we will not go back to the old sins of the borough, or say aught but good of the past
career of the members. Old Mr. Griffenbottom, the Tory, had been very generous with his purse,
and was beloved, doubtless, by many in the borough. It is so well for a borough to have some
one who is always ready with a fifty-pound note in this or that need! It is so comfortable
in a borough to know that it can always have its subscription lists well headed! And the young
Radical was popular throughout the county. No one could take a chair at a mechanics' meeting
with better grace or more alacrity, or spin out his half-hour's speech with greater ease and
volubility. And then he was a born gentleman, which is so great a recommendation for a Radical.
So that, in fact, young Mr. Westmacott, though he did not spend so much money as old Griffenbottom,
was almost as popular in the borough. There was no doubt about Griffenbottom and Westmacott,--if
only the borough would have listened to its wise men and confined itself to the political guardianship
of such excellent representatives! But the foolish men prevailed over the wise men, and it
was decided that there should be a contest.

It was an evil day for Griffenbottom when it was suggested to him that he should bring a colleague
with him. Griffenbottom knew what this meant almost as well as the learned pundit whose words
we have quoted. Griffenbottom had not been blessed with uncontested elections, and had run
through many perils. He had spent what he was accustomed to call, when speaking of his political
position among his really intimate friends, "a treasure" in maintaining the borough. He must
often have considered within himself whether his whistle was worth the price. He had petitioned
and been petitioned against, and had had evil things said of him, and had gone through the
very heat of the fire of political warfare. But he had kept his seat, and now at last,--so
he thought,--the ease and comfort of an unopposed return was to repay him for everything. Alas!
how all this was changed; how his spirits sank within him, when he received that high-toned
letter from his confidential agent, Mr. Trigger, in which he was invited to suggest the name
of a colleague! "I'm sure you'll be rejoiced to hear, for the sake of the old borough," said
Mr. Trigger, "that we feel confident of carrying the two seats." Could Mr. Trigger have heard
the remarks which his patron made on reading that letter, Mr. Trigger would have thought that
Mr. Griffenbottom was the most ungrateful member of Parliament in the world. What did not Mr.
Griffenbottom owe to the borough of Percycross? Did he not owe all his position in the world,
all his friends, the fact that he was to be seen on the staircases of Cabinet Ministers, and
that he was called "honourable friend" by the sons of dukes,--did he not owe it all to the
borough of Percycross? Mr. Trigger and other friends of his, felt secure in their conviction
that they had made a man of Mr. Griffenbottom. Mr. Griffenbottom understood enough of all this
to answer Mr. Trigger without inserting in his letter any of those anathemas which he uttered
in the privacy of his own closet. He did, indeed, expostulate, saying, that he would of course
suggest a colleague, if a colleague were required; but did not Mr. Trigger and his other friends
in the dear old borough think that just at the present moment a pacific line of action would
be best for the interests of the dear old borough? Mr. Trigger answered him very quickly, and
perhaps a little sharply. The Liberals had decided upon having two men in the field, and therefore
a pacific line of action was no longer possible. Mr. Griffenbottom hurried over to the dear
old borough, still hoping,--but could do nothing. The scent of the battle was in the air, and
the foolish men of Percycross were keen for blood. Mr. Griffenbottom smiled and promised, and
declared to himself that there was no peace for the politician on this side the grave. He made
known his desires,--or the desire rather of the borough,--to a certain gentleman connected
with a certain club in London, and the gentleman in question on the following day waited upon
Sir Thomas. Sir Thomas had always been true "to the party,"--so the gentleman in question was
good enough to say. Everybody had regretted the loss of Sir Thomas from the House. The present
opportunity of returning to it was almost unparalleled, seeing that thing was so nearly a certainty.
Griffenbottom had always been at the top of the poll, and the large majority of the new voters
were men in the employment of conservative masters. The gentleman in question was very clear
in his explanation that there was a complete understanding on this matter between the employers
and employed at Percycross. It was the nature of the Percycross artizan to vote as his master
voted. They made boots, mustard, and paper at Percycross. The men in the mustard and paper
trade were quite safe;--excellent men, who went in a line to the poll, and voted just as the
master paper-makers and master mustard-makers desired. The gentleman from the club acknowledged
that there was a difficulty about the boot-trade. All the world over, boots do affect radical
sentiments. The master bootmakers,--there were four in the borough,--were decided; but the
men could not be got at with any certainty.

"Why should you wish to get at them?" demanded Sir Thomas.

"No;--of course not; one doesn't wish to get at them," said the gentleman from the club,--"particularly
as we are safe without them." Then he went into statistics, and succeeded in proving to Sir
Thomas that there would be a hard fight. Sir Thomas, who was much pressed as to time, took
a day to consider. "Did Mr. Griffenbottom intend to fight the battle with clean hands?" The
gentleman from the club was eager in declaring that everything would be done in strict accordance
with the law. He could give no guarantee as to expenses, but presumed it would be about £300,--perhaps
£400,--certainly under £500. The other party no doubt would bribe. They always did. And on
their behalf,--on behalf of Westmacott and Co.,--there would be treating, and intimidation,
and subornation, and fictitious voting, and every sin to which an election is subject. It always
was so with the Liberals at Percycross. But Sir Thomas might be sure that on his side everything
would be--"serene." Sir Thomas at last consented to go down to Percycross, and see one or two
of his proposed supporters.

He did go down, and was considerably disgusted. Mr. Trigger took him in hand and introduced
him to three or four gentlemen in the borough. Sir Thomas, in his first interview with Mr.
Trigger, declared his predilection for purity. "Yes, yes; yes, yes; of course," said Mr. Trigger.
Mr. Trigger, seeing that Sir Thomas had come among them as a stranger to whom had been offered
the very great honour of standing for the borough of Percycross,--offered to him before he
had subscribed a shilling to any of the various needs of the borough,--was not disposed to
listen to dictation. But Sir Thomas insisted. "It's as well that we should understand each
other at once," said Sir Thomas. "I should throw up the contest in the middle of it,--even
if I were winning,--if I suspected that money was being spent improperly." How often has the
same thing been said by a candidate, and what candidate ever has thrown up the sponge when
he was winning? Mr. Trigger was at first disposed to tell Sir Thomas that he was interfering
in things beyond his province. Had it not been that the day was late, and that the Liberals
were supposed to be hard at work,--that the candidate was wanted at once, Mr. Trigger would
have shown his spirit. As it was he could only assent with a growl, and say that he had supposed
all that was to be taken as a matter of course.

"But I desire to have it absolutely understood by all those who act with me in this matter,"
said Sir Thomas. "At any rate I will not be petitioned against."

"Petitions never come to much at Percycross," said Mr. Trigger. He certainly ought to have
known, as he had had to do with a great many of them. Then they started to call upon two or
three of the leading conservative gentlemen. "If I were you, I wouldn't say anything about
that, Sir Thomas."

"About what?"

"Well;--bribery and petitions, and the rest of it. Gentlemen when they're consulted don't like
to be told of those sort of things. There has been a little of it, perhaps. Who can say?" Who,
indeed, if not Mr. Trigger,--in regard to Percycross? "But it's better to let all that die
out of itself. It never came to much in Percycross. I don't think there was ever more than
ten shillings to be had for a vote. And I've known half-a-crown a piece buy fifty of 'em,"
he added emphatically. "It never was of much account, and it's best to say nothing about it."

"It's best perhaps to make one's intentions known," said Sir Thomas mildly. Mr. Trigger hummed
and hawed, and shook his head, and put his hands into his trousers pockets;--and in his heart
of hearts he despised Sir Thomas.

On that day Sir Thomas was taken to see four gentlemen of note in Percycross,--a mustard-maker,
a paper-maker, and two bootmakers. The mustard-maker was very cordial in offering his support.
He would do anything for the cause. Trigger knew him. The men were all right at his mills.
Then Sir Thomas said a word. He was a great foe to intimidation;--he wouldn't for worlds have
the men coerced. The mustard-maker laughed cheerily. "We know what all that comes to at Percycross;
don't we, Trigger? We shall all go straight from this place;--shan't we, Trigger? And he needn't
ask any questions;--need he, Trigger?" "Lord 'a mercy, no," said Trigger, who was beginning
to be disgusted. Then they went on to the paper-maker's.

The paper-maker was a very polite gentleman, who seemed to take great delight in shaking Sir
Thomas by the hand, and who agreed with energy to every word Sir Thomas said. Trigger stood
a little apart at the paper-maker's, as soon as the introduction had been performed,--perhaps
disapproving in part of the paper-maker's principles. "Certainly not, Sir Thomas; not for the
world, Sir Thomas. I'm clean against anything of that kind, Sir Thomas," said the paper-maker.
Sir Thomas assured the paper-maker that he was glad to hear it;--and he was glad. As they went
to the first bootmaker's, Mr. Trigger communicated to Sir Thomas a certain incident in the
career of Mr. Spiveycomb, the paper-maker. "He's got a contract for paper from the 'Walhamshire
Herald,' Sir Thomas;--the largest circulation anywhere in these parts. Griffenbottom gets him
that; and if ere a man of his didn't vote as he bade 'em, he wouldn't keep 'em, not a day.
I don't know that we've a man in Percycross so stanch as old Spiveycomb." This was Mr. Trigger's
revenge.

