But Ann Holland succeeded before long in getting her brother out of the way, and releasing
them from their painful imprisonment. The streets of Upton were hushed in utter solitude and
silence as they walked through them, speechless and heavy-hearted; those streets which, on
the morrow, were to have been crowded with groups of his people, eager to welcome him home.
They passed the church, lit up with the moonlight, clear enough to make every grave visible;
a lovely light, in which all the dead seemed to be sleeping restfully. He sighed heavily as
he passed by. Sophy was clinging to him, sobbing now and then; for her agitation had subsided
into a weak dejection, which found no relief but in tears. Every step they trod along the too
familiar road brought a fresh pang to him. For thousands of memories of happy days haunted
him; and a thousand vague fears dogged him. He dared not open his heart either to the memories
or the fears. Nothing was possible to him, except a silent, continuous cry to God for help.

"It is a melancholy coming home," Sophy murmured, as they stood together on the threshold of
their aunt's house. He had not time to answer, for the door was opened quickly, and Mrs. Bolton
hurried forward to welcome him. She had been expecting him for some time, for Ann Holland had
sent word that both he and Mrs. Chantrey were at her house. One glance at his anxious and sorrowful
face revealed to her the anguish of the last few hours. Sophy crept away guiltily up stairs;
and she put her arm through his, and led him into the dining-room, where a luxurious supper
was spread for him.

"You know all about it, then?" said Mrs. Bolton, as he threw himself into a chair by the fireside,
looking utterly bowed down and wretched.

"Yes," he answered. "Oh! aunt, could you do nothing for her? Could you not prevent it? It is
a miserable thing for a man to come back to."

"I have done all I could," she replied, hesitatingly. "I have been quite wretched about it
myself; but what could I do? I told your friend Mr. Warden there was nothing in reason I would
refuse to do; but his ideas were so impracticable they could not be carried out."

"What were they?" he asked.

"Positively that I should abstain altogether myself," she said; "and not only that, but I must
refuse it to my guests, and have nothing of the kind in my house; not even those choice wines
your uncle bought, Neither wine for myself nor ale for my servants! It was quite out of the
question, you know. Mr. Warden was meddlesome to the very verge of impertinence about it, until
I was compelled to give up inviting him to my house. He went so far as to doubt my being a
Christian! And it was of no use telling him I followed our Lord's example more strictly by
drinking wine than he did by abstaining from it. He used his influence with Sophy to persuade
her to suggest the same thing, that I would keep it altogether out of her sight at all times;
but she soon saw how impossible it was for a person of my station and responsibility to do
such a thing. I told her it was putting total abstinence above religion."

"Did Sophy think that would save her?" asked Mr. Chantrey.

"She had a fancy it would," answered Mrs. Bolton, "but only because Mr. Warden put it into
her head. She was quite reasonable about it, poor girl! I proved to her that our Lord did not
do it, nor some of the best Christians that ever lived; and she was quite convinced. Even Ann
Holland was troublesome about it, begging me to do all kinds of extraordinary things--to have
Charlie here was one of them, as if that could cure her--but I soon made her understand her
position and mine. I am sure nobody can be more anxious than I am to do what is right. I am
afraid it is the development of an hereditary taste in your wife, David, and nothing will cure
it; for I have made many inquiries about her family, and I hear several of her relations were
given to excess; so you may depend upon it, it is hereditary and incurable."

There was little comfort for him in this speech, which was delivered in a satisfied and judicial
tone. Sophy's sin had been present to Mrs. Bolton for so many months, and she had grown so
accustomed to analyze it, and argue about it, that she could not enter into the sudden and
direful shock the discovery had been to her nephew. An antagonism had risen in her mind about
it, not only against Mr. Warden, but against some faint, suppressed reproaches of conscience,
which made her secretly cleave to the idea that this vice was hereditary, and consequently
incurable. She was afraid also of David reproaching her. But he did not. He was too crushed
to reason yet about his wife's fall, or what measures might have been taken to prevent it.
Long after his aunt had left him, and not a sound was to be heard in the house, he sat alone,
scarcely thinking, but with one deep, poignant, bitter sense of anguish weighing upon his soul.
Now and then he cried to God inarticulately; that dumb, incoherent cry of the stricken spirit
to the only Saviour.

CHAPTER IX.

SAD DAYS

There was no doubt in Upton, when the people saw their rector again, that he knew full well
the calamity that had befallen him. No one ventured to speak to him of it; but their very silence
was a measure of the gravity of his trouble. His friend Warden told him more accurately than
any one else could have done, how it had gradually come about, and what remonstrances he had
made both to Mrs. Bolton and Sophy. Mr. Chantrey was impatient to get into his own house, where
he could do what his aunt had refused to do, and where he could shield his wife from all temptation
to yield to the craving for stimulants in any form. When they were at home once more, with
their little son with them, filling up her time and thoughts, all would be well again.

But he did not know the force of the habit she had fallen into. At first there were a few gleams
of hope and thankfulness during the pleasant days of summer, while it was a new thing for Sophy
to have her husband and child with her. But he could not keep her altogether from temptation,
while they visited constantly at Bolton Villa, and the houses of other friends. It was in vain
that he abstained himself; that he made himself a fanatic on the question, as all his acquaintances
said; Sophy could not go out without being exposed to temptation, and she was not strong enough
to resist it. Before the next spring came, the people of Upton spoke of her as confirmed in
her miserable failing. There was no one but herself who could now break off this fatal habit;
and her will had grown wretchedly feeble. The sin domineered over her, and she felt herself
a helpless slave to it. There had been no want of firmness or tenderness on the part of her
husband; but it had taken too strong a hold upon her before he came to her aid. The intolerable
sense of humiliation which she suffered only drove her to seek to forget it by sinking lower
into the depth of her degradation and his.

A great change came over the rector of Upton. He went about among his parishioners, no longer
gladly taking the leadership among them, and claiming the pre-eminence as his by right. It
had been one of his most pleasant thoughts in former days that he was the rector of the parish,
chosen of God, and appointed by men, to teach them truths good for himself and them, and to
go before them, seeking out the path in which they should walk. But his own feet were now stumbling
upon dark mountains. He was quickly losing his popularity among them; for whereas, while he
was himself happy and honored, he had not seen clearly all the evils, and wrongs, and excesses
of his parish, now he was growing, as they said, more fanatical and ascetic than Mr. Warden
had been, who had won the name of a puritan among them. Why could he not leave the Upton Arms
and the numerous smaller taverns alone, so long as the landladies and their daughters attended
church, as they had been need to do? His presence at the dinner-parties of his friends was
a check upon all hilarity; and by and by they ceased to invite him, and then, half ashamed
to see his face, ceased to go to his church, where his sermons had not the smooth and flowery
eloquence of former days.

Probably Mr. Chantrey knew better now what was good for his people; he had clearer views of
the snares and dangers that beset them, and the sorrows that lie lurking on every man's path.
He saw more distinctly what Christ came to do; and how he did it by complete self-abnegation,
and by descending to the level of the lowest. But he had no delight in standing up in his pulpit
in full face of his dwindling congregation. Language seemed poor to him; and it had grown difficult
to him to put his burning thoughts into words. As the bitter experience of daily life seared
his very soul, he found that no smooth, fit expressions of his self-communing rose to his lips.
It pained him to face his people, and speak to them in old, trite forms of speech, while his
heart was burning within him; and they knew it, as they sat quiet in their pews, looking up
to him with inquisitive or indifferent eyes.

Mrs, Bolton could not escape her share of these troubles; though she never accused herself
for a moment as having had any part in causing them. It was the archdeacon who had obtained
the living of Upton for her favorite nephew; and she had settled there to be the patroness
of every good thing in the parish. Mr. Chantrey's popularity had been a source of great satisfaction
and self-applause to her. She had foreseen how useful he would be; what a shining light in
this somewhat dark corner of the church. The increasing congregations, and the number of carriages
at the church-door, had given her much pleasure. She had delighted in taking the lead, side
by side with her nephew, and in being looked up to in Upton, as one who set an example in every
good thing. But this unfortunate failing in her nephew's wife, developed under her roof and
during his absence, had been a severe blow. No one directly blamed her for it, except the late
curate, Mr. Warden, and a few extravagant, visionary persons, who deemed it best to abstain
totally from the source of so much misery and poverty among their fellow-beings, and to take
care, as far as in them lay, to place no stumbling-block in the way of feeble feet. But, strange
to say, all the estimable people in Upton regarded her with less veneration since her niece
had gone astray. Even Ann Holland was plainly less impressed and swayed by the idea of her
goodness; and there were many others like Ann Holland. As for her nephew, he was gradually
falling away from her in his trouble. He would seldom go to dine with her without Sophy; and
he had urgent reasons to decline every invitation for her. Their conversations upon religious
subjects, which had always tended to make her comfortably assured of her own state of grace,
had quite ceased. David never talked to her now about his sermons, past or future. He was in
the "wasteful wilderness" himself, and could not walk with her through trim alleys of the vineyards.
Now and then there fell from him, as from his friend, unpractical notions of a Christian's
duty; as if Christianity consisted more in acts of self-denial than in an accurate creed concerning
fundamental doctrines. It was an uneasy time for Mrs. Bolton; and her chief consolation was
found in a volume of sermons, published by the archdeacon, which made her feel sure that all
must be right with the widow of such a dignitary.

CHAPTER X.

A SIN AND A SHAME

It was May again; a soft, sunny day, with spring showers falling, or gathering in glistening
clouds in the blue sky. The bells chimed for morning service, as the people came up to church
from the old-fashioned streets. They greeted one another as they met in the churchyard, whispering
that it had been a very bad week for poor Mr. Chantrey. Every one knew how uncontrollable his
wife had been for some time past, except a few strangers, who still drove in from a distance.
The congregation, some curiously, some wistfully, gazed earnestly at him, as with a worn and
weary face, and with bowed-down head already streaked with gray, he took his place in the reading-desk.
Ann Holland wiped away her tears stealthily, lest he should see she was weeping, and guess
the reason. In the rectory pew the young, fair-haired boy sat alone, as he had often done of
late; for his mother was to unfit to appear in church.

Mr. Chantrey read the service in a clear, steady voice, but with a tone of trouble in it which
only a very dull ear could have missed. When he ascended his pulpit, and looked down with sad
and sunken eyes upon his people, every face was lifted up to him attentively, as he gave out
the text, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Mrs. Bolton moved uneasily in her pew, for she knew he
was going to preach a disagreeable sermon. It was not as eloquent as many of his old ones;
but it had a hundredfold more power. His hearers had often been pleased and touched before;
now they were stirred, and made uncomfortable. Their responsibilities, as each one the keeper
of his brother's soul, were solemnly laid before them. The listless, contented indifference
to the sins and sorrows of their fellow-men was rudely shaken. Their satisfaction in their
own safety was attacked. As clearly as words could put it, they were told that not one of them
could go to heaven alone; that there was no solitary path of salvation for any foot to tread.
As long as any fell because of temptation, they were bound, as far as in them lay, to remove
every kind of temptation. If each one was not careful to be his brother's keeper, then the
voice of their brother's blood would cry unto God against them. There was scarcely a person
present who could listen to their rector's sermon with feelings of self-satisfaction.

He left his pulpit at the close of it, troubled and exhausted. His little son followed him
into the vestry to wait until the congregation, that loved to linger a little about the porch,
should have dispersed. But hardly had he entered, than, looking out, as it was his wont to
do, upon the grave of his other child, he saw a figure stretched across it, asleep. Could it
possibly be his wife? Large drops of rain were beginning to fall upon her upturned face, but
they did not rouse her from her heavy slumber; nor did the noise of many feet passing by along
the churchyard path. It was a moment of unutterable shame and agony to him. His people saw
her; they had heard of his trouble before, but now they saw it; and they were lingering to
look at her. He must go out in the midst of them all, and they must see him take his miserable
wife home.

Those who were there that day will never forget the sight. His people made way for him, as
he passed among them, still in the gown he had worn while preaching, with a rigid and wan face,
and eyes that seemed blind to every object except the unhappy woman he could not save. His
little boy was pressing close behind him, but he bade him go back into the church, and wait
until he came for him. Then he knelt down beside his wife in the falling rain, and lifted her
gently, calling her by her name, "Sophy! Sophy!" But her heavy head fell back again upon the
grave, and he was not strong enough to raise her from it. He burst into tears, a passion of
tears; such as men only weep in hours of extreme anguish of mind. Slowly his people melted
away, helpless to do anything for him; except two or three of his most familiar friends, who
stayed to assist him in taking the wretched wife back to her home.

Ann Holland lingered unseen in the porch until all were out of sight. The child she loved so
fondly was standing with the great door ajar, holding it with his small hand, and peeping out
now and then. She called to him when all were gone, and he came out of the church gladly, yet
with an air of concern on his round, rosy face.

"My mother is ill, very ill," he said, putting his hand into hers. "I saw her lying on baby's
grave. Couldn't anything be done for her to make her well? Isn't there any doctor clever enough
to cure her?"

"I don't know, dear," answered Ann Holland.

"My father never lets me go to see her when she's worst," he went on, "only Sarah goes into
her room, and him. She talks and laughs often, and yet my father says she is ill. When I am
a man I shall be a doctor, and learn how to make her well. But it will be a long time before
I am clever enough for that, I'm afraid. My father says she's too ill for anybody to come to
see us; isn't it a pity?"

"Yes, my dear," she answered.

"She can never hear me say my hymns now," he said; "and when she's not so ill that my father
won't let me see her, she sits crying, crying ever so; and if I want to play with her, or read
to her, she can't bear it, she says. I should think there ought to be somebody to cure her,
if we could only find out. My father scarcely ever laughs now, because she's so ill; and when
he plays with me he only looks sad, and he speaks in a quiet voice as if it would make her
worse. Do try, Miss Holland, and ask everybody that comes to your house if they don't know
of some very, very clever doctor for my mother."

"I will try," she said. "I'll do all I can. But you may run home now, Master Charlie, See!
There's your father coming back for you,"

"I know I sha'n't see my mother again to-day," he answered; "good-by, and remember, please."

She watched him running across the little meadow to his father; and then she turned away, and
walked slowly through the street homeward. Little knots of the towns-people lingered still
about the doorways, discussing their rector's troubles. Though most of them greeted her, anxious
to hear her opinion as one who was considered on friendly terms with the rector's family, she
evaded their questionings, and passed on to the solitude of her own dwelling. It had been solitary
now for some days, for her brother had disappeared early in the week; having stripped the house
of money, and set off on one of his vagrant tramps, of which she knew nothing except that he
always returned penniless, and generally with the good clothes she provided for him exchanged
for worthless rags. How many years it was that her life had been embittered by his drunkenness
she could hardly reckon, so many had they been. These strange absences of his had at first
been a severe trial to her; but of late years they had been a holiday time of rest, except
for the continual anxiety she felt on his behalf. Her quaint and quiet kitchen, as she unlocked
the door and entered it, seemed a haven of refuge, where she could indulge in the tears she
had kept under control till now. The love she felt for Mr. Chantrey was so deep and true, that
any sorrow of his must have grieved her. But she knew so well what this sorrow was! She knew
through what long years it might last; and how hopeless it might grow before the end came.
Looking back upon her own blighted life, she could foresee for him only a weary, miserable,
ever-deepening wretchedness. The Sunday afternoon passed by slowly, and the evening came, The
soft sunshine and spring showers of the morning were gone; and a sullen sweep of rain, driven
by the east wind, was beating through the streets. A neighbor looked in to say she had seen
the curate from the next parish pass through the town toward the church; and she thought Mr.
Chantrey would very likely not be there. But Ann Holland had already decided not to go. At
any moment she might hear her brother's shambling step draw near the door, and his fingers
fumbling at the latch. She could not bear the neighbors to see him when he came off one of
his vagabond tramps, dirty and ragged as he usually was. She must stay at home again for him;
again, as she had done hundreds of times, mourning pitifully over him, and ready to receive
him patiently, impenitent as he was. She went up stairs to make his bed quite ready for him;
and to put out of his way everything that could by any chance hurt him, if he should stumble
and fall in his drunken weakness. When she returned to the kitchen, she lighted a candle, and
opened the old family Bible, with its large type, which seemed to her a more sacred book than
the little one she used daily. But she could not read; the words passed vaguely and without
meaning beneath her eyes. Her mind was full of the thought of her unhappy brother, and Mr.
Chantrey's miserable wife.

It was past her usual hour of going to bed before she made up the kitchen fire to be in readiness,
lest her brother should knock her up at any hour during the night. At the last moment she opened
the street-door, and stood listening for a little while, as she always did when he was not
at home. The rain was still sweeping through the street, which was as silent as if the town
had been deserted. The gas-lights in the lamps flickered with the wind, and lit up the pools
and channels of water running down the pavements.

But just as she turned to go in, her quick ear caught the sound of distant footsteps, growing
louder as they came in her direction. It was the tramp of several feet, marching slowly like
those of persons bearing a heavy burden. She waited to see who and what it could be so late
this Sunday night; and soon, under the flickering lamps, she caught sight of several men, carrying
among them a hurdle, with a shapeless heap upon it. A sudden, vague panic seized her, and she
hastily retreated inside her house, shutting and barring the door. She said to herself she
did not wish to see what they were carrying past. But were they going past? She heard them
still, tramping slowly on toward her house; would they pass by with their burden? She put down
the light, for her hand trembled too much to hold it; and she stood listening, her ears quickened
for every sound, and her white face turned toward the closed and fastened door.

A knock came upon it, which almost caused her to shriek aloud. Yet it was a quiet rap, and
a neighbor's voice answered as she asked tremulously who was there. She hastened to open the
door, so welcome was the sound of the well-known voice; but there, opposite to her, in the
driving rain, rested the hurdle, with the confused mass lying huddled together upon it. The
men who bore it were silent, standing with their faces turned toward her; all of them strangers,
except the one neighbor, who was on her threshold.

"They found him lying out in the fields near the Woodhouse farm," said her neighbor, in a loud
whisper; "he'd strayed there, we reckon."

"Is he dead?" she asked, mechanically.

"Not dead, bless your heart! no!" was the answer; "we'll carry him in. There now! Don't take
on. There's a special providence over folks like him; they never come to much harm, you know.
Show us where to lay him."

Ann Holland made way for the men to pass her, as they carried their burden into the quiet,
pleasant kitchen. She followed with the light, and looked down upon him; her brother, who had
played with her, and learned the same lessons, when they were innocent little children together.
His gray hair was matted, and his bloated face smeared with dust and damp. He was barefooted
and bareheaded. But as she gazed down upon him, and listened to his heavy struggle for breath,
she cried in a tone of terror. "He is dying."

CHAPTER XI.

LOST

An hour later the house was comparatively quiet again. A doctor had been, and said nothing
could be done for Richard Holland, except to let him die where he was undisturbed. The men
who had carried him home had dispersed, or had adjourned to the Upton Arms, to drink, and to
talk over this close of a drunkard's life. The news had in some way reached the Rectory; and
now only Mr. Chantrey and Ann Holland watched beside him. They had laid him, as he was, on
the little white-covered sofa in the parlor, never so soiled before. Mr. Chantrey sat gazing
at the degraded, dying man. No deeper debasement could come to any human being; almost the
likeness of a human being had been lost. The mire and slough of the ditch into which he had
fallen still clung to him; for only his face had been hastily washed clean by his sister's
hand; a face that had forfeited all intelligence and seemliness; a coarse, squalid, disfigured
face. Yet Ann was not repulsed by it; her tears fell upon it; and once she had bent over it,
and kissed it gently. Now and then she put her mouth close to the deafened ear, and spoke to
him, calling him by fond names, and imploring him to give some sign that he heard, and knew
her. But there was no sign. The heavy breathing grew more thick and labored, yet feebler as
the time passed slowly on. David Chantrey marvelled at the poor sister's patience and tenderness.

"Don't trouble to stay with me, sir," she said, at last, "I thought perhaps he'd come to himself,
and you'd say a word to him. But there's no hope of that now."

"No," he answered, "I will not go, Ann," and his-voice trembled with dread. "Do you think my
wife could ever be as bad as this?"

"God forbid!" she cried, earnestly. "God keep her from it! Oh! if she could but see; if she
could but know! But he wasn't always like this. He was a kind, good-natured, clever man once.
It's drinking that's ruined him."

"I will stay with you to the end," said Mr. Chantrey; "it is fit for me. You are teaching me
a lesson of patience, Ann. All this day I have been thinking if it would be possible for me
to give up my wife, and send her away from me, to end her days apart from mine. I have been
in despair; in the very deeps. But now; why! even if I knew she would die thus, I cannot forsake
her."

"Ay! we must have patience," she answered. "I always hoped to win him back again, but it was
too strong for him and me. God knows how he's been tempted on all hands; even those that call
themselves religious, and go to church regular as can be. He used to cry to me sometimes, and
promise to turn over a new leaf; and then somebody perhaps that he looked up to would treat
him at the Upton Arms. He might have been a good man, if he'd been left alone."

"Let us pray together for him and ourselves," said Mr. Chantrey, kneeling down once again by
the little couch, as he had knelt the night of his return home. Ann still held her brother's
head upon her arm, and her bowed face nearly rested upon it. But all words failed David Chantrey.
"Father!" he cried, "Father!" There was nothing more that he could say. It was the single,
despairing call of a soul that was full of trouble; that was "laid in the lowest pit, in darkness,
in the deeps." But the bewildered brain of the dying man caught the cry, and he muttered it
over to himself; "Father! father! where is he?"

"It's God, our Father who art in heaven," said Ann Holland, uttering the words very slowly
and distinctly in his ear; "try to think of Him, and pray to Him. He'll hear you, even now."

"Father!" he muttered again, "why! he'd be ashamed of his boy."

"It's God," she said, keeping down her sobs, "you've no other father. Think of Him: God, who
loves you."

"He'd be ashamed of me," repeated the dying man.

For a minute or two he kept on whispering to himself words they could not hear, except the
one word "shame." Then all was still. The miserable end had come; and neither love nor patience
could avail him anything on this side the grave. He had gone as a drunkard into the presence
of his Judge.

CHAPTER XII.

A COLONIAL CURACY

The death of Richard Holland might have had a salutary effect upon Sophy Chantrey, if it had
not been for the shock of learning how deeply she had disgraced herself and her husband in
the sight of his people. She felt that she could never again face those who had seen her on
that Sunday morning. She shut herself up in her room, refusing to admit any one, except the
servant who waited upon her, and steadily set herself against any communication with the world
outside. Even her husband she would hardly speak to; and her child she would not see. The strain
and stress of her remorse was more than she could bear. Before the week was gone, she had fled
for forgetfulness to the vice which bound her in so heavy a chain. All the cunning of her nature,
so strangely perverted, was put into action to procure a supply of the stimulants she craved;
and she escaped from her misery for a little while by losing herself in suicidal lethargy and
stupefaction.

Mr. Chantrey himself felt it to be impossible to meet the gaze of his usual congregation; he
shrank even from walking through the streets of his own town, while his shame was fresh upon
him. He exchanged duties with fellow-clergymen, and so evaded the immediate difficulty. But
he knew that this could not go on for long. He could not conscientiously retain a position
such as he held, if he had not the moral and mental strength necessary for the discharge of
its obligations. Strength of all kinds seemed to fail him. His physical vitality was low; the
health he had gained in Madeira had been too severely taxed since his return. He had fought
bravely against the mental feebleness that was creeping gradually over him with a paralyzing
languor; but he knew he could not bear the conflict much longer. Everything was telling against
him. He would fain have proved to his people that a man can live out a noble, useful, Christ-like
life, under crushing sorrows, and shame that was worse than sorrow. But it was not in him to
do it. He found himself feeble and crippled, in the very thick of life's battle; and it appeared
to him that his position as rector of the parish rendered his feebleness tenfold disastrous.

But this decay of power came slowly, though surely. By the close of his second winter in England
he felt within himself that he must quit his country again, if he wished to live only a few
years longer. There had been no bright sunny spot of gladness for him, no gleam of hope throughout
the whole winter. He had been compelled to send his boy away again to school, to shield him
from seeing the disgrace of his mother. His friends had almost ceased to come to his house,
and he had no heart to go to theirs. It was only now and then that he accepted his aunt's invitations
to dine alone with her.

"Aunt," he said one evening, when they two were alone together in her fantastic drawing-room,
"I have resigned my living."

"Resigned your living!" she repeated, in utter amazement, "resigned Upton Rectory!"

She could hardly pronounce the words; and she gazed at him with an air of bewilderment which
brought a smile to his careworn face.

"Yes," he answered, "life has grown intolerable to me here."

"And what do you mean to do?" she asked.

"I am going out to my friend Warden," he replied, "who has a charge in New Zealand; he promises
me a curacy under him, if I can get nothing better. But I am sure of a charge of my own very soon."

"A curate to Warden! a curate in New Zealand!" ejaculated Mrs. Bolton. "David, are you mad?"

