 All those forms: that Madonna with her brooding purity,
those rapturous faces singing in the morning light, those bronze divinities with their passionless
dignity, those wild shapes rushing from despair to despair, belonged to a divine world wherein
I had no part; and every experience, however profound, every perception, however exquisite,
would bring me the bitter dream of a limitless energy I could never know, and even in my most
perfect moment I would be two selves, the one watching with heavy eyes the other's moment of
content. I had heaped about me the gold born in the crucibles of others; but the supreme dream
of the alchemist, the transmutation of the weary heart into a weariless spirit, was as far
from me as, I doubted not, it had been from him also. I turned to my last purchase, a set of
alchemical apparatus which, the dealer in the Rue le Peletier had assured me, once belonged
to Raymond Lully, and as I joined the alembic to the athanor and laid the lavacrum maris at
their side, I understood the alchemical doctrine, that all beings, divided from the great deep
where spirits wander, one and yet a multitude, are weary; and sympathized, in the pride of
my connoisseurship, with the consuming thirst for destruction which made the alchemist veil
under his symbols of lions and dragons, of eagles and ravens, of dew and of nitre, a search
for an essence which would dissolve all mortal things. I repeated to myself the ninth key of
Basilius Valentinus, in which he compares the fire of the last day to the fire of the alchemist,
and the world to the alchemist's furnace, and would have us know that all must be dissolved
before the divine substance, material gold or immaterial ecstasy, awake. I had dissolved indeed
the mortal world and lived amid immortal essences, but had obtained no miraculous ecstasy.
As I thought of these things, I drew aside the curtains and looked out into the darkness, and
it seemed to my troubled fancy that all those little points of light filling the sky were the
furnaces of innumerable divine alchemists, who labour continually, turning lead into gold,
weariness into ecstasy, bodies into souls, the darkness into God; and at their perfect labour
my mortality grew heavy, and I cried out, as so many dreamers and men of letters in our age
have cried, for the birth of that elaborate spiritual beauty which could alone uplift souls
weighted with so many dreams.

II

My reverie was broken by a loud knocking at the door, and I wondered the more at this because
I had no visitors, and had bid my servants do all things silently, lest they broke the dream
of my inner life. Feeling a little curious, I resolved to go to the door myself, and, taking
one of the silver candlesticks from the mantlepiece, began to descend the stairs. The servants
appeared to be out, for though the sound poured through every corner and crevice of the house
there was no stir in the lower rooms. I remembered that because my needs were so few, my part
in life so little, they had begun to come and go as they would, often leaving me alone for
hours. The emptiness and silence of a world from which I had driven everything but dreams suddenly
overwhelmed me, and I shuddered as I drew the bolt. I found before me Michael Robartes, whom
I had not seen for years, and whose wild red hair, fierce eyes, sensitive, tremulous lips and
rough clothes, made him look now, just as they used to do fifteen years before, something between
a debauchee, a saint, and a peasant. He had recently come to Ireland, he said, and wished to
see me on a matter of importance: indeed, the only matter of importance for him and for me.
His voice brought up before me our student years in Paris, and remembering the magnetic power
ne had once possessed over me, a little fear mingled with much annoyance at this irrelevant
intrusion, as I led the way up the wide staircase, where Swift had passed joking and railing,
and Curran telling stories and quoting Greek, in simpler days, before men's minds, subtilized
and complicated by the romantic movement in art and literature, began to tremble on the verge
of some unimagined revelation. I felt that my hand shook, and saw that the light of the candle
wavered and quivered more than it need have upon the Maenads on the old French panels, making
them look like the first beings slowly shaping in the formless and void darkness. 

Tonight, after receiving the wonderful telegram from the Quartermaster General Stone, our paster
and his wife went into each house where people from their Community were held. They wanted to
see for themselves the poor refugees, who, now with glowing eyes, said they could soon return
to their beloved homeland. All seriousness and all suffering had disappeared -- only left was the
joy of victory and gratitude toward God, who put an end to the suffering.

Of course, it will take a while for all the cars to return because they must avoid incursions
at the border. Meanwhile, the winter will be hard for refugees who have lost all of their belongings.
We want to think of them and send them gifts. We all know that we are so happy, living far from
the enemy. Our home was spared, but we pity them, the homeless! The
tin cans.

During his lunch hour, Saddler Krauss saw from his door someone down
the street, always on the same corner.

Apparently he expected someone from there. In the house across from his shop, a woman looked through
the window, also focused on the same corner. She shouted to the neighbor: "If they still do
not ???, come at once." Saddler's boys played in front of the house,
and the larger of the two looked down the road. "Now it's coming,"
he cried, and ran away.

Afterward, a fat woman waddled as fast as she could with a heavy stack of newspapers under her arm.
 It filled me, as incense often does, with a faint sleepiness, so that I started when
he said, 'I have come to ask you that question which I asked you in Paris, and which you left
Paris rather than answer.'

He had turned his eyes towards me, and I saw them glitter in the firelight, and through the
incense, as I replied: 'You mean, will I become an initiate of your Order of the Alchemical
Rose? I would not consent in Paris, when I was full of unsatisfied desire, and now that I have
at last fashioned my life according to my desire, am I likely to consent?'

'You have changed greatly since then,' he answered. 'I have read your books, and now I see
you among all these images, and I understand you better than you do yourself, for I have been
with many and many dreamers at the same cross-ways. You have shut away the world and gathered
the gods about you, and if you do not throw yourself at their feet, you will be always full
of lassitude, and of wavering purpose, for a man must forget he is miserable in the bustle
and noise of the multitude in this world and in time; or seek a mystical union with the multitude
who govern this world and time.' And then he murmured something I could not hear, and as though
to someone I could not see. Since the German police dogs, the acclimation inward paris cost facile;
by young cost the Gallic lyric associate to it, they as well babbled on their babies French
and anybody who wasn't specifically lived to it, they believed Gallic.
 I cast off the illusion, which was, I believe, merely caused by memory,
and by the twilight of incense, for I would not acknowledge that he could overcome my now mature
intellect; and I said: 'Even if I grant that I need a spiritual belief and some form of worship,
why should I go to Eleusis and not to Calvary?' He leaned forward and began speaking with a
slightly rhythmical intonation, and as he spoke I had to struggle again with the shadow, as
of some older night than the night of the sun, which began to dim the light of the candles
and to blot out the little gleams upon the corner of picture- frames and on the bronze divinities,
and to turn the blue of the incense to a heavy purple; while it left the peacocks to glimmer
and glow as though each separate colour were a living spirit. I had fallen into a profound
dream-like reverie in which I heard him speaking as at a distance. "My wife can not Russian, but she can cook well. Bring you own food on the table, Louise,
"he added in German.

Curiously watched the children, the soldiers took off their bags now. One of them threw the his
own on the sofa, because it meant the leader, to put it on the floor. In the fine Environments
at the hospitable host wanted, they are not the raw guys. And now was the minister's wife for
the meal, the children came to the table and clasped their hands.

The Pastor said the grace, the Cossacks did, they were under the spell of the rectory peace.
What was out there prepared in the kitchen Maruschka shivering and
shaking, which it out of the cellar brought out that tasted the Cossacks
for the best.hka shivering and
shaking, which it out of the cellar brought out that tasted the Cossacks
for the best. The many think humanity
made these divinities, and that it can unmake them again; but we who have seen them pass in
rattling harness, and in soft robes, and heard them speak with articulate voices while we lay
in deathlike trance, know that they are always making and unmaking humanity, which is indeed
but the trembling of their lips.'

