(26) III. It is remarkable that during all the period, during which the people held the reins
of power, there was only one civil war, and that one was completely extinguished, the conquerors
taking such pity on the conquered, that they endeavoured in every way to reinstate them in
their former dignity and power. (27) But after that the people, little accustomed to kings,
changed its first form of government into a monarchy, civil war raged almost continuously;
and battles were so fierce as to exceed all others recorded; in one engagement (taxing our
faith to the utmost) five hundred thousand Israelites were slaughtered by the men of Judah,
and in another the Israelites slew great numbers of the men of Judah (the figures are not given
in Scripture), almost razed to the ground the walls of Jerusalem, and sacked the Temple in
their unbridled fury. (28) At length, laden with the spoils of their brethren, satiated with
blood, they took hostages, and leaving the king in his well-nigh devastated kingdom, laid down
their arms, relying on the weakness rather than the good faith of their foes. (29) A few years
after, the men of Judah, with recruited strength, again took the field, but were a second time
beaten by the Israelites, and slain to the number of a hundred and twenty thousand, two hundred
thousand of their wives and children were led into captivity, and a great booty again seized.
(30) Worn out with these and similar battles set forth at length in their histories, the Jews
at length fell a prey to their enemies.

(18:31) Furthermore, if we reckon up the times during which peace prevailed under each form
of government, we shall find a great discrepancy. (32) Before the monarchy forty years and
more often passed, and once eighty years (an almost unparalleled period), without any war,
foreign or civil. (33) After the kings acquired sovereign power, the fighting was no longer
for peace and liberty, but for glory; accordingly we find that they all, with the exception
of Solomon (whose virtue and wisdom would be better displayed in peace than in war) waged war,
and finally a fatal desire for power gained ground, which, in many cases, made the path to
the throne a bloody one.

(18:34) Lastly, the laws, during the rule of the people, remained uncorrupted and were studiously
observed. (35) Before the monarchy there were very, few prophets to admonish the people, but
after the establishment of kings there were a great number at the same time. (36) Obadiah saved
a hundred from death and hid them away, lest they should be slain with the rest. (37) The people,
so far as we can see, were never deceived by false prophets till after the power had been vested
in kings, whose creatures many of the prophets were. (38) Again, the people, whose heart was
generally proud or humble according to its circumstances, easily corrected it-self under misfortune,
turned again to God, restored His laws, and so freed itself from all peril; but the kings,
whose hearts were always equally puffed up, and who could not be corrected without humiliation,
clung pertinaciously to their vices, even till the last overthrow of the city.

[18:2] (39) We may now clearly see from what I have said:-

(40) I. How hurtful to religion and the state is the concession to ministers of religion of
any power of issuing decrees or transacting the business of government: how, on the contrary,
far greater stability is afforded, if the said ministers are only allowed to give answers to
questions duly put to them, and are, as a rule, obliged to preach and practise the received
and accepted doctrines.

(18:41) II How dangerous it is to refer to Divine right matters merely speculative and subject
or liable to dispute. (42) The most tyrannical governments are those which make crimes of opinions,
for everyone has an inalienable right over his thoughts - nay, such a state of things leads
to the rule of popular passion.

(18:43) Pontius Pilate made concession to the passion of the Pharisees in consenting to the
crucifixion of Christ, whom he knew to be innocent. (44) Again, the Pharisees, in order to
shake the position of men richer than themselves, began to set on foot questions of religion,
and accused the Sadducees of impiety, and, following their example, the vilest - hypocrites,
stirred, as they pretended, by the same holy wrath which they called zeal for the Lord, persecuted
men whose unblemished character and distinguished virtue had excited the popular hatred, publicly
denounced their opinions, and inflamed the fierce passions of the people against them.

(18:45) This wanton licence being cloaked with the specious garb of religion could not easily
be repressed, especially when the sovereign authorities introduced a sect of which they, were
not the head; they were then regarded not as interpreters of Divine right, but as sectarians
- that is, as persons recognizing the right of Divine interpretation assumed by the leaders
of the sect. (46) The authority of the magistrates thus became of little account in such matters
in comparison with the authority of sectarian leaders before whose interpretations kings were
obliged to bow.

(18:47) To avoid such evils in a state, there is no safer way, than to make piety and religion
to consist in acts only - that is, in the practice of justice and charity, leaving everyone's
judgment in other respects free. (48) But I will speak of this more at length presently.

[18:3] (49) III. We see how necessary it is, both in the interests of the state and in the
interests of religion, to confer on the sovereign power the right of deciding what is lawful
or the reverse. (50) If this right of judging actions could not be given to the very prophets
of God without great injury, to the state and religion, how much less should it be entrusted
to those who can neither foretell the future nor work miracles! (51) But this again I will
treat of more fully hereafter.

(18:52) IV. Lastly,, we see how disastrous it is for a people unaccustomed to kings, and possessing
a complete code of laws, to set up a monarchy. (53) Neither can the subjects brook such a sway,
nor the royal authority submit to laws and popular rights set up by anyone inferior to itself.
(54) Still less can a king be expected to defend such laws, for they were not framed to support
his dominion, but the dominion of the people, or some council which formerly ruled, so that
in guarding the popular rights the king would seem to be a slave rather than a master. (55)
The representative of a new monarchy will employ all his zeal in attempting to frame new laws,
so as to wrest the rights of dominion to his own use, and to reduce the people till they find
it easier to increase than to curtail the royal prerogative. (56) I must not, however, omit
to state that it is no less dangerous to remove a monarch, though he is on all hands admitted
to be a tyrant. (57) For his people are accustomed to royal authority and will obey no other,
despising and mocking at any less august control.

(18:58) It is therefore necessary, as the prophets discovered of old, if one king be removed,
that he should be replaced by another, who will be a tyrant from necessity rather than choice.
(59) For how will he be able to endure the sight of the hands of the citizens reeking with
royal blood, and to rejoice in their regicide as a glorious exploit? (60) Was not the deed
perpetrated as an example and warning for himself?

(18:61) If he really wishes to be king, and not to acknowledge the people as the judge of kings
and the master of himself, or to wield a precarious sway, he must avenge the death of his predecessor,
making an example for his own sake, lest the people should venture to repeat a similar crime.
(62) He will not, however, be able easily to avenge the death of the tyrant by the slaughter
of citizens unless he defends the cause of tyranny and approves the deeds of his predecessor,
thus following in his footsteps.

(18:63) Hence it comes to pass that peoples have often changed their tyrants, but never removed
them or changed the monarchical form of government into any other.

[18:4] (64) The English people furnish us with a terrible example of this fact. (65) They sought
how to depose their monarch under the forms of law, but when he had been removed, they were
utterly unable to change the form of government, and after much bloodshed only brought it about,
that a new monarch should be hailed under a different name (as though it had been a mere question
of names); this new monarch could only consolidate his power by completely destroying the royal
stock, putting to death the king's friends, real or supposed, and disturbing with war the peace
which might encourage discontent, in order that the populace might be engrossed with novelties
and divert its mind from brooding over the slaughter of the king. (66) At last, however, the
people reflected that it had accomplished nothing for the good of the country beyond violating
the rights of the lawful king and changing everything for the worse. (67) It therefore decided
to retrace its steps as soon as possible, and never rested till it had seen a complete restoration
of the original state of affairs.

(18:68) It may perhaps be objected that the Roman people was easily able to remove its tyrants,
but I gather from its history a strong confirmation of my contention. (69) Though the Roman
people was much more than ordinarily capable of removing their tyrants and changing their form
of government, inasmuch as it held in its own hands the power of electing its king and his
successor, said being composed of rebels and criminals had not long been used to the royal
yoke (out of its six kings it had put to death three), nevertheless it could accomplish nothing
beyond electing several tyrants in place of one, who kept it groaning under a continual state
of war, both foreign and civil, till at last it changed its government again to a form differing
from monarchy, as in England, only in name.

[18:5] (70) As for the United States of the Netherlands, they have never, as we know, had a
king, but only counts, who never attained the full rights of dominion. (71) The States of the
Netherlands evidently acted as principals in the settlement made by them at the time of the
Earl of Leicester's mission: they always reserved for themselves the authority to keep the
counts up to their duties, and the power to preserve this authority and the liberty of the
citizens. (72) They had ample means of vindicating their rights if their rulers should prove
tyrannical, and could impose such restraints that nothing could be done without their consent
and approval.

(18:73) Thus the rights of sovereign power have always been vested in the States, though the
last count endeavoured to usurp them. (74) It is therefore little likely that the States should
give them up, especially as they have just restored their original dominion, lately almost lost.

(18:75) These examples, then, confirm us in our belief, that every dominion should retain its
original form, and, indeed, cannot change it without danger of the utter ruin of the whole
state. (76) Such are the points I have here thought worthy of remark.

(1) When I said that the possessors of sovereign power have rights over everything, and that
all rights are dependent on their decree, I did not merely mean temporal rights, but also spiritual
rights; of the latter, no less than the former, they ought to be the interpreters and the champions.
(2) I wish to draw special attention to this point, and to discuss it fully in this chapter,
because many persons deny that the right of deciding religious questions belongs to the sovereign
power, and refuse to acknowledge it as the interpreter of Divine right. (3) They accordingly
assume full licence to accuse and arraign it, nay, even to excommunicate it from the Church,
as Ambrosius treated the Emperor Theodosius in old time. (4) However, I will show later on
in this chapter that they take this means of dividing the government, and paving the way to
their own ascendancy. (5) I wish, however, first to point out that religion acquires its force
as law solely from the decrees of the sovereign. (6) God has no special kingdom among men except
in so far as He reigns through temporal rulers. [19:1] (7) Moreover, the rites of religion
and the outward observances of piety should be in accordance with the public peace and well-being,
and should therefore be determined by the sovereign power alone. (8) I speak here only of the
outward observances of piety and the external rites of religion, not of piety, itself, nor
of the inward worship of God, nor the means by which the mind is inwardly led to do homage
to God in singleness of heart.

(19:9) Inward worship of God and piety in itself are within the sphere of everyone's private
rights, and cannot be alienated (as I showed at the end of Chapter VII.). (10) What I here
mean by the kingdom of God is, I think, sufficiently clear from what has been said in Chapter
XIV. (11) I there showed that a man best fulfils Gods law who worships Him, according to His
command, through acts of justice and charity; it follows, therefore, that wherever justice
and charity have the force of law and ordinance, there is God's kingdom.

(19:12) I recognize no difference between the cases where God teaches and commands the practice
of justice and charity through our natural faculties, and those where He makes special revelations;
nor is the form of the revelation of importance so long as such practice is revealed and becomes
a sovereign and supreme law to men. (13) If, therefore, I show that justice and charity can
only acquire the force of right and law through the rights of rulers, I shall be able readily
to arrive at the conclusion (seeing that the rights of rulers are in the possession of the
sovereign), that religion can only acquire the force of right by means of those who have the
right to command, and that God only rules among men through the instrumentality of earthly
potentates. (14) It follows from what has been said, that the practice of justice and charity
only acquires the force of law through the rights of the sovereign authority; for we showed
in Chapter XVI. that in the state of nature reason has no more rights than desire, but that
men living either by the laws of the former or the laws of the latter, possess rights co-extensive
with their powers.

(19:15) For this reason we could not conceive sin to exist in the state of nature, nor imagine
God as a judge punishing man's transgressions; but we supposed all things to happen according
to the general laws of universal nature, there being no difference between pious and impious,
between him that was pure (as Solomon says) and him that was impure, because there was no possibility
either of justice or charity.

[19:2] (16) In order that the true doctrines of reason, that is (as we showed in Chapter IV.),
the true Divine doctrines might obtain absolutely the force of law and right, it was necessary
that each individual should cede his natural right, and transfer it either to society as a
whole, or to a certain body of men, or to one man. (17) Then, and not till then, does it first
dawn upon us what is justice and what is injustice, what is equity and what is iniquity.

(19:18) Justice, therefore, and absolutely all the precepts of reason, including love towards
one's neighbour, receive the force of laws and ordinances solely through the rights of dominion,
that is (as we showed in the same chapter) solely on the decree of those who possess the right
to rule. (19) Inasmuch as the kingdom of God consists entirely in rights applied to justice
and charity or to true religion, it follows that (as we asserted) the kingdom of God can only
exist among men through the means of the sovereign powers; nor does it make any difference
whether religion be apprehended by our natural faculties or by revelation: the argument is
sound in both cases, inasmuch as religion is one and the same, and is equally revealed by God,
whatever be the manner in which it becomes known to men.

(19:20) Thus, in order that the religion revealed by the prophets might have the force of law
among the Jews, it was necessary that every man of them should yield up his natural right,
and that all should, with one accord, agree that they would only obey such commands as God
should reveal to them through the prophets. (21) Just as we have shown to take place in a democracy,
where men with one consent agree to live according to the dictates of reason. (22) Although
the Hebrews furthermore transferred their right to God, they were able to do so rather in theory
than in practice, for, as a matter of fact (as we pointed out above) they absolutely retained
the right of dominion till they transferred it to Moses, who in his turn became absolute king,
so that it was only through him that God reigned over the Hebrews. (23) For this reason (namely,
that religion only acquires the force of law by means of the sovereign power) Moses was not
able to punish those who, before the covenant, and consequently while still in possession of
their rights, violated the Sabbath (Exod. xvi:27), but was able to do so after the covenant
(Numb. xv:36), because everyone had then yielded up his natural rights, and the ordinance of
the Sabbath had received the force of law.

(19:24) Lastly, for the same reason, after the destruction of the Hebrew dominion, revealed
religion ceased to have the force of law; for we cannot doubt that as soon as the Jews transferred
their right to the king of Babylon, the kingdom of God and the Divine right forthwith ceased.
(25) For the covenant wherewith they promised to obey all the utterances of God was abrogated;
God's kingdom, which was based thereupon, also ceased. (26) The Hebrews could no longer abide
thereby, inasmuch as their rights no longer belonged to them but to the king of Babylon, whom
(as we showed in Chapter XVI.) they were bound to obey in all things. (28) Now, they could
not seek the peace of the City as having a share in its government, but only as slaves, being,
as they were, captives; by obedience in all things, with a view to avoiding seditions, and
by observing all the laws of the country, however different from their own. (29) It is thus
abundantly evident that religion among the Hebrews only acquired the form of law through the
right of the sovereign rule; when that rule was destroyed, it could no longer be received as
the law of a particular kingdom, but only as the universal precept of reason. (30) I say of
reason, for the universal religion had not yet become known by revelation. (31) We may therefore
draw the general conclusion that religion, whether revealed through our natural faculties or
through prophets, receives the force of a command solely through the decrees of the holders
of sovereign power; and, further, that God has no special kingdom among men, except in so far
as He reigns through earthly potentates.

(19:32) We may now see in a clearer light what was stated in Chapter IV., namely, that all
the decrees of God involve eternal truth and necessity, so that we cannot conceive God as a
prince or legislator giving laws to mankind. (33) For this reason the Divine precepts, whether
revealed through our natural faculties, or through prophets, do not receive immediately from
God the force of a command, but only from those, or through the mediation of those, who possess
the right of ruling and legislating. (34) It is only through these latter means that God rules
among men, and directs human affairs with justice and equity.

(19:35) This conclusion is supported by experience, for we find traces of Divine justice only
in places where just men bear sway; elsewhere the same lot (to repeat, again Solomon's words)
befalls the just and the unjust, the pure and the impure: a state of things which causes Divine
Providence to be doubted by many who think that God immediately reigns among men, and directs
all nature for their benefit.

[19:3] (36) As, then, both reason and experience tell us that the Divine right is entirely
dependent on the decrees of secular rulers, it follows that secular rulers are its proper interpreters.
(37) How this is so we shall now see, for it is time to show that the outward observances of
religion, and all the external practices of piety should be brought into accordance with the
public peace and well-being if we would obey God rightly. (38) When this has been shown we
shall easily understand how the sovereign rulers are the proper interpreters of religion and piety.

(19:39) It is certain that duties towards one's country are the highest that man can fulfil;
for, if government be taken away, no good thing can last, all falls into dispute, anger and
anarchy reign unchecked amid universal fear. (40) Consequently there can be no duty towards
our neighbour which would not become an offence if it involved injury to the whole state, nor
can there be any offence against our duty towards our neighbour, or anything but loyalty in
what we do for the sake of preserving the state. (41) For instance: it is in the abstract my
duty when my neighbour quarrels with me and wishes to take my cloak, to give him my coat also;
but if it be thought that such conduct is hurtful to the maintenance of the state, I ought
to bring him to trial, even at the risk of his being condemned to death.

(19:42) For this reason Manlius Torquatus is held up to honour, inasmuch as the public welfare
outweighed with him his duty towards his children. (43) This being so, it follows that the
public welfare is the sovereign law to which all others, Divine and human, should be made to
conform. (44) Now, it is the function of the sovereign only to decide what is necessary for
the public welfare and the safety of the state, and to give orders accordingly; therefore it
is also the function of the sovereign only to decide the limits of our duty towards our neighbour
- in other words, to determine how we should obey God. (45) We can now clearly understand how
the sovereign is the interpreter of religion, and further, that no one can obey God rightly,
if the practices of his piety do not conform to the public welfare; or, consequently, if he
does not implicitly obey all the commands of the sovereign. (46) For as by God's command we
are bound to do our duty to all men without exception, and to do no man an injury, we are also
bound not to help one man at another's loss, still less at a loss to the whole state. (47)
Now, no private citizen can know what is good for the state, except he learn it through the
sovereign power, who alone has the right to transact public business: therefore no one can
rightly practise piety or obedience to God, unless he obey the sovereign power's commands in
all things. (48) This proposition is confirmed by the facts of experience. (49) For if the
sovereign adjudge a man to be worthy of death or an enemy, whether he be a citizen or a foreigner,
a private individual or a separate ruler, no subject is allowed to give him assistance. (50)
So also though the Jews were bidden to love their fellow-citizens as themselves (Levit. xix:17,
18), they were nevertheless bound, if a man offended against the law, to point him out to the
judge (Levit. v:1, and Deut. xiii:8, 9), and, if he should be condemned to death, to slay him
(Deut. xvii:7).

(19:51) Further, in order that the Hebrews might preserve the liberty they had gained, and
might retain absolute sway over the territory they had conquered, it was necessary, as we showed
in Chapter XVII., that their religion should be adapted to their particular government, and
that they should separate themselves from the rest of the nations: wherefore it was commanded
to them, "Love thy neighbour and hate thine enemy" (Matt. v:43), but after they had lost their
dominion and had gone into captivity in Babylon, Jeremiah bid them take thought for the safety
of the state into which they had been led captive; and Christ when He saw that they would be
spread over the whole world, told them to do their duty by all men without exception; all of
which instances show that religion has always been made to conform to the public welfare. [19:4]
(52) Perhaps someone will ask: By what right, then, did the disciples of Christ, being private
citizens, preach a new religion? (53) I answer that they did so by the right of the power which
they had received from Christ against unclean spirits (see Matt. x:1). (54) I have already
stated in Chapter XVI. that all are bound to obey a tyrant, unless they have received from
God through undoubted revelation a promise of aid against him; so let no one take example from
the Apostles unless he too has the power of working miracles. (55) The point is brought out
more clearly by Christ's command to His disciples, "Fear not those who kill the body" (Matt.
x:28). (56) If this command were imposed on everyone, governments would be founded in vain,
and Solomon's words (Prov. xxiv:21), "My son, fear God and the king," would be impious, which
they certainly are not; we must therefore admit that the authority which Christ gave to His
disciples was given to them only, and must not be taken as an example for others.

(19:57) I do not pause to consider the arguments of those who wish to separate secular rights
from spiritual rights, placing the former under the control of the sovereign, and the latter
under the control of the universal Church; such pretensions are too frivolous to merit refutation.
(58) I cannot however, pass over in silence the fact that such persons are woefully deceived
when they seek to support their seditious opinions (I ask pardon for the somewhat harsh epithet)
by the example of the Jewish high priest, who, in ancient times, had the right of administering
the sacred offices. (59) Did not the high priests receive their right by the decree of Moses
(who, as I have shown, retained the sole right to rule), and could they not by the same means
be deprived of it? (60) Moses himself chose not only Aaron, but also his son Eleazar, and his
grandson Phineas, and bestowed on them the right of administering the office of high priest.
(61) This right was retained by the high priests afterwards, but none the less were they delegates
of Moses - that is, of the sovereign power. (62) Moses, as we have shown, left no successor
to his dominion, but so distributed his prerogatives, that those who came after him seemed,
as it were, regents who administer the government when a king is absent but not dead.

(19:62) In the second commonwealth the high priests held their right absolutely, after they
had obtained the rights of principality in addition. (63) Wherefore the rights of the high
priesthood always depended on the edict of the sovereign, and the high priests did not possess
them till they became sovereigns also. (64) Rights in matters spiritual always remained under
the control of the kings absolutely (as I will show at the end of this chapter), except in
the single particular that they were not allowed to administer in person the sacred duties
in the Temple, inasmuch as they were not of the family of Aaron, and were therefore considered
unclean, a reservation which would have no force in a Christian community.

(19:65) We cannot, therefore, doubt that the daily sacred rites (whose performance does not
require a particular genealogy but only a special mode of life, and from which the holders
of sovereign power are not excluded as unclean) are under the sole control of the sovereign
power; no one, save by the authority or concession of such sovereign, has the right or power
of administering them, of choosing others to administer them, of defining or strengthening
the foundations of the Church and her doctrines; of judging on questions of morality or acts
of piety; of receiving anyone into the Church or excommunicating him therefrom, or, lastly,
of providing for the poor.

(19:66) These doctrines are proved to be not only true (as we have already pointed out), but
also of primary necessity for the preservation of religion and the state. (67) We all know
what weight spiritual right and authority carries in the popular mind: how everyone hangs on
the lips, as it were, of those who possess it. (68) We may even say that those who wield such
authority have the most complete sway over the popular mind.

(19:69) Whosoever, therefore, wishes to take this right away from the sovereign power, is desirous
of dividing the dominion; from such division, contentions, and strife will necessarily spring
up, as they did of old between the Jewish kings and high priests, and will defy all attempts
to allay them. (70) Nay, further, he who strives to deprive the sovereign power of such authority,
is aiming (as we have said), at gaining dominion for himself. (71) What is left for the sovereign
power to decide on, if this right be denied him? (72) Certainly nothing concerning either war
or peace, if he has to ask another man's opinion as to whether what he believes to be beneficial
would be pious or impious. (73) Everything would depend on the verdict of him who had the right
of deciding and judging what was pious or impious, right or wrong.

(19:74) When such a right was bestowed on the Pope of Rome absolutely, he gradually acquired
complete control over the kings, till at last he himself mounted to the summits of dominion;
however much monarchs, and especially the German emperors, strove to curtail his authority,
were it only by a hairsbreadth, they effected nothing, but on the contrary by their very endeavours
largely increased it. (75) That which no monarch could accomplish with fire and sword, ecclesiastics
could bring about with a stroke of the pen; whereby we may easily see the force and power at
the command of the Church, and also how necessary it is for sovereigns to reserve such prerogatives
for themselves.

(19:76) If we reflect on what was said in the last chapter we shall see that such reservation
conduced not a little to the increase of religion and piety; for we observed that the prophets
themselves, though gifted with Divine efficacy, being merely private citizens, rather irritated
than reformed the people by their freedom of warning, reproof, and denunciation, whereas the
kings by warnings and punishments easily bent men to their will. (77) Furthermore, the kings
themselves, not possessing the right in question absolutely, very often fell away from religion
and took with them nearly the whole people. (78) The same thing has often happened from the
same cause in Christian states.

(19:79) Perhaps I shall be asked, "But if the holders of sovereign power choose to be wicked,
who will be the rightful champion of piety? (80) Should the sovereigns still be its interpreters?
"I meet them with the counter- question, "But if ecclesiastics (who are also human, and private
citizens, and who ought to mind only their own affairs), or if others whom it is proposed to
entrust with spiritual authority, choose to be wicked, should they still be considered as piety's
rightful interpreters?" (81) It is quite certain that when sovereigns wish to follow their
own pleasure, whether they have control over spiritual matters or not, the whole state, spiritual
and secular, will go to ruin, and it will go much faster if private citizens seditiously assume
the championship of the Divine rights.

(19:82) Thus we see that not only is nothing gained by denying such rights to sovereigns, but
on the contrary, great evil ensues. (83) For (as happened with the Jewish kings who did not
possess such rights absolutely) rulers are thus driven into wickedness, and the injury and
loss to the state become certain and inevitable, instead of uncertain and possible. (84) Whether
we look to the abstract truth, or the security of states, or the increase of piety, we are
compelled to maintain that the Divine right, or the right of control over spiritual matters,
depends absolutely on the decree of the sovereign, who is its legitimate interpreter and champion.
(85) Therefore the true ministers of God's word are those who teach piety to the people in
obedience to the authority of the sovereign rulers by whose decree it has been brought into
conformity with the public welfare.

[19:5] (86) There remains for me to point out the cause for the frequent disputes on the subject
of these spiritual rights in Christian states; whereas the Hebrews, so far as I know, never,
had any doubts about the matter. (87) It seems monstrous that a question so plain and vitally
important should thus have remained undecided, and that the secular rulers could never obtain
the prerogative without controversy, nay, nor without great danger of sedition and injury to
religion. (88) If no cause for this state of things were forthcoming, I could easily persuade
myself that all I have said in this chapter is mere theorizing, or akind of speculative reasoning
which can never be of any practical use. (89) However, when we reflect on the beginnings of
Christianity the cause at once becomes manifest. (90) The Christian religion was not taught
at first by kings, but by private persons, who, against the wishes of those in power, whose
subjects they, were, were for a long time accustomed to hold meetings in secret churches, to
institute and perform sacred rites, and on their own authority to settle and decide on their
affairs without regard to the state, (91) When, after the lapse of many years, the religion
was taken up by the authorities, the ecclesiastics were obliged to teach it to the emperors
themselves as they had defined it: wherefore they easily gained recognition as its teachers
and interpreters, and the church pastors were looked upon as vicars of God. (92) The ecclesiastics
took good care that the Christian kings should not assume their authority, by prohibiting marriage
to the chief ministers of religion and to its highest interpreter. (93) They furthermore elected
their purpose by multiplying the dogmas of religion to such an extent and so blending them
with philosophy that their chief interpreter was bound to be a skilled philosopher and theologian,
and to have leisure for a host of idle speculations: conditions which could only be fulfilled
by a private individual with much time on his hands.

(19:94) Among the Hebrews things were very differently arranged: for their Church began at
the same time as their dominion, and Moses, their absolute ruler, taught religion to the people,
arranged their sacred rites, and chose their spiritual ministers. (95) Thus the royal authority
carried very great weight with the people, and the kings kept a firm hold on their spiritual
prerogatives.

