Except when he came to the Court, where he was always received with great distinction, he remained
at his abbey of Baume, living there like a grand seigneur, keeping a fine pack of hounds, a
good table, entertaining jovial company, keeping mistresses very freely; tyrannising over his
tenants and his neighbours in the most absolute manner.  The intendants gave way to him, and
by express orders of the Court allowed him to act much as he pleased, even with the taxes,
which he regulated at his will, and in his conduct was oftentimes very violent.  With these
manners and this bearing, which caused him to be both feared and respected, he would often
amuse himself by going to see the Chartreux, in order to plume himself on having quitted their
frock.  He played much at hombre, and frequently gained 'codille' (a term of the game), so
that the name of the Abbe Codille was given to him.  He lived in this manner always with the
same licence and in the same consideration, until nearly ninety years of age.

CHAPTER XXIV

The changes which took place in the army after the Peace of Ryswick, were very great and very
strange.  The excellence of the regiments, the merits of the officers, those who commanded,
all were forgotten by Barbezieux, young and impetuous, whom the King allowed to act as he liked.
My regiment was disbanded, and my company was incorporated with that of Count d'Uzes, brother-in-law
of Duras, who looked well after the interests of his relative.  I was thus deprived of command,
without regiment, without company, and the only opportunity offered me was to serve in a regiment
commanded by Saint Morris, where I should have been, as it were, at the lowest step of the
ladder, with my whole military career to begin over again.

I had served at the head of my regiment during four campaigns, with applause and reputation,
I am bold enough to say it.  I thought therefore I was entitled to better treatment than this.
Promotions were made; five officers, all my juniors, were placed over my head.  I resolved
then to leave the service, but not to take a rash step.  I consulted first with several friends
before sending in my resignation.  All whom I consulted advised me to quit the service, but
for a long time I could not resolve to do so.  Nearly three months passed, during which I suffered
cruel anguish of mind from my irresolution.  I knew that if I left the army I should be certain
to incur the anger of the King, and I do not hesitate to say that this was not a matter of
indifference to me.  The King was always annoyed when anybody ceased to serve; he called it
"quitting him;" and made his anger felt for a long time.  At last, however, I determined on
my course of action.

I wrote a short letter to the King, in which, without making any complaints, I said that as
my health was not good (it had given me some trouble on different occasions) I begged to be
allowed to quit his service, and said that I hoped I should be permitted to console myself
for leaving the army by assiduously attending upon him at the Court: After despatching this
letter I went away immediately to Paris.

I learnt afterwards from my friends, that upon receiving my letter the King called Chamillart
to him, and said with emotion: "Well!  Monsieur, here is another man who quits us!--" and he
read my letter word for word. I did not learn that anything else escaped him.

As for me, I did not return to Versailles for a whole week, or see the King again until Easter
Monday.  After his supper that evening, and when about to undress himself, he paid me a distinction,
a mere trifle I admit, and which I should be ashamed to mention if it did not under the circumstances
serve as a characteristic of him.

Although the place he undressed in was very well illuminated, the chaplain at the evening prayers
there held in his hand a lighted candle, which he gave afterwards to the chief valet-de-chambre,
who carried it before the King until he reached his arm-chair, and then handed it to whomever
the King ordered him to give it to.  On this evening the King, glancing all around him, cast
his eye upon me, and told the valet to give the candle to me.  It was an honour which he bestowed
sometimes upon one, sometimes upon another, according to his whim, but which, by his manner
of bestowing it, was always coveted, as a great distinction.  My surprise may be imagined when
I heard myself named aloud for this office, not only on this but on many other occasions. 
It was not that there was any lack of people of consideration to hold the candle; but the King
was sufficiently piqued by my retirement not to wish everybody to see that he was so.

For three years he failed not to make me feel to what extent he was angry with me.  He spoke
to me no longer; he scarcely bestowed a glance upon me, and never once alluded to my letter.
To show that his annoyance did not extend to my wife, but that it was solely and wholly directed
against me, he bestowed, about eight months after, several marks of favour upon Madame de Saint-Simon.
She was continually invited to the suppers at Trianon--an honour which had never before been
granted her.  I only laughed at this.  Madame de Saint-Simon was not invited to Marly; because
the husbands always, by right, accompanied their wives there, apartments being given for both.
At Trianon it was different.  Nobody was allowed to sleep there except those absolutely in
attendance.  The King wished, therefore, the better to mark by this distinction that the exclusion
was intended for me alone, and that my wife had no part in it.

Notwithstanding this; I persevered in my ordinary assiduity, without ever asking to be invited
to Marly, and lived agreeably with my wife and my friends.  I have thought it best to finish
with this subject at once--now I must go back to my starting point.

At the commencement of this year (1702) it seemed as though the flatterers of the King foresaw
that the prosperity of his reign was at an end, and that henceforth they would only have to
praise him for his constancy.  The great number of medals that had been struck on all occasions--the
most ordinary not having been forgotten--were collected, engraved, and destined for a medallic
history.  The Abbes Tallemant, Toureil, and Dacier, three learned members of the Academy, were
charged with the explanation to be placed opposite each of these medals, in a large volume
of the most magnificent impression of the Louvre.  As the history commenced at the death of
Louis XIII., his medal was placed at the head of the book, and thus it became necessary to
say something of him in the preface.

As it was known that I had a correct knowledge of Louis XIII., I was asked to write that portion
of the preface which related to him.  I consented to this, but on condition that I should be
spared the ridicule of it in society, and that the matter should be faithfully kept secret.
I wrote my theme then, which cost me little more than a morning, being of small extent.  I
had the fate of authors: my writing was praised, and appeared to answer all expectations. 
I congratulated myself, delighted at having devoted two or three hours to a grateful duty--for
so I considered it.

