On the 21st July the king, or the Earl of Warwick, in his name, attempted to restore quiet
in the city by promising that those who had offended against the king’s highness and the common
weal of the realm, and had been committed to the Tower, should forthwith receive ample justice.
In the meantime all conventicles, assemblies or congregations in breach of the peace were strictly
forbidden, and every man was exhorted to repair to his own house, and wait upon his lord or
master in whose service he might happen to be.(901)

(M484) (M485) (M486)

In October the Duke of York attended parliament and boldly asserted his right to the throne.
After hearing arguments for and against his claim, parliament arrived at a compromise by which
the reversion of the crown was settled on the duke, and to this the king himself was forced
to give his assent.(902) It was otherwise with the proud and defiant Queen Margaret. She was
determined to acquiesce in no such arrangement. Whilst she was collecting a force in the north,
wherewith to strike one blow for the crown of which her son appeared likely to be robbed, the
mayor and aldermen held an extraordinary meeting of the wardens of the livery companies. The
king wished to be assured of the temper of the citizens. Would they as a body support him and
his council, protect his royal person, and defend the city against those who were raising disturbances
in divers parts of the realm? To each and all of these questions the wardens are recorded as
having given satisfactory replies, and it was then and there agreed that each alderman should
make enquiry as to the number of strangers residing in his ward, and the reasons for their
being in the city. Watch was to be kept by night in every ward, a lantern hung outside every
dwelling-house, and the city’s gates were to be closed every night and guarded by men-at-arms.(903)
Although these measures were avowedly taken on behalf of King Henry, they were, in reality,
so many precautions for securing the government in the hands of his rival the Duke of York.

(M487)

The struggle which hitherto had been between two unequal sections of the nobility, each avowing
its loyalty to the king, now became a struggle between the two rival Houses of Lancaster and
York. Richard, Duke of York, did not live to enjoy the crown, his right to the reversion of
which had recently been acknowledged by parliament. Just as the year was drawing to a close
he met his death at Wakefield in the first clash with the House of Lancaster, and his head
in mockery was set up on one of the city’s gates from which he derived his ducal title.

  "Off with his head, and set it on York’s gates;
    So York may overlook the town of York."

(M488)

When Henry was once restored to liberty and to his queen, after the second battle of St. Albans
(17 Feb., 1461), York’s son, Edward, Earl of March, who became by his father’s death heir to
the crown, was immediately proclaimed traitor in the city.(904) The queen wished for victuals
to be sent from the city to her forces at St. Albans, but the carts were seized before they
left the city by a mob which refused to let them go in spite of the mayor’s entreaties and
threats. Margaret’s army consisted for the most part of rude northern followers who threatened
to sack the city if once allowed within its walls, and the majority of the inhabitants were
unwilling to supply the queen with provisions until she had removed her half-disciplined force
to a distance from London. With a civilized army at her back it might have been possible for
Margaret to have gained a footing in the city.(905) As matters stood, she deemed it best to
accede to the request thus made to her, and to draw off her army.

(M489)

It was a fatal mistake, for it gave time for Edward and Warwick to join forces and march on
London. The civic authorities, finding how hopeless it was to place further dependence upon
Henry, and desiring above all things a stronger government than they could look for under the
king, now surrendered the city to his opponents. They had not forsaken the king—he had forsaken
them. They would no more of him.

  "He that had Londyn for sake,
    Wolde no more to hem take."(906)

(M490)

On the 1st March the chancellor called a general assembly of the citizens at Clerkenwell, and
explained to them the title by which Edward, Duke of York, laid claim to the crown.(907) His
title was thereupon acknowledged with universal applause, and on the 4th he proceeded to Westminster
Palace, accompanied by many of the nobility and commons of the realm,(908) and was there proclaimed
king by the name of Edward IV.

CHAPTER XII.

(M491)

The new king made himself very popular with the citizens. He was not less a favourite with
them because he joined their ranks and became a trader like themselves, or because he took
a wife from among his own subjects and made her a sharer of his crown. At the coronations,
both of Edward and his queen, which took place after an interval of three years, the City was
fully represented, and its claim to services at the king’s coronation banquet duly acknowledged.(909)
At the latter ceremony no less than four citizens, among them being Ralph Josselyn, the mayor,
were created Knights of the Bath.(910) The citizens had previously shown their respect to Elizabeth
Woodville by riding forth to meet her and escorting her to the Tower on her first arrival to
London, and by presenting her with a gift of 1,000 marks or £750.(911)

(M492)

If the young and handsome prince who now ascended the throne occasionally carried his familiarity
with the wives of city burgesses beyond the limits of strict propriety, much could be forgotten
and forgiven for the readiness he showed to confirm and enlarge the City’s privileges and to
foster the trade of the country. Before he had been on the throne many months he granted the
citizens, by charter, the right of package and scavage, as well as the office of gauger of
wines.(912)

(M493)

In the following March (1462) he confirmed the charter granted to the City by Henry IV, whereby
the citizens obtained the right of taking toll and custom at Billingsgate, Smithfield and elsewhere,
as well as the right of tronage or weighing wool at the Tron.(913)

(M494)

In August, 1462 Calais was again in danger, and the king wanted money. The Earl of Worcester
and others of the council were sent into the city to ask for a loan of £3,400. After considering
the matter, the civic authorities agreed to lend him £1,000. The money was to be raised by
assessment on the wards, but Dowgate ward being at the time very poor, was not to be pressed.(914)
In the following October the City again came to the king’s assistance with a further loan of
2,000 marks,(915) and on the 9th November the City obtained (in return, shall we say?) a charter
confirming its jurisdiction over the Borough of Southwark,(916) originally granted by Edward
III. Again, the coincidence of a charter granted by the king to the City, with a loan or gift
from the City to the king, is remarkable.

(M495)

When Edward returned in February, 1463, from the North, where he had succeeded with the assistance
afforded him by the Londoners in re-capturing most of the castles which the restless Margaret
had taken, the City resolved to give him a befitting reception. Preparations were made for
the mayor, aldermen and commons to ride forth to meet him in their finest liveries, but the
king having expressed his intention of coming from Shene to the city by water, the citizens
went to meet him in their barges, with all the pomp and ceremony of a Lord Mayor’s day.(917)

(M496)

Edward now gave himself up to a life of luxury and pleasure. The earl was still more offended
when he learnt that the young king had secretly effected a marriage treaty between his sister
Margaret (whom Warwick had destined for one of the French princes) and the Duke of Burgundy.
These matrimonial alliances, combined with the inordinate favour Edward displayed towards his
wife’s family, led to an estrangement between the king and his powerful subject.

(M497)

The proposed alliance with Burgundy was far from being distasteful to the merchants of the
city, inasmuch as it was likely to open up trade with those states of the Low Countries which
the Burgundian dukes had consolidated as a barrier against France. When the Princess Margaret
was about to start (June, 1468) for her future husband’s dominions, the mayor and aldermen
of London testified their appreciation of the alliance by presenting her with a pair of silver
gilt dishes, weighing 19 lbs. 8 oz., besides the sum of £100 in gold, by way of a wedding gift.(918)

(M498)

Disgusted with the king’s unhandsome conduct towards him, Warwick found an ally in Clarence,
the king’s brother, gave him one of his daughters in marriage, and even encouraged him to hope
for the succession to the crown. Edward’s extravagant and luxurious life had lost him much
of his popularity. He had ceased, moreover, to possess the goodwill of the citizens for having
allowed the arrest of Sir Thomas Cooke or Coke,(919) an alderman of the city, on a false charge
of treason. Notwithstanding his acquittal, Cooke had been committed to prison and only regained
his liberty on payment of an extortionate fine to the king and queen.(920) Warwick and Clarence
made use of the general discontent that prevailed to further their own designs, and the civil
war was renewed. The City endeavoured to steer a middle course. In June (1469) it lent the
king the sum of £200, but in the following month it lent Warwick and Clarence just five times
that amount on the sole security of some jewels of little value.(921) In May, 1470, when there
seemed little hope of the jewels being redeemed, as Warwick and Clarence had been obliged to
flee to France, the Common Council entertained the thought of selling them for what they were
worth. The sale did not take place, however, but they were kept some in the "Treasury," and
some in the custody of William Taillour, late mayor, on the express understanding that he was
not to be held responsible in the event of their being stolen or taken by force.(922) In February,
1471, when the wheel of fortune had once more placed Henry VI on the throne from which he had
been driven by Edward, and Warwick and Clarence were again in power, the mayor and aldermen
caused it to be placed on record that the loan on the jewels had been made by agreement of
the whole court, with the assistance of certain commoners who had been called in to contribute.
What their object was in so doing is not clear. Perhaps they felt some qualms as to what Edward
might say or do in respect of the loan, should he again return to power. They, at the same
time, extended the time for the repayment of the loan, at the desire of the dukes of Clarence
and Warwick. If the jewels were not redeemed by Whitsuntide at the latest, they were to be
sold.(923)

(M499)

Whilst Warwick and Clarence were in France in 1470, they concerted measures with Queen Margaret
for effecting another revolution. By September matters were ready for execution. On the 13th
Warwick landed in England; and before the end of the month the Kentish men so threatened the
City and Westminster, that the newly-elected sheriffs had to be escorted by an armed force
in order to be sworn in at the Exchequer, whilst a constant patrol was kept in the streets.(924)
On the 1st October it was made known in the city that the king had taken flight. His queen
took sanctuary at Westminster, leaving the Tower in the hands of the mayor and aldermen and
members of the council of Warwick and Clarence. The unfortunate Henry was quickly removed from
the wretched cell in which he had so long been confined to a commodious and handsomely furnished
apartment which the queen herself, being enceinte at the time, purposed occupying when she
should be brought to bed. A garrison was placed in the Tower by order of the Common Council,
sitting, for safety’s sake, in the church of St. Stephen, Walbrook. On the 5th October Archbishop
Nevill, Warwick’s brother, entered the city with a strong force and relieved the civic authorities
of the custody of the Tower, and on the following day Warwick himself appeared, accompanied
by Clarence and a large following, and removed Henry from the Tower to the Bishop of London’s
palace.(925) Two days later (9 Oct.) he obtained from the Common Council the sum of £1,000
for the defence of his stronghold, Calais, besides a loan of £100 from the aldermen of the
city for his own private use.(926) On the 18th the Earl of Worcester, Edward’s constable and
minister of his cruelties,(927) was beheaded on Tower Hill, the ground being kept by the Sheriffs
of London and a contingent from the several wards.(928)

(M500)

In November Henry was made to hold a parliament, and Sir Thomas Cooke, the deposed alderman,
lost no time in presenting a bill for the restoration of his lands, which had been seized by
the queen’s father, Lord Rivers. He would probably have been successful had fortune continued
to favour King Henry, for, besides being a member of parliament, he was, writes Fabyan (a brother
alderman), "a man of great boldnesse in speche, and well spoken and syngulerly wytted and well
reasoned."(929) John Stokton had recently been elected mayor, but there is reason for believing
that he, like other aldermen, preferred Edward on the throne, licentious and extravagant as
he was, to an imbecile like Henry. He fell ill, or, as Fabyan puts it, feigned sickness and
took to his bed, and Cooke assumed the duties of the mayoralty. At Edward’s restoration Cooke
had to seek refuge in France, but he was taken at sea before he could reach the continent.
The same fate might have awaited Stokton had he shown himself less cautious at that critical time.

(M501)

That the aldermen and the better class of citizens favoured Edward, is shown by the ease with
which he effected an entry into the city when he returned to England in the spring of the following
year (1471). The gates, we are told, were opened to him by Urswyk, the Recorder, and certain
aldermen (their names are not mentioned), who took advantage of the inhabitants being at dinner
to let in Edward.(930) Two days later, having recruited his forces, Edward marched out of the
city, with Henry in his train, to meet Warwick. He encountered him on Easter Day (14 April)
at Barnet, and totally defeated him, both the earl and his brother being left dead on the field.
By this time Margaret had landed with a fresh army; but a crushing defeat inflicted upon her
at Tewkesbury (4 May) left Edward once more master of the kingdom.

(M502) (M503)

