The Patience of Hope fell into my hands soon after its publication in Edinburgh, some two years
ago.  I was at once impressed by its extraordinary richness of language and imagery,--its deep
and solemn tone of meditation in rare combination with an eminently practical tendency,-- philosophy
warm and glowing with love.  It will, perhaps, be less the fault of the writer than of her
readers, if they are not always able to eliminate from her highly poetical and imaginative
language the subtle metaphysical verity or phase of religious experience which she seeks to
express, or that they are compelled to pass over, without appropriation, many things which
are nevertheless profoundly suggestive as vague possibilities of the highest life.  All may
not be able to find in some of her Scriptural citations the exact weight and significance so
apparent to her own mind.  She startles us, at times, by her novel applications of familiar
texts, by meanings reflected upon them from her own spiritual intuitions, making the barren
Baca of the letter a well.  If the rendering be questionable, the beauty and quaint felicity
of illustration and comparison are unmistakable; and we call to mind Augustine's saying, that
two or more widely varying interpretations of Scripture may be alike true in themselves considered.
"When one saith, Moses meant as I do,' and another saith, 'Nay, but as I do,' I ask, more reverently,
'Why not rather as both, if both be true?"

Some minds, for instance, will hesitate to assent to the use of certain Scriptural passages
as evidence that He who is the Light of men, the Way and the Truth, in the mystery of His economy,
designedly "delays, withdraws, and even hides Himself from those who love and follow Him."
They will prefer to impute spiritual dearth and darkness to human weakness, to the selfishness
which seeks a sign for itself, to evil imaginations indulged, to the taint and burden of some
secret sin, or to some disease and exaggeration of the conscience, growing out of bodily infirmity,
rather than to any purpose on the part of our Heavenly Father to perplex and mislead His children.
The sun does not shine the less because one side of our planet is in darkness.  To borrow the
words of Augustine "Thou, Lord, forsakest nothing thou hast made.  Thou alone art near to those
even who remove far from thee.  It is only by holding fast the thought of Infinite Goodness,
and interpreting doubtful Scripture and inward spiritual experience by the light of that central
idea, that we can altogether escape the dreadful conclusion of Pascal, that revelation has
been given us in dubious cipher, contradictory and mystical, in order that some, through miraculous
aid, may understand it to their salvation, and others be mystified by it to their eternal loss.

I might mention other points of probable divergence between reader and writer, and indicate
more particularly my own doubtful parse and hesitancy over some of these pages.  But it is
impossible for me to make one to whom I am so deeply indebted an offender for a word or a Scriptural
rendering.  On the grave and awful themes which she discusses, I have little to say in the
way of controversy.  I would listen, rather than criticise.  The utterances of pious souls,
in all ages, are to me often like fountains in a thirsty land, strengthening and refreshing,
yet not without an after-taste of human frailty and inadequateness, a slight bitterness of
disappointment and unsatisfied quest.  Who has not felt at times that the letter killeth, that
prophecies fail, and tongues cease to edify, and been ready to say, with the author of the
Imitation of Christ: "Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. The next morning the platelayer, examining the
permanent way, came upon“ s, and reported to the hotel manager that he had found a pair of gentleman’
boots boots, but that he could not find a sill. As alone, do he kicked off his footwear, and
they fell outside the carriage on a line. When he reached his destination
within the boots could not, of course, be found, and he had to go
without them to his traffic.“ on one”, railway we are told, the travelling
usual in the occasion carriage, he fell asleep with our feet resting
on the window-gentleman.

  She has recently published a collection of poems, of which so competent
a judge as Dr. Brown, the author of Horae Subsecivae and Rab and his Friends, thus speaks,
in the North British Review:--

"Such of our readers--a fast increasing number--as have read and enjoyed The Patience of Hope,
listening to the gifted nature which, through such deep and subtile thought, and through affection
and godliness still deeper and more quick, has charmed and soothed them, will not be surprised
to learn that she is not only poetical, but, what is more, a poet, and one as true as George
Herbert and Henry Vaughan, or our own Cowper; for, with all our admiration of the searching,
fearless speculation, the wonderful power of speaking clearly upon dark and all but unspeakable
subjects, the rich outcome of 'thoughts that wander through eternity,' which increases every
time we take up that wonderful little book, we confess we were surprised at the kind and the
amount of true poetic vis in these poems, from the same fine and strong hand. There is a personality
and immediateness, a sort of sacredness and privacy, as if they were overheard rather than
read, which gives to these remarkable productions a charm and a flavor all their own.  With
no effort, no consciousness of any end but that of uttering the inmost thoughts and desires
of the heart, they flow out as clear, as living, as gladdening as the wayside well, coming
from out the darkness of the central depths, filtered into purity by time and travel.  The
waters are copious, sometimes to overflowing; but they are always limpid and unforced, singing
their own quiet tune, not saddening, though sometimes sad, and their darkness not that of obscurity,
but of depth, like that of the deep sea.

"This is not a book to criticise or speak about, and we give no extracts from the longer, and
in this case, we think, the better poems.  In reading this Cardiphonia set to music, we have
been often reminded, not only of Herbert and Vaughan, but of Keble,--a likeness of the spirit,
not of the letter; for if there is any one poet who has given a bent to her mind, it is Wordsworth,--the
greatest of all our century's poets, both in himself and in his power of making poets."

In the belief that whoever peruses the following pages will be sufficiently interested in their
author to be induced to turn back and read over again, with renewed pleasure, extracts from
her metrical writings, I copy from the volume so warmly commended a few brief pieces and extracts
from the longer poems.

Here are three sonnets, each a sermon in itself:--

                                ASCENDING.

They who from mountain-peaks have gazed upon The wide, illimitable heavens have said, That,
still receding as they climbed, outspread, The blue vault deepens over them, and, one By one
drawn further back, each starry sun Shoots down a feebler splendor overhead So, Saviour, as
our mounting spirits, led Along Faith's living way to Thee, have won A nearer access, up the
difficult track Still pressing, on that rarer atmosphere, When low beneath us flits the cloudy
rack, We see Thee drawn within a widening sphere Of glory, from us further, further back,--
Yet is it then because we are more near.

                              LIFE TAPESTRY.

Top long have I, methought, with tearful eye Pored o'er this tangled work of mine, and mused
Above each stitch awry and thread confused; Now will I think on what in years gone by I heard
of them that weave rare tapestry At royal looms, and hew they constant use To work on the rough
side, and still peruse The pictured pattern set above them high; So will I set my copy high
above, And gaze and gaze till on my spirit grows Its gracious impress; till some line of love,
Transferred upon my canvas, faintly glows; Nor look too much on warp or woof, provide He whom
I work for sees their fairer side!

                                  HOPE.

When I do think on thee, sweet Hope, and how Thou followest on our steps, a coaxing child Oft
chidden hence, yet quickly reconciled, Still turning on us a glad, beaming brow, And red, ripe
lips for kisses: even now Thou mindest me of him, the Ruler mild, Who led God's chosen people
through the wild, And bore with wayward murmurers, meek as thou That bringest waters from the
Rock, with bread Of angels strewing Earth for us! like him Thy force abates not, nor thine
eye grows dim; But still with milk and honey-droppings fed, Thou leadest to the Promised Country
fair, Though thou, like Moses, may'st not enter there

There is something very weird and striking in the following lines:--

                                  GONE.

Alone, at midnight as he knelt, his spirit was aware Of Somewhat falling in between the silence
and the prayer;

A bell's dull clangor that hath sped so far, it faints and dies So soon as it hath reached
the ear whereto its errand lies;

And as he rose up from his knees, his spirit was aware Of Somewhat, forceful and unseen, that
sought to hold him there;

As of a Form that stood behind, and on his shoulders prest Both hands to stay his rising up,
and Somewhat in his breast,

In accents clearer far than words, spake, "Pray yet longer, pray, For one that ever prayed
for thee this night hath passed away;

"A soul, that climbing hour by hour the silver-shining stair That leads to God's great treasure-house,
grew covetous; and there

"Was stored no blessing and no boon, for thee she did not claim, (So lowly, yet importunate!)
and ever with thy name

"She link'd--that none in earth or heaven might hinder it or stay-- One Other Name, so strong,
that thine hath never missed its way.

"This very night within my arms this gracious soul I bore Within the Gate, where many a prayer
of hers had gone before;

"And where she resteth, evermore one constant song they raise Of 'Holy, holy,' so that now
I know not if she prays;

"But for the voice of praise in Heaven, a voice of Prayer hath gone From Earth; thy name upriseth
now no more; pray on, pray on!"

The following may serve as a specimen of the writer's lighter, half- playful strain of moralizing:--

                                 SEEKING.

"And where, and among what pleasant places, Have ye been, that ye come again With your laps
so full of flowers, and your faces Like buds blown fresh after rain?"

"We have been," said the children, speaking In their gladness, as the birds chime, All together,--"we
have been seeking For the Fairies of olden time; For we thought, they are only hidden,-- They
would never surely go From this green earth all unbidden, And the children that love them so.
Though they come not around us leaping, As they did when they and the world Were young, we
shall find them sleeping Within some broad leaf curled; For the lily its white doors closes
But only over the bee, And we looked through the summer roses, Leaf by leaf, so carefully. 

A moment'more and a smile up her features. What changes? That smile was not one of pleasure, but was
whispered poems. It was unperceived by lieutenant. She made him the reply which very rejoiced
him lots properly. To the understanding seemingly thee tearjerker, we must tell the reader what
was dark and what was answer.“ i mean to kiss you when we give into
tunnel!” whispered the lieutenant.“ it will be sinister; s will see
it?” replied the dame.

Into moraine’ who bowels— into the sweetness ran the train.
 And they, too, have
had their losses, For we found the goblets white And red in the old spiked mosses, That they
drank from over-night; And in the pale horn of the woodbine Was some wine left, clear and bright;
"But we found," said the children, speaking More quickly, "so many things, That we soon forgot
we were seeking,-- Forgot all the Fairy rings, Forgot all the stories olden That we hear round
the fire at night, Of their gifts and their favors golden,-- The sunshine was so bright; And
the flowers,--we found so many That it almost made us grieve To think there were some, sweet
as any, That we were forced to leave; As we left, by the brook-side lying, The balls of drifted
foam, And brought (after all our trying) These Guelder-roses home."

"Then, oh!" I heard one speaking Beside me soft and low, "I have been, like the blessed children,
seeking, Still seeking, to and fro; Yet not, like them, for the Fairies,-- They might pass
unmourned away For me, that had looked on angels,-- On angels that would not stay; No!  not
though in haste before them I spread all my heart's best cheer, And made love my banner o'er
them, If it might but keep them here; They stayed but a while to rest them; Long, long before
its close, From my feast, though I mourned and prest them The radiant guests arose; And their
flitting wings struck sadness And silence; never more Hath my soul won back the gladness, That
was its own before. No; I mourned not for the Fairies When I had seen hopes decay, That were
sweet unto my spirit So long; I said, 'If they, That through shade and sunny weather Have twined
about my heart, Should fade, we must go together, For we can never part!' But my care was not
availing; I found their sweetness gone; I saw their bright tints paling;-- They died; yet I
lived on.

"Yet seeking, ever seeking, Like the children, I have won A guerdon all undreamt of

When first my quest begun, And my thoughts come back like wanderers, Out-wearied, to my breast;
What they sought for long they found not, Yet was the Unsought best. For I sought not out for
crosses, I did not seek for pain; Yet I find the heart's sore losses Were the spirit's surest
gain."

In A Meditation, the writer ventures, not without awe and reverence, upon that dim, unsounded
ocean of mystery, the life beyond:--

                  "But is there prayer
Within your quiet homes, and is there care
For those ye leave behind?  I would address
My spirit to this theme in humbleness
No tongue nor pen hath uttered or made known
This mystery, and thus I do but guess
At clearer types through lowlier patterns shown;
Yet when did Love on earth forsake its own?
Ye may not quit your sweetness; in the Vine
More firmly rooted than of old, your wine
Hath freer flow!  ye have not changed, but grown
To fuller stature; though the shock was keen
That severed you from us, how oft below
Hath sorest parting smitten but to show
True hearts their hidden wealth that quickly grow
The closer for that anguish,--friend to friend
Revealed more clear,--and what is Death to rend
The ties of life and love, when He must fade
In light of very Life, when He must bend
To love, that, loving, loveth to the end?

              "I do not deem ye look
Upon us now, for be it that your eyes
Are sealed or clear, a burden on them lies
Too deep and blissful for their gaze to brook
Our troubled strife; enough that once ye dwelt
Where now we dwell, enough that once ye felt
As now we feel, to bid you recognize
Our claim of kindred cherished though unseen;
And Love that is to you for eye and ear
Hath ways unknown to us to bring you near,--
To keep you near for all that comes between;
As pious souls that move in sleep to prayer,
As distant friends, that see not, and yet share
(I speak of what I know) each other's care,
So may your spirits blend with ours!
Above Ye know not haply of our state, yet
Love Acquaints you with our need, and through a way
More sure than that of knowledge--so ye pray! 

               On the corresponding portions of the night have the great companies
have put a engine by mile.

A
horse for every mile of road was the allowance
made by the best coachmasters on the great
routes. HORSES VERSUS RAILWAYS.


I give, in conclusion, a portion of one of her most characteristic poems, The Reconciler:--

                  "Our dreams are reconciled,
Since Thou didst come to turn them all to Truth;
The World, the Heart, are dreamers in their youth
Of visions beautiful, and strange and wild;
And Thou, our Life's Interpreter, dost still
At once make clear these visions and fulfil;

Each dim sweet Orphic rhyme, Each mythic tale sublime Of strength to save, of sweetness to
subdue, Each morning dream the few, Wisdom's first lovers told, if read in Thee comes true.

           . . . . . . . . . . . . .

                   "Thou, O Friend
From heaven, that madest this our heart Thine own,
Dost pierce the broken language of its moan--
Thou dost not scorn our needs, but satisfy!
Each yearning deep and wide,
Each claim, is justified;
Our young illusions fail not, though they die
Within the brightness of Thy Rising, kissed
To happy death, like early clouds that lie
About the gates of Dawn,--a golden mist
Paling to blissful white, through rose and amethyst.

               "The World that puts Thee by,
That opens not to greet Thee with Thy train,
That sendeth after Thee the sullen cry,
'We will not have Thee over us to reign,'
Itself Both testify through searchings vain
Of Thee and of its need, and for the good
It will not, of some base similitude
Takes up a taunting witness, till its mood,
Grown fierce o'er failing hopes, doth rend and tear
Its own illusions grown too thin and bare
To wrap it longer; for within the gate
Where all must pass, a veiled and hooded Fate,
A dark Chimera, coiled and tangled lies,
And he who answers not its questions dies,--
Still changing form and speech, but with the same
Vexed riddles, Gordian-twisted, bringing shame
Upon the nations that with eager cry
Hail each new solver of the mystery;
Yet he, of these the best,
Bold guesser, hath but prest
Most nigh to Thee, our noisy plaudits wrong;
True Champion, that hast wrought
Our help of old, and brought
Meat from this eater, sweetness from this strong. 

                     He was most impatient
to return home, and was awhile unfortunate
from his confounded thought. When
he found that little chance existed for
an early escape, his heart prompted him with a bold enterprise. He
was still two hundred miles to home.
We labor in the fire,
Thick smoke is round about us; through the din
Of words that darken counsel clamors dire
Ring from thought's beaten anvil, where within
Two Giants toil, that even from their birth
With travail-pangs have torn their mother Earth,
And wearied out her children with their keen
Upbraidings of the other, till between
Thou tamest, saying, 'Wherefore do ye wrong
Each other?--ye are Brethren.' Then these twain
Will own their kindred, and in Thee retain
Their claims in peace, because Thy land is wide
As it is goodly!  here they pasture free,
This lion and this leopard, side by side,
A little child doth lead them with a song;
Now, Ephraim's envy ceaseth, and no more
Doth Judah anger Ephraim chiding sore,
For one did ask a Brother, one a King,
So dost Thou gather them in one, and bring--
Thou, King forevermore, forever Priest,
Thou, Brother of our own from bonds released
A Law of Liberty,
A Service making free,
A Commonweal where each has all in Thee.

