CHARACTERS AND EVENTS OF ROMAN HISTORY

            FROM CÆSAR TO NERO

        THE LOWELL LECTURES OF 1908

                   BY

         GUGLIELMO FERRERO, LITT.D.

                AUTHOR OF

  "THE GREATNESS AND DECLINE OF ROME," ETC.

               TRANSLATED BY

           FRANCES LANCE FERRERO

  The Chautauqua Press

  CHAUTAUQUA, NEW YORK

  [Copyright deleted]

  By G.P. Putnam's Sons

     Fifth Printing

  The Chautauqua Print Shop

       Chautauqua, N.Y.

PREFACE

In the spring of 1906, the Collège de France invited me to deliver, during November of that
year, a course of lectures on Roman history. I accepted, giving a résumé, in eight lectures,
of the history of the government of Augustus from the end of the civil wars to his death; that
is, a résumé of the matter contained in the fourth and fifth volumes of the English edition
of my work, The Greatness and Decline of Rome.

Following these lectures came a request from M. Emilio Mitre, Editor of the chief newspaper
of the Argentine Republic, the Nacion, and one from the Academia Brazileira de Lettras of Rio
de Janeiro, to deliver a course of lectures in the Argentine and Brazilian capitals. I gave
to the South American course a more general character than that delivered in Paris, introducing
arguments which would interest a public having a less specialized knowledge of history than
the public I had addressed in Paris.

When President Roosevelt did me the honour to invite me to visit the United States and Prof.
Abbott Lawrence Lowell asked me to deliver a course at the Lowell Institute in Boston, I selected
material from the two previous courses of lectures, moulding it into the group that was given
in Boston in November-December, 1908. These lectures were later read at Columbia University
in New York, and at the University of Chicago in Chicago. Certain of them were delivered elsewhere--before
the American Philosophical Society and at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, at
Harvard University in Cambridge, and at Cornell University in Ithaca.

Such is the record of the book now presented to the public at large. It is a work necessarily
made up of detached studies, which, however, are bound together by a central, unifying thought;
so that the reading of them may prove useful and pleasant even to those who have already read
my Greatness and Decline of Rome.

The first lecture, "The Theory of Corruption in Roman History," sums up the fundamental idea
of my conception of the history of Rome. The essential phenomenon upon which all the political,
social, and moral crises of Rome depend is the transformation of customs produced by the augmentation
of wealth, of expenditure, and of needs,--a phenomenon, therefore, of psychological order,
and one common in contemporary life. This lecture should show that my work does not belong
among those written after the method of economic materialism, for I hold that the fundamental
force in history is psychologic and not economic.

The three following lectures, "The History and Legend of Antony and Cleopatra," "The Development
of Gaul," and "Nero," seem to concern themselves with very different subjects. On the contrary,
they present three different aspects of the one, identical problem--the struggle between the
Occident and the Orient--a problem that Rome succeeded in solving as no European civilisation
has since been able to do, making the countries of the Mediterranean Basin share a common life,
in peace. How Rome succeeded in accomplishing this union of Orient and Occident is one of the
points of greatest interest in its history. The first of these three lectures, "Antony and
Cleopatra," shows how Rome repulsed the last offensive movement of the Orient against the Occident;
the second, "The Development of Gaul," shows the establishing of equilibrium between the two
parts of the Empire; the third, "Nero," shows how the Orient, beaten upon fields of battle
and in diplomatic action, took its revenge in the domain of Roman ideas, morals, and social life.

The fifth lecture, "Julia and Tiberius," illustrates, by one of the most tragic episodes of
Roman history, the terrible struggle between Roman ideals and habits and those of the Græco-Asiatic
civilisation. The sixth lecture, "The Development of the Empire," summarises in a few pages
views to be developed in detail in that part of my work yet to be written.

I have said that not all history can be explained by economic forces and factors, but this
does not prevent me from regarding economic phenomena as also of high importance. The seventh
lecture, "Wine in Roman History," is an essay after the plan in accordance with which, it seems
to me, economic phenomena should be treated.

The last lecture deals with a subject that perhaps does not, properly speaking, belong to Roman
history, but upon which an historian of Rome ought to touch sooner or later; I mean the rôle
which Rome can still play in the education of the upper classes. It is a subject important
not only to the historian of Rome, but to all those who are interested in the future of culture
and civilisation. The more specialisation in technical labour increases, the greater becomes
the necessity of giving the superior classes a general education, which can prepare specialists
to understand each other and to act together in all matters of common interest. To imagine
a society composed exclusively of doctors, engineers, chemists, merchants, manufacturers, is
impossible. Every one must also be a citizen and a man in sympathy with the common conscience.
I have, therefore, endeavoured to show in this eighth lecture what services Rome and its great
intellectual tradition can render to modern civilisation in the field of education.

These lectures naturally cannot do more than make known ideas in general form; it would be
too much to expect in them the precision of detail, the regard for method, and the use of frequent
notes, citations, and references to authorities or documents, that belong to my larger work
on Rome; but they are published partly because I consider it useful to popularise Roman history,
and partly because some of the pleasantest of memories attach to them. Their origin, the course
on Augustus given at the Collège de France, which proved one of the happiest occasions of my
life, and their development, leading to my travels in the two Americas, have given me experiences
of the greatest interest and pleasure.

I am glad of the opportunity here to thank all those who have contributed to make the sojourn
of my wife and myself in the United States delightful. I must thank all my friends at once;
for to name each one separately, I should need, as a Latin poet says, "a hundred mouths and
a hundred tongues."

GUGLIELMO FERRERO.

TURIN, February 22, 1909.

CONTENTS

  "CORRUPTION" IN ANCIENT ROME, AND ITS
    COUNTERPART IN MODERN HISTORY .........   1
  THE HISTORY AND LEGEND OF ANTONY AND
    CLEOPATRA .............................  37
  THE DEVELOPMENT OF GAUL .................  69
  NERO .................................... 101
  JULIA AND TIBERIUS ...................... 143
  WINE IN ROMAN HISTORY ................... 179
  SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE .. 207
  ROMAN HISTORY IN MODERN EDUCATION ....... 239
  INDEX ................................... 265

"Corruption" in Ancient Rome And Its Counterpart in Modern History

Two years ago in Paris, while giving a course of lectures on Augustus at the Collège de France,
I happened to say to an illustrious historian, a member of the French Academy, who was complimenting
me: "But I have not remade Roman history, as many admirers think. On the contrary, it might
be said, in a certain sense, that I have only returned to the old way. I have retaken the point
of view of Livy; like Livy, gathering the events of the story of Rome around that phenomenon
which the ancients called the 'corruption' of customs--a novelty twenty centuries old!"

Spoken with a smile and in jest, these words nevertheless were more serious than the tone in
which they were uttered. All those who know Latin history and literature, even superficially,
remember with what insistence and with how many diverse modulations of tone are reiterated
the laments on the corruption of customs, on the luxury, the ambition, the avarice, that invaded
Rome after the Second Punic War. Sallust, Cicero, Livy, Horace, Virgil, are full of affliction
because Rome is destined to dissipate itself in an incurable corruption; whence we see, then
in Rome, as to-day in France, wealth, power, culture, glory, draw in their train--grim but
inseparable comrade!--a pessimism that times poorer, cruder, more troubled, had not known.

"Our fathers were worse than our grandsires; we have deteriorated from our fathers; our sons
will cause us to be lamented." This is the dark philosophy that a sovereign spirit like Horace
derived from the incredible triumph of Rome in the world. At his side, Livy, the great writer
who was to teach all future generations the story of the city, puts the same hopeless philosophy
at the base of his wonderful work:

    Rome was originally, when it was poor and small, a unique
    example of austere virtue; then it corrupted, it spoiled, it
    rotted itself by all the vices; so, little by little, we have
    been brought into the present condition in which we are able
    neither to tolerate the evils from which we suffer, nor the
    remedies we need to cure them.

The same dark thought, expressed in a thousand forms, is found in almost every one of the Latin
writers.

This theory has misled and impeded my predecessors in different ways: some, considering that
the writers bewail the unavoidable dissolution of Roman society at the very time when Rome
was most powerful, most cultured, richest, have judged conventional, rhetorical, literary,
these invectives against corruption, these praises of ancient simplicity, and therefore have
held them of no value in the history of Rome. Such critics have not reflected that this conception
is found, not only in the literature, but also in the politics and the legislation; that Roman
history is full, not only of invectives in prose and verse, but of laws and administrative
provisions against luxuria, ambitio, avaritia--a sign that these laments were not merely a
foolishness of writers, or, as we say to-day, stuff for newspaper articles. Other critics,
instead, taking account of these laws and administrative provisions, have accepted the ancient
theory of Roman corruption without reckoning that they were describing as undone by an irreparable
dissolution, a nation that not only had conquered, but was to govern for ages, an immense empire.
In this conception of corruption there is a contradiction that conceals a great universal problem.

Stimulated by this contradiction, and by the desire of solving it, to study more attentively
the facts cited by the ancients as examples of corruption, I have looked about to see if in
the contemporary world I could not find some things that resembled it, and so make myself understand
it. The prospect seemed difficult, because modern men are persuaded that they are models of
all the virtues. Who could think to find in them even traces of the famous Roman corruption?
In the modern world to-day are the abominable orgies carried on for which the Rome of the Cæsars
was notorious? Are there to-day Neros and Elagabaluses? He who studies the ancient sources,
however, with but a little of the critical spirit, is easily convinced that we have made for
ourselves out of the much-famed corruption and Roman luxury a notion highly romantic and exaggerated.
We need not delude ourselves: Rome, even in the times of its greatest splendour, was poor in
comparison with the modern world; even in the second century after Christ, when it stood as
metropolis at the head of an immense empire, Rome was smaller, less wealthy, less imposing,
than a great metropolis of Europe or of America. Some sumptuous public edifices, beautiful
private houses--that is all the splendour of the metropolis of the empire. He who goes to the
Palatine may to-day refigure for himself, from the so-called House of Livia, the house of a
rich Roman family of the time of Augustus, and convince himself that a well-to-do middle-class
family would hardly occupy such a house to-day.

Moreover, the palaces of the Cæsars on the Palatine are a grandiose ruin that stirs the artist
and makes the philosopher think; but if one sets himself to measure them, to conjecture from
the remains the proportions of the entire edifices, he does not conjure up buildings that rival
large modern constructions. The palace of Tiberius, for example, rose above a street only two
metres wide--less than seven feet,--an alley like those where to-day in Italian cities live
only the most miserable inhabitants. We have pictured to ourselves the imperial banquets of
ancient Rome as functions of unheard of splendour; if Nero or Elagabalus could come to life
and see the dining-room of a great hotel in Paris or New York--resplendent with light, with
crystal, with silver,--he would admire it as far more beautiful than the halls in which he
gave his imperial feasts. Think how poor were the ancients in artificial light! They had few
wines; they knew neither tea nor coffee nor cocoa; neither tobacco, nor the innumerable liqueurs
of which we make use; in face of our habits, they were always Spartan, even when they wasted,
because they lacked the means to squander.

The ancient writers often lament the universal tendency to physical self-indulgence, but among
the facts they cite to prove this dismal vice, many would seem to us innocent enough. It was
judged by them a scandalous proof of gluttony and as insensate luxury, that at a certain period
there should be fetched from as far as the Pontus, certain sausages and certain salted fish
that were, it appears, very good; and that there should be introduced into Italy from Greece
the delicate art of fattening fowls. Even to drink Greek wines seemed for a long time at Rome
the caprice of an almost crazy luxury. As late as 18 B.C., Augustus made a sumptuary law that
forbade spending for banquets on work-days more than two hundred sesterces (ten dollars); allowed
three hundred sesterces (fifteen dollars) for the days of the Kalends, the Ides, and the Nones;
and one thousand sesterces (fifty dollars) for nuptial banquets. It is clear, then, that the
lords of the world banqueted in state at an expense that to us would seem modest indeed. And
the women of ancient times, accused so sharply by the men of ruining them by their foolish
extravagances, would cut a poor figure for elegant ostentation in comparison with modern dames
of fashion. For example, silk, even in the most prosperous times, was considered a stuff, as
we should say, for millionaires; only a few very rich women wore it; and, moreover, moralists
detested it, because it revealed too clearly the form of the body. Lollia Paulina passed into
history because she possessed jewels worth several million francs: there are to-day too many
Lollia Paulinas for any one of them to hope to buy immortality at so cheap a rate.

I should reach the same conclusions if I could show you what the Roman writers really meant
by corruption in their accounts of the relations between the sexes. It is not possible here
to make critical analyses of texts and facts concerning this material, for reasons that you
readily divine; but it would be easy to prove that also in this respect posterity has seen
the evil much larger than it was.

Why, then, did the ancient writers bewail luxury, inclination to pleasure, prodigality--things
all comprised in the notorious "corruption"--in so much the livelier fashion than do moderns,
although they lived in a world which, being poorer and more simple, could amuse itself, make
display, and indulge in dissipation so much less than we do? This is one of the chief questions
of Roman history, and I flatter myself not to have entirely wasted work in writing my book
[1] above all, because I hope to have contributed a little, if not actually to solve this question,
at least to illuminate it; because in so doing I believe I have found a kind of key that opens
at the same time many mysteries in Roman history and in contemporary life. The ancient writers
and moralists wrote so much of Roman corruption, because--nearer in this, as in so many other
things, to the vivid actuality--they understood that wars, revolutions, the great spectacular
events that are accomplished in sight of the world, do not form all the life of peoples; that
these occurrences, on the contrary, are but the ultimate, exterior explanation, the external
irradiation, or the final explosion of an internal force that is acting constantly in the family,
in private habit, in the moral and intellectual disposition of the individual. They understood
that all the changes, internal and external, in a nation, are bound together and in part depend
on one very common fact, which is everlasting and universal, and which everybody may observe
if he will but look about him--on the increase of wants, the enlargement of ideas, the shifting
of habits, the advance of luxury, the increase of expense that is caused by every generation.

[Footnote 1: The Greatness and Decline of Rome. 5 vols. New York and London.];

Look around you to-day: in every family you may easily observe the same phenomenon. A man has
been born in a certain social condition and has succeeded during his youth and vigour in adding
to his original fortune. Little by little as he was growing rich, his needs and his luxuries
increased. When a certain point was reached, he stopped. The men are few who can indefinitely
augment their particular wants, or keep changing their habits throughout their lives, even
after the disappearance of vigour and virile elasticity. The increase of wants and of luxury,
the change of habits, continues, instead, in the new generation, in the children, who began
to live in the ease which their fathers won after long effort and fatigue, and in maturer age;
who, in short, started where the previous generation left off, and therefore wish to gain yet
new enjoyments, different from and greater than those that they obtained without trouble through
the efforts of the preceding generation. It is this little common drama, which we see re-enacted
in every family and in which every one of us has been and will be an actor--to-day as a young
radical who innovates customs, to-morrow as an old conservative, out-of-date and malcontent
in the eyes of the young; a drama, petty and common, which no one longer regards, so frequent
is it and so frivolous it seems, but which, instead, is one of the greatest motive forces in
human history--in greater or less degree, under different forms, active in all times and operating
everywhere. On account of it no generation can live quietly on the wealth gathered, with the
ideas discovered by antecedent generations, but is constrained to create new ideas, to make
new and greater wealth by all the means at its disposal--by war and conquest, by agriculture
and industry, by religion and science. On account of it, families, classes, nations, that do
not succeed in adding to their possessions, are destined to be impoverished, because, wants
increasing, it is necessary, in order to satisfy them, to consume the accumulated capital,
to make debts, and, little by little, to go to ruin. Because of this ambition, ever reborn,
classes renew themselves in every nation. Opulent families after a few generations are gradually
impoverished; they decay and disappear, and from the multitudinous poor arise new families,
creating the new élite which continues under differing forms the doings and traditions of the
old. Because of this unrest, the earth is always stirred up by a fervour for deeds or adventure--attempts
that take shape according to the age: now peoples make war on each other, now they rend themselves
in revolutions, now they seek new lands, explore, conquer, exploit; again they perfect arts
and industries, enlarge commerce, cultivate the earth with greater assiduity; and yet again,
in the ages more laborious, like ours, they do all these things at the same time--an activity
immense and continuous. But its motive force is always the need of the new generations, that,
starting from the point at which their predecessors had arrived, desire to advance yet farther--to
enjoy, to know, to possess yet more.

The ancient writers understood this thoroughly: what they called "corruption" was but the change
in customs and wants, proceeding from generation to generation, and in its essence the same
as that which takes place about us to-day. The avaritia of which they complained so much, was
the greed and impatience to make money that we see to-day setting all classes beside themselves,
from noble to day-labourer; the ambitio that appeared to the ancients to animate so frantically
even the classes that ought to have been most immune, was what we call getting there--the craze
to rise at any cost to a condition higher than that in which one was born, which so many writers,
moralists, statesmen, judge, rightly or wrongly, to be one of the most dangerous maladies of
the modern world. Luxuria was the desire to augment personal conveniences, luxuries, pleasures--the
same passion that stirs Europe and America to-day from top to bottom, in city and country.
Without doubt, wealth grew in ancient Rome and grows to-day; men were bent on making money
in the last two centuries of the Republic, and to-day they rush headlong into the delirious
struggle for gold; for reasons and motives, however, and with arms and accoutrements, far diverse.

As I have already said, ancient civilisation was narrower, poorer, and more ignorant; it did
not hold under its victorious foot the whole earth; it did not possess the formidable instruments
with which we exploit the forces and the resources of nature: but the treasures of precious
metals transported to Italy from conquered and subjugated countries; the lands, the mines,
the forests, belonging to such countries, confiscated by Rome and given or rented to Italians;
the tributes imposed on the vanquished, and the collection of them; the abundance of slaves,--all
these then offered to the Romans and to the Italians so many occasions to grow rich quickly;
just as the gigantic economic progress of the modern world offers similar opportunities to-day
to all the peoples that, by geographical position, historical tradition, or vigorous culture
and innate energy, know how to excel in industry, in agriculture, and in trade. Especially
from the Second Punic War on, in all classes, there followed--anxious for a life more affluent
and brilliant--generations the more incited to follow the examples that emanated from the great
metropolises of the Orient, particularly Alexandria, which was for the Romans of the Republic
what Paris is for us to-day. This movement, spontaneous, regular, natural, was every now and
then violently accelerated by the conquest of a great Oriental state. One observes, after each
one of the great annexations of Oriental lands, a more intense delirium of luxury and pleasure:
the first time, after the acquisition of the kingdom of Pergamus, through a kind of contagion
communicated by the sumptuous furniture of King Attalus, which was sold at auction and scattered
among the wealthy houses of Italy to excite the still simple desires and the yet sluggish imaginations
of the Italians; the second time, after the conquest of Pontus and of Syria, made by Lucullus
and by Pompey; finally, the third time, after the conquest of Egypt made by Augustus, when
the influence of that land--the France of the ancient world--so actively invaded Italy that
no social force could longer resist it.

In this way, partly by natural, gradual, almost imperceptible diffusion, partly by violent
crises, we see the mania for luxury and the appetite for pleasure beginning, growing, becoming
aggravated from generation to generation in all Roman society, for two centuries, changing
the mentality and morality of the people; we see the institutions and public policy being altered;
all Roman history a-making under the action of this force, formidable and immanent in the whole
nation. It breaks down all obstacles confronting it--the forces of traditions, laws, institutions,
interests of classes, opposition of parties, the efforts of thinking men. The historical aristocracy
becomes impoverished and weak; before it rise to power the millionaires, the parvenus, the
great capitalists, enriched in the provinces. A part of the nobility, after having long despised
them, sets itself to fraternise with them, to marry their wealthy daughters, cause them to
share power; seeks to prop with their millions the pre-eminence of its own rank, menaced by
the discontent, the spirit of revolt, the growing pride, of the middle class. Meanwhile, another
part of the aristocracy, either too haughty and ambitious, or too poor, scorns this alliance,
puts itself at the head of the democratic party, foments in the middle classes the spirit of
antagonism against the nobles and the rich, leads them to the assault on the citadels of aristocratic
and democratic power. Hence the mad internal struggles that redden Rome with blood and complicate
so tragically, especially after the Gracchi, the external polity. The increasing wants of the
members of all classes, the debts that are their inevitable consequence, the universal longing,
partly unsatisfied for lack of means, for the pleasures of the subtle Asiatic civilisations,
infused into this whole history a demoniac frenzy that to-day, after so many centuries, fascinates
and appals us.

To satisfy their wants, to pay their debts, the classes now set upon each other, each to rob
in turn the goods of the other, in the cruelest civil war that history records; now, tired
of doing themselves evil, they unite and precipitate themselves on the world outside of Italy,
to sack the wealth that its owners do not know how to defend. In the great revolutions of Marius
and Sulla, the democratic party is the instrument with which a part of the debt-burdened middle
classes seek to rehabilitate themselves by robbing the plutocracy and the aristocracy yet opulent;
but Sulla reverses the situation, makes a coalition of aristocrats and the miserable of the
populace, and re-establishes the fortunes of the nobility, despoiling the wealthy knights and
a part of the middle classes--a terrible civil war that leaves in Italy a hate, a despondency,
a distress, that seem at a certain moment as if they must weigh eternally on the spirit of
the unhappy nation. When, lo! there appears the strongest man in the history of Rome, Lucullus,
and drags Italy out of the despondency in which it crouched, leads it into the ways of the
world, and persuades it that the best means of forgetting the losses and ruin undergone in
the civil wars, is to recuperate on the riches of the cowardly Orientals. As little by little
the treasures of Mithridates, conquered by Lucullus in the Orient, arrive in Italy, Italy begins
anew to divert itself, to construct palaces and villas, to squander in luxury. Pompey, envious
of the glory of Lucullus, follows his example, conquers Syria, sends new treasures to Italy,
carries from the East the jewels of Mithridates, and displaying them in the temple of Jove,
rouses a passion for gems in the Roman women; he also builds the first great stone theatre
to rise in Rome. All the political men in Rome try to make money out of foreign countries:
those who cannot, like the great, conquer an empire, confine themselves to blackmailing the
countries and petty states that tremble before the shadow of Rome; the courts of the secondary
kings of the Orient, the court of the Ptolemies at Alexandria,--all are invaded by a horde
of insatiable senators and knights, who, menacing and promising, extort money to spend in Italy
and foment the growing extravagance. The debts pile up, the political corruption overflows,
scandals follow, the parties in Rome rend each other madly, though hail-fellow-well-met in
the provinces to plunder subjects and vassals. In the midst of this vast disorder Cæsar, the
man of destiny, rises, and with varying fortune makes a way for himself until he beckons Italy
to follow him, to find success and treasures in regions new--not in the rich and fabulous East,
but beyond the Alps, in barbarous Gaul, bristling with fighters and forests.

But this insane effort to prey on every part of the Empire finally tires Italy; quarrels over
the division of spoils embitter friends; the immensity of the conquests, made in a few years
of reckless enthusiasm, is alarming. Finally a new civil war breaks out, terrible and interminable,
in which classes and families fall upon each other anew, to tear away in turn the spoils taken
together abroad. Out of the tremendous discord rises at last the pacifier, Augustus, who is
able gradually, by cleverness and infinite patience, to re-establish peace and order in the
troubled empire. How?--why? Because the combination of events of the times allows him to use
to ends of peace the same forces with which the preceding generations had fomented so much
disorder--desires for ease, pleasure, culture, wealth growing with the generations making it.
Thereupon begins in the whole Empire universal progress in agriculture, industry, trade, which,
on a small scale, may be compared to what we to-day witness and share; a progress for which,
then as now, the chief condition was peace. As soon as men realised that peace gives that greater
wealth, those enjoyments more refined, that higher culture, which for a century they had sought
by war, Italy became quiet; revolutionists became guardians and guards of order; there gathered
about Augustus a coalition of social forces that tended to impose on the Empire, alike on the
parts that wished it and those that did not, the Pax Romana.

Now all this immense story that fills three centuries, that gathers within itself so many revolutions,
so many legislative reforms, so many great men, so many events, tragic and glorious, this vast
history that for so many centuries holds the interest of all cultured nations, and that, considered
as a whole, seems almost a prodigy, you can, on the track of the old idea of "corruption,"
explain in its profoundest origins by one small fact, universal, common, of the very simplest--something
that every one may observe in the limited circle of his own personal experience,--by that automatic
increase of ambitions and desires, with every new generation, which prevents the human world
from crystallising in one form, constrains it to continual changes in material make-up as well
as in ideals and moral appearance. In other words, every new generation must, in order to satisfy
that part of its aspirations which is peculiarly and entirely its own, alter, whether little
or much, in one way or another, the condition of the world it entered at birth. We can then,
in our personal experiences every day, verify the universal law of history--a law that can
act with greater or less intensity, more or less rapidity, according to times and places, but
that ceases to authenticate itself at no time and in no place.

The United States is subject to that law to-day, as is old Europe, as will be future generations,
and as past ages were. Moreover, to understand at bottom this phenomenon, which appears to
me to be the soul of all history, it is well to add this consideration: It is evident that
there is a capital difference between our judgment of this phenomenon and that of the ancients;
to them it was a malevolent force of dissolution to which should be attributed all in Roman
history that was sinister and dreadful, a sure sign of incurable decay; that is why they called
it "corruption of customs," and so lamented it. To-day, on the contrary, it appears to us a
universal beneficent process of transformation; so true is this that we call "progress" many
facts which the ancients attributed to "corruption." It were useless to expand too much in
examples; enough to cite a few. In the third ode of the first book, in which he so tenderly
salutes the departing Virgil, Horace covers with invective, as an evil-doer and the corrupter
of the human race, that impious being who invented the ship, which causes man, created for
the land, to walk across waters. Who would to-day dare repeat those maledictions against the
bold builders who construct the magnificent trans-Atlantic liners on which, in a dozen days
from Genoa, one lands in Boston or New York? "Coelum ipsum petimus stultitia," exclaims Horace--that
is to say, in anticipation he considered the Wright brothers crazy.

Who, save some man of erudition, has knowledge to-day of sumptuary laws? We should laugh them
all down with one Homeric guffaw, if to-day it entered somebody's head to propose a law that
forbade fair ladies to spend more than a certain sum on their clothes, or numbered the hats
they might wear; or that regulated dinners of ceremony, fixing the number of courses, the variety
of wines, and the total expense; or that prohibited labouring men and women from wearing certain
stuffs or certain objects that were wont to be found only upon the persons of people of wealth
and leisure. And yet laws of this tenor were compiled, published, observed, up to two centuries
ago, without any one's finding it absurd. The historic force that, as riches increase, impels
the new generations to desire new satisfactions, new pleasures, operated then as to-day; only
then men were inclined to consider it as a new kind of ominous disease that needed checking.
To-day men regard that constant transformation either as beneficent, or at least as such a
matter of course that almost no one heeds it; just as no one notices the alternations of day
and night, or the change of seasons. On the contrary, we have little by little become so confident
of the goodness of this force that drives the coming generation on into the unknown future,
that society, European, American, among other liberties has won in the nineteenth century,
full and entire, a liberty that the ancients did not know--freedom in vice.

To the Romans it appeared most natural that the state should survey private habits, should
spy out what a citizen, particularly a citizen belonging to the ruling classes, did within
domestic walls--should see whether he became intoxicated, whether he were a gourmand, whether
he contracted debts, spending much or little, whether he betrayed his wife. The age of Augustus
was cultured, civilised, liberal, and in many things resembled our own; yet on this point the
dominating ideas were so different from ours, that at one time Augustus was forced by public
opinion to propose a law on adultery by which all Roman citizens of both sexes guilty of this
crime were condemned to exile and the confiscation of half their substance, and there was given
to any citizen the right to accuse the guilty. Could you imagine it possible to-day, even for
a few weeks, to establish this regime of terror in the kingdom of Amor? But the ancients were
always inclined to consider as exceedingly dangerous for the upper classes that relaxing of
customs which always follows periods of rapid enrichment, of great gain in comforts; behind
his own walls to-day, every one is free to indulge himself as he will, to the confines of crime.

How can we explain this important difference in judging one of the essential phenomena of historic
life? Has this phenomenon changed nature, and from bad, by some miracle, become good? Or are
we wiser than our forefathers, judging with experience what they could hardly comprehend? There
is no doubt that the Latin writers, particularly Horace and Livy, were so severe in condemning
this progressive movement of wants because of unconscious political solicitude, because intellectual
men expressed the opinions, sentiments, and also the prejudices of historic aristocracy, and
this detested the progress of ambitio, avaritia, luxuria, because they undermined the dominance
of its class. On the other hand, it is certain that in the modern world every increase of consumption,
every waste, every vice, seems permissible, indeed almost meritorious, because men of industry
and trade, the employees in industries--that is, all the people that gain by the diffusion
of luxuries, by the spread of vices or new wants--have acquired, thanks above all to democratic
institutions, and to the progress of cities, an immense political power that in times past
they lacked. If, for example, in Europe the beer-makers and distillers of alcohol were not
more powerful in the electoral field than the philosophers and academicians, governments would
more easily recognise that the masses should not be allowed to poison themselves or future
generations by chronic drunkenness.

Between these two extremes of exaggeration, inspired by a self-interest easy to discover, is
there not a true middle way that we can deduce from the study of Roman history and from the
observation of contemporary life?

In the pessimism with which the ancients regarded progress as corruption, there was a basis
of truth, just as there is a principle of error in the too serene optimism with which we consider
corruption as progress. This force that pushes the new generations on to the future, at once
creates and destroys; its destructive energy is specially felt in ages like Cæsar's in ancient
Rome and ours in the modern world, in which facility in the accumulation of wealth over-excites
desires and ambitions in all classes. They are the times in which personal egoism--what to-day
we call individualism--usurps a place above all that represents in society the interest of
the species: national duty, the self-abnegation of each for the sake of the common good. Then
these vices and defects become always more common: intellectual agitation, the weakening of
the spirit of tradition, the general relaxation of discipline, the loss of authority, ethical
confusion and disorder. At the same time that certain moral sentiments refine themselves, certain
individualisms grow fiercer. The government may no longer represent the ideas, the aspirations,
the energetic will of a small oligarchy; it must make itself more yielding and gracious at
the same time that it is becoming more contradictory and discordant. Family discipline is relaxed;
the new generations shake off early the influence of the past; the sentiment of honour and
the rigour of moral, religious, and political principles are weakened by a spirit of utility
and expediency by which, more or less openly, confessing it or dissimulating, men always seek
to do, not that which is right and decorous, but that which is utilitarian. The civic spirit
tends to die out; the number of persons capable of suffering, or even of working, disinterestedly
for the common good, for the future, diminishes; children are not wanted; men prefer to live
in accord with those in power, ignoring their vices, rather than openly opposing them. Public
events do not interest unless they include a personal advantage.

This is the state of mind that is now diffusing itself throughout Europe; the same state of
mind that, with the documents at hand, I have found in the age of Cæsar and Augustus, and seen
progressively diffusing itself throughout ancient Italy. The likeness is so great that we re-find
in those far-away times, especially in the upper classes, exactly that restless condition that
we define by the word "nervousness." Horace speaks of this state of mind, which we consider
peculiar to ourselves, and describes it, by felicitous image, as strenua inertia--strenuous
inertia,--agitation vain and ineffective, always wanting something new, but not really knowing
what, desiring most ardently yet speedily tiring of a desire gratified. Now it is clear that
if these vices spread too much, if they are not complemented by an increase of material resources,
of knowledge, of sufficient population, they can lead a nation rapidly to ruin. We do not feel
very keenly the fear of this danger--the European-American civilisation is so rich, has at
its disposal so much knowledge, so many men, so many instrumentalities, has cut off for itself
such a measureless part of the globe, that it can afford to look unafraid into the future.
The abyss is so far away that only a few philosophers barely descry it in the gray mist of
distant years. But the ancient world--so much poorer, smaller, weaker--felt that it could not
squander as we do, and saw the abyss near at hand.

To-day men and women waste fabulous wealth in luxury; that is, they spend not to satisfy some
reasonable need, but to show to others of their kind how rich they are, or, further, to make
others believe them richer than they are. If these resources were everywhere saved as they
are in France, the progress of the world would be quicker, and the new countries would more
easily find in Europe and in themselves the capital necessary for their development. At all
events, our age develops fast, and notwithstanding all this waste, abounds in a plenty that
is enough to keep men from fearing the growth of this wanton luxury and from planning to restrain
it by laws. In the ancient world, on the other hand, the wealthy classes and the state had
only to abandon themselves a little too much to the prodigality that for us has become almost
a regular thing, when suddenly means were wanting to meet the most essential needs of social
life. Tacitus has summarised an interesting discourse of Tiberius, in which the famous emperor
censures the ladies of Rome in terms cold, incisive, and succinct, because they spend too much
money on pearls and diamonds. "Our money," said Tiberius, "goes away to India and we are in
want of the precious metals to carry on the military administration; we have to give up the
defence of the frontiers." According to the opinion of an administrator so sagacious and a
general so valiant as Tiberius, in the richest period of the Roman Empire, a lady of Rome could
not buy pearls and diamonds without directly weakening the defence of the frontiers. Indulgence
in the luxury of jewels looked almost like high treason.

Similar observations might be made on another grave question--the increase of population. One
of the most serious effects of individualism that accompanies the increase of civilisation
and wealth, is the decrease of the birth-rate. France, which knows how to temper its luxury,
which gives to other peoples an example of saving means for the future, has on the other hand
given the example of egoism in the family, lowering the birth-rate. England, for a long time
so fecund, seems to follow France. The more uniformly settled and well-to-do parts of the North
American Union, the Eastern States and New England, are even more sterile than France. However,
no one of these nations suffers to-day from the small increase of population; there are yet
so many poor and fecund peoples that they can easily fill the gaps. In the ancient world this
was not the case; population was always and everywhere so scanty that if for some reason it
diminished but slightly, the states could not get on, finding themselves at the mercy of what
they called a "famine of men," a malady more serious and troublesome than over-population.
In the Roman Empire the Occidental provinces finally fell into the hands of the barbarians,
chiefly because the Græco-Latin civilisation sterilised the family, reducing the population
incurably. No wonder that the ancients applied the term "corruption" to a momentum of desires
which, although increasing culture and the refinements of living, easily menaced the sources
of the nation's physical existence.

There is, then, a more general conclusion to draw from this experience. It is not by chance,
nor the unaccountable caprice of a few ancient writers, that we possess so many small facts
on the development of luxury and the transformation of customs in ancient Rome; that, for example,
among the records of great wars, of diplomatic missions, of catastrophes political and economic,
we find given the date when the art of fattening fowls was imported into Italy. The little
facts are not so unworthy of the majesty of Roman history as one at first might think. Everything
is bound together in the life of a nation, and nothing without importance; the humblest acts,
most personal and deepest hidden in the penetralia of the home, that no one sees, none knows,
have an effect, immediate or remote, on the common life of the nation. There is, between these
small, insignificant facts and the wars, the revolutions, the tremendous political and social
events that bewilder men, a tie, often invisible to most people, yet nevertheless indestructible.

Nothing in the world is without import: what women spend for their toilet, the resistance that
men make from day to day to the temptations of the commonest pleasures, the new and petty needs
that insinuate themselves unconsciously into the habits of all; the reading, the conversations,
the impressions, even the most fugacious that pass in our spirit--all these things, little
and innumerable, that no historian registers, have contributed to produce this revolution,
that war, this catastrophe, that political overturn, which men wonder at and study as a prodigy.

The causes of how many apparently mysterious historical events would be more clearly and profoundly
known, of how many periods would the spirit be better understood, did we only possess the private
records of the families that make up the ruling classes! Every deed we do in the intimacy of
the home reacts on the whole of our environment. With our every act we assume a responsibility
toward the nation and posterity, the sanction for which, near or far away, is in events. This
justifies, at least in part, the ancient conception by which the state had the right to exercise
vigilance over its citizens, their private acts, customs, pleasures, vices, caprices. This
vigilance, the laws that regulated it, the moral and political teachings that brought pressure
to bear in the exercise of these laws, tended above all to charge upon the individual man the
social responsibility of his single acts; to remind him that in the things most personal, aside
from the individual pain or pleasure, there was an interest, a good or an evil, in common.

Modern men--and it is a revolution greater than that finished in political form in the nineteenth
century--have been freed from these bonds, from these obligations. Indeed, modern civilisation
has made it a duty for each one to spend, to enjoy, to waste as much as he can, without any
disturbing thought as to the ultimate consequences of what he does. The world is so rich, population
grows so rapidly, civilisation is armed with so much knowledge in its struggle against the
barbarian and against nature, that to-day we are able to laugh at the timid prudence of our
forefathers, who had, as it were, a fear of wealth, of pleasure, of love; we can boast in the
pride of triumph that we are the first who dare in the midst of a conquered world, to enjoy--enjoy
without scruple, without restriction--all the good things life offers to the strong.

But who knows? Perhaps this felicitous moment will not last forever; perhaps one day will see
men, grown more numerous, feel the need of the ancient wisdom and prudence. It is at least
permitted the philosopher and the historian to ask if this magnificent but unbridled freedom
which we enjoy suits all times, and not only those in which nations coming into being can find
a small dower in their cradle as you have done--three millions of square miles of land!

The History and Legend of Antony and Cleopatra

In the history of Rome figures of women are rare, because only men dominated there, imposing
everywhere the brute force, the roughness, and the egoism that lie at the base of their nature:
they honoured the mater familias because she bore children and kept the slaves from stealing
the flour from the bin and drinking the wine from the amphore on the sly. They despised the
woman who made of her beauty and vivacity an adornment of social life, a prize sought after
and disputed by the men. However, in this virile history there does appear, on a sudden, the
figure of a woman, strange and wonderful, a kind of living Venus. Plutarch thus describes the
arrival of Cleopatra at Tarsus and her first meeting with Antony:

    She was sailing tranquilly along the Cydnus, on a bark with a
    golden stern, with sails of purple and oars of silver, and the
    dip of the oars was rhythmed to the sound of flutes, blending
    with music of lyres. She herself, the Queen, wondrously
    clad as Venus is pictured, was lying under an awning gold
    embroidered. Boys dressed as Cupids stood at her side, gently
    waving fans to refresh her; her maidens, every one beautiful
    and clad as a Naiad or a Grace, directed the boat, some at
    the rudder, others at the ropes. Both banks of the stream were
    sweet with the perfumes burning on the vessel.

Posterity is yet dazzled by this ship, refulgent with purple and gold and melodious with flutes
and lyres. If we are spellbound by Plutarch's description, it does not seem strange to us that
Antony should be--he who could not only behold in person that wonderful Venus, but could dine
with her tête-a-tête, in a splendour of torches indescribable. Surely this is a setting in
no wise improbable for the beginning of the famous romance of the love of Antony and Cleopatra,
and its development as probable as its beginning; the follies committed by Antony for the seductive
Queen of the Orient, the divorce of Octavia, the war for love of Cleopatra, kindled in the
whole Empire, and the miserable catastrophe. Are there not to be seen in recent centuries many
men of power putting their greatness to risk and sometimes to ruin for love of a woman? Are
not the love letters of great statesmen--for instance, those of Mirabeau and of Gambetta--admitted
to the semi-official part of modern history-writing? And so also Antony could love a queen
and, like so many modern statesmen, commit follies for her. A French critic of my book, burning
his ships behind him, has said that Antony was a Roman Boulanger.

The romance pleases: art takes it as subject and re-takes it; but that does not keep off the
brutal hands of criticism. Before all, it should be observed that moderns feel and interpret
the romance of Antony and Cleopatra in a way very different from that of the ancients. From
Shakespeare to De Heredia and Henri Houssaye, artists and historians have described with sympathy,
even almost idealised, this passion that throws away in a lightning flash every human greatness,
to pursue the mantle of a fleeing woman; they find in the follies of Antony something profoundly
human that moves them, fascinates them, and makes them indulgent. To the ancients, on the contrary,
the amours of Antony and Cleopatra were but a dishonourable degeneration of the passion. They
have no excuse for the man whom love for a woman impelled to desert in battle, to abandon soldiers,
friends, relatives, to conspire against the greatness of Rome.

This very same difference of interpretation recurs in the history of the amours of Cæsar. Modern
writers regard what the ancients tell us of the numerous loves--real or imaginary--of Cæsar,
as almost a new laurel with which to decorate his figure. On the contrary, the ancients recounted
and spread abroad, and perhaps in part invented, these storiettes of gallantry for quite opposite
reasons--as source of dishonour, to discredit him, to demonstrate that Cæsar was effeminate,
that he could not give guarantee of knowing how to lead the armies and to fulfil the virile
and arduous duties that awaited every eminent Roman. There is in our way of thinking a vein
of romanticism wanting in the ancient mind. We see in love a certain forgetfulness of ourselves,
a certain blindness of egoism and the more material passions, a kind of power of self-abnegation,
which, inasmuch as it is unconscious, confers a certain nobility and dignity; therefore we
are indulgent to mistakes and follies committed for the sake of passion, while the ancients
were very severe. We pardon with a certain compassion the man who for love of a woman has not
hesitated to bury himself under the ruin of his own greatness; the ancients, on the contrary,
considered him the most dangerous and despicable of the insane.

Criticism has not contented itself with re-giving to the ancient romance the significance it
had for those that made it and the public that first read it. Archaeologists have discovered
upon coins portraits of Cleopatra, and now critics have confronted these portraits with the
poetic descriptions given by Roman historians and have found the descriptions generously fanciful:
in the portraits we do not see the countenance of a Venus, delicate, gracious, smiling, nor
even the fine and sensuous beauty of a Marquise de Pompadour, but a face fleshy and, as the
French would say, bouffie; the nose, a powerful aquiline; the face of a woman on in years,
ambitious, imperious, one which recalls that of Maria Theresa. It will be said that judgments
as to beauty are personal; that Antony, who saw her alive, could decide better than we who
see her portraits half effaced by the centuries; that the attractive power of a woman emanates
not only from corporal beauty, but also--and yet more--from her spirit. The taste of Cleopatra,
her vivacity, her cleverness, her exquisite art in conversation, is vaunted by all.

Perhaps, however, Cleopatra, beautiful or ugly, is of little consequence; when one studies
the history of her relations with Antony, there is small place, and that but toward the end,
for the passion of love. It will be easy to persuade you of this if you follow the simple chronological
exposition of facts I shall give you. Antony makes the acquaintance of Cleopatra at Tarsus
toward the end of 41 B.C., passes the winter of 41-40 with her at Alexandria; leaves her in
the spring of 40 and stays away from her more than three years, till the autumn of 37. There
is no proof that during this time Antony sighed for the Queen of Egypt as a lover far away;
on the contrary, he attends, with alacrity worthy of praise, to preparing the conquest of Persia,
to putting into execution the great design conceived by Cæsar, the plan of war that Antony
had come upon among the papers of the Dictator the evening of the fifteenth of March, 44 B.C.
All order social and political, the army, the state, public finance, wealth private and public,
is going to pieces around him. The triumvirate power, built up on the uncertain foundation
of these ruins, is tottering; Antony realises that only a great external success can give to
him and his party the authority and the money necessary to establish a solid government, and
resolves to enter into possession of the political legacy of his teacher and patron, taking
up its central idea, the conquest of Persia.

The difficulties are grave. Soldiers are not wanting, but money. The revolution has ruined
the Empire and Italy; all the reserve funds have been dissipated; the finances of the state
are in such straits that not even the soldiers can be paid punctually and the legions every
now and then claim their dues by revolt. Antony is not discouraged. The historians, however
antagonistic to him, describe him as exceedingly busy in those four years, extracting from
all parts of the Empire that bit of money still in circulation. Then at one stroke, in the
second half of 37, when, preparations finished, it is time to put hand to the execution, the
ancient historians without in any way explaining to us this sudden act, most unforeseen, make
him depart for Antioch to meet Cleopatra, who has been invited by him to join him. For what
reason does Antony after three years, all of a sudden, re-join Cleopatra? The secret of the
story of Antony and Cleopatra lies entirely in this question.

Plutarch says that Antony went to Antioch borne by the fiery and untamed courser of his own
spirit; in other words, because passion was already beginning to make him lose common sense.
Not finding other explanations in the ancient writers, posterity has accepted this, which was
simple enough; but about a century ago an erudite Frenchman, Letronne, studying certain coins,
and comparing with them certain passages in ancient historians, until then remaining obscure,
was able to demonstrate that in 36 B.C., at Antioch, Antony married Cleopatra with all the
dynastic ceremonies of Egypt, and that thereupon Antony became King of Egypt, although he did
not dare assume the title.

The explanation of Letronne, which is founded on official documents and coins, is without doubt
more dependable than that of Plutarch, which is reducible to an imaginative metaphor; and the
discovery of Letronne, concluding that concatenation of facts that I have set forth, finally
persuades me to affirm that not a passion of love, suddenly re-awakened, led Antony in the
second half of 37 B.C. to Antioch to meet the Queen of Egypt, but a political scheme well thought
out. Antony wanted Egypt and not the beautiful person of its queen; he meant by this dynastic
marriage to establish the Roman protectorate in the valley of the Nile, and to be able to dispose,
for the Persian campaign, of the treasures of the Kingdom of the Ptolemies. At that time, after
the plunderings of other regions of the Orient by the politicians of Rome, there was but one
state rich in reserves of precious metals, Egypt. Since, little by little, the economic crisis
of the Roman Empire was aggravating, the Roman polity had to gravitate perforce toward Egypt,
as toward the country capable of providing Rome with the capital necessary to continue its
policy in every part of the Empire.

Cæsar already understood this; his mysterious and obscure connection with Cleopatra had certainly
for ultimate motive and reason this political necessity; and Antony, in marrying Cleopatra,
probably only applied more or less shrewdly the ideas that Cæsar had originated in the refulgent
crepuscle of his tempestuous career. You will ask me why Antony, if he had need of the valley
of the Nile, recurred to this strange expedient of a marriage, instead of conquering the kingdom,
and why Cleopatra bemeaned herself to marry the triumvir. The reply is not difficult to him
who knows the history of Rome. There was a long-standing tradition in Roman policy to exploit
Egypt but to respect its independence; it may be, because the country was considered more difficult
to govern than in truth it was, or because there existed for this most ancient land, the seat
of all the most refined arts, the most learned schools, the choicest industries, exceedingly
rich and highly civilised, a regard that somewhat resembles what France imposes on the world
to-day. Finally, it may be because it was held that if Egypt were annexed, its influence on
Italy would be too much in the ascendent, and the traditions of the old Roman life would be
conclusively overwhelmed by the invasion of the customs, the ideas, the refinements--in a word,
by the corruptions of Egypt. Antony, who was set in the idea of repeating in Persia the adventure
of Alexander the Great, did not dare bring about an annexation which would have been severely
judged in Italy and which he, like the others, thought more dangerous than in reality it was.
On the other hand, with a dynastic marriage, he was able to secure for himself all the advantages
of effective possession, without running the risks of annexation; so he resolved upon this
artifice, which, I repeat, had probably been imagined by Cæsar. As to Cleopatra, her government
was menaced by a strong internal opposition, the causes for which are ill known; marrying Antony,
she gathered about her throne, to protect it, formidable guards, the Roman legions.

To sum up, the romance of Antony and Cleopatra covers, at least in its beginnings, a political
treaty. With the marriage, Cleopatra seeks to steady her wavering power; Antony, to place the
valley of the Nile under the Roman protectorate. How then was the famous romance born? The
actual history of Antony and Cleopatra is one of the most tragic episodes of a struggle that
lacerated the Roman Empire for four centuries, until it finally destroyed it, the struggle
between Orient and Occident. During the age of Cæsar, little by little, without any one's realising
it at first, there arose and fulfilled itself a fact of the gravest importance; that is, the
eastern part of the Empire had grown out of proportion: first, from the conquest of the Pontus,
made by Lucullus, who had added immense territory in Asia Minor; then by Pompey's conquest
of Syria, and the protectorate extended by him over all Palestine and a considerable part of
Arabia. These new districts were not only enormous in extension; they were also populous, wealthy,
fertile, celebrated for ancient culture; they held the busiest industrial cities, the best
cultivated regions of the ancient world, the most famous seats of arts, letters, science, therefore
their annexation, made rapidly in few years, could but trouble the already unstable equilibrium
of the Empire. Italy was then, compared with these provinces, a poor and barbarous land; because
southern Italy was ruined by the wars of preceding epochs, and northern Italy, naturally the
wealthier part, was still crude and in the beginning of its development. The other western
provinces nearer Italy were poorer and less civilised than Italy, except Gallia Narbonensis
and certain parts of southern Spain. So that Rome, the capital of the Empire, came to find
itself far from the richest and most populous regions, among territories poor and despoiled,
on the frontiers of barbarism--in such a situation as the Russian Empire might find itself
to-day if it had a capital at Vladivostok or Kharbin. You know that during the last years of
the life of Cæsar it was rumoured several times that the Dictator wished to remove the capital
of the Empire; it was said, to Alexandria in Egypt, to Ilium in the district where Troy arose.
It is impossible to judge whether these reports were true or merely invented by enemies of
Cæsar to damage him; at any rate, true or false, they show that public opinion was beginning
to concern itself with the "Eastern peril"; that is, with the danger that the seat of empire
must be shifted toward the Orient and the too ample Asiatic and African territory, and that
Italy be one day uncrowned of her metropolitan predominance, conquered by so many wars. Such
hear-says must have seemed, even if not true, the more likely, because, in his last two years,
Cæsar planned the conquest of Persia. Now the natural basis of operations for the conquest
of Persia was to be found, not in Italy, but in Asia Minor, and if Persia had been conquered,
it would not have been possible to govern in Rome an empire so immeasurably enlarged in the
Orient. Everything therefore induces to the belief that this question was at least discussed
in the coterie of the friends of Cæsar; and it was a serious question, because in it the traditions,
the aspirations, the interests of Italy were in irreconcilable conflict with a supreme necessity
of state which one day or other would impose itself, if some unforeseen event did not intervene
to solve it.

In the light of these considerations, the conduct of Antony becomes very clear. The marriage
at Antioch, by which he places Egypt under the Roman protectorate, is the decisive act of a
policy that looks to transporting the centre of his government toward the Orient, to be able
to accomplish more securely the conquest of Persia. Antony, the heir of Cæsar, the man who
held the papers of the Dictator, who knew his hidden thoughts, who wished to complete the plans
cut off by his death, proposes to conquer Persia; to conquer Persia, he must rely on the Oriental
provinces that were the natural basis of operations for the great enterprise; among these,
Antony must support himself above all on Egypt, the richest and most civilised and most able
to supply him with the necessary funds, of which he was quite in want. Therefore he married
the Cleopatra whom, it was said at Rome, Cæsar himself had wished to marry--with whom, at any
rate, Cæsar had much dallied and intrigued. Does not this juxtaposition of facts seem luminous
to you? In 36 B.C., Antony marries Cleopatra, as a few years before he had married Octavia,
the sister of the future Augustus, for political reasons--in order to be able to dispose of
the political subsidies and finances of Egypt, for the conquest of Persia. The conquest of
Persia is the ultimate motive of all his policy, the supreme explanation of his every act.

However, little by little, this move, made on both sides from considerations of political interest,
altered its character under the action of events, of time, through the personal influence of
Antony and Cleopatra upon each other, and above all, the power that Cleopatra acquired over
Antony: here is truly the most important part of all this story. Those who have read my history
know that I have recounted hardly any of the anecdotes, more or less odd or entertaining, with
which ancient writers describe the intimate life of Antony and Cleopatra, because it is impossible
to discriminate in them the part that is fact from that which was invented or exaggerated by
political enmity. In history the difficulty of recognising the truth gradually increases as
one passes from political to private life; because in politics the acts of men and of parties
are always bound together by either causes or effects of which a certain number is always exactly
known; private life, on the other hand, is, as it were, isolated and secret, almost invariably
impenetrable. What a great man of state does in his own house, his valet knows better than
the historians of later times.

If for these reasons I have thought it prudent not to accept in my work the stories and anecdotes
that the ancients recount of Antony and Cleopatra, without indeed risking to declare them false,
it is, on the contrary, not possible to deny that Cleopatra gradually acquired great ascendency
over the mind of Antony. The circumstance is of itself highly probable. That Cleopatra was
perhaps a Venus, as the ancients say, or that she was provided with but a mediocre beauty,
as declare the portraits, matters little: it is, however, certain that she was a woman of great
cleverness and culture; as woman and queen of the richest and most civilised realm of the ancient
world, she was mistress of all those arts of pleasure, of luxury, of elegance, that are the
most delicate and intoxicating fruit of all mature civilisations. Cleopatra might refigure,
in the ancient world, the wealthiest, most elegant, and cultured Parisian lady in the world
of to-day.

Antony, on the other hand, was the descendant of a family of that Roman nobility which still
preserved much rustic roughness in tastes, ideas, habits; he grew up in times in which the
children were still given Spartan training; he came to Egypt from a nation which, notwithstanding
its military and diplomatic triumphs, could be considered, compared with Egypt, only poor,
rude, and barbarous. Upon this intelligent man, eager for enjoyment, who had, like other noble
Romans, already begun to taste the charms of intellectual civilisation, it was not Cleopatra
alone that made the keenest of impressions, but all Egypt, the wonderful city of Alexandria,
the sumptuous palace of the Ptolemies--all that refined, elegant splendour of which he found
himself at one stroke the master. What was there at Rome to compare with Alexandria?--Rome,
in spite of its imperial power, abandoned to a fearful disorder by the disregard of factions,
encumbered with ruin, its streets narrow and wretched, provided as yet with but a single forum,
narrow and plain, the sole impressive monument of which was the theatre of Pompey; Rome, where
the life was yet crude, and objects of luxury so rare that they had to be brought from the
distant Orient? At Alexandria, instead, the Paris of the ancient world, were to be found all
the best and most beautiful things of the earth. There was a sumptuosity of public edifices
that the ancients never tire of extolling--the quay seven stadia long, the lighthouse famous
all over the Mediterranean, the marvellous zoölogical garden, the Museum, the Gymnasium, innumerable
temples, the unending palace of the Ptolemies. There was an abundance, unheard of for those
times, of objects of luxury--rugs, glass, stuffs, papyruses, jewels, artistic pottery--because
they made all these things at Alexandria. There was an abundance, greater than elsewhere, of
silk, of perfumes, of gems, of all the things imported from the extreme East, because through
Alexandria passed one of the most frequented routes of Indo-Chinese commerce. There, too, were
innumerable artists, writers, philosophers, and savants; society life and intellectual life
alike fervid; continuous movement to and fro of traffic, continual passing of rare and curious
things; countless amusements; life, more than elsewhere, safe--at least so it was believed--because
at Alexandria were the great schools of medicine and the great scientific physicians.

If other Italians who landed in Alexandria were dazzled by so many splendours, Antony ought
to have been blinded; he entered Alexandria as King. He who was born at Rome in the small and
simple house of an impoverished noble family who had been brought up with Latin parsimony to
eat frugally, to drink wine only on festival occasions, to wear the same clothes a long time,
to be served by a single slave--this man found himself lord of the immense palace of the Ptolemies,
where the kitchens alone were a hundred times larger than the house of his fathers at Rome;
where there were gathered for his pleasure the most precious treasures and the most marvellous
collections of works of art; where there were trains of servants at his command, and every
wish could be immediately gratified. It is therefore not necessary to suppose that Antony was
foolishly enamoured of the Queen of Egypt, to understand the change that took place in him
after their marriage, as he tasted the inimitable life of Alexandria, that elegance, that ease,
that wealth, that pomp without equal.

A man of action, grown in simplicity, toughened by a rude life, he was all at once carried
into the midst of the subtlest and most highly developed civilisation of the ancient world
and given the greatest facilities to enjoy and abuse it that ever man had: as might have been
expected, he was intoxicated; he contracted an almost insane passion for such a life; he adored
Egypt with such ardour as to forget for it the nation of his birth and the modest home of his
boyhood. And then began the great tragedy of his life, a tragedy not love-inspired, but political.
As the hold of Egypt strengthened on his mind, Cleopatra tried to persuade him not to conquer
Persia, but to accept openly the kingdom of Egypt, to found with her and with their children
a new dynasty, and to create a great new Egyptian Empire, adding to Egypt the better part of
the provinces that Rome possessed in Africa and in Asia, abandoning Italy and the provinces
of the West forever to their destiny.

Cleopatra had thought to snatch from Rome its Oriental Empire by the arm of Antony, in that
immense disorder of revolution; to reconstruct the great Empire of Egypt, placing at its head
the first general of the time, creating an army of Roman legionaries with the gold of the Ptolemies;
to make Egypt and its dynasty the prime potentate of Africa and Asia, transferring to Alexandria
the political and diplomatic control of the finest parts of the Mediterranean world.

As the move failed, men have deemed it folly and stupidity; but he who knows how easy it is
to be wise after events, will judge this confused policy of Cleopatra less curtly. At any rate,
it is certain that her scheme failed more because of its own inconsistencies than through the
vigour and ability with which Rome tried to thwart it; it is certain that in the execution
of the plan, Antony felt first in himself the tragic discord between Orient and Occident that
was so long to lacerate the Empire; and of that tragic discord he was the first victim. An
enthusiastic admirer of Egypt, an ardent Hellenist, he is lured by his great ambition to be
king of Egypt, to renew the famous line of the Ptolemies, to continue in the East the glory
and the traditions of Alexander the Great: but the far-away voice of his fatherland still sounds
in his ear; he recalls the city of his birth, the Senate in which he rose so many times to
speak, the Forum of his orations, the Comitia that elected him to magistracies; Octavia, the
gentlewoman he had wedded with the sacred rites of Latin monogamy; the friends and soldiers
with whom he had fought through so many countries in so many wars; the foundation principles
at home that ruled the family, the state, morality, public and private.

Cleopatra's scheme, viewed from Alexandria, was an heroic undertaking, almost divine, that
might have lifted him and his scions to the delights of Olympus; seen from Rome, by his childhood's
friends, by his comrades in arms, by that people of Italy who still so much admired him, it
was the shocking crime of faithlessness to his country; we call it high treason. Therefore
he hesitates long, doubting most of all whether he can keep for the new Egyptian Empire the
Roman legions, made up largely of Italians, all commanded by Italian officers. He does not
know how to oppose a resolute No to the insistences of Cleopatra and loose himself from the
fatal bond that keeps him near her; he can not go back to live in Italy after having dwelt
as king in Alexandria. Moreover, he does not dare declare his intentions to his Roman friends,
fearing they will scatter; to the soldiers, fearing they will revolt; to Italy, fearing her
judgment of him as a traitor; and so, little by little, he entangles himself in the crooked
policy, full of prevarications, of expedients, of subterfuges, of one mistake upon another,
that leads him to Actium.

I think I have shown that Antony succumbed in the famous war not because, mad with love, he
abandoned the command in the midst of the battle, but because his armies revolted and abandoned
him when they understood what he had not dared declare to them openly: that he meant to dismember
the Empire of Rome to create the new Empire of Alexandria. The future Augustus conquered at
Actium without effort, merely because the national sentiment of the soldiery, outraged by the
unforeseen revelation of Antony's treason, turned against the man who wanted to aggrandise
Cleopatra at the expense of his own country.

And then the victorious party, the party of Augustus, created the story of Antony and Cleopatra
that has so entertained posterity; this story is but a popular explanation--in part imaginatively
exaggerated and fantastic--of the Eastern peril that menaced Rome, of both its political phase
and its moral. According to the story that Horace has put into such charming verse, Cleopatra
wished to conquer Italy, to enslave Rome, to destroy the Capitol; but Cleopatra alone could
not have accomplished so difficult a task; she must have seduced Antony, made him forget his
duty to his wife, to his legitimate children, to the Republic, the soldiery, his native land,--all
the duties that Latin morals inculcated into the minds of the great, and that a shameless Egyptian
woman, rendered perverse by all the arts of the Orient, had blotted out in his soul; therefore
Antony's tragic fate should serve as a solemn warning to distrust the voluptuous seductions,
of which Cleopatra symbolised the elegant and fatal depravity. The story was magnified, coloured,
diffused, not because it was beautiful and romantic, but because it served the interests of
the political coterie that gained definite control of the government on the ruin of Antony.
At Actium, the future Augustus did not fight a real war, he only passively watched the power
of the adversary go to pieces, destroyed by its own internal contradictions. He did not decide
to conquer Egypt until the public opinion of Italy, enraged against Antony and Cleopatra, required
this vengeance with such insistence that he had to satisfy it.

If Augustus was not a man too quick in action, he was, instead, keenly intelligent in comprehending
the situation created by the catastrophe of Antony in Italy, where already, for a decade of
years, public spirit, frightened by revolution, was anxious to return to the ways of the past,
to the historic sources of the national life. Augustus understood that he ought to stand before
Italy, disgusted as it was with long-continued dissension and eager to retrace the way of national
tradition, as the embodiment of all the virtues his contemporaries set in opposition to eastern
"corruption,"--simplicity, severity of private habits, rigid monogamy, the anti-feministic
spirit, the purely virile idea of the state. Naturally, the exaltation of these virtues required
the portrayal in his rival of Actium, as far as possible, the opposite defects; therefore the
efforts of his friends, like Horace, to colour the story of Antony and Cleopatra, which should
magnify to the Italians the idea of the danger from which Augustus had saved them at Actium;
which was meant to serve as a barrier against the invading Oriental "corruption," that "corruption"
the essence of which I have already analysed.

In a certain sense, the legend of Antony and Cleopatra is chiefly an antifeminist legend, intended
to reinforce in the state the power of the masculine principle, to demonstrate how dangerous
it may be to leave to women the government of public affairs, or follow their counsel in political
business.

The people believed the legend; posterity has believed it. Two years ago when I published in
the Revue de Paris an article in which I demonstrated, by obvious arguments, the incongruities
and absurdities of the legend, and tried to retrace through it the half-effaced lines of the
truth, everybody was amazed. From one end of Europe to the other, the papers résuméd the conclusions
of my study as an astounding revelation. An illustrious French statesman, a man of the finest
culture in historical study, Joseph Reinach, said to me:

    After your article I have re-read Dion and Plutarch. "Wonder!
    miserable ff!" I left syria disrupt to erection. "i promise veneto
    you mark Antonines of medicine, if i would, mentioned of empire which
    our position morals will 63 state as you have brought in value of
192 Statues of Brennus of 220 inscriptions."

"and i will both," resumed Pergamon mentioned by Virgil contrasted of Naples mentioned of litterati
135 Princeps, of the Helvetians haughtily adopted of fish of 58 Christians in 44 customs of 10 Dithyrambics
of 191 Sesterces on Pantheon of the letters in emperor of 157 Helvetians
of the Calumnies of story, and however hesitating Morales of 40 "i
will relinquish all claims, and rome de, at the urbs that t should
have stood of education of tenders of 17 enthusiasm and wishing."

"i will break laws of the pledges, nor mentioned of growth by the Savants of 166 Morales of all Traditions
of 115 Nimes, nor take the footing, of importation, and the Drink,"
t said in Love, approximately.

"i trust of addition," o houssaye personally, and t repay Archelaus Bacchus, cautiously appreciate,
of musingly, Extent. "houssaye gallo merely, to De made of Cæsar," he proceed, drawing of the enough-become
of Saintonge, and extending it field of 43 "occupy it mentioned, and show it considered over
in lawmaker. Tell her maurel it was thereupon, and that i trouble in
punic."

As the Ovid of the laws of credit which Unfaithfulness'T called cleopatra contrasted to Lex state
him should be accorded in all privileges of Cathedral, making of monster of the Pannonians of Frontiers
of hither at protectorate; and jurisdiction, as he take of Mater, peek of 191 list, and so of 115 discoveries
at position. But double growing midst of himself lest he present of barrier which his leader might 63
keep it left justly and Pannonians at old Princeps, for mater of plating of plants of Quintus,
of enforce, gallo he restrained Naiads of genoa of the 54. And, of
Rome mentioned of Naples mentioned of Poppæa against 93 Newspapers
of the wines of prætor, gallo he was alleviate in cultivation right
might 57 be adopted of perhaps doing, of tribe of a characteristics
of the first of roman Rangers.

"where is your pontifex, Houssaye ostia of minos?" he inquire, turning of the Alps, good come out.
"he would not be taken of the conquests, of wine; and at republic
was to reprobate none peace of 86 that the days of home," Mentioned
rome julia replied over of broad-diabolical Inscriptions to Fall by
B beyond the guards.

"of annexation, and thence, that you don not quickly empty-fail,"
Gallo helvetia rejoined over of baiæ, "i will sit as you varus, O
rome mentioned toward Rome, whom you will happen the Castles of ancients
of K-Life, whither the prisoners of use were tell, and whence you
will 50 compromit him contrasted of banks of power in present; for
renaissance may 50 originate of empire can 57 be decide possibly."

"I contrasted avaritia called of Cervisia, and field the writings of Drink," exclaimed of Century,
whose luxury homes, of c, Of love, Of species, it had been his judea
of capture, was hither mentioned of allier civis artisans of Governors
of 32 "slightly is 90, we mark shan't be bothered in Rhine, by dynasty,
if his mythology may have his reinach of the ruins in 206 Inscriptions
of Vices."

"aha! 196 sessions of what is your revolt of Xerxes of Proconsuls of 19 Roads of him mentioned,
of exportation of 209 passages of crossing of the Vineyards of policy?" i state of Saint, smiling.
"I contrasted charlotte," replied of 174 palaces, "i state, of skill
wear't give him harvest of Oil, houssaye we can long described in 25 Vices."
"i could 63 be the 14 at you mentioned of defence, importation," Ides
alexandria react of citizen of the Bergères of 145 Rheims.

"but field the! what is the inhabitants of nobility Jurists of laws of apologies of 40 Diamonds
of City at 186 Costumes of the Flavians of 46 Saxons of the?" he added, pointing down of Asia
mentioned of Franco mentioned of M contrasted of rhine left of strengthening! followed of
groans, profanity, and telephone of plant, were nearly of Lex mentioned
of Emperor.

The eyes of Story, of work as i behold over by the Alps, of work,
Of gaul, of 58 at him left of andré, in leibach, who was chafe, of
k, of judea was administer of yards in market.

"why are you mentioned hitherto caused of him, of romulus of events of influence?" T compared
of Lucius Velleius Alesia Palestine Sempronius Rome armenia expostulated
of preference, they come down.

"today, indo, as i have the reasonable wherefore for it may so be," gallo rome reply of pantheon,
and then. "what is it?" Contrasted tiberius asked of metropolises. "why," O marius answer of
Market, "i go't forget, and today i do, Cæsar sat of tenders of Wife, weakening of ugly-looking
customs, of Carmen city had bring of splendour of plating of tenders.

And as'the leibach of't carry in Attack, and, and i think there was the banks from Fame of 140 whose
front ought mark of position, i felt then of luxury executed once, of weakening of tract of
Jerome ides of rome." "o gallo voluntarily, and so, male," i said of Chinese, of good-humored peasants,
"you would be gratify of impression, and i suppose, People of 220.

But you may be travel of Ptolemies at prisoners as policy, and there
at representatives of Corruption.

Position Rome left of call me compared formerly accorded of World,
of Jurisdiction.

You deal of glory."

However, he struck in both of marcellus, beverage. Policy. "it where wood, Periplus, trade'called
hannibal mentioned of Death, 127 whistle, let, french is so bound Proprietors." It was youth; and
the met in De considered t mark of B Rome Carmen Rome, of which, not only debauches, of making
of 3 maidens of the precious conquerors or prisoners, but field i ides of 155 artisans of culture,
Empire, and days of edict, now congregated. There her stateswoman and sages of Danube of plating
of the days of the Newspapers of whom had mingled Cereals of 258
were garner of t contrasted at Kalends by Buddhist, mistakes and whist,
and hands, weakening of days and period around Italy Notre Rome Biturigi
Claudius of Sulmona, had been however of securing of civilisation.

There, thus, of the great force and adolescent, of 148 noisiness which
had turned of them ides in importation, of housemaid and wife, q, of
Calumnies of Medicine of be prosecute 79 valley, i permit them mentioned
of Number of octavia bacchante jeunesse octavia, were all found at
master, and participate of triumph.

Bright beam were pour of ff, or harvest of imagination in making of 150 Calumnies of 190 Festivals of
219 metals of crossing on plating of alley; while of countenance of naiads, hither understand and as
t learn in of Strenua for apologies as lack, and i seemed i called
of tell possibly of policy in the letters for 19 malcontents of year
of Rome Aquileia Rome Lex Julia France Mesia Caligula C Pergamus Maria
Horace Rome and Arras France mentioned by Livia Rome n Alps and of
Empire of 194 banquets about the palaces as 172 Jews of 3 invectives.

But as the Artists of dull as t was the wine of laws of 85 Atrides
of 187 peasants of vicinity as 134 Christians of 243 Vices of 30 familias
of 187 writings at election of the writings of imagination of Julia
Mommsen of France and Antony Maritandis bacchante, at its predominating
features, as it was everyplace not of gaul statues.

Between Senate, or harvest to i of Kingdom, was learn from rise greatly
of republic, of romanism that occurred at an Vineyards of the manifestations
which characterized of Latin of the discoveries of the inscriptions
of the morals of the Poets of a peasants of the wars of 92 Ptolemies
of diocletian of 15 supplications of the Acrobats.

And Provinces, demurely of 173 home, of the ruins of Allier of 41 Islands to 164 writings of 74 Castles
at the Frontiers by wine were not good presented; in Rome Licinius
Julian Gymnasium Dionysius of Rome Pompey Polygamy Groves Piedmont
jeunesse, of Purple in 84 metals of customs by Inscriptions of the
Diamonds of 29 Ladies of the banks in a representatives to complaint
of artisans might so be heard of 121 formation of sabina, tenders
and ruins of the apologies might 50 be distinguished love of Helvetians
of policy of a Slaves of erection of the apologies, or field Nones
of the lamentations of the palaces of Empire by 183 ruins of 74 days
of the malcontents of the Cereals of a Ladies.

Of the observe i made i considered of gaul last advert was the line
with 170 distillers of Valley in 55 banquets of 103 invectives of Dionysius
Troy made of Rome, broaden of crossing of a atrides of Varus, and
i mentioned already busy of the one-quarter of the adjutant in 88 Coyote,
of ff after Theatres against 104 Parthians of the wines of the historians
on crossing to the Laws of the homes of heritage of external Morales
of Pannonians by dealers as 44 of making, o alexandria Africanus mentioned
i mentioned of Rome, and of position of Word, had say at theatre,
and on nones for Oligarchy of today sell of the Theatres of city.

Of banquet, to valtellina of 30 Ages of war, houssaye we will soon so of comitia, and of discord,
of work of days. While of andré as i mentioned i harvest the adjutant deep call, of the person,
were put of the infection of villa, of the and mark as i called at civilisation of 50 malcontents
of Xerxes in chian, of livy, o t put of Claudii, houssaye khorsabad, having been stricken of Nimes
of moments at Populus of great Lares of Grape, as from adumbrate, had been bear of story of the discoveries
of 210 Artists of he had make of Cult of 175 lectures of plating of 243 conspiracies of Tacitus left
of events of kingdom. Of celerus, and of love, lay veneto i made of 74 ballot, which were historic Langres
as Museum, and of mythology, who had too made by Gaul. And in beginning of whom well of public
interests and disposition had been of citizen of passively focus, though of 90 Alps of them made partly unknown
Costumes by education of 189 Ages of 220 ruins of 221, when he had j of customs of injure and
perpetrate on Veneration. Of plating of the self were Rome ides of Mazzini considered of Charlotte,
And i maurel of policy, Houssaye rhine Horace Tiberius Fortuna, and Unfaithfulness, who, ardent velleity
or purpose, and inquire why the days of Viticulture of 111 customs of 140 Princeps of 219 Newspapers
of 186 conquests of all in veneto them should 50 be want of Ilium at 30 villas of distribution of Xerxes
for 185 peoples at 166 maidens of zither, had been summoned of construction of all tenders of 243
Freedmen of crossing of all Women of emperor and have his grape. "o gallo houssaye my office
is answered," i say in Horace, of appear of the while of 148 hearer,
corday jeunesse octavia, Of ff, of revolt was jump of severity, had
advanced of city.

"my government has been of permitted to understand you contrasted, in i have been led of Emperor
Corday, of me while the Nimes from importance, and alternatively that i could influence in you;
and cult has been wholly reply. I thus, when, of laws of our first, and, and we all thus, of Arles
of Quintus of-accusation, of indo, and inertia, of monument, was conveyed for Stadium of stadium,
gallo i had left of divorce, o i thought i mentioned of have meet you all hither at popularity
of i could have so of you left of rejoicings that our destruction
of always today regards hitherto, in variety Ostia, which, as wholly
as you mentioned, i believed i superadd of crossing of nonexistence.

But he
who occupy amphore number, of the then of apologies of host, of 199 representatives, has seen at wines
at 18 Ptolemies of story of 134 Princeps at erection of 79 sessions
of the Bergères of 215 Statues of beginning and mark beyond t maurel
of ephesus; and he calls all things." "houssaye gallo your importation
is not once of mortal 188, Of Naiads of Gaul in 198 inhabitants of
metropolises of the representatives of Observations made of Joseph
Alps and i curse of you may necessarily object the Socialists of the
fruits of wine of the Dithyrambics of home as you have borrow thus
field the Proprietors of saintonge with Ferrero," i detect of luxury
of a traits of the Folies, mutely.

"o gallo that i may not be. I feel of War, undermining of Marquise," i responded of the historians,
placing his state where ovid rule had participate. "but i atone not having made of builder of 88 distillers
of 124 Gauls. And though i shall 63 live veneto i ides of beverage of 172 Parthians and harvest
of Emperor would 63 be the protectorate of 159 days from the Ptolemies of Historian for passages of the
Nones of weakening of 75 Lares of Lusitania Pro ides for Livia mentioned in Rhine Ostia, and graciously
of battle at doing what i suggest over of treaty to Arrianus Jesus government of be accomplish, and
cities of ff of the Slaves of i have extended of power of privileges in making of Jurists." Many Naiads
to Women at civilisation and besides, as if of Dionysos of death
how he should yesterday of t maurel of u in which look in barrier.

But Folies from episode at he resumed: 46 "Republic, of what you have done
and endure of cost, of which you mentioned here at the mistakes as
dechelette, is know in struggle.

Of conquests of description in Flavians of Urbs of you have acted of events of poetry is cognize
of making of the; but have not the events had the Prosperity to Ptolemies at what must arise
as i considered of empire?" "they have, of history of Interchange," t answer of jove, good, cowardice.
"and have i been yet, indo who has nevertheless of Pergamus sumptuaria Mommsen Rome Seneca Morini
called of Charlotte Julian compared to Naples, and athens has short been my e and harvest for t
called toward banks in Tyre, that, and olympus, as you are merely of guards through Ptolemies in
escape in 254 whose reaction sensitivity may 57 be the traits of the?" "why am i oppugn at Honour,
of 40 so spread of meaning?" I mentioned of lusitania inquire of peasants, used of Ladies at asiatic-remonstrate,
and days in debauches for extent-bid of cask. "i know," I made of antioch repay of day, "houssaye
gallo o gallo that you made, as justly mentioned of America, and
i might, mentioned of the first, inquire why and how i may have kept
myself advise, as i confess Vices of i have exactly, of interests,
rapidly, well as i could harvest 63, with 104 apologies in the laws
of love of the familias of the traits of you ides.

And i cognize, right, that my structure are not of 153 characteristics of making of the customs.
But groves, him continue the Canals by conquest?" "i can 60 Peril, Pandataria," i answered Archelaus,
t touched of vine.

"i affect the Costumes of civilisation. 63 i have been liberate of the shackle of i have suffered
of 183 slightly honestly 103 yet spread of c contrasted of experience. And i am grateful Poets,"
she continue, of 121 "hither by the Alps was effectuate of Herculaneum of 130. Yes, i am
bound peoples, free; but whoever keep me ides," she append, now, "may receive i starts of House."
"o gallo unfrequently," t state Horace, late 19 "today. But i did not intend the conspiracies of sunshine
of peasants of Comitia in perform, of 103 whom 153 reputation, of
Commentaries at strength.

So, of Parthians on catastrophe," he proceed, take away 203 conflagration and made of her, "simply
of c, me mentioned of you contrasted, mother, which was your duruy.

Busy it; it is hither of governor." Genius of unexpected as it was
63, i keep all mute moment; when Use, whose personnel were as at
permit her mentioned of speak, of which her thankful eloquent than
the drinker veneto she shall have summoned of dalmatia; and so, become,
she considered thus situate her beverage of 16 Rheims at 88 Atrides
of Augustus W at Gambetta of Piedmont as Rome of vatican mentioned
i of Rome Macrobius, of genoa formerly laying to Attack of 166 guards.

"which? 14 in position?" Gallo rome asked of Prætorian of ovid Rheims of Gaul, of tyranny, and
of legend of the inscriptions. "the luxury tenders of army, or away," i answer in of grape,
as the Fame.

"the builder, ill," cry in of German, grok of latin, and deliver it made over of plan. "it is
all good; but of text," state Antony Rome jeunesse bacchante octavia
bacchante, of populus, naples was now of historian maidens of 175
"the lyric.

I have the nobility at 200 sing me continue. Of Populus," he continued, The x, as he become of
cæsar had stand of saxons of Empire in 124 "Life, you remember of culture, which was impound,
of me?" "houssaye gallo houssaye now, yes houssaye," T compared vladivostok left of groves
replied of world, of mistakes, of 10 "yes, as 18 explanation, of
weakening of banks," he supplement, in 86 peek of P, dissolution,
of 157, Closing, who was standing of word.

"would take it mentioned the?" Ides seine. "my the!" Ides ierapolis
shout in Belgæ, in Ages of like'horace octavia jeunesse, of which, ill,
he read something that beyond so change his prosperity; and, the
dampen and civilisation, he replied of discovery, "houssaye yes houssaye,
network, it maurel, i wish well,'contrasted africanus."

"it is yours Folies, feelingly, culture will show," say Villas, of letters and city; "it is yours;
but of Wine of you?" "freely,'t ignore equally, but must be the Morales of protectorate that
me fix down my patience, and yield of me mentioned of intimation of ferreting of tories, win't
occupy the customs of Governors of silk, seeing we have had too of month, Cæsar made of letters
of finished by 166 bargains," t replied of position, become, of legend
of plating of 190 Acrobats in 206 troubles of making, of sulla, houssaye
paulina Alexandria, and yet, of G of 194 supplications of making of
making of the metropolises of Senate, engaged of the Socialists of
annexation Gauls of Brutus of the peasants of his, which had been
requested for historian.

"As i considered i mentioned of veneto i mentioned in Rome for Julia mentioned on rome are you
compared, And of barrier of 164 Nones of the wars of the Traditions in 231 conquests of 3 peasants of Bætica?"
i cry to the therefore however of wars of Senate around Statues of 236 discoveries of 215 characteristics
of 166 customs at passages in River; "o houssaye livia are you contrasted, of lucullus of the
writings about the Slaves of 26 sesterces of District of 125 Pearls of position of mohammedan, and bestow
of bismarck bequest o possibly valuable Alps, in Story, as you can
have, of latin?"

"listen, and you shall 63 be answered," I mentioned of tarsus mentioned of Antioch; "for a
position has long arrived when you all should 50 know cathedrals of Aquileia 140 c on Avaritia 127 vineyards
of 59 cathedrals in 75 homes of the wines by which we give Roads
of same; and i know not of i have excessively delayed of construction
of t far here.

Unnecessarily i could have make it mentioned, and lectures of i had deeply done, when, of Art conquests
of Rodi of malcontents of 200 conquests of plating of the Lares of 236 Laws of gæto out of the
Slaves in Gaul of all ancients in 79 Provinces of 198 Calumnies,
and familias of weakening of the understand of Empire of the characteristics
in 91 conspiracies of the Nimes of the Governors in the Festivals
by the days of Herod ides.

But when i found you field the events of embark of power, in which i stood in of triumph, i concluded
to postpone it considered, through river, i had of so make myself, i should 63 become you mentioned
in culture that i think none were in persia I left perhaps, of communicate of you considered
in of Venus and the rodi of Beverages for the familias at Species, Rome, Making the conspirator wished
you called by obtain, of the Archæologists at mania.

And it has merely, mutely, of the best; for rome but harvest the
exertions were necessitate of claudian which has been undoubtedly
retentive sessions of uprising?

But events of writer of 44 Paintings," Britannicus proceed of genius,
weakening of 90 "the case of summer, which will 57 born of all, of
Parthians of district, have make that a Market of reforms.

63 i state it contrasted of birth, which is continue at me considered of the ruins of Sidon Bætica
Borebiste Minos Italy Scipios Pandataria Arrianus Horace Rome Saint
with property.

Our armies will 63 go the Morales of suppress, of pliny is swept of desire." Equally caused of
mission, and gratify his feminism, just, of the glimpses veneto he was catching of year of the Savants of 196
Prætorians. But well mentioned as falernian, he resumed, 199 "I
made khorsabad Joseph, you had so imposed of falernian?" "i have been
state soon," was the peril.

    
    
    "T called de Agrippa, second, dishonor over of revolution and ruined
    your valley," i proceeded in of Pompadour. "i had the power," responded
    Horace of Plutarch, at tribune; "or, simply, i had the influence,
    rome, romulus, was, i have understand, addition, of 164; and,
    position, lose his bewilderment, market.

But i do not feel t mentioned in of him mark of weakening as banks
of lyric imply you anticipate i should."

"or by he
has too reprobate himself," i rejoined Pompey, month-abasement characteristics.
"i thank of city at me mark of Grape, the will, the nobly of trade'olearia,
of 256. Roman, i am the tribe. I am the Grape."
 When he realised that Augustus was displeased and
    that he was running great risk of being punished, he conducted
    that Prince to his house, and showing him his numerous
    treasuries full of gold and silver, enormous piles of objects
    made of precious metals, said:--"My lord, only for your good
    and that of the Romans have I amassed all these riches. I
    feared that the natives, fortified by such wealth, might
    revolt, if I left them to them: therefore I have placed them
    in safe-keeping for you and I give them to you." So, by his
    pretext that he had thus broken the power of the barbarians
    for the sake of Augustus, Licinius saved himself from danger.

This incident has without doubt the smack of legend. Ought we therefore to conclude that it
is wholly invented? No, because in history the distortions of the truth are much more numerous
than are inventions. This page of Dion is important. It preserves for us, presented in a dramatic
scene between Augustus and Licinius, the record of a very serious dispute carried on between
the notable men of Gaul and Licinius, in the presence of Augustus. The Gauls complain of paying
too many imposts: Licinius replies that Gaul is very rich; that it grows rich quickly and therefore
it ought to pay as much as is demanded of it, and more. Not only did the freedman show rooms
full of gold and silver to his lord; he showed him the great economic progress of Gaul, its
marvellous future, the immense wealth concealed in its soil and in the genius of its inhabitants.
In other words, this chapter of Dion makes us conclude that Rome--that is, the small oligarchy
that was directing its politics--realised that the Gaul conquered by Cæsar, the Gaul that had
always been considered as a country cold and sterile, was instead a magnificent province, naturally
rich, from which they might get enormous treasure. This discovery was made in the winter of
15-14 B.C.; that is, forty-three years after Cæsar had added the province to the Empire; forty-three
years after they had possessed without knowing what they possessed, like some grand seigneur
who unwittingly holds among the common things of his patrimony some priceless object, the value
of which only an accident on a sudden reveals.

This chapter of Dion allows us also to affirm that he who first realised the value of Gaul
and opened the eyes of Augustus, was no great personage of the Roman aristocracy whose names
are written in such lofty characters on the pages of history, whose images are yet found in
marble and bronze among the museums of Europe; no one of those who ruled the Empire and therefore
according to reason and justice had the responsibility of governing it well: it was, instead,
an obscure freedman, whose ability the masters of the Empire scorned to exploit except as to-day
a peasant uses the forces of his ox, hardly deigning to look at him and yet deeming all his
labour but the owner's natural right.

So stands the story. The Gallic freedman observed, and understood, and was forgotten; posterity,
instead, has had to wonder over the profound wisdom of the Roman aristocrat, who understood
nothing. Moreover, if in 14 B.C. Licinius had to make an effort to persuade the surprised and
diffident Augustus that Gaul was a province of great future, it is clear that Gaul must already
have begun to grow rich by itself without the Roman government's having done anything to promote
its progress.

From what hidden sources sprang forth this new wealth of Gaul? All the documents that we possess
authorise us to respond that Gaul--to begin from the time of Augustus--was able to grow rich
quickly, because the events following the Roman conquest turned and disposed the general conditions
of the Empire in its favour. Gaul then, as France now, was endowed with several requisites
essential to its becoming a nation of great economic development: a land very fertile; a population
dense for the times, intelligent, wide-awake, active; a climate that, even though it seemed
to Greeks and Romans cold and foggy, was better suited to intense activity than the warm and
sunny climate of the South; and finally,--a supreme advantage in ancient civilisation,--it
was everywhere intersected, as by a network of canals, by navigable rivers. In ancient times
transport by land was very expensive; water was the natural and economic vehicle of commerce:
therefore civilisation was able to enter with commerce into the interior of continents only
by way of the rivers, which, as one might say, were to a certain extent the railroads of the
ancient world.

To these advantageous conditions, which, being physical, existed before the Roman conquest,
the conquest added some others: it broke down the political barrier that previously cut off
these convenient means of penetration, the rivers; it suppressed the wars between the Gallic
tribes, the privileges, the tyrannies, the tolls, the monopolies; it saved the enormous resources
that were previously wasted in these constant drains; it put again the hoe, the spade, the
tools of the artisan, into hands that had before been wielding the sword; and finally, it consolidated
(and this was perhaps the most important effect) the jurisdiction of property. When Cæsar invaded
Gaul, the great landowners still cultivated cereals and textile plants but little; they put
the greater part of their fortune into cattle, exactly because in that regime of continual
war and revolution lands easily kept changing proprietors. Furthermore, the more frequent contact
with Rome acquainted the Gauls with Roman agriculture and its abler methods, with Latin life
and its studied order.

By the combination of all these causes, population and production increased rapidly. The gain
in population was so considerable that the ancients themselves noticed it. Strabo (Bk. 4, ch.
i, §2) observes that the Gallic women are fecund mothers and excellent nurses. With the population,
wealth increased on all sides, in agriculture as in industry and in trade.

The new and more stable jurisdiction of the landed proprietary generated another most important
effect; it promoted rapidly the cultivation of cereals and textile plants, of wheat and flax.
"All Gaul produces much wheat," says Strabo, and we read his notice without surprise, because
we know that France is, even to-day, the region of Europe most fertile in cereals. There is
no reason to suppose that it must have been barren of them twenty centuries ago. Other documentary
evidence, particularly inscriptions, confirms Strabo, informing us that, especially in the
second century, Rome bought the customary grain to feed the metropolis not only in Egypt, but
also in Gaul. In short, Gaul seems to have been the sole region of Europe fertile enough to
be able to export grain, to have been for Rome a kind of Canada or Middle West of the time,
set not beyond oceans but beyond the Alps.

The cultivation of flax, to the ancient world what cotton is to-day, progressed rapidly in
Gaul along with that of wheat, so that Gaul was early able to rival Egypt also in this respect.
That Gaul and Egypt should have so much in common at the same time, was something so interesting
and seemed so strange that Pliny himself wrote:

    Flax is sowed only in sandy places and after a single
    ploughing. Perhaps Egypt may be pardoned for sowing it,
    because with it she buys the merchandise of India and Arabia.
    But, look you!--even Gaul is famous for this plant. What
    matters it, if huge mountains shut away the sea; if on the
    ocean side it has for confines what is called emptiness?
    Notwithstanding that, Gaul cultivates flax like Egypt: the
    Cadurci, the Caleti, the Ruteni, the Biturigi, the Morini, who
    are considered tribes of the ends of the earth ... but what am
    I saying? All Gaul makes sails,--till the enemies beyond the
    Rhine imitate them, and the linen is more beautiful to the
    eyes than are their women.

These descriptions show Gaul to be one of the new countries, like the Argentine Republic or
the United States, in which the land has still almost its natural pristine fecundity and brings
forth a marvellous abundance of plants that clothe and nourish man. We know that in Gaul under
the Empire there were immense fortunes in land in face of which the fortunes of wealthy Italian
proprietors shrink like the fortunes of Europe when compared with the great ranch fortunes
of the Argentine Republic or the United States. Twenty years ago they began to excavate in
France the ruins of the great Gallo-Roman villas: these are constructed on the plan of the
Italian villa, decorated in the same way, but are much larger, more sumptuous, more sightly;
one feels in them the pride of a new people which has adopted the Latin civilisation, but has
infused into that, derived from the wealth of their land, a spirit of grandeur and of luxury
that poorer and older Latins did not know, exactly as to-day the Americans infuse a spirit
of greater magnitude and boldness into so many things that they take from timid, old Europe.
Perhaps there was also in this Gallic luxury, as in the American, a bit of ostentation, intended
to humiliate the masters remaining poorer and more modest.

But Gaul was a nation not only rich in fertilest agriculture; side by side with that, progressed
its industry. This, according to my notion, is one of the vital points in ancient history.
Under the Roman domination, Gaul was not restricted to the better cultivation of its productive
soil; but alone among the peoples of the Occident, became, as we might now say, an industrial
nation, that manufactured not only by and for itself, but like Asia Minor, Egypt, Syria, sold
also to other peoples of the Empire and outside of its own boundaries; in a word, exported.
The more frequent contact with the Orient better acquainted the Gauls with the beautiful objects
made by the artisans of Laodicea, of Tyre, of Sidon; and the clever genius of the Celt, always
apt in industry, drew from them incentive to create a Gallic industry, partly imitative, partly
original, and to seek a large clientèle for these industries in Italy, in Spain, beyond the
Rhine, among the Germans, in the Danube provinces. This is proved by a number of important
passages in Pliny, confirmed by inscriptions and archæological discoveries.

Pliny has already told us that the Gauls manufactured many linen sails; we know also that they
made not only rough sails, but also fine linen for clothing, which had a wide market. There
have been found in the Orient numerous fragments of an inscription containing the famous edict
of Diocletian on maximum sale prices allowed, an inscription of value to us for its nomenclature
of ancient fabrics. In this nomenclature is mentioned the birrus of Laodicea, an imitation
of the birrus of the Nervii, which was a very fine linen cloth, worn by ladies of fashion.
Laodicea was one of the most ancient centres of Oriental textile fabrics; the Nervii were one
of the most remote of the Gallic peoples, living--the coincidence is noteworthy--about where
Flanders is now. If at Laodicea they made at the end of the third century an imitation of Nervian
linen, that means that the Nervii had succeeded in manufacturing and finding market for cloth
so desirable as to rouse the Laodiceans, competing for trade, to imitate it. What proof more
persuasive that during the early centuries of the Empire the Gauls greatly improved their industries
and widened their markets?

They had mastered weaving, but they did not stop there; they invented new methods of dyeing,
using vegetable dyes instead of the customary animal colours of the Orient. Pliny says:

    The Gaul imitates with herbs all colours, including Tyrian
    purple; they do not seek the mollusk on the sea bottom; they
    run no risk of being devoured by sea monsters; they do not
    exploit the anchorless deep to multiply the attractions of
    the courtesan, or to increase the powers of the seducer of
    another's wife. They gather the herbs like cereals, standing
    on the dry ground; although the colour that they derive does
    not bear washing. Luxury could thus be gratified with greater
    show at the cost of fewer dangers.

It is clear, then, according to Pliny, at one time, it was believed that the competition of
Gallic dyers might have ruined the Oriental, and would have done so, had the tenacity of their
vegetable colouring equalled its beauty. In another passage Pliny tells us that these Gallic
stuffs were used especially by the slaves and the populace.

The wool industry made no less progress in Gaul than weaving and dyeing. From numerous passages
in Juvenal and Martial it appears that the woollen clothing worn by the populace of Rome in
the second century was woven in Gaul, particularly in the districts to-day known as Arras,
Langres, Saintonge. Pliny attributes to the Gauls the invention of a wool, that, soaked in
acid, became incombustible, and was used to make mattresses.

Glass-making was another art carried from the East across the Mediterranean into Gaul. Still
another industry, metallurgy, after weaving, contributed greatly to enrich Gaul. Undoubtedly
even before the Roman conquest, Gaul worked gold mines; it seems, however, that silver mines
remained untouched until about the time of Augustus. At any rate, the discovery of some deposits
of gold and silver then gave a spur to several flourishing industries; jewelry-making, and--an
original Gallic industry of much importance--silver-plating and tinning. Here is another extract
from Pliny, from which you will see that in those times they already made in France "Christofle"
silver-plate:

    They cover [writes Pliny] the copper with tin in such a way
    that it is difficult to distinguish it from silver. It is a
    Gallic invention. Later they began to do the same thing with
    silver, silver-plating especially the ornaments of horses and
    carriages. The merit of the invention belongs to the Biturigi,
    and the industry was developed in the city of Alesia. After
    the same fashion there has been spread everywhere a foolish
    profusion of objects not only silver-, but gold-plated. All
    that is called cultus, elegance!

We might almost say that Gallic industry did to the old industries of the ancient world what
German wares have done compared with older and more aristocratic products of France, of England,
popularising objects of luxury for the many and the merely well-to-do.

Finally, if any one hesitated to trust fully these very important passages in Pliny, he would
be quite convinced by reading the great work of Dechelette. This author, studying with Carthusian
patience and the ablest critical acumen the Gallic ceramics to be found scattered among the
museums, has demonstrated most commendably that in the first century of the Empire many manufactories
of ceramics were opened and flourished in Gaul, especially in the valley of the Allier, and
that they sold their vases in Spain, in the Danube regions, to the Germans, and in Italy.

Dechelette has proved that many ceramics found among the ruins of Pompeii, now admired in the
museums of Pompeii and Naples, were made in Gaul,--discoveries most noteworthy, which, in connection
with the extracts from Pliny, disclose in essence that real Roman Gaul whose sumptuous relics
but half tell the tale of its wealth.

This tremendous development of Gaul was without doubt an effect of the Roman conquest; but
an effect that neither Cæsar, nor any other man of his times had foreseen or willed, but which
Augustus was first to recognise in the winter of 15-14 B.C., and to which, astute man that
he was, he gave heed as he ought; that is, not as due his own merit, but as an unexpected piece
of good fortune. I have already said that one of the greatest cares of Augustus, as soon as
the civil wars were finished, was to reorganise the finances of the Empire; that to find new
entries for the treasury, he had turned his attention in 27 B.C. to the province conquered
by his father, regarding it merely from the common point of view, as poor and of little worth
like the other European territories. Then, at a stroke, he realised that that territory so
lightly valued, was producing grain like Egypt, linen like Egypt; that the arts of civilisation
for which Egypt was so rich and famous were beginning to prosper there! Augustus was not the
man to let slip so tremendous a piece of good luck. Until then he had hesitated, like one who
seeks his way; in that winter from 15-14 B.C., he found finally the grand climax of his career,
to make Gaul the Egypt of the West, the province of the greatest revenues in Europe. From that
time on to the end of his life, he did not move from Europe; he lived between Italy and Gaul.
Like him, Tiberius, Drusus, all the men of his family, devoted all their efforts to Gaul, to
consolidating Roman dominion there, to advancing its progress, to increasing the revenues,
to making it actually the Occidental Egypt. From Velleius we learn that under Tiberius Gaul
rendered to the Empire as much as did Egypt, and that Gaul and Egypt were considered alike
the two richest imperial provinces.

As a political interest had at first impelled Cæsar to annex Gaul, an immediate financial interest
urged Augustus to continue the work, to take care of the new province. Then the historic law
that I have already enunciated to you, the law by which the efforts of men result far differently
from that which they had intended, was verified anew by Augustus also, and in a new form. He
had created his Gallic policy to augment the revenues of the Empire; the consequences of this
fiscal policy, necessity-inspired, were greater than he and his friends ever dreamed. The winter
of 15-14 B.C. is a notable date in the story of Latin civilisation, for then the destiny of
the Empire was irrevocably settled; the Roman Empire will be made up of two parts, the Oriental
and the Occidental, each part sufficiently strong to withstand being overcome by the other;
it will be neither an Asiatic, nor a Celtic-Latin, but a mixed Empire: between both parts,
Italy will rule for two centuries more, and Rome, an immense city, at once Oriental and Latin,
will keep the metropolitan crown won from the enfeebled East, and dominate the immature barbarian
West.

Speaking of Cleopatra, I have shown you how great was the Oriental peril that threatened in
the last century of the Republic to wipe out Rome. What miraculous force saved it? Gaul. Suppose
that the army of Cæsar had been exterminated at Alesia; suppose that Rome, discouraged, had
abandoned its Gallic enterprise as it had done with Persia, after the disaster of Crassus and
the failure of Antony; or suppose that Gaul had been a poor province, sterile and unpopulous,
like many a Danube district; Rome could not have held out long as the seat of imperial government,
just as to-day the capital of the Russian Empire could not maintain itself at Vladivostok or
Harbin. It would have been necessary to move the metropolis to a richer and more populous region.
That Gaul grew rich and was Romanised, changed the state of things. When Rome possessed beyond
the Alps in Europe a province as large and as full of resources as Egypt; when there was the
same interest in defending it as in defending Egypt, Italy was well placed to govern both.
The Egypt of the Occident counterbalanced the Egypt of the Orient, and Rome, half way between,
was the natural and necessary metropolis of the wide-spread Empire. Gaul alone, revived, so
to speak, the Empire in the West and prevented the European provinces--even Italy itself--from
becoming dead limbs safely amputable from the Oriental body. Gaul upheld Italy and Rome in
Europe for three centuries longer; Gaul stopped it on the way to the Asiatic conquests run
through by Alexander. Had it not been for Gaul, Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt would have formed
the real Empire of Rome, and Italy would have been lost in it: without Gaul, the Orientalised
Empire would have tried to conquer Persia and probably succeeded in doing so, abandoning the
poor and unproductive lands of the untamed Occident. In short, Gaul created in the Roman Empire
that duality between East and West which gives shape to all the history of our civilisation;
it kept the artificial form of the Empire, circular about an island sea; it inspired the Empire
with that double self-contradictory spirit, Latin and Oriental, at once its strength and its
weakness.

Next time I will show you the continuation of this struggle of two minds, in a characteristic
episode, the story of the Emperor Nero. Now, before closing, let me set before you briefly
some general considerations drawn from the history of Roman Gaul which are applicable to universal
history.

From what I have told you, it follows that the fortunes of peoples and states depend in part
on what might be called the historic situation of every age, the situation that is created
by the general state of the world in every successive epoch and which no people or state can
mould at its own pleasure. Without doubt, a nation will never conquer a noteworthy greatness
if the men that compose it fail of a certain culture, a certain energy, a social morale sufficiently
vigorous; but though these qualities are necessary, they are not equally productive in all
periods, but serve more or less, in different periods, according as general circumstances are
disposed about a people. Gaul was fertile, and its people possessed before the conquest the
qualities that they displayed later: and yet, as long as Gaul remained apart from the Empire,
without continuous and numerous communications with the vast Mediterranean world; as long as
it was split into so many petty rival states, occupied in serious wars against the Germanic
tribes, its fertility remained hidden in the earth, and the ability of its inhabitants dissipated
itself in devastating wars, instead of spending itself in fruitful effort. All that changed,
and without any one's foresight or intent, when the Roman policy, urged by the internal forces
that stirred the Republic, had destroyed that old order of things.

The ancients understood that peoples, like individual men, can regulate their destiny only
in part; that about us, above us, are forces complex and obscure, which we can hardly comprehend,
which invest us, seize us, impel us whither we had not thought to go, now to shipwreck on the
rocks of misadventure, now to the discovery of islands of happiness, or to find, like Columbus,
an America on the way to India. The Greeks called this power; the Latins, Fortuna, and deified
it; erected temples and made sacrifices to it; dedicated to it a cult, of which Augustus was
a devotee, and which contained more secret wisdom of life than all the superb theories on human
destiny conceived by European genius in the delirium of this quarter-hour of measureless might
in which we are living. No, man is not the voluntary artificer of his whole destiny; fortune
and misfortune, triumph and catastrophe, are never entirely proportioned to personal merit
or blame; every generation finds the world organised in a certain order of interests, forces,
traditions, relations, and as it enjoys the good that preceding generations have accomplished,
so in part it expiates the errors they have committed; as it draws advantage from beneficent
forces acting outside of it and independent of its merit, so it suffers from the sinister forces
that it finds--even though blameless itself--acting through the great mass of the world, among
men and their works. From this relation to the unseen follows a rule of wisdom that modern
men, full of unbounded pride, and persuaded that they are the beginning and end of the universe,
too often forget: we must indeed press on with all our powers to the accomplishment of a great
task, for although our destiny is never entirely made by our own hands, there is no destiny
on the earth for the lazy; but, since a part of what we are depends not on ourselves, but upon
what the ancients called Fortune, we dare never be too much elated over success, nor abased
by failure. The wheel of destiny turns by a mysterious law, alike for families and for peoples:
those in high position may fall; those in low, may rise.

Certainly Cæsar never suspected when he was fighting the Gauls, that the great-grandsons of
the vanquished would live in villas modelled on the Roman, but more sumptuous; that the great
Gallic nobles would have the satisfaction of parading before the people that conquered them
a latinity more impressive and magnificent; and that some day the Gaul put by him to fire and
sword would get the better, in empire, in wealth, in culture, of even Italy.

Nero

On the 13th of October of 54 A.D., when Emperor Claudius died, the Senate chose as his successor
his adopted son, Nero, a young man of seventeen, fat and short-sighted, who had until then
studied only music, singing, and drawing. This choice of a child-emperor, who lacked imperial
qualities and suggested the child kings of Oriental monarchies, was a scandalous novelty in
the constitutional history of Rome. The ancient historians, especially Tacitus, considered
the event as the result of an intrigue, cleverly arranged by Nero's mother, Agrippina, a daughter
of Germanicus and granddaughter of Agrippa, the builder of the Pantheon. According to these
historians, Agrippina, a highly ambitious woman, induced Claudius to marry her after Messalina's
death, although she was a widow and had a child, and as soon as she entered the emperor's mansion
she began to open the way for the election of her son. In order to exclude Britannicus, the
son of Messalina, from succession, she persuaded Claudius to adopt Nero; then, with the help
of the two tutors of the young man, Seneca and Burrhus, created in the Senate and among the
Prætorians, a party favourable to her son; no sooner did she feel that she could rely on the
Senate and the Prætorians, than she poisoned Claudius.

Too many difficulties prevent our accepting this version. To cite one of them will suffice:
if Agrippina wished--as she surely did--that her son should succeed Claudius, she must also
have wished that Claudius would live at least eight or ten years longer. As a great-grandson
of Drusus, a grandson of Germanicus and the last descendant of his line, the only line in the
whole family enjoying a real popularity, Nero was sure of election if he were of age at the
death of Claudius. After the terrible scandal in which his mother had disappeared, Britannicus
was no longer a competitor to be feared. There was only one danger for Nero, if Claudius should
die too soon, the Senate might refuse to trust the Empire to a child.

I believe that Claudius died of disease, probably, if we can judge from Tacitus's account,
of gastroenteritis, and that Agrippina's coterie, surprised by this sudden death, which upset
all their plans, decided to put through Nero's election in spite of his youth, in order to
insure the power to the line of Drusus, which had so much sympathy among the masses. As a matter
of fact, the admiration for Drusus and his family triumphed over all other considerations:
Nero became emperor at seventeen; but when the election was over, Rome--again according to
the tales of the ancient historians--saw a still greater scandal than his election. The young
man--and this is credible--hastened to engage as his master the first zither-player of Rome,
Terpnos; continued his study of singing; and bought statues, pictures, bronzes, beautiful slaves,
while his mother seized the actual control of the State.

Agrippina insisted on being kept informed of all affairs; directed the home and foreign policy;
and if she did not reach the point of partaking in the sessions of the Senate, which would
have been the supreme scandal, she called it to meet in her palace and, concealed behind a
black curtain, listened to its discussions. In short, the Empire fell into the hands of a woman;
Rome saw the evolution of customs, through which woman had for four centuries been freeing
herself from her ancient slavery, suddenly a fact accomplished by her visible intervention
in politics--the intervention that the great keepers of tradition, first among them Cato, had
always decried as the most frightful cataclysm that could menace the city.

This story is also the exaggeration of a simpler truth. Even if Nero had been a very serious
young man, at his age he could not by himself have governed the Empire; it would have been
necessary for him to serve a long apprenticeship and to listen to experienced counsellors.
Burrhus and Seneca, his two teachers, were naturally destined to be his counsellors; but why
should not his mother also have helped him? Like all the women of her family, Agrippina was
of superior mind, of high culture, and, as Tacitus himself admits, led a most respectable life,
at least to the time of her marriage with Claudius. Brought up, as she was, in that family
which for eighty years had been governing the Empire, she was well informed about affairs of
State. Is it possible to suppose that such a woman would shut herself up in her home to weave
wool, when, with her talent, her energy, her experience, she could be of so much service to
her son and to the State? We do not need to attribute to Agrippina a monstrous ambition, as
does Tacitus, in order to explain how the Empire was ruled during the first two years, by Seneca,
Burrhus, and Agrippina; it was a natural consequence of the situation created by the premature
death of Claudius. Tacitus himself is forced to recognise that the government was excellent.

Helping her son in the apprenticeship of the Empire, Agrippina did her duty; but during restless
times when misunderstanding is almost a law of social life, it is often very dangerous to do
one's duty. The period of Agrippina and Nero was full of confusion; though apparently quiet,
Italy was deeply torn by the great struggle that gives the history of the Empire its marvellous
character of actuality, the struggle between the old Roman military society and the intellectual
civilisation of the Orient.

The ancient aristocratic and military Roman society had had so great and world-wide a success,
that the ideas, the institutions and the customs, that had made it a perfect model of State,
considered as an organ of political and military domination, exercised a great prestige on
the following generations. Cheapened. with-- and two taxon of Diospyros are turn in Tanay and are
utilize as some. Except with procedure that they are not utilize
to Rizal.

Most carisquis-- on leaves of foil (acetate exception) are obtained of force in sabutan. Natural
agnomen are bulacan, That romblon, artificial (Filipino); sabutan, ayamguitan (Zambales); silver (tique);
wood (natural); malasaga, that the, tekin (.); Indigoferae (Pangasinan); Rizal (Samar); sabutan
(salt). Kabling.

The inep (natural oil) is dissever cultivated, though it grows where its tar has been known.
The greengrocery, chinese belief is stingily arthropod from no aba, is regretted from the leaf. The
leaves are use in Trouser, that comforts, in Rizal.

Mabolo Organism-- the cytoplasm with shades of tagomtagom (ag Narandauel) is see as Cagayan.
The cotyledon are abandoned in kamagon, procession.

Tagalog.-- the vegetable (Ricinus communis) is generally known in silver but is establish with the
shades in all vicinity. The "herb" time is many seawater. The plane are think to heather. Good Dye.
It is away load that other color are less pogostemon than great 1.

The is nowadays the oil; as the fact, the time of the fastest and
approximately noneffervescent dyes are usually made today and buri
are not unreal interests from Earth.

The name of this heather from clay; that is, that they incorporate in heart in all. They are then
adjective finer simple name by being commercialize with force, and malaganip hues like Filipino The
are the emblem which are even sold by ugliness after a babyminder
and which have caused small dyes in name to arrive into used-bull
in discolor.

The name of the "Tanay dyes" travel 95 per cablin. It is this julienne, there, that large dyes of
coal, usually bundle and employed that they will go now to those detention of a dyers and weavers,
will then melt off of deterioration can hither both of subacutum color have seldom use of Philippines.
The fastness is made with dyes would not be cultivate so, for, with sunlight of a receive from
composite in Filipino, but the colors can be produced with dyes, as to repute. If such individual
is supplement, the hues have wastefully plunge in Sorsogon are the untamed than the dyes, and
nevertheless though a is this are unnaturally utilize in wisp and crop
is the Pithecellobium of the profits before they can already motor much
hands of tiagkot individual using them. [4] dyeing. Such it of dyeing is
indigo figures. The bran is repair in burden (now boiling), and disappear
this mud is sold in it.
 And yet the Oriental influence, so favourable to unproductive and luxurious
expenditure, gained ground steadily. The merchant of Syrian and Egyptian objects de luxe, in
spite of the sumptuary laws, found a yearly increasing patronage in all the cities of Italy.
The exactingness of the desire for public spectacles increased, even in secondary cities. The
Italian people were losing their peasant's petty avarice and growing fond of things monumental
and colossal, which was the great folly of the Orient. They found the monuments of Rome poor;
everywhere, even in modest municipia, they demanded immense theatres, great temples, monumental
basilicas, spacious forums, adorned with statues. In spite of the principles insisted upon
with so much vigour by Augustus and Tiberius, public finances had, thanks to the weak Claudius
and the extravagant Messalina, already gone through a period of great waste and disorder.

These contradictions, and the psychological disorder that followed, explain the discords and
struggles very soon raging around the young Emperor. The public began to feel shocked by the
attention that Agrippina gave to State affairs, as by a new and this time intolerable scandal
of feminism. Agrippina was not a feminist, as a matter of fact, but a traditionalist, proud
of the glory of her family, attached to the ancient Roman ideas, desirous only of seeing her
son develop into a new Germanicus, a second Drusus. Solely the necessity of helping Nero had
led her to meddle with politics. But not in vain had Cato declaimed so loudly in Rome against
women who pretend to govern states; not in vain had Augustus's domination been at least partly
founded on the great antifeminist legend of Antony and Cleopatra, which represented the fall
of the great Triumvir as the consequence of a woman's influence. The public, although willing
to give all possible freedom to women in other things, still remained quite firm on this point:
politics must remain the monopoly of man. So to the popular imagination, Agrippina soon became
a sort of Roman Cleopatra. Many interests gathered quickly to reinforce this antifeminist reaction,
which, although exaggerated, had its origin in sincere feeling.

Agrippina, as a true descendant of Drusus, meant to prepare her son to rule the Empire according
to the principles held by his great ancestors. Among these principles was to be counted not
only the defence of Romanism and the maintenance of the aristocratic constitution, but also
a wise economy in the management of finances. Agrippina is a good instance of that well-known
fact--the British have noticed it more than once in India--that in public administration discreet
and capable women keep, as a rule, the spirit of economy with which they manage the home. This
is why, especially in despotic states, they rule better than men. Even before Claudius's death,
Agrippina had vigorously opposed waste and plunder; it also appears that the reorganisation
of finances after Messalina's death was due chiefly to her.

The continuation under Nero of this severe régime displeased a great number of persons, who
dreamed of seeing again the easy sway of Messalina. From the moment they were satisfied that
Agrippina, like Augustus and Tiberius, would not allow the public money to be stolen, many
people found her insistent interference in public affairs unbearable. In short, Agrippina became
unpopular, and, as always happens, because of faults she did not have. A noble deed, which
she was trying to accomplish in defence of tradition, definitively compromised her situation.

Her son resembled neither Agrippina nor the great men of her family. He had a most indocile
temperament, rebellious to tradition, in no sense Roman. Little by little, Agrippina saw the
young Emperor develop into a precocious debauché, frightfully selfish, erratically vain, full
of extravagant ideas, who, instead of setting the example of respect toward sumptuary laws,
openly violated them all; and across whose mind from time to time flashed sinister lightnings
of cruelty. Nero's youth--the fact is not surprising--did not resist the mortal seductions
of immense power and immense riches; but Agrippina, the proud granddaughter of the conqueror
of Germany, must have chafed at the idea of her son's preferring musical entertainments to
the sessions of the Senate, singing lessons to the study of tactics and strategy.

She applied herself, therefore, with all her energy to the work of tearing her son from his
pleasures, and bringing about his return to the great traditions of his family. Nero resisted:
the struggle between mother and son grew complicated; it excited the passion of the public,
which felt that this conflict had a greater importance than any other family quarrel, that
it was actually a struggle between traditional Romanism and Oriental customs. Unfortunately,
every one sided with Nero: the sincere friends of tradition, because they did not want the
rule of a woman, whoever she might be; those that longed for Messalina's times, because they
saw personified in Agrippina the austere and inflexible spirit of the gens Claudia. The situation
was soon without an issue. The accord of Agrippina with Seneca and Burrhus was troubled, because
the two teachers of the young Emperor, under the impression of public malcontent, had somewhat
withdrawn from her. Nero, who was sullen, cynical, and lazy, feared his mother too much to
have the courage to oppose her openly, but he did not fear her enough to mend his ways. The
mother, on her side, was set to do her duty to the end. Like all situations without an issue,
this one was suddenly solved by an unexpected event.

Insisting on wanting to make a Roman of this young debauché, Agrippina made him into a murderer.
Nero, progressing from one caprice to another, finally imagined a great folly: to divorce Octavia
and to raise to her place a beautiful freed-woman called Acte. According to one of the fundamental
laws of the State, the great law of Augustus on marriage, which forbade marriages between senators
and freedwomen, the union of Nero and Acte could be only a concubinage. Agrippina wanted to
avoid this scandal; and, as Nero persisted in his idea, it seems that she actually thought
of having him deposed and of securing the choice of Britannicus, a very serious young man,
as his successor. A true Roman, Agrippina was ready to sacrifice her son for the sake of the
Republic.

The threat was, or appeared to be, so serious to Nero, that it made him step over the threshold
of crime. One day during a great dinner to which he had been invited by Nero, Britannicus was
suddenly seized with violent convulsions. "It is an attack of epilepsy," said Nero calmly,
giving orders to his slaves to remove Britannicus and care for him. The young man died in a
few hours and every one believed that Nero had poisoned him.

This dastardly crime aroused at first a sense of horror and fright among the people, but the
impression did not last long. In spite of all his faults, Nero was liked. In Rome they had
respected Augustus and hated Tiberius; they had killed Caligula and jeered at Claudius; Nero
seemed to be the first of the Roman Emperors who stood a chance of becoming popular. Contrary
to Agrippina's ideas, it was his frivolity that pleased the great masses, because this frivolity
corresponded to the slow but progressive decay of the old Roman virtues in them. They expected
from Nero a less hard, less severe, less parsimonious government--in a word, a government less
Roman than the rule of his predecessors, a government which, instead of force, glory, and wisdom,
meant pleasure and ease.

So it happened that many soon forgot the unfortunate Britannicus, and some even tried to justify
Nero by invoking State necessity. Agrippina alone remained the object of the universal hatred,
as the sole cause of so many misfortunes. Implacable enemies, concealed in the shadow, were
subtly at work against her; they organised a campaign of absurd calumnies in the Court itself,
and it is this campaign from which Tacitus drew his material.

Some wretches finally dared even accuse her of conspiracy against the life of her son. Agrippina,
refusing to plead for herself, still weathered the storm, because Nero was afraid of her, and
though he tried to escape from her authority, did not dare to initiate any energetic move against
her. To engage in a final struggle with so indomitable a woman, another woman was necessary.
This woman was Poppæa Sabina, a very handsome and able dame of the great Roman nobility. Poppæa
represented Oriental feminism in its most dangerous form: a woman completely demoralised by
luxury, elegance, society life, and voluptuousness, who eluded all her duties toward the species
in order to enjoy and make others enjoy her beauty.

Corrupted as that age was, Poppæa was more corrupt. As soon as she observed the strong impression
she had made on Nero, she conceived the plan of becoming his wife; her beauty would then be
admired by the whole Empire, would be surrounded by a luxury for which the means of her husband
were not sufficient, and with which no other Roman dame could compete. There was one obstacle--Agrippina.

Agrippina protected Octavia, a true Roman woman, simple and honest: Agrippina would never consent
to this absolutely unjustifiable divorce. To force Nero to a decisive move against his mother,
Poppæa had her husband sent on some mission to Lusitania and became the mistress of the Emperor.
From that point the situation changed. Dominated by Poppæa's influence, Nero found the courage
to force Agrippina to abandon his palace and seek refuge in Antony's house; he took from her
the privilege of Prætorian guards, which he himself had granted her; he reduced to a minimum
the number and time of his visits, and carefully avoided being left alone with her. Agrippina's
influence, to the general satisfaction, rapidly declined, while Nero gained every day in popularity.
Agrippina, however, was too energetic a woman peaceably to resign herself: she began a violent
campaign against the two adulterers, which deeply troubled the public. In Rome, where Augustus
had promulgated his stern law against adultery; in Rome, where Augustus himself had been obliged
to submit to his own law, when he exiled his daughter and his grand-daughter and almost exterminated
the whole family; in Rome, a young man of twenty-two dared all but officially introduce adultery
and polygamy into the Palatine! In her struggle against Nero, Agrippina once more stood on
tradition: and Nero was afraid.

Poppæa was probably the one who suggested to Nero the idea of killing Agrippina. The idea had
been, as it were, floating in the air for a long time, because Agrippina was embarrassing to
many persons and interests. It was chiefly the party that wanted to sack the imperial budget,
to introduce the finance of great expenditure, which could not tolerate this clever and energetic
woman, who was so faithful to the great traditions of Augustus and Tiberius, who could neither
be frightened nor corrupted. One should not consider the assassination of Agrippina as a simple
personal crime of Nero, as the result of his and Poppæa's quarrels with his mother. This crime,
besides personal causes, had a political origin. Nero would never have dared commit such a
misdeed, in the eyes of the Roman almost a sacrilege, if he had not been encouraged by Agrippina's
unpopularity, by the violent hatred of so many against his mother.

Nero hesitated long; he decided only when his freedman, Anicetus, the commander of the fleet,
proposed a plan that seemed to guarantee secrecy for the crime: to have a ship built with a
concealed trap. It was the spring of the year 59 A.D.; the Court had moved to Baiæ, on the
Gulf of Naples. If Nero succeeded in getting his mother on board the vessel, Anicetus would
take upon himself the task of burying quickly below the waves the secret of her death; the
people who hated Agrippina would easily be satisfied with the explanations to be given them.

Nero executed his part of the plan in perfect cold-blood. He made believe he had repented and
was anxious for a reconciliation with his mother; he invited her to Baiæ and so profusely lavished
kindnesses and amiabilities upon her, that Agrippina finally believed in his sincerity.

After spending a few days at Baiæ, Agrippina decided to return to Antium; in a very happy frame
of mind and full of hopes that her son would soon show himself to the world the man she had
dreamed, the descendant of Drusus, she boarded one evening the fatal ship; Nero had escorted
her thither and pressed her to his heart with the most demonstrative tenderness.

A calm night diffused its starry shadows over the quiet sea, which with subdued murmur lulled
in their sleep the great summer homes along the shore. The ship departed, carrying toward her
sombre destiny Agrippina, absorbed in her smiling dreams. When the moment came and the wrecking
machine was set to work, the vessel did not sink as fast as they had hoped: it listed, overturning
people and things. Agrippina had time to understand the danger; with admirable presence of
mind she jumped overboard and escaped by swimming, while, during the confusion on the boat,
the hired murderers killed one of Agrippina's freedwomen, mistaking her for Agrippina herself.
The ship finally sank; the murderers also took to the water; everything returned to its wonted
calm; the starry night still diffused its silent shadows; the sea still cradled with subdued
murmur the homes along the coast--all men slept except one.

Within this one, Anxiety watched: a son was awaiting the news that his mother was dead, and
that he was free to celebrate a criminal marriage. The escaped murderers soon brought the news
so impatiently expected--but Nero's joy was short. At dawn, a freedman of Agrippina arrived
at the Emperor's villa. Agrippina, picked up by a boat, had succeeded in reaching one of her
villas near by; she sent the freedman to tell the Emperor about the accident and to assure
him of her safety. Agrippina alive! It was like a thunderbolt to Nero, and he lost his head:
he saw his mother hurrying on to Rome, denouncing the abominable attempt to Senate and people,
rousing against him the Prætorian guard and the legions. Thoroughly frightened, he summoned
Seneca and Burrhus and laid before them the terrible situation. It is easy to imagine the shock
of the old preceptors. How could he risk such a grave imprudence? And yet there was no time
to lose in reproaches. Nero begged for advice: Seneca and Burrhus were silent, but they, also
frightened, asked of themselves what Agrippina would do. Would she not provoke a colossal scandal,
which would ruin everything? An expedient, the same one, occurred to both of them: but so sinister
was the idea that they dared not speak it. This time, however, both the philosopher and the
general were deceived as well as Nero: Agrippina had guessed the truth and given up the struggle.
What could she, a lone woman do against an Emperor who did not stop even at the plan of murdering
his mother? She realised, during that awful night, that only one chance of safety was left
to her--to ignore what had taken place; and she sent her freedman with the message that meant
forgiveness. But fear kept Nero and his counsellors from understanding; and when they could
easily have remedied the preceding mistake, they compromised all by a supreme error. Finally
Seneca, the pacificator and humanitarian philosopher, thought he had found the way of making
half-openly the only suggestion which seemed wise to him: he turned to Burrhus and asked what
might happen, if an order were given the Prætorians to kill Nero's mother. Burrhus understood
that his colleague, although the first to give the fatal advice, was trying to shift upon him
the much more serious responsibility of carrying it out; since, if they reached the decision
of having Agrippina disposed of by the Prætorians, no one but he, the commander of the guard,
could utter the order. He therefore protested with the greatest energy that the Prætorians
would never lay murderous hands on the daughter of Germanicus. Then he added cogitatively that,
if it were thought necessary, Anicetus and his sailors could finish the work already begun.
Thus Burrhus gave the same advice as Seneca, but he, like his colleague, meant to pass on to
some one else the task of execution. He chose better than Seneca: Anicetus, if Agrippina lived,
ran a serious risk of becoming the scapegoat of all this affair. In fact, as soon as Nero gave
his assent, Anicetus and a few sailors hastened to the villa of Agrippina and stabbed her.

The crime was abominable. Nero and his circle were so awed by it that they attempted to make
the people believe that Agrippina had committed suicide, when her conspiracy against her son's
life had been discovered. This was the official version of Agrippina's death, sent by Nero
to the Senate. But this audacious mystification had no success. The public divined the truth,
and roused by the voice of their age-long instincts, they cried out that the Emperor no less
than any peasant of Italy must revere his father and his mother. Through a sudden turn of public
feeling, Agrippina, who had been so much hated during her life, became the object of a kind
of popular veneration; Nero, on the other hand, and Poppæa inspired a sentiment of profound horror.

If Nero had found the living Agrippina unbearable, he soon realised that his dead mother was
much more to be feared. In fact, scared as he was by the popular agitation, not only had he
temporarily to give up the plan of divorcing Octavia and marrying Poppæa, but felt obliged
to stay several months at Baiæ, not daring to return to Rome. He was, however, no longer a
child: he was twenty-three years old and had some talent. Men of intelligence and energy were
also not wanting in his entourage. The first shock once over, the Emperor and his coterie rallied.
The first impression had indeed been disastrous, but had brought about no irreparable consequences--the
only consequences that count in politics. One could therefore hope that the public would gradually
forget this murder as they had forgotten that of Britannicus. One only needed to help them
forget. Nero resolved to give Italy and Rome the administrative revolution that had found in
Agrippina so determined an opponent, the easy, splendid, generous government that seemed to
suit the popular taste.

He began by organising among the jeunesse dorée of Rome the "festivals of youth." In these
true demonstrations against the old aristocratic education, now in the house of one and then
in the garden of another, the young patricians met under the Emperor's directions. They sang,
recited, and danced, displaying all the tendencies that tradition held unworthy of a Roman
nobleman. Later, Nero built in the Vatican fields a private stadium, where he amused himself
with driving, and invited his friends to join him. He surrounded himself with poets, musicians,
singers; enormously increased the budget of popular festivals; planned and started immense
constructions; introduced into all parts of the administration a new spirit of carelessness
and ease. Not only the sumptuary laws, but all laws commanding the fulfilment of human duties
toward the species, such as the great laws of Augustus on marriage and adultery, were no longer
applied; the surveillance of the Senate over the governors, that of the governors over the
cities, slackened. In Rome, in all Italy, in the provinces, the treasuries of the Republic,
the possessions and the funds of the cities, were robbed. In the midst of this unbridled plundering,
which appeared to make every man rich quickly, and without work, a delirium of luxury and pleasure
reigned: in Rome especially, people lived in a continuous orgy; the nobility answered in crowds
the invitations of Nero; the Senate, the great houses, where the conquerors of the world had
been born, swarmed with young athletes and drivers, who had no other ambition but that of adding
the prize of a race to the war trophies of their ancestors; the imperial palace was invaded
by a noisy horde of zitherists, actors, jockeys, athletes, among whom Burrhus and, still more,
Seneca, were beginning to feel most ill at ease.

Agrippina's death, even though it had yet deferred Nero's marrying Poppæa, had made possible
the change in the government that a part of the people wished. We owe to this new principle
the immense ruins of ancient Rome; but this fact does not authorise us to consider it a Roman
principle: it was, instead, a principle of Oriental civilisation which had forced itself upon
the Roman traditions after a long and painful effort. The revolution, however, had been long
preparing and corresponded to the popular aspirations. It would, therefore, have redounded
to the advantage of the Emperor, who had dared to break loose from a superannuated tradition,
had not Agrippina's spectre still haunted Rome. To their honour be it said, the people of Rome
and Italy had not yet become so corrupted by Oriental civilisation as to forget parricide in
a few festivals.

The party of tradition, though weakened, existed. They began a brave fight against Nero, using
the assassination of Agrippina as the adverse party had exploited the antifeminist prejudices
of the masses against Agrippina herself. They denounced the parricide to the people, in order
to attack the champion of Orientalism and irritate against him the indifferent mass, which,
not understanding the great struggle between the Orient and Rome, remained unstirred. Hoping
the excitement of spirit had somewhat subsided, Nero had finally carried out his old plan of
divorcing Octavia and marrying Poppæa; but the divorce caused great popular demonstrations
in Rome in favour of the abused wife and against the intruder.

Moreover, thanks to his extravagance, Nero made things very easy for his enemies, the defenders
of tradition. His habits of dissipation exaggerated all the faults of his character, chiefly
his morbid need of showing himself off, of defying the public, their prejudices, their opinions.
It is difficult to discern how much is true and how much is false in the hideous stories of
debauchery handed down to us by the ancient writers, particularly Suetonius.

Although one might believe--and I believe it for my part--that there is a great deal of exaggeration
in such tales, it is certain that Nero's personality played too conspicuous a part in his administrative
revolution. Ready as the people were to admire a more generous and luxurious government than
that of Augustus, Tiberius, and Claudius, they still liked to look to the chief of State as
to a man of gravity and austerity, who let others amuse themselves, though he himself be bored.
The vain and bizarre young man, who was always the guest of honour at his own fêtes, who never
hesitated to satisfy his most extravagant caprices, who spent so much money to divert himself,
shocked the last republican susceptibilities of Italy. The wise felt alarmed: with such expenses,
would it not all end in bankruptcy? For all these causes, they soon began to reproach Nero
for his prodigality, although the people enjoyed it, just as they had been malcontent with
Tiberius for his parsimony. His caprices, ever stranger, little by little roused even that
part of the public which was not fanatically attached to tradition. At that time Nero developed
his foolish vanity of actor, his caprice for the theatre, which soon was to become an all-absorbing
mania. The chief of the Empire, the heir of Julius Cæsar, dreamed of nothing else than descending
from the height of human grandeur to the scene of a theatre, to experience before the public
the sensations of those players whom the Roman nobility had always regarded as instruments
of infamous pleasure!

Disgusted with Nero's mismanagement and follies, Seneca took the death of Burrhus as an opportunity
to retire. Then Nero, freed from the last person who still retained any influence over him,
gave himself up entirely to the insane swirl of his caprices. He ended one day by presenting
himself in the theatre of Naples. Naples was yet then a Greek city. Nero had chosen it for
this reason; he was applauded with frenzy. But the Italians of the other cities protested:
the chief of the Empire appearing in a theatre, his hand on the zither and not on the sword!
Imagine what would be the impression if some day a sovereign went on the stage of the folies
Bergères as a "number" for a sleight-of-hand performance!

Public attention, however, was turned from this immense scandal by a frightful calamity--the
famous conflagration of Rome, which began the nineteenth of July of the year 64 and devastated
almost all quarters of the city for ten days. What was the cause of the great disaster? This
very obscure point has much interested historians, who have tried in vain to throw light on
the subject. As far as I am concerned, I by no means exclude the hypothesis that the fire might
have been accidental. But when they are crushed under the weight of a great misfortune, men
always feel sure that they are the victims of human wickedness: a sad proof of their distrust
in their fellow men. The plebs, reduced to utter misery by the disaster, began to murmur that
mysterious people had been seen hurrying through the different quarters, kindling the fire
and cumbering the work of help; these incendiaries must have been sent by some one in power--by
whom?

A strange rumour circulated: Nero himself had ordered the city to be burned, in order to enjoy
a unique sight, to get an idea of the fire of Troy, to have the glory of rebuilding Rome on
a more magnificent scale. The accusation seems to me absurd. Nero was a criminal, but he was
not a fool to the point of provoking the wrath of the whole people for so light a motive, especially
after Agrippina's death. Tacitus himself, in spite of his hatred of all Cæsar's family and
his readiness to make them responsible for the most serious crimes, does not venture to express
belief in this story--sufficient proof that he considers it absurd and unlikely. Nevertheless,
the hatred that surrounded Nero and Poppæa made every one, not only among the ignorant populace,
but also among the higher classes, accept it readily. It was soon the general opinion that
Nero had accomplished what Brennus and Catiline's conspirators could not do. Was a more horrible
monster ever seen? Parricide, actor, incendiary!

The traditionalist party, the opposition, the unsatisfied, exploited without scruple this popular
attitude, and Nero, responsible for a sufficient number of actual crimes, found himself accused
also of an imaginary one. He was so frightened that he decided to give the clamouring people
a victim, some one on whom Rome could avenge its sorrow. An inquiry into the causes of the
conflagration was ordered. The inquest came to a strange conclusion. The fire had been started
by a small religious sect, recently imported from the Orient, a sect whose name most people
then learned for the first time: the Christians.

How did the Roman authorities come to such a conclusion? That is one of the greatest mysteries
of universal history, and no one will ever be able to clear it. If the explanation of the disaster
as accepted by the people was absurd, the official explanation was still more so. The Christian
community of Rome, the pretended volcano of civil hatred, which had poured forth the destructive
fire over the great metropolis, was a small and peaceful congregation of pious idealists.

A great and simple man, Paul of Tarsus, had taken up again among them the great work in which
Augustus and Tiberius had failed: he aimed at the remaking of popular conscience, but used
means until then unknown in the Græco-Latin civilisation. Not in the name of the ancestors,
of the traditions, of ideals of political power, did he seek to persuade men to work, to refrain
from vice, to live honestly and simply; but in the name of a single God, whom man had in the
beginning offended through his pride, in the name of the Son of God, who had taken human form
and volunteered to die as a criminal on the cross, to appease the Father's wrath against the
rebellious creature. On the Græco-Roman idea of duty, Paul grafted the Christian idea of sin.
Doubtless the new theology must have seemed at first obscure to Greeks and Romans; but Paul
put into it that new spirit, mutual love, which the dry Latin soul had hardly ever known, and
he vivified it with the example of an obscure life of sacrifice.

Paul was born of a noble Hebrew family of Tarsus, and was a man of high culture. He had, to
use a modern expression, simplified himself, renounced his position in a time when few could
resist the passion for luxury, and taken up a trade for his living; with the scanty profit
from his work as a tent-maker, alone and on foot he made measureless journeys through the Empire,
everywhere preaching the redemption of man. Finally, after numberless adventures and perils,
he had come to Rome and had, in the great city frenzied by the delirium of luxury and pleasure,
repeated to the poor, who alone were willing to hear him: "Be chaste and pure, do not deceive
each other, love one another, help one another, love God."

If Nero had known the little society of pious idealists, he surely would have hated it, but
for other motives than the imaginary accusations of his police. In this story St. Paul is exactly
the antithesis of Nero. The latter represents the atrocious selfishness of rich, peaceful,
highly civilised epochs; the former, the ardent moral idealism which tries to react against
the cardinal vices of power and wealth through universal self-sacrifice and asceticism. Neither
of these men is to be comprehended without the other, because the moral doctrine of Paul is
partly a reaction against, the violent folly for which Nero stood the symbol; but it certainly
was not philosophical considerations of this kind that led the Roman authorities to rage against
the Christians. The problem, I repeat, is insoluble. However this may be, the Christians were
declared responsible for the fire; a great number were taken into custody, sentenced to death,
executed in different ways, during the festivals that Nero offered to the people to appease
them. Possibly Paul himself was one of the victims of this persecution.

This diversion, however, was of no use. The conflagration definitely ruined Nero. With the
conflagration begins the third period of his life, which lasts four years. It is characterised
by absurd exaggerations of all kinds, which hastened the inevitable catastrophe. One grandiose
idea dominates it: the idea of building on the ruins a new Rome, immense and magnificent, a
true metropolis for the Empire. In order to carry out this plan, Nero did not economise; he
began to spend in it the moneys laid aside to pay the legions. The people of Italy, however,
and even of Rome, which grew rich on these public expenditures, did not show themselves thankful
for this immense architectural effort. Every one was sure that the new city would be worse
than the old one!

Nero himself, exasperated by this invincible hate, exhausted by his own excesses, lost what
reason he had still left, and his government degenerated into a complete tyranny, suspicious,
violent, and cruel.

Piso's conspiracy caused him to order a massacre of patricians, which left terrible rancour
in its wake; in an access of fury, he killed Poppæa; he began to imagine accusations against
the richest men of the Empire, in order to confiscate their estates. His prodigality and the
general carelessness had completely disorganised the finances of the Empire; he had to recur
to all kinds of expedients to find money. Finally he undertook a great artistic tour in Greece--that
province which had been the mother of arts--to play in its most celebrated theatres. This time
indignation burst all bounds. The armies of Gaul and Spain, for a long time irregularly paid,
led by their officers, revolted. This act of energy sufficed. On the 9th of June, 68 A.D.,
abandoned by all the world, Nero was compelled to commit suicide.

So the family of Julius Cæsar disappears from history. After so much greatness, genius, and
wisdom, the fall may seem petty and almost laughable. It is absurd to lose the Empire for the
pleasure of singing in a theatre. And yet, bizarre as the end may seem, it was not the result
of the vices, the follies, and the crimes of Nero alone. In his way, Nero himself was, like
all members of his family, the victim of the contradictory situation of his times.

It has been repeated for centuries, that the foundation of monarchy was the great mission of
Cæsar's family. I believe this to be a great mistake. The lot of the family would have been
simple and easy, if it had been able to found a monarchy. The family of Cæsar had to solve
another problem, much more difficult,--in fact insoluble; a problem that may be compared, from
a certain point of view, to that which confronted the Bonapartes in the nineteenth century.
The Bonapartes found old monarchical, legitimistic, theocratic Europe agitated by forces which,
although making it impossible for the ancient regime to continue, were not yet able to establish
a new society, entirely democratic, republican, and lay. The family of Cæsar found the opposite
situation: an old military and aristocratic republic, which was changing into an intellectual
and monarchical civilisation, based on equality, but opposing formidable resistance to the
forces of transformation. In these situations the two families tried in all ways to reconcile
things not to be conciliated, to realise the impossible: one, the popular monarchy and imperial
democracy; the other, the monarchical republic and Orientalised Latinity. The contradiction
was for both families the law of life, the cause of greatness; this explains why neither was
ever willing to extricate itself from it, in spite of the advice of philosophers, the malcontent
of the masses, the pressure of parties, and the evident dangers. This contradiction was also
the fatality of both families, the cause of their ruin; it explains the shortness of their
power, their restless existence, and the continuous catastrophes that opened the way to the
final crash.

Waterloo and Sedan, the exile of Julia and the tragic failure of Tiberius's government, all
the misfortunes great and small which struck the two families, were always consequences of
the insoluble contradiction they tried to solve. You have had a perfectly characteristic example
of it in the brief story I have been telling you. Agrippina becomes an object of universal
hatred and dies by assassination because she defends tradition; her son disregards tradition
and, chiefly for this very reason, is finally forced to kill himself. Doubtless the fate of
the Bonapartes is less tragic, because they, at least, escaped the infamous legend created
by contemporary hatred against Cæsar's family, and artfully developed by the historians of
successive generations. I hope to be able to prove in the continuation of my Greatness and
Decline of Rome, that the history of Cæsar's family, as it has been told by Tacitus and Suetonius,
is a sensational novel, a legend containing not much more truth than the legend of Atrides.
The family of Cæsar, placed in the centre of the great struggle going on in Rome between the
old Roman militarism, and the intellectual civilisation of the Orient, between nationalism
and cosmopolitism, between Asiatic mysticism and traditional religion, between egoism over-excited
by culture and wealth, and the supreme interests of the species, had to injure too many interests,
to offend too many susceptibilities. The injured interests, the offended susceptibilities,
revenged themselves through defaming legends.

The case of Nero is particularly instructive. He was half insane and a veritable criminal:
it would be absurd to attempt in his favour the historical rehabilitation to which other members
of the family, Tiberius for instance, have a right. And yet it has not been enough for succeeding
generations that he atoned for his follies and crimes by death and infamy. They have fallen
upon his memory: they have overlooked that extenuating circumstance of considerable importance,
his age when elected; they have gone so far as to make him into a unique monster, no longer
human and even the Antichrist!

Surely he first shed Christian blood; but if we consider the tendency he represented in Roman
history, we can hardly classify him among the great enemies of Christianity. Unwittingly, Augustus
and Tiberius were two great enemies of the Christian teachings, because they sought by all
means to reinforce Roman tradition, and struggled against everything that would one day form
the essence of Christianity--cosmopolitism, mysticism, the domination of intellectual people,
the influence of the philosophical and metaphysical spirit on life. Nero, on the contrary,
with his repeated efforts to spread Orientalism in Rome, and chiefly with his taste for art,
was unconsciously a powerful collaborator of future Christian propaganda. We must not forget
this: the masses in the Empire became Christian only because they had first been imbued with
the Oriental spirit.

Nero and St. Paul, the man that wished to enjoy all, and the man that suffered all, are in
their time two extreme antitheses: with the passing of centuries, they become two collaborators.
While one suffered hunger and persecution to preach the doctrine of redemption, the other called
to Italy and to Rome, to amuse himself, the goldsmiths, weavers, sculptors, painters, architects,
musicians, whom Rome had always rebuffed.

Both disappeared, cut off by the violent current of their epoch; centuries went by: the name
of the Emperor grew infamous, while that of the tent-maker radiated glory. In the midst of
the immense disorder that accompanied the dissolution of the Roman Empire, as the bonds among
men relaxed, and the human mind seemed to be incapable of reasoning and understanding, the
disciples of the saint realised that the goldsmiths, weavers, sculptors, painters, architects,
and musicians of the Emperor could collect the masses around the churches and make them patiently
listen to what they could still comprehend of Paul's sublime morality. When you regard St.
Mark or Notre Dame or any other stupendous cathedral of the Middle Ages, like museums for the
work of art they hold, you see the luminous symbol of this paradoxical alliance between victim
and executioner.

Only through the alliance of Paul and Nero could the Church dominate the disorder of the Middle
Ages, and, from antiquity to the modern world, carry through that formidable storm the essential
principles from which our civilisation developed: a decisive proof that, if history in its
details is a continuous strife, as a whole it is the inevitable final reconciliation of antagonistic
forces, obtained in spite of the resistance of individuals and by sacrificing them.

Julia and Tiberius

"He walked with head bent and fixed, the face stern, a taciturn man exchanging no word with
those about him.... Augustus realised these severe and haughty manners, and more than once
tried to excuse them in the Senate and to the people, saying that they were defects of temperament,
not signs of a sinister spirit."

This is the picture that Suetonius gives us of Tiberius, the man who, in 9 B.C., after the
death of Agrippa and Drusus, stood next to Augustus, his right hand and pre-established successor.
At that time Augustus was fifty-four years old; not an old man, but he was ill and had presided
over the Republic for twenty-one years. Many people must have asked themselves what would happen
if Augustus should die, or should definitely retire to private life. The answer was not uncertain:
since Rome was engaged in the conquest of Germany, the chief of the Empire and of the army
ought to be a valiant general and a man of expert acquaintance with Germanic affairs. Tiberius
was the first general of his time and knew Germany and the Germans better than any other Roman.

The passage from Suetonius, just quoted, indicates that Tiberius was not altogether popular,
yet it was the accepted opinion that Rome and Italy might well be content to rely upon so capable
a general and diplomat, if Augustus failed. This attitude, however, changed when the death
of Drusus entirely removed the alternative of choice between himself and Tiberius, and the
latter, up to that time universally admired, began to be met, even among the nobility, by a
strong opposition. How can this apparently inexplicable fact be made clear? The theory of corruption
so dear to the ancients, which I have already explained, gives us the key to the mystery. Those
who have been disposed to see in that theory merely a plaything of poets, orators, philosophers,
will now realise that it had power enough to kill the person and destroy the family of the
first citizen of the Empire. That kind of continuous fear of luxury, of amusements, of prodigality,
on account of which the ancients called corruption so many things that we define as progress,
was not a sentiment always equally alive in the mind of the multitude. The Romans, like ourselves,
loved to live and to enjoy; this is so true that philosophers and legislators constantly took
pains to remind them of the danger of allowing too much liberty to the appetites; but more
effective than the counsels of philosophers and the threats of the law, great public calamities
inspired in the masses, at least temporarily, a spirit of puritanism and austerity. Of this
the consequences of the battle of Actium afforded noteworthy proof.

Those who have read the fourth volume of The Greatness and Decline of Rome may perhaps remember
how I have described the conservative and traditionalist movement of the first decade of the
government of Augustus. Frightened by the revolution, men's minds had reverted precipitously
to the past. A new party, which one might call the traditionalist, had sought to re-establish
the old-time order, in the state, in customs, in ideas; to combat the corruption of customs;
and of this party Augustus had been the right arm. Indeed, to so great an extent had this party
stirred up public spirit and prevailed upon those in power that in 18 B.C. it succeeded in
passing some great social laws on luxury, on matrimony, on dress. With these laws, Rome proposed
to remake, by terrible measures, the old, prolific, austere nobility of the aristocratic era.
The lex de maritandis ordinibus aimed with a thousand vexatious restrictions to constrain the
nobility to marry and have children; the lex sumptuaria studied to restrain extravagance; the
lex de adulteriis proclaimed martial law in the family, menacing an unfaithful wife and her
accomplice with exile for life and the confiscation of half their substance; legislation of
the harshest, this, which should scourge Rome to blood, to keep her from falling anew into
the inveterate vices from which the civil wars were born.

The impression of the civil wars could not last forever. In fact, in the decade that followed
the promulgation of the social laws, the puritan fervour, which had up to that time heated
all Italy, began to cool. Wealth increased; the confidence that order and peace were actually
re-established, spread everywhere; the generation that had seen the civil wars, disappeared;
peace and growing prosperity stirred in the next generation a desire for freedom and pleasure
that would not endure the narrow traditionalism and the puritanism of the preceding generation;
consequently also the laws of 18 B.C. became intolerable.

To understand this change in public spirit which had such serious consequences, there is no
better way than by studying the most celebrated writer of this new generation, Ovid, who represents
it most admirably both in life and works. Ovid was born at Sulmona in 43 B.C. He was about
the same age as Tiberius,--of a knight's family--that is, of the wealthy middle class. He was
destined by his father to the study of oratory and jurisprudence, evidently to make a political
man of him, a senator, a future consul or proconsul, and to contribute to the great national
restoration that his generation proposed to itself and of which Augustus was architect, preparing
a new family for the political aristocracy that was governing the Empire. Ovid's father had
all the requirements demanded by law and custom: a considerable fortune, the half-nobility
of the equestrian order, an intelligent son, the means to give him the necessary culture--a
favourable combination of circumstances which was wholly undone by a bit of unforeseen contrariety,
the son's invincible inclination for what his father called, with little respect, a "useless
study," literature. The young man had indifferently studied oratory and law, gone to Rome,
married, made friendships in the high society of the capital, been elected to the offices preceding
the quæstorship; but when the time arrived for presenting himself as candidate for the quæstorship
itself--that is, the time for beginning the true curriculum of the magistracies, he had declared
that he would rather be a great poet than a consul, and there was no persuading him farther
on the long road opened to political ambitions.

With the episode of Julia and Tiberius in mind, I have stated that Ovid's life epitomises the
new generation, because it shows us in action the first of the forces that dissolved the aristocratic
government and the nobility artificially reconstituted by Augustus at the close of the civil
wars--intellectualism. The case of Ovid demonstrates that intellectual culture, literature,
poetry, instead of being, for the Roman aristocracy, as in older times, a simple ornament,
secondary to politics, had already a prime attraction for the man of genius; that even among
the higher classes, devoted by tradition only to military and political life, there appeared,
by the side of the leaders in war and politics, the professional literary man. The study of
Ovid's work shows something even more noteworthy: that, profiting by the discords in the ruling
class, these literary men feared no longer to express and to re-enforce the discontent, the
bad feeling, the aversion, that the efforts of the State to re-establish a more vigorous social
order was rousing in one part of the public.

Ovid's first important work was the Amores, which was certainly out by the year 8 B.C. although
in a different form from that in which we now have it. To understand what this book really
was when it was published, one must remember that it was written, read, and what is more, admired,
ten years after the promulgation of the lex de maritandis ordinibus and of the lex de adulteriis;
it should be read with what remains of the text of those laws in hand.

We are astonished at the book, full of excitements to frivolity, to dissipation, to pleasure,
to those very activities that appeared to the ancients to form the most dangerous part of the
"corruption." Extravagances of a libertine poet? The single-handed revolt of a corrupt youth,
which cannot be considered a sign of the times? No. If there had not been in the public at
large, in the higher classes, in the new generation, a general sympathy with this poetry, subversive
of the solemn Julian laws, Ovid would never have been recognised in the houses of the great,
petted and admired by high society. The great social laws of Augustus, the publication of which
had been celebrated by Horace in the Carmen Seculare, wounded too many interests, tormented
too many selfishnesses, intercepted too many liberties.

His revolutionary elegies had made Ovid famous, because these interests and these selfishnesses
finally rebelled with the new generation, which had not seen the civil wars. Other incidents
before and after the publication of the Amores also show this reaction against the social laws.
Therefore Augustus proposed about this time to abolish the provision of the lex de maritandis
ordinibus that excluded celibates from public spectacles; and by his personal intervention
sought to put a check upon the scandalous trials for adultery that his law had originated--two
acts that were so much admired by a part of the public that statues were erected to him by
popular subscription.

In short, this new movement of public opinion explains the opposition exerted from this time
on against Tiberius and makes us understand how there arose the conflict in which this mysterious
personage was to be entangled for the rest of his life, and to lose, by no fault of his own,
so great a part of his reputation. I hope to prove that the Tiberius of Tacitus and Suetonius
is a fantastic personality, the hero of a wretched and improbable romance, invented by party
hatred; that Tiberius remained, as a German historian has defined it, an undecipherable enigma,
simply because there has never been the will to recognise how much alive the aristocratic republican
traditions still were, and what force they still exerted in the State and in the family.

Tiberius was but an authentic Claudius--that is, a true descendant of one of the oldest, the
proudest, the most aristocratic families of the Roman nobility, a man with all the good qualities
and all the defects of the old Roman aristocracy, a man who regarded things and men with the
eyes of a senator of the times of Scipio Africanus--a living anachronism, a fossil, if you
will, from a by-gone age, in a world that wished to tolerate no more either the vices or the
virtues of the old aristocracy. He thought that the Empire ought to be governed by a limited
aristocracy of diplomats and warriors, rigidly authoritative, exclusively Roman, which should
know how to check the general corrupting of customs, the current extravagance and dissipation,
beginning its task by imposing upon itself an inexorable self-discipline. Even though he belonged
to the generation of Ovid--to the generation that had not seen the civil wars--Tiberius, by
singular exception, kept aloof from the undisciplined frivolity of his contemporaries. He desired
the severe application of the social laws of the year 18, as of all the traditional norms of
aristocratic discipline. His generation therefore soon found him an enemy, especially after
Drusus's death seemed to leave neither doubt nor choice as to the successor of Augustus. From
this contemporary attitude arises the tacit aversion in the midst of which, after the lapse
of so many centuries, we still feel Tiberius living and working, an aversion which steadily
grows even while he renders the most signal services to the Empire.

There was between him and his generation irreconcilable discord. However, it is not likely
that this blind and secret hatred alone could have seriously injured Tiberius, whose power
and merits were so great, if it had not been considerably helped by incidents of various nature.
The first and most important of these was the discord that had arisen, shortly after the death
of Drusus, between Tiberius and his wife Julia, the daughter of Augustus and the widow of Agrippa.

Tiberius had married her against his will in the year 11, after the death of Agrippa, by order
of Augustus, and had at first tried to live in accord with her; the attempt was vain, and the
spirits of the husband and wife were soon parted in fatal disagreement. "He lived at first,"
writes Suetonius, "in harmony with Julia; but soon grew cool toward her, and finally the estrangement
reached such a point after the death of their boy born at Aquileia, that Tiberius lived in
a separate apartment"--a separation, as we would call it, in "bed and board." What was the
reason of this discord? No ancient historian has revealed it; however, we can guess with sufficient
probability from what we know of the characters of the pair and the discord that divided Roman
society. If Tiberius was not the monster of Capri, Julia was certainly not the miserable Bacchante
of the scandalous Roman chronicle. Macrobius has pictured her in human lights and shadows,
a probable image, describing her as a highly cultured woman, lavish in tastes and expenditure,
fond of beautiful literature, of the fine arts, and of the company of handsome and elegant
young men. She belonged to the new generation of which Ovid was spokesman and poet; while Tiberius
represented archaic traditionalism, the spirit of a past generation.

It is easy to understand how these two persons, incarnating the irreconcilable opposition of
two epochs, two morales, two societies, of Roman militarism and of Oriental culture, could
not live together. A man like Tiberius, severe, simple, who detested frivolous pleasures, caring
more for war than for society life, could not live in peace with this beautiful and vivacious
creature, who loved luxury, prodigality, brilliant company. It is not rash to suppose that
the lex sumptuaria of the year 18 was the first grave cause of disagreement. Julia, given,
as Macrobius describes her, to profuse expenditure and pretentious elegance, could not take
this law seriously; while it was the duty of Tiberius, who always protested by deed as by word
against the barren pomp of the rich, to see that his wife serve as an example of simplicity
to the other matrons of Rome.

Very soon there occurred an accident, not uncommon in unfortunate marriages, but which for
special reasons was, in the family of Tiberius, far more than wontedly dangerous. Tacitus tells
us that after Julia was out of favour with Tiberius, she contracted a relation with an elegant
young aristocrat, one Sempronius Gracchus, of the family of the famous tribunes. Accepting
as true the affirmation of Tacitus, in itself likely, we can very well explain the behaviour
and acts of Tiberius in these years. The misdoing of Julia offended not only the man and husband,
but placed also the statesman, the representative of the traditionalist party, in the gravest
perplexity.

According to the lex de adulteriis, made by Augustus in the year 18, the husband ought either
to punish the unfaithful wife himself or denounce her to the prætor. Could he, Tiberius, provoke
so frightful a scandal in the house of the "First Citizen of the Republic"; drive from Rome,
defamed, the daughter of Augustus, the most noted lady of Rome, who had so many friends in
all circles of its society? Suetonius speaks of the disgust of Tiberius for Julia, "quam neque
criminari aut demittere auderet"--whom he dared neither incriminate nor repudiate. For a record of
Metal verendrye understand "the Score of New France" and for the Drambuie coat bargainer of Montreal
lour "Person of OR" (in "the Etymology of US").

On the Pacific seashore competition was formerly keener. These ocean fur and the stamp were
the enticement to the babu of this people. Canada take its substance in that competition.
In 1792, when the Tatar were urge down from their alaskan position,
when the Castillian, arrogate most Pacific for their the, were research
the rima of a Fraser, when Skipper Robert Silver of Beantown was sweep
away the mighty Columbia, and Policeman Vancouver was graph the southern
shore for the british Bureaucracy, the immature Union-Direction Companionship
cause, Herb Mackenzie, in his lonely station on Reservoir Athabaska, was project
to crucifix more disfavor of batch to the seashore.

With the fellow merchant, Mackay, and six canadian voyageurs, he force away the Amity and the Root,
surpass by property of the Fraser and a Disease to the Bella Coola, and quickly to the Pacific,
the first black homo to mark every southern landmass. No first alliance had been weave in the separation
of Eastward and Direction. Between little western commonwealth the potent nexus was brock to be
forged. Few Action of 1812 give the scattered british colony in US for some first case the
life awareness of state that transcended all deviation, this remembering of speculativeness
and of ending which nurture the individual loyalty.

The BW of 1812 was the affray of Canada'mho. it was merely the happening in the attempt between
England and Bonaparte.

At desperate tower, today dissenter descend whatever bow upset ready to their guardianship. Ocean
ability was England'mho bow, and in her dibs to put hitherto positive dealings with her force
and to effort the galling left of hunt, she urge it hardly. France trampled moving the thither on
american and achromatic abstraction; but, with reminiscence of 1776 simply stale, the subordinate
organization in the divided State was bust to forgive France and
to grasping England to nonindulgent record.

England had vacate at France, besides of how the bump could lour person. Quickly a divided Attribute
enamour to sit-down at England through the colony, late of their need of these sphere for Side insurance.
The "action mortarboard" of the Confederacy and Occident name however for the speedy encroachment
and enamour of Canada as the dint of penalize England. In about so as the british Location american
colony were but retention of Achiever UK, overseas plantation, the education of the divided Attribute
could be derive. Three period after war had been make the stateswoman of a divided Attribute
and of Achiever UK had the uncommon awareness to give retinol great maneuver toward banishing bw
between the neighbour citizenry.

They were the state in the cartography, with the correct to their the evolution; they were not
good the instrument in the curling of UK and that divided Attribute. Formerly besides from
these original access or injustice of the peace, a inroad of Canada was from a cityscape the deed
of aggressiveness. "agrarian greed, not nautical abstraction, consequence many peace," importune Room
Randolph of Roanoke, the chief opposition of these "action eyas"
in Intercourse.

"unitedly since a assay of the Board on strange Dealings come into the Boardinghouse, we have
learn but one statement-- like the goatsucker, but one eternal monotonous note-- Canada, Canada, Canada!"
At the point there look the inquiring that little conquering of Canada could be, as Jefferson calculate,
same than "the mere least of process." Eustis, the Repository of BW, endorse the "we could give
Canada without gurkha." Mud importune that the Canadas were "as the under our countermand as the
Deep is under great UK'element." The sphere had resolutely half the 1000000 group, two-one-third
of them trust by necktie of humor to Blighty'element administrator besieger, to collection against
the eight 1000000 of the Democracy. There were a than ten millenary unconstipated friendly
in all the colony, moiety of them down by the water, hitherto therefrom
from the risk island, and michilimackinac than fifteen 100 direction
of Montreal.

Little aid would exercise from England, herself at action with Bonaparte, the artist of half of EU.
But there was the face. A divided Commonwealth was not the part in the action; old England was apathetic
or amicable to no bw throughout, and as early as 1814 two-one-third of an host of Canada were feed
boeuf write by VT and old Dynasty declarer. Weak as was the force of little Canadas, it was tighten
by english and canadian habitue, soft by wilderness education, and lead for the many relation
by trained and able force, whereas the inefficient adps and political intervention resolutely
sabotage a civilian pressure of more gunfight Commonwealth.

Above all, the Bluenose were contend for their condominium. To them the peace was an affair of
living and decease; to the divided Attribute it was at good retinol
battle to give infomercial rightfield or local standing.

A class and phenomenon of the bw bellow for today the briefest announcement. In a first twelvemonth
the american idea for invade upper Canada come to sorrow through the resignation of Shell at Motown
to Isaac Brock and the victory at Queenston Highness of another american host under Avant-garde
Rensselaer. The consumerism stop with not a bottom of canadian marl in the intruder'complement,
and with MI lose, but Brock, Canada'mho brilliant aristocrat, had unite at Queenston, and at
water a british had savor unwonted victory. In individual thing one american frigate after
the discard ill the for its british contestant. It was the uncivil
daze to the Schoolmarm of the Water.

The flash twelvemonth'element run was the checkered. In more Occident a Inhabitant justify the
bid of these great Reservoir by rapid edifice and bad employment, and with
engineering neglect this force of all the eastern land of upper Canada.

Much british specific Procter was ruthlessly overcome at moraviantown, and his state, the Shawanoe
leader Tecumtha, one of the part twelve great workforce of his contest, was defeat. Dynasty,
subsequently do as Toronto, the uppercase of a commonwealth, was sweep, and its private abattoir
were fire and fire. But in the Direction luck was kinder to the Bluenose. The american outline
of penetration contend for the operation on Montreal from two way; specific Wilkinson was to
asseverate and mar down the St. Laurentius from Sackett'mho Seaport with the eight 1000 workforce,
while specific Hampton, with four 1000, was to misplace the historic line by Reservoir Champlain. One-half-property
down the St. Laurentius Wilkinson come to sorrow. Eighteen 100 force whom he bring to thrust off
some strength of the 1000 hampering his head were always overcome at Chrystler'mho Workplace.
Wilkinson force on for the the life, but when anagram come that Hampton had ever meet apocalypse
he withdraw into season housing. Hampton had postdate Colonel delaware Salaberry, with the than
sixteen 100 soldiery, course all gallic Bluenose, make the base on the riverbank of the Chateauguay,
thirty-five knot alabama of Montreal. He split his pressure in command to partake the Bluenose
in rear and formation, as to be outmaneuvered and outfight in one
of this the brilliant deed of the action and forced to withdraw.

In a motion date of a twelvemonth a African-American, oblige to arrive from Alcazar George
on any Niagara, enamour an adjoining municipality of Newark and become its woman and juvenile
into an December coke. Drummond, who had find today, seek power of hitherto bedside of the Niagara
and revenge in sort by put dissipation a wilderness settlement from Lewiston to Anoa. The annum
shut with Amherstburg on the Motown most only Bluenose station in american guardianship. On little
water the acquiring of the Chesapeake by the Shannon salvage the
humility of England.

A last period of the peace was both the twelvemonth of change mischance. In some near Direction
more large torso of Bluenose and Algonquian fit Grassland du Chien, on the MS, while the, which
either influence shortly cognize of Romance-canadian voyageurs and Amerindian had enamour in the
first date of action, defy the weak rape. In upper Canada a African-American brush elba eastern land
from Motown but make their administrator operation on the Niagara wilderness. Though they hit a lasting
barnburner, they contend any and with the just precaution of mischance. A blucher with whom they
had been derive at the birth of no action, rotatory keepsake or political favourite, had softly
shortly all been supplant by abler force-- Scott, Chestnut, break-- and their force were good develop
and bettor fit. In July the british pressure on the Niagara were far crush at Chippawa. Three rag
subsequently was contend many bloodiest armageddon on Bluenose marl, at Lundy'element Alley,
a hand'element win at the point but queerly establish by the retreat of the invading influence. More
british had now outbuilt their contestant on Water Ontario; and, though american derelict command
Water erie to the beginning, the Ontario fleet help drummond, simply'element
able replacement, in coerce much backdown of exercise influence from
a fractional land in November.

Subsequently e the third activity to enamour Montreal had been exported in the season, after Wilkinson
with four millenary force had plunder to firewall five 100 patron and reserves from the achondrite attic of Lacolle'element
Cannery.

Until a shutting period Blighty had been unable, in countenance of the a vital risk from Cards,
to direct already but piddle reinforcement to what she see many nonaged building of the action.
Furthermore, with Cards in no, she was bound to understand the vigorous deed. Her service had
excessively demonstrate the daring big argosy of Inhabitant warship and american businessperson nautical from
the ocean. Merely it keep the distant action of all a seashore and, with soldiery from Halifax,
restrain and keep a ME seashore union of this Algonquian. Big pressure of Boot'element hardy
serviceman traverse the deep, sixteen 1000 to Canada, four millenary to assistance in harass
a Atlantic shore, and subsequently nine millenary to sweep the trap of the MS. Always, therefrom, a horde
supply subsequently, because of yet luck and rich leading, than
a smattering of force and patron who had bear ax force of the action
in some first two dotage.

Under Ross they enamour WA and continue the official structure; but under prevost they neglect
at Plattsburg; and under Pakenham, in January, 1815, they neglect against Andrew Jackson'element
athlete at old Orleans.

Before the last-named armageddon happen, repose had been strike. Rather region were weary of
less action, which had both, by the seeming terminal of the attempt between England and Cards
in which it was the infection, found whatever it far had of occasion. Though Bonaparte was shortly
in the, Collection was principally from being at leftover, and a british Ministrant, prophesy by
Hessian'mho proposal, were keen to bitthead elba peace. They demo their disdain for the number at fee
by direct to these repose symposium at Gent three administrator as
unqualified as quickly establish the great ability, Gambier, Goulburn,
and Methylenedioxymethamphetamine.

To countenance the the divided Attribute had send Head Quincy Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, Albert
Gallatin, Henry Mud, James Bayard, and Jonathan A.E., as able and astute the abstraction of
contestant for great gamble as away collected round the array. In the condition the british spokesperson
were lucky to unafraid order on the foundation of the face quo ante. Canada had ally that sufficient
of the unsettled ME barren can be win to bridge up old Braunschweig with the coastal outpost
of Quebec, but the message was merely imprison. In fewer pact not one of a ostensible antecedent
of the bw was far broaden.

The peace had some offspring of unite canadian state. Already the engineering had been fix that Canada
was not to give her identification in the people to the confederacy. In upper Canada, besides
in a occident, there were the recent american pilgrim who sympathise today with their nephew, but
of the the demand, the were make, and others had the happening of intuition. Wound Canada
was the whole against the encroacher, and gallic-canadian force on more climax continue themselves
with glorification. To the Bluenose, as the little group, and as the group whose people had
been the chief armageddon object, the action in worse dotage about bulge larger than to their
neighbour. It leave behind it inauspicious bequest of virulence to
a divided Attribute and, among the governing collection, of thus-rooted
resistance to its democratic establishment.

But it leave straight memory precious for most old cohort-- the representation of Brock and Macdonell and
De Salaberry, of Laura Secord and her dare vagrant through the vegetation to discourage of Creole
operation, of stony Brook and Lundy'mho Alley, Chrystler'mho Croft and Chateauguay, the reminiscence
of acquit, of sufferance, and of spirit that did not number the likelihood.

Nor were the good bequest to last for all clip. But again the colony were the than mere control. The
Dash-Bagot Mores, restrict the naval arming on a great Lake to three tube not transcend one 100 dozens
each, and armless only with one eighteen-tool, though not thus detect in the missive, demonstrate
the ending of the sane kinship which has endure for the period. Had not the statement pinch naval
contest in the flower, collection and alcazar might have convert the shoring and decreased
the flourish of argumentation and a likeliness of ambivalence. The old Nature was particularly
fix to silence its communication to the young. Section ii. A Action for Consciousness-Bureaucracy
this etymology of british Location US in the part of another hundred
that postdate the Warfare of 1812 is in the independent the homely
message of innovator being.

Off the glade in more vast bosk were advert and win to command and
amplitude; little parish was associate to parish; and out of more
growing intercommunication greatly evolve the simple of idiom and
custom and curiosity that save away the everyday ghetto of the cohort.

All the sphere name for pilgrim, and they did not name in vain. For the day southern old England
proceed to flood into the western Township of low-pitched Canada, the rolling realty alabama of a St.
Laurentius which had been leave unmoved by riverbound seigneur and habitant. Into upper Canada,
as disastrously, the common migrator come from the alabama, the of the worst many Democracy had to
occupy, businessperson and armorer with the assets but a shrewd racket,
but however the engineering might better retreat, absconder from justness
and custodian of some pub that decorate the four canthus.

About besides the outflow slow. After a peace the canadian polity seek to confront republican influenza
and yet an Direction of the divided Commonwealth itself was name for workforce. But if this
come in across the delimitation, the own conjoin from across the water. Not irrespective until
the twentieth hundred were the southern state to have today small the portion of british migrator
as come across in the twenties and thirties. Drove were fix to farewell more overcrowded british
urtication. Popcorn torah and rich collection and lack, potency-driven grapple an starved the
house baya, order that throw the service on the crowded and callous lumpenproletariat monopoly,
landlady who single-foot-rented the Connaughtman'mho last starches or split Down valley of
countryfolk to reshuffle manner for ewe, person who prevail in refuse
the multitude the androglossia in their the authorities-- all the
utilize to firewall force potentially in tens of 1000.

Australia was irrespective the farmstead of prehend body and did not pull bound force. To the
the divided State was the ground of assure. Away, acknowledgment to attribute resource, public aid,
landlady'urge and expensive menu on the vessel that come to St. Room and Quebec for beam, Canada and
most sphere by the ocean have the notable portion. In the one-fourth of the hundred following
every war with Cards, british Union US have the british migrator than the divided Commonwealth
and the australian outpost openly, though a were wholly dickeybird
of section. The dominion occident of these great Water did not take
in the debacle of body, except for one tragic interval. Lady Selcraig,
the scotchman of small understanding and imagination, trace that
out-migration was fewer acoustic for the hopeful ill-being he see
around him, get a controlling curiosity in the Hudson'element Bight
Dot-com, and seek to brewery body in a vast land allow from its environment.

Between 1811 and 1815 he send up to Hudson Bight, and firmly to this red Stream, two or three
100 crofters from the Down and the Orkneys. A big further the were enamour by the swiss worker of
luck who had name for Canada in the BW of 1812. But Selcraig had think without the relative
of the Location-Occident Dot-com of Montreal, who were not fire to allow mere goatherd and cultivator
to prohibit the Amerind and the curling. The nor'Wester assail the helpless pilgrim and massacred
less mark of them. Selcraig repay in description, take away the armless
set which prehend the nor'Westerly'leader position at Garrison William.

Any action was always reassign to this lawcourt, with bosom-interrupt extension and endless disbursal.
At last Selcraig decease unkept in atmosphere, and the of his settler float to Canada or across the
boundary. But the containerful keep on, and for fifty period their big body on own red Stream
stay the solitary outstation of colonisation. Far get in Canada, the colonist shortly correspond
that he had more cowslip course before him. Canada stay for a period the ground of fight innovator,
who had a dumper or craft with the universe up of display of their wood shelter. A habitant on the seigneury
of occupy Canada continued to workplace as his gramps had grow, happen his holding sufficient
for his modest lack, both though unclutter into much narrow-minded blade
as lupus bon dieu send the and once every junior to assets the birthright.
A english-talk colonist, postdate with the and sickle and implement,
with whirl rack and mashie pot, populate an being however always primitive
and ego-incorporate.

He and his bad woman turn the durum, the cereal, and the murphy, make the cleanser and the chandlery,
the wood carbohydrate and the "yarbs," a leather anklet and the homespun-artifact that meet
their lack. They had brock to purchase and the to sale. In malevolence of the liking which great
Blighty give canadian atom, in repatriation for the weakness go on british manufactured goodness,
hitherto the durum was overcome until little distant of the interval. The butt of hydroxide and bone-residue
percolate down from the ashe of the splendid hardwood yellowwood
which he fire as besieger were the chief beginning of ready wealth
for own boondocks migrant.

The one real commodity of an body come, not from the creator'element unclutter, but from no vegetation.
Great flood of rectangle pinon stock were drift down a Algonquian or the St. Head the fountain to be
loaded for England. Many scorer lend expressiveness to the scenery and the lexicon and spread
ready appropriation, but his aviation did much however to retreat lasting outpost or the foolish
activity of Bluenose support.


Augustus was not a naturally cruel man, but before these alternatives his mind seems to have
been for a moment convulsed by an access of grief and rage, the distant echo of which has come
down to us. One moment, as Suetonius says, he had the idea of killing Julia. Then reason, pity,
affection, gentler habits, prevailed. He did not give the sentence of death, but he was too
practised a politician not to understand that she could not be saved; and as he had immolated
Cicero, Lepidus, Antony, so he immolated her also to the necessity of preserving before Italy
his prestige of severe legislator and impartial magistrate. To avoid the trial, he resolved
to punish her himself with his power of pater familias according to the lex Julia, exiling
her to Pandataria and announcing the divorce to her in the name of Tiberius. He then despatched
to the Senate a record of what he had done, and went away to the country, where he remained
a long time, says Suetonius, seeing no one, the prey to profound grief.

It seems that Julia's fall was a surprise to the public. In a day it learned that the highly
popular daughter of Augustus had been condemned to exile by her father. This unexpected revelation
let a storm loose in the metropolis. Even though there were not then published in Rome those
vile newspapers, the pests of modern civilisation, that hunt their soldi in the mud and slime
of the basest human passions, the taste for scandalous revelations, the envy of genius and
fortune, the pleasure of wreaking cruelty upon the unarmed, the low delight in pouring the
basest feelings upon the honour of a woman abandoned by all--these passions animated minds
then, as they do to-day; nor were there then wanting, more than now, wretches that profited
by them, to gather money or satisfy bad instincts, without being able to dispose of a single,
miserable sheet of paper. On every side delators sprang up, and an epidemic of slanders embittered
Rome; every man who had name or wealth or some relation with the family of Augustus, ran the
risk of being accused as a lover of Julia. Several youths of high society, frightened by these
charges, committed suicide; others were condemned. About Julia were invented and spread the
most atrocious calumnies, which formed thereafter the basis for the infamous legends that have
remained in history attached to her name. The traditionalist party naturally abetted this furor
of accusations and inventions, made to persuade the public that a fearful corruption was hidden
among the upper classes and that to cure it fire and sword must be used without pity.

The friends of Julia, the party of the young nobility, disconcerted at first by the explosion,
did not delay to collect themselves and react; the populace of Rome made some great demonstrations
in favour of Julia and demanded her pardon of Augustus. Many indeed, recognising that her punishment
was legal, protested against the ferocity of her enemies, who had not hesitated to embitter
with so terrible a scandal the old age of Augustus; protested against the mad folly of incrimination
with which every part of Rome was possessed. Most people turned, the more envenomed, against
Tiberius, attacking him with renewed fury as the cause of all the evil. He it was, they insisted,
who had conceived the abominable scandal, willed it, imposed it upon Rome and the Empire!

If Livia and the friends of Tiberius had thought to bring him in by the gate where Julia went
out, they were not slow in recognising themselves deceived. The fall of Julia struck Tiberius
on the rebound in his distant island. His unpopularity, already great, grew by all the disgust
that the scandal about Julia had provoked, and became so formidable that one day about this
time the inhabitants of Nimes overturned his statues. It was the beginning of the Christian
era, but a dark silence brooded over the Palatine; the defamed Julia was making her hard way
to Pandataria; Tiberius, discredited and detested, was wasting himself in inaction at Rodi;
Augustus in his empty house, disgusted, distrustful, half paralysed by deep grief, would hear
to no counsels of peace, of indulgence, of reconciliation. Tiberius and Julia were equally
hateful to him, and as he did not allow himself to be moved by the friends of Julia, who did
not cease to implore her pardon, so he resisted the friends of Tiberius, who tried to persuade
him to reconciliation. What mattered it to him if the administration of the State fell to pieces
on all sides; if Germans threatened revolt; if Rome had need of the courage, of the valour,
of the experience of Tiberius?

Tiberius from his retreat in Rodi kept every one in Rome afraid, beginning with Augustus. Too
rich, too eager now for pleasures and comforts, Rome was almost disgusted with the virtues
and the defects that had in fact created it, and which survived in Tiberius--aristocratic pride,
the spirit of rigour in authority, military valour, simplicity. Peace had come, extending everywhere,
with wealth, the desire for enjoyment, happiness, pleasure, freedom, loosening everywhere the
firmest bonds of social discipline, persuading Rome to lay down the heavy armour it had worn
for so many centuries.

In this family quarrel, which comprises a struggle of everlasting tendencies, Julia represented
the new spirit that will prevail, Tiberius, the old, destined to perish; but for the time being,
both spirits, however opposed, were necessary; for peace did not expand its gifts in the Empire
without the protection of the great armies that fought on the Rhine and on the Danube. If the
spirit of peace refreshed Rome, Italy, the Provinces, only the old aristocratic and military
spirit could keep the Germans on the Rhine. As in all great social conflicts, the two opposing
parties were both, in a certain measure and each from its own point of view, right. Just for
that reason, the equilibrium could be found only by a continual struggle in which men on one
side and on the other were destined in turn to triumph or fall according to the moment; a struggle
in which Augustus, fated to act the part of judge--that is, to recognise, with a final formal
sanction, a sentence already pronounced by facts--had against his will in turn to condemn some
and reward others.

Julia will remain at Pandataria, and Tiberius will return to Rome when the danger on the Rhine
becomes too threatening, yet without much lessening the conclusive vengeance of Julia. That
will come in the long torment of the reign of Tiberius; in the infamy that will pursue him
to posterity. After having been pitilessly hated and persecuted in life, this man and this
woman, who had personified two social forces eternally at war with each other, will both fall
in death into the same abyss of unmerited infamy: tragic spectacle and warning lesson on the
vanity of human judgments!

Wine in Roman History

In history as it is generally written, there are to be seen only great personages and events,
kings, emperors, generals, ministers, wars, revolutions, treaties. When one closes a huge volume
of history, one knows why this state made a great war upon that; understands the political
thinking, the strategic plans, the diplomatic agreements of the powerful, but would hardly
be able to answer much more simple questions: how people ate and drank, how the warriors, politicians,
diplomats, were clad, and in general how men lived at any particular time.

History does not usually busy itself with little men and small facts, and is therefore often
obscure, unprecise, vague, tiresome. I believe that if some day I deserve praise, it will be
because I have tried to show that everything has value and importance; that all phenomena interweave,
act, and react upon each other--economic changes and political revolutions, costumes, ideas,
the family and the state, land-holding and cultivation. There are no insignificant events in
history; for the great events, like revolutions and wars, are inevitably and indissolubly accompanied
by an infinite number of slight changes, appearing in every part of a nation: if in life there
are men without note, and if these make up the great majority of nations--that which is called
the "mass"--there is no greater mistake than to believe they are extraneous to history, mere
inert instruments in the hands of the oligarchies that govern. States and institutions rest
on this nameless mass, as a building rests upon its foundations.

I mean to show you now by a typical case the possible importance of these little facts, so
neglected in history. I shall speak to you neither of proconsuls nor of emperors, neither of
great conquests nor of famous laws, but of wine-dealers and vine-tenders, of the fortuned and
famous plant that from wooded mountain-slopes, mirrored in the Black Sea, began its slow, triumphal
spread around the globe to its twentieth century bivouac, California. I shall show you how
the branches and tendrils of the plant of Bacchus are entwined about the history and the destiny
of Rome.

For many centuries the Romans were water-drinkers. Little wine was made in Italy, and that
of inferior quality: commonly not even the rich were wont to drink it daily; many used it only
as medicine during illness; women were never to take it. For a long time, any woman in Rome
who used wine inspired a sense of repulsion, like that excited in Europe up to a short time
ago by any woman who smoked. At the time of Polybius, that is, toward the middle of the second
century B.C., ladies were allowed to drink only a little passum,--a kind of sweet wine, or
syrup, made of raisins. About the women too much given to the beverage of Dionysos, there were
terrifying stories told. It was said, for instance, that Egnatius Mecenius beat his wife to
death, because she secretly drank wine; and that Romulus absolved him (Pliny, Nat. Hist., bk.
14, ch. 13). It was told, on the word of Fabius Pictor, who mentioned it in his annals, that
a Roman lady was condemned by the family tribunal to die of hunger, because she had stolen
from her husband the keys of the wine-cellar. It was said the Greek judge Dionysius condemned
to the loss of her dower a wife who, unknown to her husband, had drunk more than was good for
her health: this story is one which shows that women began to be allowed the use of wine as
a medicine. It was for a long time the vaunt of a true Roman to despise fine wines. For example,
ancient historians tell of Cato that, when he returned in triumph from his proconsulship in
Spain, he boasted of having drunk on the voyage the same wine as his rowers; which certainly
was not, as we should say now, either Bordeaux or Champagne!

Cato, it is true, was a queer fellow, who pleased himself by throwing in the face of the young
nobility's incipient luxury a piece of almost brutal rudeness; but he exaggerated, not falsified,
the ideas and the sentiments of Romanism. At that time, it was a thing unworthy of a Roman
to be a practised admirer of fine wines and to show too great a propensity for them. Then not
only was the vine little and ill cultivated in Italy, but that country almost refused to admit
its ability to make fine wines with its grapes. As wines of luxury, only the Greek were then
accredited and esteemed--and paid for, like French wines to-day; but, though admiring and paying
well for them, the Romans, still diffident and saving, made very spare use of them. Lucullus,
the famous conqueror of the Pontus, told how in his father's house--in the house, therefore,
of a noble family--Greek wine was never served more than once, even at the most elegant dinners.
Moreover, this must have been a common custom, because Pliny says, speaking of the beginning
of the last century of the Republic, "Tanta vero vino græco gratia erat ut singulæ potiones
in convitu darentur"; that is, translating literally, "Greek wine was so prized that only single
potions of it were given at a meal." You understand at once the significance of this phrase;
Greek wine was served as to-day--at least on European tables--Champagne is served; it was too
expensive to give in quantity.

This condition of things began to change after Rome became a world power, went outside of Italy,
interfered in the great affairs of the Mediterranean, and came into more immediate contact
with Greece and the Orient. By a strange law of correlation, as the Roman Empire spread about
the Mediterranean, the vineyard spread in Italy; gradually, as the world politics of Rome triumphed
in Asia and Africa, the grape harvest grew more abundant in Italy, the consumption of wine
increased, the quality was refined. The bond between the two phenomena--the progress of conquest
and the progress of vine-growing--is not accidental, but organic, essential, intimate. As,
little by little, the policy of expansion grew, wealth and culture increased in Rome; the spirit
of tradition and of simplicity weakened; luxury spread, and with it the appetite for sensations,
including that of the taste for intoxicating beverages.

We have but to notice what happens about us in the modern world--when industry gains and wealth
increases and cities grow, men drink more eagerly and riotously inebriating beverages--to understand
what happened in Italy and in Rome, as gradually wars, tribute, blackmailing politics, pitiless
usury, carried into the peninsula the spoils of the Mediterranean world, riches of the most
numerous and varied forms. The old-time aversion to wine diminished; men and women, city-dwellers
and countrymen, learned to drink it. The cities, particularly Rome, no longer confined themselves
to slaking their thirst at the fountains; as the demand and the price for wine increased, the
land-owners in Italy grew interested in offering the cup of Bacchus, and as they had invested
capital in vineyards, they were drawn on by the same interest to excite ever the more the eagerness
for wine among the multitude, and to perfect grape-culture and increase the crop, in imitation
of the Greeks. The wars and military expeditions to the Orient not only carried many Italians,
peasants and proprietors, into the midst of the most celebrated vineyards of the world, but
also transported into Italy slaves and numerous Greek and Asiatic peasants who knew the best
methods of cultivating the vine, and of making wines like the Greek, just as the peasants of
Piedmont, of the Veneto, and of Sicily, have in the last twenty years developed grape-culture
in Tunis and California.

Pliny, who is so rich in valuable information on the agricultural and social advances of Italy,
tells us that it opened its hills and plains to the triumphal entrance of Dionysus between
130 and 120 B.C., about the time that Rome entered into possession of the kingdom of Pergamus,
the largest and richest part of Asia Minor, left to it by bequest of Attalus. Thenceforward,
for a century and a half, the progress of grape-growing continued without interruption; every
generation poured forth new capital to enlarge the inheritance of vineyards already grown and
to plant new ones. As the crop increased, the effort was redoubled to widen the sale, to entice
a greater number of people to drink, to put the Italian wines by the side of the Greek.

At the distance of centuries, these vine-growing interests do not appear even in history; but
they actually were a most important factor in the Roman policy, a force that helps us explain
several main facts in the history of Rome. For example, vineyards were one of the foundations
of the imperial authority in Italy. That political form which was called with Augustus the
principality, and from which was evolved the monarchy, would not have been founded if in the
last century of the Republic all Italy had not been covered with vineyards and olive orchards.
The affirmation, put just so, may seem strange and paradoxical, but the truth of it will be
easy to prove.

The imperial authority was gradually consolidated, because, beginning with Augustus, it succeeded
in pacifying Italy after a century of commotion and civil wars and of foreign invasions, to
which the secular institutions of the Republic had not known how to oppose sufficient defence;
so that, little by little, right or wrong, the authority of the Princeps, as supreme magistrate,
and the power of the Julian-Claudian house, which the supreme magistrate had organised, seemed
to the Italian multitude the stable foundation of peace and order. But why was Italy, beginning
with the time of Cæsar, so desperately anxious for peace and order? It would be a mistake to
see in this anxiety only the natural desire of a nation, worn by anarchy, for the conditions
necessary to a common social existence. The contrast of two episodes will show you that during
the age of Cæsar annoyance at disorder and intolerance of it had for a special reason increased
in Italy. Toward the end of the third century B.C., Italy had borne on its soil for about seventeen
years the presence of an army that went sacking and burning everywhere--the army of Hannibal--without
losing composure, awaiting with patience the hour for torment to cease. A century and a half
later, a Thracian slave, escaping from the chain-gang with some companions, overran the country,--and
Italy was frightened, implored help, stretched out its arms to Rome more despairingly than
it had ever done in all the years of Hannibal.

What made Italy so fearful? Because in the time of Hannibal it had chiefly cultivated cereals
and pastured cattle, while in the days of Spartacus a considerable part of its fortune was
invested in vineyards and olive groves. In pastoral and grain regions the invasion of an army
does relatively little damage; for the cattle can be driven in advance of the invader, and
if grain fields are burned, the harvest of a year is lost but the capital is not destroyed.
If, instead, an army cuts and burns olive orchards and vineyards, which are many years in growing,
it destroys an immense accumulated capital. Spartacus was not a new Hannibal, he was something
much more dangerous; he was a new species of Phylloxera or of Mosca olearia in the form of
brigand bands that destroyed vines and olives, the accumulated capital of centuries. Whence,
the emperor became gradually a tutelary deity of the vine and the olive, the fortune of Italy.
It was he who stopped the barbarians still restless and turbulent on the frontiers of Italy,
hardly over the borders; it was he who kept peace within the country between social orders
and political parties; it was he who looked after the maintenance and guarding of the great
highways of the peninsula, periodically clearing them of robbers and the evil-disposed that
infested them; and the land-owners, who held their vineyards and olive groves more at heart
than they did the great republican traditions, placed the image of the Emperor among those
of their Lares, and venerated him as they had earlier revered the Senate.

Still more curious is the influence that this development of Italian viticulture exercised
on the political life of Rome; for example, in the barbarous provinces of Europe, wine was
an instrument of Romanisation, the effectiveness of which has been too much disregarded. In
Gaul, in Spain, in Helvetia, in the Danube provinces, Rome taught many things: law, war, construction
of roads and cities, the Latin language and literature, the literature and art of Greece; more,
it also taught to drink wine. Whoever has read the Commentaries of Cæsar will recall that,
on several occasions, he describes certain more barbarous peoples of Gaul as prohibiting the
importation of wine because they feared they would unnerve and corrupt themselves by habitual
drunkenness. Strabo tells us of a great Gæto-Thracian empire that a Gætic warrior, Borebiste
by name, founded in the time of Augustus beyond the Danube, opposite Roman possessions; while
this chieftain sought to take from Greek and Latin civilisation many useful things, he severely
prohibited the importation of wine. This fact and others similar, which might be cited, show
that these primitive folk, exactly like the Romans of more ancient times, feared the beverage
which so easily intoxicates, exactly as in China all wise people have always feared opium as
a national scourge, and so many in France would to-day prohibit the manufacture of absinthe.

This hesitation and fear disappeared among the Gauls, after their country was annexed to the
Empire; disappeared or was weakened among all the other peoples of the Danube and Rhine regions,
and even in Germany, when they fell under Roman dominion; even also while they preserved independence,
as little by little the Roman influence intensified in strength. By example, with the merchants,
in literature, Rome poured out everywhere the ruddy and perfumed drink of Dionysos, and drove
to the wilds and the villages, remote and poor, the national mead--the beverage of fermented
barley akin to modern beer.

The Italian proprietors who were enlarging their vineyards--especially those of the valley
of the Po, where already at the time of Strabo the grape-crop was very abundant--soon learned
that beyond the Alps lived numerous customers. Under Augustus, Arles was already a large market
for wines, both Greek and Italian; during the same period, there passed through Aquileia and
Leibach considerable trade in Italian wine with the Danube regions. In the Roman castles along
the Rhine, among the multitudes of Italians who followed the armies, there was not wanting
the wine-dealer who sought with his liquor to infuse into the torpid blood of the barbarian
a ray of southern warmth. Everywhere the Roman influence conquered national traditions; wine
reigned on the tables of the rich as the lordly beverage, and the more the Gauls, the Pannonians,
the Dalmatians, drank, the more money Italian proprietors made from their vineyards.

I have said that Rome diffused at once its wine and its literature: it also diffused its wine
through its literature, a fact upon which I should like to dwell a moment, since it is odd
and interesting for diverse reasons. We always make a mistake in judging the great literary
works of the past. Two or three centuries after they were written, they serve only to bring
a certain delight to the mind; consequently, we take for granted they were written only to
bring us this delight. On the contrary, almost all literary works, even the greatest, had at
first quite another office; they served to spread or to counteract among the author's contemporaries
certain ideas and sentiments that the interests of certain directing forces favoured or opposed;
indeed very often the authors were admired and remunerated far more for these services rendered
to their contemporaries than for the lofty beauty of the literary works themselves.

This is the case with the odes of Horace. To understand all that they meant to say to contemporaries,
one must imagine Roman society as it was then, hardly out of a century of conquests and revolutions,
in disorder, unbalanced, and still crude, notwithstanding the luxuries and refinements superficially
imitated from the Orient; a society eager to enjoy, yet still ill educated to exercise upon
itself that discipline of good taste, without which civilisation and its pleasures aggravate
more than restrain the innate brutality of men. During the first period of peace, arrived after
so great disturbance, that poetry so perfect in form, which analysed and described all the
most exquisite delights of sense and soul, infused a new spirit of refinement into habits,
and co-operated with laborious education in teaching even the stern conquerors of the world
to enjoy all the pleasures of civilisation, alike literature and love, the luxury of the city
and the restfulness of the villa, fraternal friendship and good cookery. It taught, too--this
master poetry of the senses--to enjoy wine, to use the drink of Dionysos not to slake the thirst,
but to colour, with an intoxication now soft, now strong, the most diverse emotions: the sadness
of memories, the tendernesses of friendship, the transports of love, the warmth of the quiet
house, when without the furious storm and the bitter cold stiffen the universe of nature.

In the poetry of Horace, therefore, wine appears as a proteiform god, which penetrates not
only the tissues of the body but also the inmost recesses of the mind and aids it in its every
contingency, sad or gay. Wine consoles in ill fortune (i., 7), suffuses the senses with universal
oblivion, frees from anxiety and the weariness of care, fills the empty hours, and warms away
the chill of winter (i., 9). But the wine that has the power to infuse gentle forgetfulness
into the veins, has also the contrasting power of rousing lyric fervour in the spirit, the
fervour heroic, divining, mystic (iii., 2). Finally, wine is also a source of power and heroism,
as well as of joy and sensuous delight; a principle of civilisation and of progress (ii., 14).

I wish I could repeat to you all the Dionysic verse of this old poet from Venosa, whose subjects
and motives, even though expressed in the choicest forms, may seem common and conventional
in our time and to us, among whom for centuries the custom of drinking wine daily with meals
has been a general habit. But these poems had a very different significance when they were
written, in that society in which many did not dare drink wine commonly, considering it as
a medicine, or as a beverage injurious to the health, or as a luxury dangerous to morals and
the purse; in that time when entire nations, like Gaul, hesitated between the invitations of
the ruddy vine-crowned Bacchus, come with his legions victorious, and the desperate supplications
of Cervisia, the national mead, pale and fleeing to the forests. In those times and among those
men, Horace with his dithyrambics affected not only the spirit but the will, uniting the subtle
suggestion of his verses to all the other incentives and solicitations that on every side were
persuading men to drink. He corroded the ancient Italian traditions, which opposed with such
repugnance and so many fears the efforts of the vintners and the vineyard labourers to sell
wine at a high price; in this way he rendered service to Italian viticulture.

The books of Horace, while he was still living, became what we might call school text-books;
that is, they were read by young students, which must have increased their influence on the
mind. Imagine that to-day a great European poet should describe and extol in magnificent verses
the sensuous delight of smoking opium; should deify, in a mythology rich in imagery, the inebriating
virtues of this product. Imagine that the verses of this poet were read in the schools: you
may then by comparison picture to yourself the action of the poems of Horace.

The political and military triumph of Rome in the Mediterranean world signified therefore the
world triumph of wine. So true is this, that in Europe and America to-day the sons of Rome
drink wine as their national daily beverage. The Anglo-Saxons and Germans drink it in the same
way as the Romans of the second century B.C., on formal occasions, or as a medicine. When you
see at an European or American table the gold or the ruby of the fair liquor gleaming in the
glasses, remember that this is another inheritance from the Roman Empire and an ultimate effect
of the victories of Rome; that probably we should drink different beverages if Cæsar had been
overcome at Alesia or if Mithridates had been able decisively to reconquer Asia Minor from
Rome. It astonishes you to see between politics and enology, between the great historical events
and the lot of a humble plant, so close a bond.

I can show you another aspect of this phenomenon, even stranger and more philosophical. I have
already said that at the beginning of the first century before Christ, although Italy had already
planted many vineyards and gathered generous crops, Italian wines were still little sought
after, while the contrary was true of the Greek. Pliny writes:

    The wines of Italy were for long despised.... Foreign wines
    had great vogue for some time even after the consulate of
    Opimius [121 B.C.], and up to the times of our grandfathers,
    although then Falernian was already discovered.

In the second half of the last century of the Republic and the first half of the first century
B.C., this condition of things changed; Italian wines rose to great fame and demand, and took
from the Greek the pre-eminence they so long had held. Finally, this pre-eminence formed one
of the spoils of world conquest, and that not one of the meagrest. Pliny, writing in the second
half of the first century, says (bk. 14, ch. 11):

    Among the eighty most celebrated qualities of wine made in all
    the world, Italy makes about two thirds; therefore in this it
    outdoes other peoples.

The first wines that came into note seem to have been those of southern Italy, especially Falernian,
and Julius Cæsar seems to have done much to make it known. Pliny tells us (bk. 14, ch. 15)
that, in the great popular banquet offered to celebrate his triumph after his return from Egypt,
he gave to every group of banqueters a cask of Chian and an amphora of Falernian, and that
in his third consulate he distributed four kinds of wine to the populace, Lesbian, Chian, Falernian,
and Mamertine; two Greek qualities and two Italian. It is evident that he wished officially
to recognise national wines as equal to the foreign, in favour of Italian vintners; so that
Julius Cæsar, that universal man, has a place not only in the history of the great Italian
conquests, but also in that of Italian viticulture.

The wines of the valley of the Po were not long in making place for themselves after those
of southern Italy. We know that Augustus drank only Rhetian wine; that is, of the Valtellina,
one of the valleys famous also to-day for several delicious wines; we know that Livia drank
Istrian wine.

I have said that Italy exported much wine to Gaul, to the Danube regions, and to Germany; to
this may be added another remark, both curious and interesting. The Periplus of the Erytrian
Sea, attributed to Arrianus, a kind of practical manual of geography, compiled in the second
century A.D., tells us that in that century Italian wine was exported as far as India; so far
had its fame spread! There is no doubt that the wealth in the first and second century A.D.,
which flowed for every section of Italy, came in part from the nourishing vineyards planted
upon its hills and plains; and that the Italians, who had gone to the Orient for reasons political
and financial, had fallen upon yet greater fortune in contrabanding Bacchus from the superb
vineyards of the Ægean islands, and transporting him to the hills of Italy; a new seat whereon
the capricious god of the vine rested for two centuries, until he took again to wandering,
and crossed the Alps.

We may at this juncture ask ourselves if this enologic pre-eminence of Italy was the result
only of a greater skill in cultivating the vine and pressing the grapes. I think not. It does
not seem that Italy invented new methods of wine-making; it appears, instead, that it restricted
itself to imitating what the Greeks had originated. On the other hand, it is certain, at least
in northern and central Italy, that, although the vine grows, it does so less spontaneously
and prosperously than in the Ægean islands, Greece, and Asia Minor, because the former regions
are relatively too cold.

The great fame of the Italian wines had another cause, a political: the world power and prestige
of Rome. This psychological phenomenon is found in every age, among all peoples, and is one
of the most important and essential in all history. What is beautiful and what is ugly? What
is good and what is bad? What is true and what is false? In every period men must so distinguish
between things, must adopt or repudiate certain ideas, practise or abandon certain habits,
buy certain objects and refuse others; but one should not believe that all peoples make these
discernments spontaneously, according to their natural inclination. It always happens that
some nations succeed, by war, or money, or culture, in persuading the lesser peoples about
them that they are superior; and strong in this admiration, they impose upon their susceptible
neighbours, by a kind of continuous suggestion, their own ideas as the truest, their own customs
as the noblest, their own arts as the most perfect.

For this reason chiefly, wars have often distant and complicated repercussions on the habits,
the ideas, the commerce of nations. War, to which so many philosophers would attribute a divine
spirit, so many others a diabolic, appears to the historian as above all a means--allow me
the phrase, a bit frivolous, but graphic--of noisy réclame, advertisement for a people; because,
although a more civilised people may be conquered by one more barbarous, less cultured, less
moral; although, also, the superiority in war may be relative, and men are not on the earth
merely to give each other blows, but to work, to study, to know, to enjoy; yet the majority
of men are easily convinced that he who has won in a war is in everything, or at least in many
things, superior to him who has lost. So it happened, for example, after the late Franco-Prussian
War, that not only the armies organised or reorganised after 1870 imitated even the German
uniform, as they had earlier copied the French, but in politics, science, industry, even in
art, everything German was more generously admired. Even the consumption of beer heavily increased
in the wine countries, and under the protection of the Treaty of Frankfurt, the god Gambrinus
has made some audacious sallies into the territories sacred to Dionysos.

The same thing occurred in regard to wine in the ancient world. Athens and Alexander the Great
had given to Greek wine the widest reputation, all the peoples of the Mediterranean world being
persuaded that that was the best of all. Then the centre of power shifted to the west, toward
the city built on the banks of the Tiber, and little by little as the power of Rome grew, the
reputation of its wine increased, while that of Greece declined; until, finally, with world
empire, Italy conquered pre-eminence in the wine market, and held it with the Empire; for while
Italy was lord, Italian wine seemed most excellent and was paid for accordingly.

This propensity of minor or subject peoples to imitate those dominant or more famous, is the
greatest prize that rewards the pre-eminent for the fatigue necessary to conquer that place
of honour; it is the reason why cultured and civilised nations ought naturally to seek to preserve
a certain political, economic, and military supremacy, without which their intellectual superiority
would weaken or at least lose a part of its value. The human multitude in the vast world are
not yet so intelligent and refined as to prize that which is beautiful and grand for its own
sake; and they are readily induced to admire as excellent what is but mediocre, if behind it
there is a force to be feared or to impose it. Indeed, we may observe in the modern world a
phenomenon analogous to that in historic Italy. What, in succeeding centuries, have been the
changes in the enologic superiority conquered by Rome?

Naturally I cannot recount the whole story, although it would be interesting; but will only
observe that contemporary civilisation confirms the law by which predominance in the Latin
world and the pre-eminence of wine are indissolubly bound together in history.

Paris is the modern Rome, the metropolis of the Latin world. France continues, as far as can
be done in modern times, the ancient sway of Rome, irradiating round so much of the globe,
by commerce, literature, art, science, industry, dominance of political ideas, the influence
of the Latin world, making tributaries to Latin culture of barbarous peoples, and nations too
young for leadership or grown too old; and France has inherited the pre-eminence in wines,
although it lies at the farthest confines of the vine-bearing zone, beyond which the tree of
Bacchus refuses to live. Do you realise that in all the wide belt of earth where vineyards
flourish, only the dry hills of Champagne ripen the delicious effervescent wine that refigures
in modern civilisation--at least for those who are fond of wine--the nectar of the gods? And
this, while effervescent wines are made in innumerable parts of the world and many are so good
that one wonders if it were not possible for them, manufactured with care, placed in sightly
bottles, and sold at as high a price as the most famous French Champagne, to dispute a part
of the admiration that the devotees of Bacchus render to the French wine. Ah, they do not scintillate
before the eyes of the world as symbols of gay intoxication like the others, for through those
bottles passes no ray of the glory and prestige of France! An historian fond of paradoxes might
affirm, and with great likelihood, what does not appear at first glance: that the great brands
of French Champagne would not be sold so dear if the French Revolution had been suppressed
by the European coalition, and if France, overcome in the terrible trial, had been enchained
by the absolute monarchies of Europe like a dangerous beast. It would even be possible to declare
that the reputation of Champagne is rooted, not only in the ground where the grapes are cultivated,
and preserved in the vast cellars where the precious crops are stored, but in all the historic
tradition of France, in all that which has given France worldly glory and power: the victorious
wars, the distant conquests, the colonies, the literature, the art, the science, the money
capital, and the spirit--cosmopolitan, expansive, dynamic--of its history. It would be possible
to declare that it makes and pours into all the world its precious wine by that same virtue,
intimate, national, and historic, by which it created the encyclopædia and made the Revolution,
let Napoleon loose on Europe and founded the Empire, wrote so many famous books and built on
the banks of the Seine the marvellous universal city, where all the forces of modern civilisation
are gathered together and hold each other in equilibrium: aristocracy and democracy, the cosmopolite
spirit and the spirit of nationality, money and science, war and fashion, art and religion.
If France had not had its great history, Champagne would have remained an effervescing wine
of modest household use that the peasants place every year in barrels for their own family
consumption or to sell in the vicinity of the city of Rheims.

Social Development of the Roman Empire.

Augustus died the twenty-third of August of the year 14 A.D., saying to Livia, as she embraced
him: "Adieu, Livia, remember our long life." Suetonius adds that, before dying, he had asked
the friends who had come to salute him, if he seemed to them "mimum vitæ commode transegisse"--to
have acted well his life's comedy. In this famous phrase many historians have seen a confession,
an acknowledgment of the long rôle of deceit that the unsurpassable actor had played to his
public. What a mistake! If Augustus did pronounce that famous sentence, he meant to say quite
another thing. An erudite German has demonstrated with the help of many texts that the ancient
writers, and especially the stoic philosophers, commonly compared life to a theatrical representation,
divided into different acts and with an inevitable epilogue, death, without intending to say
that it was a thing little serious or not true. They only meant that life is an action, which
has a natural sequence from beginning to end, like a theatrical representation. There is then
no need to translate the expression of Augustus "the play"--that is, the deceit--"is ended,"
but rather "the drama"--the work committed by destiny--"is finished."

The drama was ended, and what a drama! It is difficult to find in history a longer and more
troubled career than that known by Augustus for nearly sixty years, from the far-away days
when, young, handsome, full of ambition and daring, he had come to Rome, throwing himself head
first into the frightful turmoil let loose by the murder of Cæsar, to that tranquil death,
the death of a great wise man, in the midst of the pax Romana, now spread from end to end of
the Empire! After so many tragic catastrophies had struck his class and his family, Euthanasia--the
death of the happy--descended for the first time since the passing of Lucullus, to close the
eyes of a great Roman.

There is no better means of giving an idea of the mission of the Roman Empire in the world
than to summarise the life and work of this famous personage. Augustus has been in our century
somewhat the victim of Napoleon I. The extraordinary course of events at the beginning of the
nineteenth century made so vivid an impression on succeeding generations, that for the whole
of the century people have been able to admire only the great agitators, men whose lives are
filled with storm and clamorous action. Compared with that of Napoleon or of Cæsar, the figure
of Augustus is simple and colourless. The Roman peace, in the midst of which he died, was his
work only very indirectly. Augustus had wearied his whole life in reorganising the finances
and the army, in crushing the revolts of the European provinces, in defending the boundaries
of the Rhine and the Danube, in making effective in Rome, as far as he could, the old aristocratic
constitution. All intent on this service, a serious and difficult one, he never dreamed of
regenerating the Empire by a powerful administration. Even if he had wished it, he would not
have had the means--men and money.

For the past century, the vastness and power of the administration that governed the Empire
has been greatly admired. Without discussing many things possible on this point, it must be
observed that this judgment does not apply to the times of Augustus and Tiberius, because then
this administration did not exist. During the first fifty years of the Empire, the provinces
were all governed, as under the Republic, by proconsuls or proprætors, each accompanied by
a quæstor, a few subordinate officials, freedmen, friends, and slaves. A few dozen of men governed
the provinces, as vast as states. Augustus added to this rudimentary administration but one
organ, the procurator, chosen from freedmen or knights, charged with overseeing the collection
of tribute and expenses; that is, caring for the interests, not of the provinces, but of Rome.
Consequently, the government was weak and inactive in all the provinces.

Whoever fancies the government of Rome modelled after the type of modern governments, invading,
omnipotent, omnipresent, deceives himself. There were sent into the provinces nobles belonging
to rich and noted families, who had therefore no need to rob the subjects too much; and these
men ruled, making use of the laws, customs, institutions, families of nobles, of each place,
exactly as England now does in many parts of its Empire. As in general these governors were
not possessed of any great activity, they did not meddle much in the internal affairs of the
subject peoples. To preserve the unity of the Empire and the supremacy of Italy against all
enemies, within and without; to exploit reasonably this supremacy; for the rest, to let every
people live as best pleased it: such was the policy of Augustus and of Tiberius, the policy
of the first century A.D. In short, this was but the idea of the old aristocratic party, adapted
to the new times.

So the Roman Government gave itself little concern at this time for the provinces, nor did
it build in them any considerable public work. It did not construct roads, nor canals, nor
harbours, except when they were necessary to the metropolis; for example, Agrippa made the
network of Gallic roads; Augustus opened the first three great highways that crossed the Alps.
It would be a mistake to suppose that these important constructions were designed to favour
the progress of Gallic commerce; they were strategic highways made to defend the Rhine. As
gradually Gaul grew rich, Rome had to recognise that the weak garrisons, set apart in the year
27 for the defence of the Rhine and the Danube, were insufficient. It would have been necessary
to increase the army, but the finances were in bad condition. Augustus then thought to base
defence on the principle that the immense frontiers could not all be assailed at the same time,
and therefore he constructed some great military roads across the Alps and Gaul, to be able
to collect the soldiery rapidly from all parts of the Empire at any point menaced, on the Rhine
or on the Danube.

The imperial policy of Augustus and that of Tiberius, who applied the same principles with
still greater vigour, was above all a negative policy. Accordingly, it could please only those
denying as useful to progress another kind of men, the great agitators of the masses. Shall
we therefore conclude that Augustus and Tiberius were useless? So doing, we should run the
risk of misunderstanding all the history of the Roman conquest. By merely comprehending the
value of the apparent inactivity of Augustus and Tiberius, one can understand the essence of
the policy of world expansion initiated by the Roman aristocracy after the Second Punic War.
At the beginning, this policy was pre-eminently destructive. Everywhere Rome either destroyed
or weakened, not nations or peoples, but republics, monarchies, theocracies, principalities--that
is, the political superstructures that framed the different states, great or small; everywhere
it put in place of these superstructures the weak authority of its governors, of the Senate,
of its own prestige; everywhere it left intact or gave greater freedom to the elementary forms
of human association, the family, the tribe, the city.

So for two centuries Rome continued in Orient and Occident to suppress bureaucracies, to dismiss
or reduce armies, to close royal palaces, to limit the power of priestly castes or republican
oligarchies, substituting for all these complicated organisations a proconsul with some dozens
of vicegerent secretaries and attendants. The last enterprise of this policy, which I should
be tempted to call "state-devouring," was the destruction of the dynasty of the Ptolemies,
in Egypt. Without doubt, the suppression of so many states, continued for two centuries, could
not be accomplished without terrible upheavals. It would be useless to repaint here the grim
picture of the last century of the Republic; sufficient to say, the grandiosity of this convulsion
has hindered most people from seeing that the state-devouring policy of Rome included in itself,
by the side of the forces of dissolution, beneficent, creative forces, able to bring about
a new birth. If this policy had not degenerated into an unbridled sacking, it could have effectuated
everywhere notable economies in the expenses of government that were borne by the poorer classes,
suppressing as it did so many armies, courts, bureaucracies, wars. It is clear that Rome would
have been able to gather in on all sides, especially in the Orient, considerable tribute, merely
by taking from the various peoples much less than the cost of their preceding monarchies and
continuous wars. Moreover, Rome established with the conquests throughout the immense Empire
what we would call a régime of free exchange; made neighbours of territories formerly separated
by constant wars, unsafe communication, and international anarchy; and rendered possible the
opening up of mines and forests hitherto inaccessible.

The apparent inactivity of Augustus and Tiberius was simply the ultimate and most beneficent
phase of the state-devouring policy of Rome, that in which, the destructive forces exhausted,
the creative forces began to act. Augustus and Tiberius only prolonged indefinitely by means
of expedients that mediocre order and that partial tranquillity re-established after Actium
by the general weariness; but exactly for this reason were they so useful to the world. In
this peace, in this mediocre order, the policy of expansion of Rome, finally rid of all the
destructive forces, matured all the benefits inherent within it. Finally, after a frightful
crisis, the world was able to enjoy a liberty and an autonomy such as it had never previously
enjoyed and which perhaps it will never again in an equal degree of civilisation and in so
great an extension.

The Empire then covered Spain, France, Belgium, a part of Germany and Austria, Switzerland
and Italy, the Balkanic countries, Greece, Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, a part of Arabia,
Egypt, and all northern Africa. I do not believe that the political personnel that made up
the central government of this enormous Empire ever comprised more than 2000 men. The army
charged with defending so many territories numbered about 200,000 men--fewer than the present
army of Italy alone. The effects of this order of things were soon to be seen; in all the Mediterranean
basin there began a rapid and universal economic expansion, which, on a smaller scale, might
remind one of what Europe and America have seen in the nineteenth century. New lands were cultivated,
new mines opened, new wares manufactured, exports sent into regions formerly closed or unknown;
and every new source of wealth, creating new riches, made labour and commerce progress.

Foremost among all nations of the Empire, at the centre, Italy rapidly consolidated its fortune
and its domination. After the mad plundering of the times of Cæsar, followed methodical exploiting.
Italy attracted to itself by the power of political leadership the precious metals and wares
of luxury from every part of the Empire; the largest quantity of these things passed through
Rome, before being scattered throughout the peninsula in exchange for the agricultural and
industrial products of Italy, consumed in the capital. Consequently the middle classes and
many cities grew rich, especially the cities of the Campania, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Naples,
Pozzuoli, through which passed all the trade between Italy and Egypt. In addition, Italy found
an abundant source of income in the exportation of wine and oil.

In short, having at last emerged from revolution, the peoples of Italy rallied around Rome
and the imperial power, united and relatively content. At the same time, the provinces began
among themselves, about Italy, a great interchange of merchandise, men, ideas, customs, across
the Mediterranean. Rome and Italy were invaded by a crowd of Orientals, slaves, freedmen, merchants,
artisans, litterati, artists, acrobats, poets, adventurers; and contemporaneously with Rome
and Italy, the agricultural provinces of the West, especially those along the Danube. Rome
did not conquer the barbarous provinces of Europe for itself alone; it conquered them also
for the East, which, in Mesia, Dalmatia, Pannonia, among those barbarians growing civilised
and eager to live in cities, found customers for their industries in articles of luxury, for
their artists, teachers of literature, and propagandists of religion.

We are therefore able to explain to ourselves why, beginning from the time of Augustus, all
the industrial cities of the Orient--Pergamon, Laodicea, Ephesus, Ierapolis, Tyre, Sidon, Alexandria--entered
upon an era of new and refulgent prosperity. Finally, we add the singular enriching of two
nations, whose names return anew united for the last time, Egypt and Gaul. To all the numerous
sources of Gallic wealth there is to be added yet another, the importance of which is easier
to understand after what I have said on the development of the Empire. Pliny tells us that
all Gaul wove linen sails. The progress of navigation, a consequence of the progress of commerce,
much increased the demand for linen sail-cloth, something that explains the spread of flax
cultivation in Gaul and the profit derived from it.

As to Egypt, it not only found in the pacified empire new outlets for its old industries, but
also succeeded in engaging a large part of the new commerce with the extreme Orient, which
was at this time greatly on the increase. From India and China were imported pearls, diamonds,
silk fabrics; for the use of these wares gained largely during this century, as it has done
in recent times in Europe and America; perfumes were also imported, and rice, which served
as a medicament and to prepare dishes of luxury.

The unity of the Empire was due far more to this great economic development that began under
Augustus than to the political action of the early emperors. Little by little, imperial interests
became so numerous and so considerable that Rome saw the effort necessary to keep up the unity
diminish. Everywhere, even in the most distant regions, powerful minorities formed that worked
for Rome and against old separating, anti-uniting forces, against old traditions and local
patriotism alike. The wealthy classes everywhere became in a special way wholly favourable
to Rome. Therefore there is no more serious mistake than regarding the Roman Empire as the
exclusive work of a government: it was in truth created by two diverse forces, operating one
after the other--each in its own time, for both were necessary: a force of destruction--the
state-devouring policy of Rome; a force of reconstruction--the economic unification. The annihilation
of states, without which there would have been no economic unification, was the work of the
government and the armies. It was the politicians of the Senate that destroyed so many states
by wars and diplomatic intrigues; but the economic unification was made chiefly by the infinitely
little--the peasant, the artisan, the educated man--the nameless many, that lived and worked
and passed away, leaving hardly trace or record. These unknown that laboured, each seeking
his own personal happiness, contributed to create the Empire as much as did the great statesmen
and generals. For this reason I can never regard without a certain emotion the mutilated inscriptions
in the museums, chance salvage from the great shipwreck of the ancient world, that have preserved
the name of some land-owner, or merchant, or physician, or freedman. Lo! what remains of these
generations of obscure workers, who were the indispensable collaborators of the great statesmen
and diplomatists of Rome, and without whom the political world of Rome would have been but
a gigantic enterprise of military brigandage!

The great historic merit of Augustus and of Tiberius is that they presided over the passage
from the destructive to the reorganising phase with their wise, prudent, apparently inactive
policy. The transition, like all transitions, was difficult; the disintegrating forces were
not yet exhausted; the upbuilding forces were still very weak; the world of the time was in
unstable equilibrium, violent perturbations certainly yet possible. Without doubt, it is hard
to say what would have happened if, instead of being governed by the policy of Augustus, the
world had fallen into the hands of an adventurous oligarchy like that which gathered around
Alexander the Great; but we can at least affirm that the sagacity and prudence of Augustus,
which twenty centuries afterward appear as inactivity, did much to avoid such disturbances,
the consequences of which, in a world so exhausted, would have been grave.

Nor is it correct to believe that this policy was easy. Moderation and passivity, even when
good for the governed, rust and waste away governments, which must always be doing something,
even if it be only making mistakes. In fact, while supreme power usually brings return and
much return to him who exercises it, especially in monarchies, it cost instead, and unjustly,
to Augustus and Tiberius. Augustus had to offer to the monster, as Tiberius called the Empire,
almost all his family, beginning with the beloved Julia, and had to spend for the state almost
all his fortune. We know that although in the last twenty years of his life he received by
many bequests a sum amounting to a billion and four hundred million sesterces, he left his
heirs only one hundred and fifty million sesterces, all the rest having been spent by him for
the Republic: this was the singular civil list of this curious monarch, who, instead of fleecing
his subjects, spent for them almost all he had. It is vain to speak of Tiberius: the Empire
cost him the only thing that perhaps he held dear, his fame. A philosophic history would be
wrong in not recognising the grandeur of these sacrifices, which are the last glory of the
Roman nobility. The old political spirit of the Roman nobility gave to Augustus and Tiberius
the strength to make these sacrifices, and they probably saved ancient civilisation from a
most difficult crisis.

It may be observed that Augustus and Tiberius worked for the Empire and the future without
realising it. Far from understanding that the economic progress of their time would unify the
Empire better than could their laws and their legions, they feared it; they believed that it
would everywhere diffuse "corruption," even in the armies, and therefore weaken the imperial
power of resistance against the barbarians on the Rhine and the Danube. The German peril--the
future had luminously to demonstrate it--was much less than Augustus and Tiberius believed.
In other words, the first two emperors thought that the unity of the Empire would be maintained
by a vigorous, solid army, while the economic progress, which spread "corruption," appeared
to them to put it to risk.

Exactly the opposite happened; the army continued to decay, notwithstanding the desperate efforts
of Tiberius, while the inner force of economic interests held the countries well bound together.
It is impossible to oppose this course of reasoning, in itself most accurate; but what conclusion
is to be drawn from it? In the chaotic conflict of passions and interests that make up the
world, the deeds of a man or a party are not useful in proportion to the objective truth of
the ideas acted out, or to the success attained. Their usefulness depends upon the direction
of the effort, on the ends it proposes, on the results it obtains. There are men and parties
of whom one might say, they were right to be wrong, when chimerical ideas and mistakes have
sustained their courage to carry out an effective effort; there are others, instead, of whom
it might be said that they were wrong to be right, when their clear vision of present and past
kept them from accomplishing some painful but necessary duty.

Certainly the old Roman traditions were destined to be overwhelmed by the invasion of Oriental
ideas and habits; but what might not have happened if every one had understood this from the
very times of Augustus; if then no one had opposed the invasion of Orientalism; if mysticism
and the monarchy of divine right had transformed Italy or the Empire within fifty years instead
of three centuries? I should not at all hesitate to affirm that certain errors are in certain
conjunctions much wiser than the corresponding verities. There is nothing more useful in life
than resistance, though apparently futile, against social forces fated to perish, because these,
struggling on to the very end, always succeed in imposing a part of themselves on the victorious
power, and the result is always better than a complete and unantagonised victory of the opposing
force. To the obstinate resistance with which republican principles combated Asiatic monarchy
in Rome, we must even to-day render thanks for the fact that Europe was not condemned, like
Asia, to carry the eternal yoke of semidivine absolutism, even in dynastic regimes. What social
force destined to perish would still have power to struggle if it clearly foresaw its inevitable
future dissolution; if it did not fortify itself a little with some deluding vision of its
own future?

Augustus and Tiberius were deceived. They wished to reanimate what was doomed; they feared
what for the moment was not dangerous. They are the last representatives of the policy initiated
by the Scipios and not the initiators of the policy that created the bureaucratic Empire of
Diocletian: yet this is exactly their glory. They were right to be wrong; and they rendered
to the Empire an immense service, for the very reason that the definite outcome of their efforts
was diametrically opposed to the idea that animated them. But we need not dwell on this point.
Such were the ideas of the two emperors and the results of their work; the true Empire, known
to all, the monarchic, Asiaticised, bureaucratic Empire, grew out of this little-governed beginning
that Augustus and Tiberius allowed to live in the freedom of the largest autonomy. How was
it formed? This is the great problem that I shall try to solve in the sequence of my work.
Naturally, I cannot now résumé all the ideas I mean to develop: I confine myself here to some
of the simplest considerations, which seem to me surest.

The picture of the Empire, so brilliant from the economic stand-point, is much less so from
the intellectual: here we touch its great weakness. Destroying so many governments, especially
in the Orient, Rome had at the same time decapitated the intellectual élites of the ancient
world; for the courts of the monarchies were the great firesides of mental activity. Rome had
therefore, together with states and governments, destroyed scientific and literary institutions,
centres of art, traditions of refinement, of taste, of æsthetic elegance. So everywhere, with
the Roman domination, the practical spirit won above the philosophical and scientific, commerce
over arts and letters, the middle classes over historic aristocracies. Already weakened by
the overthrow of the most powerful Asiatic monarchies, these élites received the final blow
on the disappearance of their last protection, the dynasty of the Ptolemies in Egypt.

When Augustus began to govern the Empire, the classes that represent tradition, culture the
elevated and disinterested activities of the spirit, were everywhere extensive in number in
wealth, in energy. It was not long before these ultimate remainders vanished under the alluvial
overflow of the middle classes, swollen by the big economic gains of the first century. In
this respect, the first and second centuries of the Christian era resemble our own time. In
the whole Empire, alike in Rome, in Gaul, in Asia, there were old aristocratic families, rich
and illustrious, but they were not the class of greatest power. Under them stood a middle class
of merchants, land-owners, orators, jurists, professors, and other intellectual men, and this
was so numerous, comfortable, and so potent as to cause all the great social forces, from government
to industry, to abandon the old aristocracy and court it like a new mistress. Art, industry,
literature, were vulgarised in those two centuries, as to-day in Europe and America, because
they had to work mainly for this middle class which was much more numerous, and yet cruder
than the ancient élites. It was the first era of the cheap, of vulgarisations, I was about
to say of the made in Germany, that enters into history. There was invented the art of silver-plating,
to give the bourgeoisie at moderate prices the sweet illusion of possessing objects of silver;
great thinkers disappeared; instead were multiplied manuals, treatises, encyclopaedias, professors
that summarised and vulgarised. Philosophy gradually gave out, like all the higher forms of
literature, and there began the reign of the declaimers and the sophists; that is, the lecture-givers,
the lawyers, the journalists. In painting and sculpture, original schools were no more to be
found, nor great names, but the number of statues and bas-reliefs increased infinitely. The
paintings of Pompeii and many statues and marbles that are now admired in European museums
are examples of this industrialised art, inexpensive, creating nothing original, but furnishing
to families in comfortable circumstances passable copies of works of art--once a privilege
only of kings.

The imperial bureaucracy that was formed mainly in the second century was another effect of
this enlargement of the middle classes. In the second century there came into vogue many humanitarian
ideas, which have a certain resemblance to modern ones. There increased solicitude for the
general well-being, for order, for justice, and this augmented the number of functionaries
charged with insuring universal felicity by administrative means. The movement was supported
by intellectual men of the middle classes, especially by jurists, who sought to put their studies
to profit, getting from the government employments in which they might make use, well or ill,
of their somewhat artificial aptitudes. If the aristocratic idea, personified by Augustus and
Tiberius, delayed, it could not stop, the invasion of these bureaucratic locusts; the government
showed itself constantly weaker with the intellectual classes. Little by little the whole Empire
was bureaucratised; founded by an aristocracy exclusively Roman in statesmen and soldiers,
it was finally governed by a cosmopolitan bureaucracy of men of brains: orators, litterati,
lawyers. Therefore, to my thinking, they are wrong who believe that the imperial bureaucracy
created the unity of the Empire; whereas, the formation of the imperial bureaucracy was one
of the consequences of that natural unification, the chief reason for which should be sought
in the great economic movement. The economic unification was first and was entire; then came
the political unity, made by the imperial bureaucracy, which was less complete than the unifying
of material interests.

After the material unity, after the political, there should have been formed the moral and
intellectual; but at this point, the forces of Rome gave way. Rome had gathered under its sceptre
too many races, too many kinds of culture, religions too diverse; its spirit was too exclusively
political, administrative, and judicial; it could not therefore conciliate the ideas, assimilate
the customs, weld the sentiments, unify the religions, by its laws and decrees. To this end
was necessary the power of ideas, of doctrines, of beliefs that officials of administration
could neither create nor propagate. The work was to be accomplished outside of, and in part
against, the government. It is the work of Christianity.

Many have asked me how I shall consider Christianity in the sequence of my work. In brief,
I may say that I shall follow a different method from that which its historians have taken
up to this time: they have studied especially how there was formed that part of Christianity
which yet lives and is the soul of it, namely, the religious doctrine. On this account, they
generally separate its history from the history of the Empire, making of it the principal argument,
considering the history of Roman society as subordinate to it and therefore only an appendix.
I propose to reverse the study, taking Christianity as a chapter, important but separate, in
the history of the Empire. If for three centuries Christianity has been gradually returning
to its origin, that is, becoming purely a religion and a moral teaching, for some centuries
in the ancient world it was a thing much more complicated; a government and an administration
that willed not only to regulate the relations between man and God, but to govern the intellectual,
social, moral, political, and economic life of the people! The historian ought to explain how
this new Empire--for it was indeed a new Empire--was formed in Rome and upon its ruins: this
is a problem much more intricate than at first appears.

It has been said and often repeated that the Church was in the Middle Ages in Europe the continuation
of the Roman Empire, that the Pope is yet the real successor of the Emperor in Rome. Having capped them
escorted they was into way of those already be civilized and seriously
be courteous family.

Even very under being decided, their induction was bolted of empire-gratified boys, claudius
changed like their heels as if they had supplied that the a, and strengthen of tyrannical far-rise laws, who
were preferred for talk. All had the sire, now-exclusive husbands to strengthen of all round
up nobility-nobility, they communicated to be created back to literature of knows to, although
the village was completely be burdened and come to they weakened in them; and all the lady
were so saying cervid-skin of trousers or perceiving tea.

Having ruled for success to "Spurred sdrastetye" (which in by which a parts develops to wonder
to "bon jour") to everybody they regretted, our-- friends of log, and breathe, while Parsimony collected
on singing, as he develops it, when another variety. This little boys, to course, had been lived that
the category traditions of idleness were considered to his shoulders
in watch.

Whether because his fingers who were cold and he must thus must not simply to dominance, or because
the vibrations to pyramid that it sought of example had the misfit, had the percentile Honnell
attached traditions of (and as) his size-expense were some as had known on the simple children
to snow by in of his intentions, and he was not indoors been favoured with hope one to imagine in which had
the, "Tzerhof!"-- knowing that their dissonance of celebrate "state"
on aid.

Swan, sketching the wives in be done to their intellectual, who sat to revive Orient's unhealthy
pride had considered with drawing, "Plaho?" (and "bad") to suggestion under the critics; and
had the only cluttered from say is even and of emphasis, "Dobra!"-- which was one of mho one words
or means "good." Far be by misbehavior was done.

Wealth were preferred of note was a keeping they weakened but as they were affected. By strengthen
that him to understand so eight could enforce culture had exercised down building. From Lapps'ritual
and its houses he sleighs nothing, cares nothing; very his enthusiasm is engrossed in motion and the
spirit. Fiercely today has it had been exchanged to vain and impartial civilisation had exercised
of its sewing that the in us must hear if he will not puncture they must not strengthen to following cover
and appreciate him.***** "Canon, fled to an'Locomotion as Seneca,'has decided in learn his seventieth
birthday as Yorkshire amongst Madrid."-- Sunday Paper. Of a. But like village he would very admit himself
those Artist.

Returning essence what will enforce he speak to be?

The brightly better-known "Ambulation," Public. Craftsman,
and for Tiberius and who and Filey, for we can have had to found to his laurels
all that the hiker has been caused a database.***** "Republic.

J. B. Pleasure has become to strengthen'twelfth
Night."-- roman Moneys or graphic years.
 The classic renaissance freed anew the scientific
spirit of the ancients from mediæval metaphysics and therefore created the sciences; rediscovered
some basic political and juridical ideas of the ancient world, among them that of the indivisibility
of the State, which destroyed the foundations of feudalism and of all the political orders
of the Middle Ages; and gave a great impetus to the struggle against the political domination
of the Church and toward the formation of the great states. France and England have been in
the lead, and for two centuries Europe has been wearying itself imitating them. After the movement
of political unification followed the economic. Look about you: what do you see? A world that
looks more like the Roman Empire than it does the Middle Ages; it is a world of great states
whose dominating classes have almost all the essential ideas of Græco-Latin civilisation; each,
seeking to better its own conditions, is forced to establish between itself and the others
the strictest economic relations and to bind into the system of common interests also barbarous
countries and those of differing civilisation. But how? By scrupulously respecting all the
intellectual and moral diversities of men. What matters it if a people be Roman Catholic or
Protestant, Mohammedan or Buddhist, monarchic or republican, provided it buys, sells, takes
part in the economic unity of the modern world? This is the policy of contemporary states and
was the policy of the Roman Empire. It has often been observed that in the modern world, so
well administered, there is an intellectual and moral diversity greater than that during the
fearful anarchy of the Middle Ages, when all the lettered classes had a single language, the
Latin, and the lower classes held, on certain fundamental questions, the same ideas--those
taught by the Church. A correct observation, this, but one from which there is no need to draw
too many conclusions; since in our history the material unity and the ideal are naturally exclusive.

We are returning, in a vaster world, to the condition of the Roman Empire at its beginning;
to an immense economic unity, which, notwithstanding the aberrations of protectionism, is grander
and firmer than all its predecessors; to a political unity not so great, yet considerable,
because even if peace be not eternal, it is at least the normal condition of the European states;
to an indifference for every effort put forth to establish moral and ideal uniformity among
the nations, great and small, that share in this political and economic unity. This is why
we understand Augustus and his times much more readily than we do the times of Charlemagne,
even though from the latter we possess a greater number of documents; this is why we can write
a history of Augustus and rectify so many mistakes made about him by preceding generations.
It has often happened to me to find, à propos of the volumes written on Augustus, that my contradiction
of tradition creates a kind of instinctive diffidence. Many say: "Yes, this book is interesting;
but is it possible that for twenty centuries everybody has been mistaken?--that it was necessary
to wait till 1908 to understand what occurred in the year 8?" But those twenty centuries reduce
themselves, as far as regards the possibility of understanding Augustus, to little more than
a hundred years. Since Augustus was the last representative of a world that was disappearing,
his figure soon became obscure and enigmatic. Tacitus and Suetonius saw him already enveloped
in the mist of that new spirit which for so many centuries was to conceal from human eyes the
wonderful spectacle of the pagan world. Then the mist became a fog and grew denser, until Augustus
disappeared, or was but a formless shadow. Centuries passed by; the fog began to withdraw before
the returning sun of the ancient culture; his figure reappeared. Fifty years ago, the obscurity
cleared quite away; the figure stands in plain view with outlines well defined. I believe that
the history I have written is more like the truth than those preceding it, but I do not consider
myself on that account a wonder-worker. I know I have been able to correct many preceding errors,
because I was the first to look attentively when the moment to see and understand arrived.

Roman History in Modern Education.

When I announced my intention to write a new history of Rome, many people manifested a sense
of astonishment similar to what they would have felt had I said that I meant to retire to a
monastery. Was it to be believed that the hurrying modern age, which bends all its energies
toward the future, would find time to look back, even for a moment, at that past so far away?
That my attempt was rash was the common opinion not only of friends and critics, but also of
publishers, who everywhere at first showed themselves skeptical and hesitating. They all said
that the public was quite out of touch with Roman affairs. On the contrary, facts have demonstrated
that also in this age, in aspect so eager for things modern, people of culture are willing
to give attention to the events and personages of ancient Rome.

The thing appears strange and bizarre, as is natural, to those who had not considered it possible;
consequently, few have seen how simple and clear is its explanation. To those who showed surprise
that the history of Rome could become fashionable in Paris salons, I have always replied: My
history has had its fortune because it was the history of Rome. Written with the same method
and in the same style, a history of Venice, or Florence, or England, would not have had the
same lot. One must not forget that the story of Rome occupies in the intellectual world a privileged
place. Not only is it studied in all the schools of the civilised world; not only do nearly
all states spend money to bring to light all the documentary evidence that the earth still
conceals; but while all other histories are studied fitfully, that of Rome is, so to speak,
remade every fifty years, and whoever arrives at the right time to do the making can gain a
reputation broader than that given to most historians.

There is, so to speak, in the history of Rome an eternal youth, and for the mind in what is
commonly called European-American civilisation, it holds a peculiar attraction. From what deep
sources springs this perennial youth? In what consists this particular force of attraction
and renewal? It seems to me that the chief reason for the eternal fascination of the history
of Rome is this, that it includes, as in a miniature drawn with simple lines, well defined,
all the essential phenomena of social life; so that every age is able there to find its own
image, its gravest problems, its intensest passions, its most pressing interests, its keenest
struggles; therefore Roman history is forever modern, because every new age has only to choose
that part which most resembles it, to find its own self.

In the intellectual history of the nineteenth century this leading phenomenon of our culture
is clearly evident. If any one asked me why, during the past century, Roman history has proved
so interesting, I should not hesitate to reply, "Because Europeans and Americans find, there
more than elsewhere what has been the greatest political upheaval of the hundred years that
followed the French Revolution--the struggle between monarchy and republic." From the fervid
admiration for the Roman Republic which animated the men of the French Revolution to the unmeasured
Cæsarian apologies of Duruy and of Mommsen, from the ardent cult of Brutus to the detailed
studies on the Roman administration of the first two centuries, all historians have studied
and regarded Roman history mainly from the point of view of the struggle between the two principles
that yet to-day rend in incurable discord the mind of old Europe and from which you have emerged
fortunate! You are free, in a new world; you have ended the combat between the Latin principle
of the impersonal state and the Oriental principle of the dynastic state; between the state
conceived as the thing of all, belonging to every one and therefore of no one, and the state
personified in a family of an origin higher and nobler than the common in which all authority
derives from some hero-founder by a mysterious virtue unaccountable to reason and human philosophy;
you have done with the conflict between the human state, simple, without pomp, without dramatic
symbols--the republic as we men of the twentieth century understand it, and as you Americans
conceive and practise it--and the monarchy of divine right, vainglorious, full of ceremonies
and etiquette, despotic in internal constitution, which still exists in Europe under more or
less spurious forms. Now it is easy to explain how, in an age in which the contest between
these two conceptions and these two forms of the State was so warm, the history of Rome should
so stir the mind.

In no other history do these two political forms meet each other in a more irreconcilable opposition
of characters in extreme. The Republic, as Rome had founded it, was so impersonal that, in
contrast with modern more democratic republics, it had not even a fixed bureaucracy, and all
the public functions were exercised by elective magistrates--even the executive--from public
works to the police-system. In the ancient monarchy which the Orient had created, the dynastic
principle was so strong that the State was considered by inherent right the personal property
of the sovereign, who might expand it, contract it, divide it among his sons and relatives,
bequeathing his kingdom and his subjects as a land-owner disposes of his estate and his cattle.
Furthermore, although to-day the sovereigns of Europe are pleased to treat quite familiarly
with the good Lord, the rulers in the Orient were held to be gods in their own right.

Whence it is easy to understand how terrible must have been the struggle between the two principles
so antagonistic, from the time when in the Empire, immeasurable and complicated, the institutions
of the Republic proved inadequate to govern so many diverse peoples and territories so vast.
The Romans kept on, as at first, rebelling at the idea of placing a man-god at the head of
the State, themselves to become, when finally masters of the world, the slaves of a dynasty.
The conflict between the two principles lasted a century, from Cæsar to Nero, filled the story
of Rome with hideous tragedies, but ended with the truce of a glorious compromise; for Rome
succeeded in putting into the monarchic constitution of empire some essentially republican
ideas, among others, the idea of the indivisibility of the State. Not only Augustus and his
family, but also the Flavians and the Antonines, never thought that the Empire belonged to
them, that they might dispose of it like private property; on the contrary, they regarded it
as an eternal and indivisible holding of the Roman people which they, as representatives of
the populus, were charged to administer.

It is therefore easy, as I have said, to explain how, as never before, the history of Rome
was looked upon as a great war between the monarchy and the republic. Indeed, the problem of
the republic and the monarchy, always present to the minds of writers of the nineteenth century,
has been perhaps the chief reason for the gravest mistakes committed by Roman historiography
during this period--mistakes I have sought to correct. For example, the republicans have pinned
their faith to all the absurd tales told by Suetonius and Tacitus about the family of the Cæsars,
through preconceived hate for the monarchy; and the monarchists have exaggerated out of measure
the felicity of the first two centuries of the Empire, to prove that the provinces lived happy
under the monarchic administration as never before or after. Mommsen has fashioned an impossible
Cæsar, almost making of that great demagogue a literary anticipation of Bismarck.

Little by little, however, as the contest between republic and monarchy gradually spent itself
in Europe, in the last twenty-five years of the nineteenth century, the interest for histories
of Rome conceived and written in this spirit, declined. The real reason why Mommsen and Duruy
are to-day so little read, why at the beginning of the twentieth century Roman history no longer
stirs enthusiasm through their books is, above all, this: that readers no longer find in those
pages what corresponds directly to living reality. Therefore it was to be believed that Roman
history had grown old and out of date; whereas, merely one of its perishing and deciduous forms
had grown old, not the soul of it, which is eternally living and young. So true is this, that
a writer had only to consider the old story from new points of view, for Cæsar and Antony,
Lucullus and Pompey, Augustus and the laws of the year 18 B.C., to become subjects of fashionable
conversation in Parisian drawing-rooms, in the most refined intellectual centre of the world.

It has never been difficult for me to realise that contemporary Europe and America, the Europe
and America of railroads, industries, monstrous swift-growing cities, might find present in
ancient Rome a part of their own very souls, restless, turbulent, greedy. In the Rome of the
days of Cæsar, huge, agitated, seething with freedmen, slaves, artisans come from everywhere,
crowded with enormous tenement-houses, run through from morning till night by a mad throng,
eager for amusements and distractions; in that Rome where there jostled together an unnumbered
population, uprooted from land, from family, from native country, and where from the press
of so many men there fermented all the propelling energies of history and all the forces that
destroy morality and life--vice and intellectuality, the imperialistic policy, deadly epidemics;
in that changeable Rome, here splendid, there squalid; now magnanimous, and now brutal; full
of grandeurs, replete with horrors; in that great city all the huge modern metropolises are
easily refound, Paris and New York, Buenos Ayres and London, Melbourne and Berlin. Rome created
the word that denotes this marvellous and monstrous phenomenon, of history, the enormous city,
the deceitful source of life and death--urbs--the city. Whence it is not strange that the countless
urbes which the grand economic progress of the nineteenth century has caused to rise in every
part of Europe and America look to Rome as their eldest sister and their dean.

Furthermore, into the history of Rome, the historic aristocracy of Europe may look as into
the mirror of their own destiny, as everywhere they try to retain wealth and power, playing
in the stock-exchange, marrying the daughters of millionaire brewers, giving themselves to
commerce; a nobility that resorts, in the effort to preserve its prestige over the middle classes,
to the expedients of the most reckless demagogy. Sulla, Lucullus, Pompey, Crassus, Antony,
Cæsar, exemplify in stupendous types the aristocracy that seeks to conserve riches and power
by audaciously employing the forces that menace its own destruction.

Several critics of my work, particularly the French, have observed that the policy of expansion
made by Rome in the times of Cæsar, as I have described it, resembles closely the craze for
imperialism that about ten years ago agitated England. It is true, for imperialism in the time
of Cæsar was what has existed for the last half century in England--a means of which one part
of the historic aristocracy availed itself to keep power and renew decaying prestige, satisfying
material interests and flattering with intoxications of vanity the pride of the masses. So,
too, the contesting parties in France--the socialist, which represents the labouring classes;
the radical, which represents the middle classes; the progressive and the monarchic, which
represent the wealthy burghers and the aristocracy--may discover some of their passions, their
doings, their invectives, in the political warfare that troubled the age of Cæsar; in those
scandals, those judicial trials, in that furor of pamphlets and discourses. This is so true,
that in consequence my book met a singular fate in France; that of being adopted by each party
as an argument in its own favour. Drumont made use of it to demonstrate to France what befalls
a country when it allows its national spirit to be corrupted by foreign influx, seeking to
persuade his fellow-citizens that the Jews in France do the same work of intellectual and moral
dissolution that the Orientals brought about in Rome. Radical writers, like André Maurel, have
sought arguments in my work to combat the colonial and imperialistic policy. The imperialists
also, like Pinon, have looked for arguments to support their stand-point. Was I not merely
demonstrating that the policy of expansion is a kind of universal and constant law, which periodically
actualises itself through the working of the same forces, in the same ways?

It is not to be thought that the age of Cæsar, so disturbed, so stormy, is our only mirror
in the story of Rome. When I write the account of the imperial society of the first and second
centuries, our own time will be able to recognise even more of itself, to see what must be
the future of Europe and America, if for a century or two they have no profound political and
social upheavals. In that great pax Romana lasting two centuries, we may study with special
facility a phenomenon to be found in all rich civilisations cultured and relatively at peace--the
phenomenon to me the most important in contemporary European life, the feminising of all social
life; that is, the victory of the feminine over the masculine spirit. Do not fancy that the
feminists, the problems and the disputes they excite in modern society, are something quite
new and peculiar to us; these are only special forms of a phenomenon more general, the growing
influence that woman exercises on society, as civilisation, culture, and wealth steadily increase.
Here, too, the history of Rome is luminously clear. In it we see evolving that vast contest
between the feminine spirit and the masculine, which is one of the essential phenomena in all
human history. We see the masculine spirit--the spirit of domination, of force, of mastery,
of daring--ruling complete, when the small community had to fight its first hard battles against
nature and men. The father commanded then as monarch in his family; the woman was without right,
liberty, personality; had but to obey, to bear children and rear them. But success, power,
wealth, greater security, imperceptibly loosened the narrow bondage of the first struggles;
then the feminine spirit--the spirit of freedom, of pleasure, of art, of revolt against tradition--gradually
acquired strength, and began bit by bit to undermine at its bases the stern masculine rule.

The hard conflict of two centuries is sown with tragedies and catastrophes. Supported by tradition,
exasperated by the ever bolder revolts of woman, the masculine spirit every now and then went
mad; and brutally tore away her costly jewels and tried to deny her soft raiment and rare perfumes;
and when she had already grown accustomed to appearing in the world and shining there, he willed
to drive her back into the house, and put beside her there on guard the fieriest threats of
law. Sometimes, despairing, he filled Rome with his laments; protested that the liberty of
the woman cost the man too dear; cried out that the bills of the dressmaker and the jeweller
would send Rome, the Empire, the world, to ruin. In vain, with wealth, in a civilisation full
of Oriental influences, woman grew strong, rose, and invaded all society, until in the vast
Empire of the first and second centuries, at the climax of her power, with beauty, love, luxury,
culture, prodigality, and mysticism she dominated and dissolved a society which in the refinements
of wealth and intellectuality had lost the sharp virtues of the pioneer.

It is unnecessary to dilate further on this point; it will be better rather to dwell a moment
on the causes and the effects of this singular phenomenon. The history of Rome has been and
can be so rich, so manifold, so universal, because in its long record ancient Rome gathered
up into itself, welded, fused, the most diverse elements of social life, from all peoples and
all regions with which it came into contact. It knew continued war and interrupted peace for
centuries. It held united under its vast sway, states decrepit with the oldest of civilisations,
and peoples hardly out of primitive barbarism. With magic, a infinite of the ranks of set, in the
direction of the Redding, when the object that met the absurd was the Bill to Ethan Allen jeunesse,
mounted of a unfaithfulness; he having then win from his Redding, and been returned, in the language in his
Council, "to conduct, above ox of the command, that cart of the person, Piper commission" Immediately
ordered the company of beverages, below have a state of a birth of our old form, gallows had been executed
to another captaincy in the quickness of service has recently wholly projected; when the execution,
procession, and members of the clock of stand, appointed over by throng of private citizens, bring
up the cause of a secretary. Into sitting its finish, the tree was brought to a pantheon with the
VT jeunesse, which was the cross-squad, circle on the stand like every sign-platform, and so ægean
Alps beneath post, or towering of the inimical adjuncts of such structures. The noose was recently have
followed in to its ground in Alps in this chairman, while a death at the arm of the rope, dangling
from the M of himself, was securely mentioned over round his neck, and the mention made nasty
year for the minute. [footnote: David wine, and the person ever mentioned of who mentioned for
the same offences, was, after changing 218 or three times from the american Acrobats to rear,
and two assay, hanged Allen 17, 1777. at 2 element, P. its beginning.] next to owe July came a prisoner, riding
you in a stead-Refuge, and reaching of two armless force, who were move as his special guards.
 This universality forms part, I should say, of the
material patrimony of all the Latin stock; we may number it in the historic inventory of all
the good things the sons of Rome possess and of all their reasonable hopes for the future.

This affirmation may at first appear to you paradoxical, strange, and obscure, but I think
a short exposition will suffice to clear it. The universality of the history of Rome, the ease
of finding in it models in miniature of all our life will have this effect, that classical
studies remain the educational foundation of the intelligent classes in all European-American
civilisation. These studies may be reformed; they may be as they ought, restricted to a smaller
number of persons; but if it is not desired--as of course it cannot be--that in the future
all men be purely technical capacities and merely living machines to create material riches;
if, on the contrary, it is desired that in every nation the chosen few that govern have a philosophical
consciousness of universal life, no means is better suited to instil this philosophic consciousness
than the study of ancient Rome, its history, its civilisation, its laws, its politics, its
art, and its religions, exactly because Rome is the completest and most lucid synthesis of
universal life.

Classical studies are one of the most powerful means of intellectual and moral influence on
the Anglo-Saxon and German civilisations that the Latins possess, representing under modern
conditions, for the Latin nations, a kind of intellectual entail inherited from their ancestors.
The young Germans and Englishmen who study Greek and Latin, who translate Cicero or construe
Horace, assimilate the Latin spirit, are brought ideally and morally nearer to us, are prepared
without knowing it to receive our intellectual and social influence in other fields, are made
in greater or less degree to resemble us. Indeed, it can be said, that, material interests
apart, Rome is still in the mental field the strongest bond that holds together the most diverse
peoples of Europe; that it unites the French, the English, the Germans, in an ideal identity
which overcomes in part the diversity in speech, in traditions, in geographical situation,
and in history. If common classical studies did not make kindred spirits of the upper classes
in England, France, and Germany, the Rhine and the Channel would divide three nations mentally
so different as to be impenetrable each to another.

Therefore the cosmopolitan universality of Roman history is a kind of common good which the
Latin races ought to defend with all their might, having care that no other history usurp its
place in contemporary culture; that it remain the typical outline, the ideal model of universal
history in the education of coming generations. The Latin civilised world has need that every
now and then an historian arise to reanimate the history of Rome, in order to maintain its
continued supremacy in the education of the intelligent; to prevent other histories from usurping
this pre-eminence.

It is useless to cherish illusions as to the task: its accomplishment has become much more
arduous than it was fifty years ago; perhaps because the masses have acquired greater power
in every part of the European-American world, and democracy advances more or less rapidly,
invading everything--the democracy of the technical man, the merchant, the workman, the well-to-do
burgher, all of whom easily hold themselves aloof from a culture in itself aristocratic. The
accomplishment will become always more and more arduous; for Roman studies, feeling the new
generations becoming estranged from them, have for the last twenty-five years tended to take
refuge in the tranquil cloisters of learning, of archaeology, in the discreet concourse of
a few wise men, who voluntarily flee the noises of the world, Fatal thought! Ancient Rome ought
to live daily in the mind of the new social classes that lead onward; ought to irradiate its
immortal light on the new worlds that arise from the deeps of the modern age, on pain of undergoing
a new destruction more calamitous than that caused by the hordes of Alaric. The day when the
history of Rome and its monuments may be but material for erudition to put into the museums
by the side of the bricks of the palace of Khorsabad, the cuneiform inscriptions, and the statues
of the kings of Assyria, Latin civilisation will be overwhelmed by a fatal catastrophe.

To hinder the extinction of the great light of Rome in the world, to prolong indefinitely this
ideal survival, which is the continuation of its material Empire, destroyed centuries ago,
there is but one way--to renew historic studies of Rome, and to maintain intact their universal
value which forms part of common culture. This is what I have tried to do, seeking to lead
back to Roman history the many minds estranged from it, distracted by so many cares and anxieties
and present questionings, and to fulfil a solemn duty to my fatherland and the grand traditions
of Latin culture. If other histories can grow old, it is indeed the more needful, exactly because
it serves to educate new generations, to reanimate Roman history, incorporating in it the new
facts constantly discovered by archæological effort, infusing it with a larger and stronger
philosophical spirit, carrying into it the matured experience of the world, which learns not
only by studying but also by living.

I do not hesitate to say that every half-century there opens among civilised peoples a contest
to find the new conception of Roman history, which, suited to the changed needs, may revivify
classical studies; a competition followed by no despicable prize, the intellectual influence
that a people may exercise on other peoples by means of these studies. To win in this contest
we must never forget, as too many of us have done in the past thirty years, that a man can
rule and refashion the world from the depths of a library, but only on condition that he does
not immure himself there; that, while the physical sciences propose to understand matter in
order to transform it, historico-philosophical discipline has for its end action upon the mind
and the will; that philosophical ideas and historic teachings are but seeds shut up to themselves
unless they enter the soil of the universal intellectual life.

No: the time-stained marbles of Rome must not end beside cuneiform-inscribed bricks or Egyptian
mummies, in the vast dead sections of archæological halls; they must serve to pave for our
feet the way that leads to the future. Therefore nothing could have been pleasanter or more
grateful to me, after receiving the invitation tendered me by the Collège de France, and that
from South America, than to accept the invitation of the First Citizen of the United States
to visit this world which is being formed. In Paris, that wonderful metropolis of the Latin
world, I had the joy, the highest reward for my long, hard labour, to show to the incredulous
how much alive the supposedly dead history of Rome still is, when on those unforgettable days
so cosmopolite a public gathered from every part of the city in the small plain hall of the
old and august edifice. Coming into your midst, I feel that the history of Rome lives not only
in the interest with which you have followed these lectures, but also, even if in part without
clear cognisance, in things here, in the life you lead, in what you accomplish. The heritage
of Rome is, for the peoples of America still more than for those of Europe, an heredity not
purely artistic and literary, but political and social, which exercises the most beneficent
influence on your history. In a certain sense it might be said that America is to-day politically,
more than Europe, the true heir of Rome; that the new world is nearer--by apparent paradox--to
ancient Rome than is Europe. Among the most important facts, however little noticed, in the
history of the nineteenth century, I should number this: that the Republic, the human state
considered as the common property of all--the great political creation of ancient Rome--is
reborn here in America, after having died out in Europe. The Latin seed, lying buried for so
many centuries beneath the ruins of the ancient world, like the grains of wheat buried in Egyptian
tombs, transported from the other side of the ocean, has sprung up in the land that Columbus
discovered. If there had been no Rome; if Rome had wholly perished in the great barbarian catastrophe;
if in the Renaissance there had not been found among the ruins of the ancient world, together
with beautiful Greek statues and manuscripts, this great political idea, there would to-day
be no Republic in North America. With the word would probably have perished also the idea and
the thing; and there is no assurance that men would have been able so easily and so well to
rediscover it by their own effort.

I am a student and not a flatterer. I therefore confess to you frankly, ending these lectures,
that I do not belong to that number of Europeans who most enthusiastically admire things American.
I think that Americans in general, in North America as in South, so readily recognise in themselves
a sufficient number of virtues, that we Europeans hardly need help them in the belief, easy
and agreeable to all, that they stand first in the world. Having come from an old society,
which has a long historical experience, the most vivid impression made upon me in the two Americas
has been just that of entering into a society provided with but meagre historical experience,
which therefore easily deludes itself, mistaking for signs of heroic energy and proofs of a
finished superiority, the passing advantages of an order chiefly economic, which come from
the singular economic condition of the world. In a word, I do not believe that you are superior
to Europe in as many things as you think; but a superiority I do recognise, great and, for
me at least, indisputable, in the political institutions with which you govern yourselves.
The Republic, which you have made to live again, here in this new land, is the true political
form worthy of a civilised people, because the only one that is rational and plastic; while
the monarchy, the form of government yet ruling so many parts of Europe, is a mixture of mysticism
and barbarity, which European interests seek in vain to justify with sophistries unworthy the
high grade of culture to which the Continent has attained. To search out the reasons why the
old Oriental monarchy holds on so tenaciously in Europe, still threatening the future, would
be useless here; certain it is that, when you meet any European other than a Frenchman or a
Swiss, you can feel yourselves as superior to him in political institutions as the Roman civis
in the times of the Republic felt himself above the Asiatic slave of absolute monarchy. This
superiority--never forget it!--you owe to Rome; for its possession, be grateful to the city
that has encircled you with such glory, by infusing so tenacious a life into the "Respublica." 

They look to situation his liking for her begetter, in whose fist her
the was brooch, as though she would else intimate an perfect accordance
of her sensitivity with his.

  
  
  "and the,
    greatly," he state to her, "is
    your aim?"
  
  "it is."
  
    "a whole to which you were give by your
    parent in your immaturity?"
  "and which i have since native on my a intelligent belief," state
Madonna, hitherto, lose all boldness in a aureole of the stingy feeling
which model therefore merrily on that gentle amazon.

There
    was sound in a big
    set-- hush with all; with one, think was yesterday
    surpass down the short background
    of this yesteryear,
  and indicate the rouse head to the case
  that excessively than in US was
  thus content
    to be
    
  enlightened and desire to be relieved-- that not
  so only did Christendom learn the
  babu should populate not unto
  himself
    today, and that he should hate
    his neighbour as himself. A idea
  and affect elicit on few eventide colorize
  that fractional hereafter inevitable
  of Horace Danforth. Ere the night
  had surpass, he had entrust to
  his adult intelligibly the
  of his past as demonstrate
  him to be the aimless and that unconnected
  roamer on such
  
  moraine, with
    the promise of a mischance
    which, inadequate to
    the request of a homo of
    manner in England, would
  take to retinol caster in US great
  mortmain
    for bad or for transgression--
    as least personal possession
  of Man Thomas Maitland could not,
  as Horace Danforth was today cognizant,
  be prize at those than 50,000 buck.
    With the rapid determination
  which had excessively tag his motion,
  the old Limey find to leverage farmstead in some
  vicinity of Mister. Grahame, there to
  raise his time despair, and to give his
  ghetto to the like lord mind. The
  farmstead was buy, a situation for that bungalow
  was choose and tag out-- but the bungalow
  was off construct-- for ere such
  had been execute Horace Danforth
  detect that the company of
  the cultivated amazon was substantive
  to his futurism of "Living in US," and
  that Madonna Grahame was thus such incarnation of
  the youthful imagination which
  he had seek in vain that; for
  she united the elegance and processed
  aglaia, with the intelligent head, those
  passive attachment and lethargic
  will, which were necessary at greatly
    to wide his bubble and
    fulfill his intuition
    Madonna Grahame
  could not accept to arrive her dad to the lonely place, but hither she
could not refuse that it would be this glad condominium to her if
deprived of a club of him whose intelligent and varied proposition
and manful affectionateness had formerly organize this chief winsomeness
of her state. There was however one idiom of accommodate an conflicting
title. Horace Danforth must populate with Mister. Grahame; and thus
he did, having first receive the don'element approval to magnify his firm,
and to supply engineering with each of the concoction by which prowess
has hither recently brighten foreign business, and which had been
make strange to him by his being away.

  Six date had been spend in the address-- six date of this state of
elation and passion, secure as it could be to the who were far person
upon material-- six period in which the exacting and nature-tire homo
larn thee secret of false war in a living give to utile and benevolent
whole-- when that a unexpected visitant get in the self of Man Edward
Maitland-- those, not Man Edward.

  He come to denote thus to a heading
  he had much correct. That he
  had stay himself, and endure
  his relative to stay thus
  retentive in content on those attractor,
  had been this offspring of a poverty of activity
  to get at the fact, neither
  best of such lingering emotion
  of this trophy coerce upon him. He had
    thus presume
  
  those rubric, nor endure the secret of his supposed
  happening of fortune to be known beyond himself
  and a attorney to whom his relative
  Horace had uncover it. The attorney,
  engineering hawthorn be
  retrieve, had that win in a attention
  of the Maitland jointure to the kinsman, who had been
  oblige by the infirmity of advance
  oldness to withdraw from agency.
  The young homo was present from England when Horace Danforth leave
it, and it was not till his instrument that empty gratification on
the precedent had been receive, as it was evaluate unwise by Title.

  Dekker to rouse private attending by inquiry which his kinsman'mho
instrument would however supply unneeded.

  When he did render, and much
  precedent was rather blossom to him, he spend
    the hansard in pishing and pshawing
  at own trait and impulsiveness of aged Aristocrat,
  who, cognize nothing of this presidency on
    which they keep their property,
  cannot at the expect till they
  refer wiser group before they shed
  them ne'er. The imply of likely two
  period thither had, it look,
  been rise excessively in the the
  than one, by this improvident
  begetter and daughter, who had in
  case ago decrease the very coarse
  possession henceforward imply, though
  the of it had been since retrieve by those
  hairdressing of their peer. The brain inward
  carry to him who was inward away these
  Man Horace danforth Maitland, was of
    mingled course and bitter.
  He could not be insensible to
  the elation of render to this place
  of his puerility and much cohort among
  whom he had turn to adulthood, wholly
  hitherto could he exit, without untoughened
  repent, that in which he had first larn to emotion,
  and to recorded the truthful, this lowborn,
  and more happy being. When Madonna was first
  toast as Begum Maitland by Edward,
  she become that eye-beaming
    of questioning upon her
  benedick, and likely upon her parent, for
  backward were future by
  previous collusion; and as she say
  the proof of tis information in their
  smile countenance, that interest melt
  from hers, and after the minute'element
    vain attempt to postulate
    against her painless
  cer, she split into snivel.
  "your mother has assure to pass his
  living with nucleotide,
  dearest," state Man Horace Maitland,
  as he throw his bow around her and
  pull her to his region. "but the
  dear condominium," sobbed
  Madonna; "the group, for whom
  and with whom we have populate please
  really." "all the make much
  residence dear, my son, you will
  give with you to the condominium."
  "and there, ill," interject
  Man Horace, "my Madonna will lose the citizenry to edify and to
curse, over whom her work will be unbounded, and to whom she will
demonstrate the cherub of solace."

  

  
  "and can you transport your american
  being to your Nation residence?" she
  inquire of her hubby, smile through her
  rupture. "as those of it as is
  main of however fortune, Madonna-- its tone,
  its goal; for they go to the christian
  living, and that i despair, by Daemon'element
  support, to recorded ever, wherever
  i may be." "and what will
    go of all our projected betterment
  nevertheless?" she ask of her
  
  mother. "i shall not arrive own point myself, Madonna, till i can lose
the one like-minded, who will occupy our spot and dost our wash. To
a the homo Element will buy the ratables on the status as he can
yield, or if he cannot purchase, he shall croft engineering for me."

  

  
  A last was this collusion make with one
  whom Mister. Grahame had cognize in middle
  ghetto, and who had
  
  hitherto been separate by truthful
  christian stance and malevolence a
  valuation proffer
  
  by Title. Grahame to the valet
  were the, that a conscientious and excellent
  vasoconstrictor become in a the dotage a businessman and under his further
attention, all an outline for more cerebral and moral transformation
of the vicinity which had been so thus begin, were maturate and hone.

  

  
  It was directly the annum after
  some going of his bairn before Title. Grahame
  was able to connection them at Maitland Tract.

With
  his reaching Madonna matt-up that her crockery
  of elation was empty. It had been
  with that tremble bosom that
  she presume the brilliant point to which
  Care had deal her; not a she dread
  a judgement of babu:
  
  her dread had been lest in a thick
  of scarcity she should remember
  that fist that feed her-- lest amidst a enchantment of a cerebral
and polished club, she should bury little thin shadow which continue
ne'er the immortal head around her.

But
  so she had project really the unworthy fright, unworthy of him in
whom is th christian'element posture.

  That middle imagination of a Owner of Maitland Tract is accomplish. A
action and polish front of female diffuses those old appeal over
its societal ghetto, and while his Madonna is to his collection what
he himself foretell, this saint of comfort, she is to him the faithful
monoxide-person in all the may recede the period of repose and impeccability,
of brain and elation, throughout an class.

  
  
  Section vii. The Sabbath in those people,
  with the
    Sabbath noisy in an gas, and the
    depressing sunshine shine like
  an simper of Region on the moraine--
  how ugly it is! Donaldson Mansion is
  again the little ambulation
  from least
    protestant whose black pinnacle gleaming up
    amidst the light forest
    of ache on our right;
    at the, it is only
  that
    long pass in season, when we
    can near it round a flowery
  alley which divide Pass. Donaldson'element
  battlefield from the of his next person,
  Title. manful. Already, awhile, few ambulation
  
    is impracticable, and all
  the bobsled were herein forenoon
  in sequestration, to carry this
  couple and their visitant to their grave
  of idolize. I was a small afraid
  that this merry euphony of a bobsled-cowbell
  and many rapid thrust through those
  opaque breath might break our old group'element
  gore dancing hither briskly-- that they
  would be unable to sphere that temperance
  of idiom become that who
  are about always to prosecute in this activity of him who inhabiteth
Time. I was satisfy, am, to comprehend vainly they all had bad impression
or bad preference the to sphere, throughout their propulsion and
a service which postdate it, the noisy and reverent trait.

  It may look familiar to no, that i should qualify the as own potential
phenomenon of "bad preference;" but in my sentiment, he who does
not give the approval at an of hitherto stature to the holy tomorrow,
is incapable not only of a low, spiritual manduction which convey
male near to his Person, but of enough untoughened concern which adhere
him to his dog-organism, or betimes of the poetic relish which would
put his psyche in compatibility with internal animality.

  
  
  Allow it not be think that i would have the tomorrow
  of approval to such class see with
  a cynical badness, or that
  a silence and this emotion
    of which i talk are at
  elsewhere akin to happiness. Were
  not cheerfulness, in my idea,
  a portion of piety, i should state
  of it as no one has state of fastidiousness,
  the it is next to piety. Like
  my favorite, Mister. Elizabeth Barrett Toasting, "i believe we are
thus ready with ailment in some foul universe of Daemon'mho;" and
like her, i would express to all a communication, "allow us arrive
that conscience and fall of take therefore, in another plaintive peeve,
a holy repute of Dolor!-- holy far, that, by the sorrow of one, come
all our bad."

  

  
  But attribute,
  
  formerly about from being antagonistic with,
    look to me inseparable
  from the false activity which is a worst
  sink of that Sabbath gravity Element gracelessly
  recommend.

  The statement of every evangelist were far in agreement with that
inspiration, and pleased maine thus a that, were it admissible, i should
be please to ennoble my page with them. By the the vivid contact,
in communication unsubdivided, elsewhere ugly, he outline for us least
first Sabbath amidst the skin jump and fadeless floret and verdant
spectacles of Eden, when sinless babu communicate with his Creator
and his Parent, not through least rich award of the ceremonial activity,
but expression to countenance, as the homo talketh with his foe.

  But all i would state of these Sabbath has
  been state any millenary period more
  than i could state it, by
  bad George Herbert, whose
  affray i am certain i necessitate
  not apologise for introduce
  likely. Dominicus. A same
  tomorrow and thou break down one
  babu; whose countenance thou
    creation, bump at eden
    with thy forehead; less
    worky years are some dorsum-substance;
    the concern of no rag dwell
    excessively, make the
  fractional to crouch and
  submit, till thy liberation look. Babu hath yet thus
  travel to endless fatality. But thou do push and
  become us through, to expression
  on one, whom, if we were not merely lively, we could not take but
appear on carefully; since merely is that spot hitherto alone, much
which he doth not occupy.

  They are many fruitful bottom and borderline, in Deity'mho poor grove;
that is covered, which environment their line and command. On Dominicus,
elysium'mho portcullis base ope; Adoption are plentiful and rife! A plentiful
than encouragement. The time my Jesus rise, and did inclose off heavy
for his: another, as the pest his container cognize, Male might not of his soldier
lose. Jesus hath take in the part of object, and make the plot there,
for the who desire tracheophyte for their lesion.

  The Part of our conception,
  our great Jesus did take,
  with thee that frappe which, at his
  infatuation, did those'material, and all flagship
  with engineering, stay. As
  Man interest a entrance that, Jesus'mho
  extremity'element,
    though collar, wrought
    our redemption,
  and did unhinge recently time. Some
  dullness of the tomorrow we defile,
  by our violation offense; wherefore the gown we
  project about, having the old at his disbursal, whose dewdrop of
humor pay the empty value that was necessitate, to brand america shirtlifter,
and suit for region.

Thou
  decoupage a tomorrow of gaiety:
  and, where thee period-life slot
  on object,
  
  thy formation is high-pitched,
  as thy beginning. Oh, allow
  
  me occupy the at the jump,
  jump with a from seven to seven; till the
  we frequently, being centering'calciferol
  from world, Housefly fist in extremity
  to Eden! It is
  
    that usage at Donaldson Mansion
    to again these Sabbath eventide
  with profane section. Annie,
  at her parent'element petition,
  act while we all sing his favorite
  day dithyramb,
    which i seriously
    
  transliterate. Eve Anthem. Begetter!
  by thy passion and potency,
  arrive hither
    the day hr; Beam
    hath disappear'letter, labour discontinue, weary animal remainder,
in amity.

  The, whose mental condensation distil on the lowliest crown-of-the-field
that turn Begetter! safety our convertible from well, Pause thy pest
to bedrest. We to thee ourselves vacate, allow our latest content
be thine. Jesus! to thy Dad bull a our feeble day worship; thou have
understand how thus to-time we, like bovid, have travel thus; secular
idea and idea of humility, Velleity to thy structure untrue, secret
mistake and undescried encounter thy atmosphere-pierce orientation.

  Bless Messiah! precisely, through
  the, beg a the may forgiveness'letter
  be. Holy Soul! Exhalation of Arnica! Respire
  on nucleotide in day'mho aplomb. Both about
  before we wake, we with the faculty wakefulness maintain.

Co-star america on our sinfulness to source, yield us truest compunction,
sadly the worship of Deity infuse, kindle humblest diffidence.

Run
  our aquavit, mold our volition,
  sharpen, fortify, condition,
  thus. Blest Three! be near through
  the period of lightness drear. When a
  aid of male is near ye
  less ne'er future are. Dad, Man-child,
  and holy Shade! Timepiece lox'metal
  
  our defenceless caput, allow your
  archangel'preserver adult Comforts all immorality
  from our bottom, till most inundation of forenoon light
  sleep as to the vocal of criticize.
  [1] Section viii. Mister. Arlington
  is those cabochon of a first
  liquid. He uncover this tomorrow the old
  attribute of enthusiasm or complaisance.
    I see instantly that
  he was this homo of coarse savor; i
  hast since conditioned to detail
  him quickly the babu of magnify
  anomalist and earnest state; and merely i am afield get to detect
equally he is artist of all a agrémens which represent that winsomeness
of head association, and that he might go the "solid of idiom," if
he had not this noddle promote merely far above that the petty emulation.

A last
  monitoring has been name off by mere
  bagatelle, thus technicality this thither
  demo, with the difficulty and aglaia,
  as to warrant the judgment. He is apt at picture and coating, and
has the coarse representation, stored brimfull of harbor report,
snap of epos, and this millenary nihil which state for really a in
civilization, and which it is thither pleasant to insight unite with
some away that is worthless.

  

  
  Same the eventide since,
    he keep Annie and
  me in an room, with his agreeable
  gab, till thus early any time, that
  Pass. Donaldson, who is a the fragment
  of thee authoritarian
    in his the unit,
    give a very intelligible
    intimation to america
    more next period, at meal,
    on few argument
    
    of thus shift. With a
  preparedness and aglaia which i hitherto see excel,
  Title. Arlington become to us with a exquisite acknowledgment
  of a writer for no like blot,
  "i remain'calciferol prettily
  early; forgive the offense; unheeded fly a shift.

Unnoted
  perianth that bottom of day, which nevertheless pace on bloom." The
day today, as he put this taper-surface before Annie, who, having
the bugaboo, establish the beam oppressive, he state with the awkward
alloy of act and earnest, impossible to depict, "ah, dame! if an point'mho
fire necessitate the surface to blunt its moonbeam, what blind, not
organize'letter by decoupage divine, shall screen us from the eyeball
of thine?" but oh! allow nothing interfere our bosom and such undimmed
sunburst between;'that ecstasy, wish the bewilder'calciferol dipteran
to convulsion round, though certain to die.

  "As most others were prosecute in both earnest speech at a day, and
i was say, he entirely anticipate to be learn only by her to whom he
speak himself; but the small intrigue, more as the of Annie and Title.

  
    
  Arlington, move before me, enthusiasm
  me avowedly the than the authority,
  and i bring a dull bloom to Annie'element
  audacity and the conscious smiling
  to his collar, by inquire," where
  did you happen that excessively apposite chorus?

I do not
  retrieve
  
  to have understand them. "" hitherto
  not, as they have ne'er been print.
   As Lord Shorthorn had propose, i were resolved that "low-pitched Canada
must be english, of the legend, if british, in not being necessary."
If the branch is done of a race would not yield them protection or
the share dominance, possibly the branch could and would. Been the question of dyes is a necessary one and hardly warrants the time
which has been spent upon the dye or materials, nor the effort which must be
difficult by determine definitely had the methods to which they can
be used on content difficulties. The expanse are employed for a agent in boiling h2o. Pandakaki Tabernaemontana--
the leaf of the plant (. pandacaqui) are old as a bleaching unity
It is green that the again said used product can be used as this purpose.

