The "Kraus-Boelte Guide" has some good suggestions with regard to the value of paper mat weaving,
in number training, and for following certain formulæ which will lead ultimately to invention.
Mme. Kraus-Boelte says: "Weaving leads to independent effort and offers the greatest scope
for future technical work, for it lays the foundation for designing. Even though it may not
fan into flame a latent spark of genius, this means of occupation at least tends to show the
value of honest labor." The child not only recognizes the value in honest labor, but his sympathy
with all labor is aroused through his own efforts and through the stories told of weavers in
all lands. He realizes, also, although in a limited way, the interdependence of the whole world.
If the sun did not shine, and the rain fall, there would be no grass. If there were no grass,
what would the sheep do? If the sheep did not give any wool, what would the weaver do? If the
weaver could not weave, what would we do for clothes? Little children are always delighted
to go back to the beginning of things. Oh, the joy of looking back on one's school days! As
Friedrich Richter has truly said, "Recollection is the only paradise from which no man can
be driven."

[Sidenote: Some difficulties]

[Sidenote: A bit of experience]

[Sidenote: One solution]

[Sidenote: Community feeling continued]

One important thought in this whole subject is that the work should be so arranged as not to
add any additional burden to the already crowded life of the teacher. It is a lamentable fact
that we have overcrowded rooms, and only one pair of hands to do all that has to be done. Perhaps
a bit of the author's own experience will be of some assistance. After looking the subject
squarely in the face and considering it on all sides, the writer came to the conclusion that
it would be an impossibility to do all the work alone. So some helpers were called from the
pupils of the higher grades, and the request met such a hearty response that it was wondered
why it had not been tried before. As it is now arranged the older girls come in before school
and at recess. They wind worsted, correct any knitting that may be wrong, start new spools,
string looms, cut material for rugs, water plants, keep the closets where the materials are
stored in order, and do many other things which relieve in a great measure the burden of detail.
When it is possible, the teacher should choose girls who have a sister or brother in the room,
because their interest is stronger and more lasting. Of course, some training is necessary,
but the result compensates for the trouble. Sometimes the work in other grades can be so planned
that the children can make paper mats, etc., for use in the first grade. The beautiful community
feeling begun in the kindergarten can thus be continued in the public school. The time will
come when boys and girls in the higher grades will design patterns for the younger children
to weave.

[Sidenote: Nature knows no hurry]

Take plenty of time in the first part of the year to teach the children to work well. "Time
is nothing when power is growing." There are some children who learn faster than others and
they are always delighted to go about the room and help the slower ones. It will sometimes
be found that they know just how to explain a difficult point--perhaps because they have just
conquered it themselves.

[Sidenote: A child's work should be suited to his capacity, without regard to grade]

[Sidenote: Train the individual]

No work has been specified as suited to any particular grade. It should depend entirely upon
the children. While, for convenience, courses in industrial training are planned, advising
certain lines of work which experience has proved the best for first, second, or third grade,
there are in every school, certain children who have more manual than mental ability. These
are left behind as the more favored ones are promoted, and because a certain course has been
recommended for that particular grade, they must, perforce, do it all over again. Instead of
bringing out the best in these less fortunate ones, and developing and strengthening their
minds through the hand by offering something not only new and interesting, but which presents
new difficulties to conquer, we stunt their growth by giving them the same baby work term after
term. It is time that earnest teachers considered this important question. Let us give up training
the mass and begin to train the individual. Through our interest in them they may find their
life work. If a child in the first grade is prepared to do any industrial work of a higher
grade, no matter how dull he may otherwise be, by all means let him do it. It is his way of
expressing what lies within him. Not only will his hand and mind be trained thereby, but his
heart will be filled with the joy that always comes through achievement.

[Sidenote: Value of hand training]

[Sidenote: If you would develop morality in a child, train him to work]

[Sidenote: Making citizens]

Hand training has been found to be of great value in all other work. The children are brighter,
and seem better able to grasp an idea. The slow children are also stimulated, and in doing
the simple work well are preparing for that which is more difficult. Impression and expression
should go hand in hand. We know nothing of "the bad boy," now that we have found something
for his restless fingers to do. "The habit of methodical work is the basis of all ethics."
In teaching children to do their best, we are training citizens. Some one has facetiously remarked
that, "In the making of a good citizen it is necessary to catch your citizen early." We cannot
get hold of the anarchists, but we can get hold of their children, and in the training of them
to work lies their salvation. Formation is better than reformation.

[Sidenote: Formation, not reformation]

[Sidenote: New applications for old teachings]

Verily, there is nothing new under the sun. We hie ourselves to the summer schools, and return
laden with new ideas--when lo! it dawns upon us that all we have done during the hot days has
been to make a new application of what Froebel taught the world before we were born. So in
this introduction, an old story has been retold, but I hope that it will come with a new meaning
to my fellow teachers.

Chapter Three

FIRST STEPS IN WEAVING

[Sidenote: Felt mats and slats]

[Sidenote: Demonstration cards and diagrams]

The principles of weaving are very easily learned with felt mats and slats. One-half a yard
of felt two yards wide will make thirty-six mats six inches square. These are very durable,
and can be used year after year, if protected from moth during the summer. Some prefer leather
or oil-cloth mats, backed with heavy unbleached muslin, but they are more expensive, and not
so pleasant to work with as the soft wool. The slats, which should be at least one-half an
inch wide, can be obtained at any kindergarten supply store. Buy the uncolored slats and dye
them yourself. Dark green mats, woven with deep red slats, are pretty. The slats are easier
to handle if they are soaked and cut the required length before dyeing. When the six-inch mats
are cut, allow a three-quarter-inch margin on all sides. Measure the mat for one-half-inch
strips, of which there will be nine, and mark by snapping a chalked string upon the mat. Double
it with chalked lines outside and commence to cut from the center; then open and finish cutting
to the margin. It would be better for very little children if the strips and slats could be
one inch wide. In this case the mats would, of course, be larger, and it might be necessary
to have the slats made to order. The slats should be kept in little bundles containing the
required number, and secured by rubber bands. If one could have plenty of time and material
it would be a good plan to have several sets of mats of different sizes, so that the children
would not always be confined to one number and its combinations in a certain set of patterns--in
this case, nine--but have the pleasure which comes from variety. Demonstration cards and diagrams
for weaving can be obtained at the kindergarten and school-supply stores. An illustration of
an excellent demonstration frame can be seen in the "Kindergarten Guide," by Lois Bates. Sample
mats can be woven by the older children from the designs in any of the "Guides," and given
to the smaller children to copy.

[Sidenote: Purpose of practice mats]

[Sidenote: Do not deceive the child]

When the purpose of these practice mats is understood there can be no objection to them on
the ground that the work is destroyed by pulling out the slats each time. It is not an unusual
thing to see in schools, and even in kindergartens, faithful and conscientious teachers remaining
after hours to pull out the slats, on the principle, perhaps, that what the children do not
see will not affect their development, and the innocent little bundles are given out again
on the morrow, only to undergo the same experience at night. One wonders sometimes if this
is possibly within the definition of deception. "We mount to the summit, round by round," and
when the children understand that in doing the work with the slats well, they are only learning
how, and that each successful attempt brings the delightful day nearer when they may have a
loom to work upon, they are perfectly satisfied.

[Sidenote: Long slat weaving]

When the children have learned to weave the small mats, further practice can be had by weaving
long slats into a warp of cord on the loom. It is better to conquer the mystery of "over and
under" in this way than to undo the work and wear out the material after making a mistake.

[Sidenote: Paper mats]

Many teachers prefer to make the practice mats of paper because they are cheaper. Heavy paper,
in desirable colors, can be obtained at the wholesale paper houses, and for a small sum can
be cut in squares of any required size. Mats can be made more durable by pasting them on heavy
muslin before cutting. In many schools children in grades above the entering room prepare their
own mats by measuring with tablets or rulers and then drawing and cutting on the lines. When
they have learned to do them well, let each child make one for the entering room. Nothing strengthens
the community feeling so much in a school as to encourage the older pupils to help the younger.

[Sidenote: Mat weaving in the kindergarten]

The mat-weaving, as it is done in the kindergarten, is very beautiful and fascinating work.
The mats can be obtained in any size and any width of strips at the supply stores. The weaving
is done with a long steel needle which has a spring at one end to hold the strip. After preliminary
work with the felt mats and slats the children find themselves able to weave quite independently,
particularly if demonstration cards or sample mats are placed before the class. An infinite
variety of patterns, which later will be useful in wool-weaving, can be found in the "Kindergarten
Guides." In weaving patterns having a center, it is better to weave two strips at once, pushing
one to the top and one to the bottom of the mat. The old numbers of the Godey and Peterson
magazines have patterns for Berlin wool and bead work which can be used for the paper mats
with good effect. Mrs. Kate Douglas Wiggin (Mrs. Riggs) has some good suggestions for invention
in weaving, in her "Republic of Childhood" (Occupations). The value of weaving in number work
is also admirably set forth in this book.

[Sidenote: Gifts]

At Christmas time many charming little gifts can be made of these mats. Sachet cases made of
a six or eight inch square, with four corners folded to the center, are attractive. Inclose
a square of wadding, in which a pinch of heliotrope or white rose perfume powder has been hidden,
and fasten the corners together with a scrap picture of old Santa Claus.

Slat work is useful in learning the fundamental principles of weaving, although this work is
more closely related to basket than to rug weaving. It is an excellent preparation for the
free-paper weaving, and is also a step toward basket work.

[Sidenote: Interlacing slats]

In interlacing slats the mystery of "over and under" is solved and the dependence of one slat
upon another in making a perfect whole is shown in a forcible way, particularly when the form
falls to pieces in the attempt to lift it from the table. Edward Wiebe says in his "Paradise
of Childhood": "It was the one slat which, owing to its dereliction in performing its duty,
destroyed the figure and prevented all the other slats from performing theirs." One experience
of this kind will teach more than a thousand precepts. The geometrical forms learned in the
sense-training lessons can be reproduced with the slats and will thus be impressed upon the
mind during the period of busy work at the desk. A series of beautiful designs is published
by E. Steiger, New York. Many designs may be grouped for decoration, and single symmetrical
figures can be mounted upon heavy paper.

[Sidenote: Free-paper weaving]

[Sidenote: Sequence]

Free-paper weaving requires quite a little skill of hand and a great deal of patience before
the child can achieve a successful result. Perhaps a few words regarding it, and information
about a simple sequence of paper patterns, will not be out of place, since so many are to-day
taking it up. Strips of manilla paper forty inches long and one inch wide are used. These are
cut into strips eight inches, sixteen inches, twenty inches, and twenty-four inches in length.
For the first pattern of the sequence take four strips eight inches long and double each one.
Hold two of them side by side in the left hand, so that the open ends of the outer strip are
at the top while those of the other are at the bottom. With the right hand inclose the first
strip in the left hand with one of the remaining double strips and pass the ends of the latter
between the two ends of the second strip. Then hold the work in the right hand and proceed
in the same way with the left hand. When both strips are in, draw them tight and they will
be firmly woven. The ends can be cut in any way desired. These little forms can be used for
bookmarks. They are very attractive when made in two tones of one color.

[Sidenote: Sequence weaving]

