THE BETROTHED

INTRODUCTION--(1832.)

The Tales of the Crusaders was determined upon as the title of the following series of the
Novels, rather by the advice of the few friends whom, death has now rendered still fewer, than
by the author's own taste. Not but that he saw plainly enough the interest which might be excited
by the very name of the Crusaders, but he was conscious at the same time that that interest
was of a character which it might be more easy to create than to satisfy, and that by the mention
of so magnificent a subject each reader might be induced to call up to his imagination a sketch
so extensive and so grand that it might not be in the power of the author to fill it up, who
would thus stand in the predicament of the dwarf bringing with him a standard to measure his
own stature, and showing himself, therefore, says Sterne, "a dwarf more ways than one."

It is a fact, if it were worth while to examine it, that the publisher and author, however
much their general interests are the same, may be said to differ so far as title pages are
concerned; and it is a secret of the tale-telling art, if it could be termed a secret worth
knowing, that a taking-title, as it is called, best answers the purpose of the bookseller,
since it often goes far to cover his risk, and sells an edition not unfrequently before the
public have well seen it. But the author ought to seek more permanent fame, and wish that his
work, when its leaves are first cut open, should be at least fairly judged of. Thus many of
the best novelists have been anxious to give their works such titles as render it out of the
reader's power to conjecture their contents, until they should have an opportunity of reading them.

All this did not prevent the Tales of the Crusaders from being the title fixed on; and the
celebrated year of projects (eighteen hundred and twenty-five) being the time of publication,
an introduction was prefixed according to the humour of the day.

The first tale of the series was influenced in its structure, rather by the wish to avoid the
general expectations which might be formed from the title, than to comply with any one of them,
and so disappoint the rest. The story was, therefore, less an incident belonging to the Crusades,
than one which was occasioned by the singular cast of mind introduced and spread wide by those
memorable undertakings. The confusion among families was not the least concomitant evil of
the extraordinary preponderance of this superstition. It was no unusual thing for a Crusader,
returning from his long toils of war and pilgrimage, to find his family augmented by some young
off-shoot, of whom the deserted matron could give no very accurate account, or perhaps to find
his marriage-bed filled, and that, instead of becoming nurse to an old man, his household dame
had preferred being the lady-love of a young one. Numerous are the stories of this kind told
in different parts of Europe; and the returned knight or baron, according to his temper, sat
down good naturedly contented with the account which his lady gave of a doubtful matter, or
called in blood and fire to vindicate his honour, which, after all, had been endangered chiefly
by his forsaking his household gods to seek adventures in Palestine.

Scottish tradition, quoted, I think, in some part of the Border Minstrelsy, ascribes to the
clan of Tweedie, a family once stout and warlike, a descent which would not have misbecome
a hero of antiquity. A baron, somewhat elderly we may suppose, had wedded a buxom young lady,
and some months after their union he left her to ply the distaff alone in his old tower, among
the mountains of the county of Peebles, near the sources of the Tweed. He applied to his wife,
therefore, for the solution of this dilemma. This story, however suitable to Pagan times, would
have met with full credence from few of the baron's contemporaries, but the wife was young
and beautiful, the husband old and in his dotage; her family (the Frazers, it is believed)
were powerful and warlike, and the baron had had fighting enough in the holy wars.

The tale of the Noble Moringer is somewhat of the same nature--it exists in a collection of
German popular songs, entitled, Sammlung Deutschen Volkslieder, Berlin, 1807; published by
Messrs. Busching and Von der Hagen. The ballad, which is popular in Germany, is supposed from
the language, to have been composed in the fifteenth century. The Noble Moringer, a powerful
baron of Germany, about to set out on a pilgrimage to the land of St. Thomas, with the geography
of which we are not made acquainted, resolves to commit his castle, dominions, and lady, to
the vassal who should pledge him to keep watch over them till the seven years of his pilgrimage
were accomplished. His chamberlain, an elderly and a cautious man, declines the trust, observing,
that seven days, instead of seven years, would be the utmost space to which he would consent
to pledge himself for the fidelity of any woman. The esquire of the Noble Moringer confidently
accepts the trust refused by the chamberlain, and the baron departs on his pilgrimage. The
seven years are now elapsed, all save a single day and night, when, behold, a vision descends
on the noble pilgrim as he sleeps in the land of the stranger.

  "It was the noble Moringer, within an orchard slept,
  When on the Baron's slumbering sense a boding vision crept,
  And whispered in his ear a voice,'
  'Tis time. Sir Knight, to wake--
  Thy lady and thy heritage another master take.

  "'Thy tower another banner knows, thy steeds another rein,
  And stoop them to another's will, thy gallant vassal train;
  And she, the lady of thy love, so faithful once and fair,
  This night, within thy father's hall, she weds Marstetten's heir.'"

The Moringer starts up and prays to his patron St. Thomas, to rescue him from the impending
shame, which his devotion to his patron had placed him in danger of incurring. St. Thomas,
who must have felt the justice of the imputation, performs a miracle. The Moringer's senses
were drenched in oblivion, and when he waked he lay in a well-known spot of his own domain;
on his right the Castle of his fathers, and on his left the mill, which, as usual, was built
not far distant from the Castle.

  "He leaned upon his pilgrim's staff, and to the mill he drew--
  So altered was his goodly form that none their master knew.
  The baron to the miller said, 'Good friend, for charity,
  Tell a poor pilgrim, in your land, what tidings may there be?'

  "The miller answered him again--'He knew of little news,
  Save that the lady of the land did a new bridegroom choose;
  Her husband died in distant land, such is the constant word,
  His death sits heavy on our souls, he was a worthy lord.

  "'Of him I held the little mill, which wins me living free--
  God rest the baron in his grave, he aye was kind to me!
  And when St. Martin's tide comes round, and millers take their toll,
  The priest that prays for Moringer shall have both cope and stole.'"

The baron proceeds to the Castle gate, which is bolted to prevent intrusion, while the inside
of the mansion rung with preparations for the marriage of the lady. The pilgrim prayed the
porter for entrance, conjuring him by his own sufferings, and for the sake of the late Moringer;
by the orders of his lady, the warder gave him admittance.

  "Then up the hall paced Moringer, his step was sad and slow;
  It sat full heavy on his heart, none seemed their lord to know.
  He sat him on a lowly bench, oppressed with wo and wrong;
  Short while he sat, but ne'er to him seemed little space so long.

  "Now spent was day, and feasting o'er, and come was evening hour,
  The time was nigh when new made brides retire to nuptial bower,
  'Our Castle's wont,' a bride's man said, 'hath been both firm and long--
  No guest to harbour in our halls till he shall chant a song.'"

When thus called upon, the disguised baron sung the following melancholy ditty:--

  "'Chill flows the lay of frozen age,' 'twas thus the pilgrim sung,
  'Nor golden mead, nor garment gay, unlocks his heavy tongue.
  Once did I sit, thou bridegroom gay, at board as rich as thine,
  And by my side as fair a bride, with all her charms, was mine.

  "'But time traced furrows on my face, and I grew silver hair'd,
  For locks of brown, and cheeks of youth, she left this brow and beard;
  Once rich, but now a palmer poor, I tread life's latest stage,
  And mingle with your bridal mirth the lay of frozen age.'"

The lady, moved at the doleful recollections which the palmer's song recalled, sent to him
a cup of wine. The palmer, having exhausted the goblet, returned it, and having first dropped
in the cup his nuptial ring, requested the lady to pledge her venerable guest.

  "The ring hath caught the lady's eye, she views it close and near,
  Then might you hear her shriek aloud, 'The Moringer is here!'
  Then might you see her start from seat, while tears in torrents fell,
  But if she wept for joy or wo, the ladies best can tell.

  "Full loud she utter'd thanks to Heaven, and every saintly power,
  That had restored the Moringer before the midnight hour;
  And loud she utter'd vow on vow, that never was there bride,
  That had like her preserved her troth, or been so sorely tried.

  "'Yes, here I claim the praise,' she said, 'to constant matrons due,
  Who keep the troth, that they have plight, so stedfastly and true;
  For count the term howe'er you will, so that you count aright,
  Seven twelvemonths and a day are out when bells toll twelve to-night.'

   "It was Marstetten then rose up, his falchion there he drew,
   He kneeled before The Moringer, and down his weapon threw;
   'My oath and knightly faith are broke,' these were the words he said;
   'Then take, my liege, thy vassal's sword, and take thy vassal's head.

   "The noble Moringer, he smiled, and then aloud did say,
   'He gathers wisdom that hath roamed seven twelvemonths and a day,
   My daughter now hath fifteen years, fame speaks her sweet and fair;
   I give her for the bride you lose, and name her for my heir.

   "'The young bridegroom hath youthful bride, the old bridegroom the old,
   Whose faith were kept till term and tide so punctually were told.
   But blessings on the warder kind that oped my castle gate,
   For had I come at morrow tide, I came a day too late.'"

There is also, in the rich field of German romance, another edition of this story, which has
been converted by M. Tieck (whose labours of that kind have been so remarkable) into the subject
of one of his romantic dramas. It is, however, unnecessary to detail it, as the present author
adopted his idea of the tale chiefly from the edition preserved in the mansion of Haighhall,
of old the mansion-house of the family of Braidshaigh, now possessed by their descendants on
the female side, the Earls of Balcarras. The story greatly resembles that of the Noble Moringer,
only there is no miracle of St. Thomas to shock the belief of good Protestants. I am permitted,
by my noble friends, the lord and lady of Haighhall, to print the following extract from the
family genealogy.

   Sir William Bradshaghe 2d
   Sone to Sr John was a
   great traveller and a
   Souldyer and married
   To
   Mabell daughter and
   Sole heire of Hugh
   Noris de Haghe and
   Blackrode and had issue
   EN. 8. E 2.
   of this Mabel is a story by tradition of undouted
   verity that in Sr William Bradshage's absence
   (being 10 yeares away in the wares) she
   married a welsh kt. Sr William retorninge
   from the wars came in a Palmers habit amongst
   the Poore to haghe. Who when she saw &
   congetringe that that he favoured her former
   husband wept, for which the kt chasticed her
   at wich Sr William went and made him selfe
   Knawne to his Tennants in wch space the kt
   fled, but neare to Newton Parke Sr William overtooke
   him and slue him.
   An: Dom: 1315.

There were many vestiges around Haighhall, both of the Catholic penances of the Lady Mabel,
and the history of this unfortunate transaction in particular; the whole history was within
the memory of man portrayed upon a glass window in the hall, where unfortunately it has not
been preserved. Mab's Cross is still extant. An old ruinous building is said to have been the
place where the Lady Mabel was condemned to render penance, by walking hither from Haighhall
barefooted and barelegged for the performance of her devotions. This relic, to which an anecdote
so curious is annexed, is now unfortunately ruinous. Time and whitewash, says Mr. Roby, have
altogether defaced the effigies of the knight and lady on the tomb. The particulars are preserved
in Mr. Roby's Traditions of Lancashire, [Footnote: A very elegant work, 2 vols. 1829. By J.
Roby, M.R.S.L.] to which the reader is referred for further particulars. It does not appear
that Sir William Braidshaigh was irreparably offended against the too hasty Lady Mabel, although
he certainly showed himself of a more fiery mould than the Scottish and German barons who were
heroes of the former tales. The tradition, which the author knew very early in life, was told
to him by the late Lady Balcarras. He was so much struck with it, that being at that time profuse
of legendary lore, he inserted it in the shape of a note to Waverley, the first of his romantic
offences. Had he then known, as he now does, the value of such a story, it is likely that,
as directed in the inimitable receipt for making an epic poem, preserved in the Guardian, he
would have kept it for some future opportunity.

As, however, the tale had not been completely told, and was a very interesting one, and as
it was sufficiently interwoven with the Crusades, the wars between the Welsh and the Norman
lords of the Marches was selected as a period when all freedoms might be taken with the strict
truth of history without encountering any well known fact which might render the narrative
improbable. Perhaps, however, the period which vindicates the probability of the tale, will,
with its wars and murders, be best found described in the following passage of Gryffyth Ap
Edwin's wars.

"This prince in conjunction with Algar, Earl of Chester, who had been banished from England
as a traitor, in the reign of Edward the Confessor, marched into Herefordshire and wasted all
that fertile country with fire and sword, to revenge the death of his brother Rhees, whose
head had been brought to Edward in pursuance of an order sent by the King on account of the
depredations which he had committed against the English on the borders. To stop these ravages
the Earl of Hereford, who was nephew to Edward, advanced with an army, not of English alone,
but of mercenary Normans and French, whom he had entertained in his service, against Gryffyth
and Algar. He met them near Hereford, and offered them battle, which the Welsh monarch, who
had won five pitched battles before, and never had fought without conquering, joyfully accepted.
The earl had commanded his English forces to fight on horseback, in imitation of the Normans,
against their usual custom; but the Welsh making a furious and desperate charge, that nobleman
himself, and the foreign cavalry led by him, were so daunted at the view of them, that they
shamefully fled without fighting; which being seen by the English, they also turned their backs
on the enemy, who, having killed or wounded as many of them as they could come up with in their
flight, entered triumphantly into Hereford, spoiled and fired the city, razed the walls to
the ground, slaughtered some of the citizens, led many of them captive, and (to use the words
of the Welsh Chronicle) left nothing in the town but blood and ashes. After this exploit they
immediately returned into Wales, undoubtedly from a desire of securing their prisoners, and
the rich plunder they had gained. The King of England hereupon commanded Earl Harold to collect
a great army from all parts of the kingdom, and assembling them at Gloucester, advanced from
thence to invade the dominions of Gryffyth in North Wales. He performed his orders, and penetrated
into that country without resistance from the Welsh; Gryffyth and Algar returning into some
parts of South Wales. What were their reasons for this conduct we are not well informed; nor
why Harold did not pursue his advantage against them; but it appears that he thought it more
advisable at this time to treat with, than subdue, them; for he left North Wales, and employed
himself in rebuilding the walls of Hereford, while negotiations were carrying on with Gryffyth
which soon after produced the restoration of Algar, and a peace with that king, not very honourable
to England, as he made no satisfaction for the mischief he had done in the war, nor any submissions
to Edward. Harold must doubtless have had some private and forcible motives to conclude such
a treaty. The very next year the Welsh monarch, upon what quarrel we, know not, made a new
incursion into England, and killed the Bishop of Hereford, the Sheriff of the county, and many
more of the English, both ecclesiastics and laymen. Edward was counselled by Harold, and Leofrick,
Earl of Mercia, to make peace with him again; which he again broke; nor could he be restrained
by any means, from these barbarous inroads, before the year one, thousand and sixty-three;
when Edward, whose patience and pacific disposition had been too much abused, commissioned
Harold to assemble the whole strength of the kingdom, and make war upon him in his own country
till he had subdued or destroyed him. That general acted so vigorously, and with so much celerity,
that he had like to have surprised him in his palace: but just before the English forces arrived
at his gate, having notice of the danger that threatened him, and seeing no other means of
safety, he threw himself with a few of his household into one of his ships which happened at
the instant to be ready to sail and put to sea."--LYTTLETON'S Hist. of England, vol. ii. p. 338.

This passage will be found to bear a general resemblance to the fictitious tale told, in the
Romance.

ABBOTSFORD, 1st June, 1832.

INTRODUCTION.

MINUTES OF SEDERUNT OF A GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS DESIGNING TO FORM A JOINT-STOCK
COMPANY, UNITED FOR THE PURPOSE OF WRITING AND PUBLISHING THE CLASS OF WORKS CALLED THE WAVERLEY
NOVELS,

HELD IN THE WATERLOO TAVERN, REGENT'S BRIDGE, EDINBURGH, 1st June, 1825.

[The reader must have remarked, that the various editions of the proceedings at this meeting
were given in the public papers with rather more than usual inaccuracy. The cause of this was
no ill- timed delicacy on the part of the gentlemen of the press to assert their privilege
of universal presence wherever a few are met together, and to commit to the public prints whatever
may then and there pass of the most private nature. But very unusual and arbitrary methods
were resorted to on the present occasion to prevent the reporters using a right which is generally
conceded to them by almost all meetings, whether of a political or commercial description.
Our own reporter, indeed, was bold enough to secrete himself under the Secretary's table, and
was not discovered till the meeting was well-nigh over. We are sorry to say, he suffered much
in person from fists and toes, and two or three principal pages were torn out of his note-book,
which occasions his report to break off abruptly. We cannot but consider this behaviour as
more particularly illiberal on the part of men who are themselves a kind of gentlemen of the
press; and they ought to consider themselves as fortunate that the misused reporter has sought
no other vengeance than from the tone of acidity with which he has seasoned his account of
their proceedings.--Edinburgh Newspaper.]

A meeting of the gentlemen and others interested in the celebrated publications called the
Waverley Novels, having been called by public advertisement, the same was respectably attended
by various literary characters of eminence. And it being in the first place understood that
individuals were to be denominated by the names assigned to them in the publications in question,
the Eidolon, or image of the author, was unanimously called to the chair, and Jonathan Oldbuck,
Esq. of Monkbarns, was requested to act as Secretary.

The Preses then addressed the meeting to the following purpose:--

"Gentlemen, I need scarcely remind you, that we have a joint interest in the valuable property
which has accumulated under our common labours. While the public have been idly engaged in
ascribing to one individual or another the immense mass of various matter, which the labours
of many had accumulated, you, gentlemen, well know, that every person in this numerous assembly
has had his share in the honours and profits of our common success. It is, indeed, to me a
mystery, how the sharp-sighted could suppose so huge a mass of sense and nonsense, jest and
earnest, humorous and pathetic, good, bad, and indifferent, amounting to scores of volumes,
could be the work of one hand, when we know the doctrine so well laid down by the immortal
Adam Smith, concerning the division of labour. Were those who entertained an opinion so strange,
not wise enough to know, that it requires twenty pairs of hands to make a thing so trifling
as a pin--twenty couple of dogs to kill an animal so insignificant as a fox?--"

"Hout, man!" said a stout countryman, "I have a grew-bitch at home will worry the best tod
in Pomoragrains, before ye could say, Dumpling."

"Who is that person?" said the Preses, with some warmth, as it appeared to us.

"A son of Dandy Dinmont's," answered the unabashed rustic. "God, ye may mind him, I think!--ane
o' the best in your aught, I reckon. And, ye see, I am come into the farm, and maybe something
mair, and a whoen shares in this buik-trade of yours."

"Well, well," replied the Preses, "peace, I pray thee, peace. Gentlemen, when thus interrupted,
I was on the point of introducing the business of this meeting, being, as is known to most
of you, the discussion of a proposition now on your table, which I myself had the honour to
suggest at last meeting, namely, that we do apply to the Legislature for an Act of Parliament
in ordinary, to associate us into a corporate body, and give us a personi standi in judicio,
with full power to prosecute and bring to conviction all encroachers upon our exclusive privilege,
in the manner therein to be made and provided. In a letter from the ingenious Mr. Dousterswivel
which I have received---"

Oldbuck, warmly--"I object to that fellow's name being mentioned; he is a common swindler."

"For shame, Mr. Oldbuck," said the Preses, "to use such terms respecting the ingenious inventor
of the great patent machine erected at Groningen, where they put in raw hemp at one end, and
take out ruffled shirts at the other, without the aid of hackle or rippling-comb--loom, shuttle,
or weaver--scissors, needle, or seamstress. He had just completed it, by the addition of a
piece of machinery to perform the work of the laundress; but when it was exhibited before his
honour the burgomaster, it had the inconvenience of heating the smoothing-irons red-hot; excepting
which, the experiment was entirely satisfactory. He will become as rich as a Jew."

"Well," added Mr. Oldbuck, "if the scoundrel--"

"Scoundrel, Mr. Oldbuck," said the Preses, "is a most unseemly expression, and I must call
you to order. Mr. Dousterswivel is only an eccentric genius."

"Pretty much the same in the Greek," muttered Mr. Oldbuck; and then said aloud, "and if this
eccentric genius has work enough in singeing the Dutchman's linen, what the devil has he to
do here?"

"Why, he is of opinion, that at the expense of a little mechanism, some part of the labour
of composing these novels might be saved by the use of steam." There was a murmur of disapprobation
at this proposal, and the words, "Blown up," and "Bread taken out of our mouths," and "They
might as well construct a steam parson," were whispered. And it was not without repeated calls
to order, that the Preses obtained an opportunity of resuming his address.

"Order!--Order! Pray, support the chair. Hear, hear, hear the chair!"

"Gentlemen, it is to be premised, that this mechanical operation can only apply to those parts
of the narrative which are at present composed out of commonplaces, such as the love-speeches
of the hero, the description of the heroine's person, the moral observations of all sorts,
and the distribution of happiness at the conclusion of the piece. Mr. Dousterswivel has sent
me some drawings, which go far to show, that by placing the words and phrases technically employed
on these subjects, in a sort of framework, like that of the Sage of Laputa, and changing them
by such a mechanical process as that by which weavers of damask alter their patterns, many
new and happy combinations cannot fail to occur, while the author, tired of pumping his own
brains, may have an agreeable relaxation in the use of his fingers."

"I speak for information, Mr. Preses," said the Rev. Mr. Lawrence Templeton; "but I am inclined
to suppose the late publication of Walladmor to have been the work of Dousterswivel, by the
help of the steam-engine." [Footnote: A Romance, by the Author of Waverley, having been expected
about this time at the great commercial mart of literature, the Fair of Leipsic, an ingenious
gentleman of Germany, finding that none such appeared, was so kind as to supply its place with
a work, in three volumes, called Walladmor, to which he prefixed the Christian and surname
at full length. The character of this work is given with tolerable fairness in the text. ]

"For shame, Mr. Templeton," said the Preses; "there are good things in Walladmor, I assure
you, had the writer known any thing about the country in which he laid the scene."

"Or had he had the wit, like some of ourselves, to lay the scene in such a remote or distant
country that nobody should be able to back-speer [Footnote: Scottish for cross-examine him.]
him," said Mr. Oldbuck.

"Why, as to that," said the Preses, "you must consider the thing was got up for the German
market, where folks are no better judges of Welsh manners than of Welsh crw." [Footnote: The
ale of the ancient British is called crw in their native language.]

"I make it my prayer that this be not found the fault of our own next venture," said Dr. Dryasdust,
pointing to some books which lay on the table. "I fear the manners expressed in that 'Betrothed'
of ours, will scarce meet the approbation of the Cymmerodion; I could have wished that Llhuyd
had been looked into --that Powel had been consulted--that Lewis's History had been quoted,
the preliminary dissertations particularly, in order to give due weight to the work."

"Weight!" said Captain Clutterbuck; "by my soul, it is heavy enough already, Doctor."

"Speak to the chair," said the Preses, rather peevishly.

"To the chair, then, I say it," said Captain Clutterbuck, "that 'The Betrothed' is heavy enough
to break down the chair of John of Gaunt, or Cador-Edris itself. I must add, however, that,
in my poor mind, 'The Talisman' goes more trippingly off." [Footnote: This was an opinion universally
entertained among the friends of the author.]

"It is not for me to speak," said the worthy minister of Saint Ronan's Well; "but yet I must
say, that being so long engaged upon the Siege of Ptolemais, my work ought to have been brought
out, humble though it be, before any other upon a similar subject at least."

"Your Siege, Parson!" said Mr. Oldbuck, with great contempt; "will you speak of your paltry
prose-doings in my presence, whose great Historical Poem, in twenty books, with notes in proportion,
has been postponed ad Grcecas Kalendas?" The Preses, who appeared to suffer a great deal during
this discussion, now spoke with dignity and determination. "Gentlemen," he said, "this sort
of discussion is highly irregular. There is a question before you, and to that, gentlemen,
I must confine your attention. Priority of publication, let me remind you, gentlemen, is always
referred to the Committee of Criticism, whose determination on such subjects is without appeal.
I declare I will leave the chair, if any more extraneous matter be introduced.--And now, gentlemen,
that we are once more in order, I would wish to have some gentleman speak upon the question,
whether, as associated to carry on a joint-stock trade in fictitious narrative, in prose and
verse, we ought not to be incorporated by Act of Parliament? What say you, gentlemen, to the
proposal? Vis unita fortior, is an old and true adage."

"Societas mater discordiarum, is a brocard as ancient and as veritable," said Oldbuck, who
seemed determined, on this occasion, to be pleased with no proposal that was announced by the
chair.

"Come, Monkbarns," said the Preses, in his most coaxing manner, "you have studied the monastic
institutions deeply, and know there must be a union of persons and talents to do any thing
respectable, and attain a due ascendance over the spirit of the age. Tres faciunt collegium--it
takes three monks to make a convent."

"And nine tailors to make a man," replied Oldbuck, not in the least softened in his opposition;
"a quotation as much to the purpose as the other."

"Come, come," said the Preses, "you know the Prince of Orange said to Mr. Seymour, 'Without
an association, we are a rope of sand.'"

"I know," replied Oldbuck, "it would have been as seemly that none of the old leaven had been
displayed on this occasion, though you be the author of a Jacobite novel. I know nothing of
the Prince of Orange after 1688; but I have heard a good deal of the immortal William the Third."

"And to the best of my recollection," said Mr. Templeton, whispering to Oldbuck, "it was Seymour
made the remark to the Prince, not the Princo to Seymour. But this is a specimen of our friend's
accuracy, poor gentleman: He trusts too much to his memory! of late years--failing fast, sir--breaking
up."

"And breaking down, too," said Mr. Oldbuck. "But what can you expect of a man too fond of his
own hasty and flashy compositions, to take the assistance of men of reading and of solid parts?"

"No whispering--no caballing--no private business, gentlemen," said the unfortunate Preses,
who reminded us somewhat of a Highland drover engaged in gathering and keeping in the straight
road his excursive black cattle.

