CHAPTER LXXXVIII

The Abbe Alberoni, having risen by the means I have described, and acquired power by following
in the track of the Princesse des Ursins, governed Spain like a master.  He had the most ambitious
projects.  One of his ideas was to drive all strangers, especially the French, out of the West
Indies; and he hoped to make use of the Dutch to attain this end.  But Holland was too much
in the dependence of England.

At home Alberoni proposed many useful reforms, and endeavoured to diminish the expenses of
the royal household.  He thought, with reason, that a strong navy was the necessary basis of
the power of Spain; and to create one he endeavoured to economise the public money.  He flattered
the King with the idea that next year he would arm forty vessels to protect the commerce of
the Spanish Indies.  He had the address to boast of his disinterestedness, in that whilst working
at all manner of business he had never received any grace from the King, and lived only on
fifty pistoles, which the Duke of Parma, his master, gave him every month; and therefore he
made gently some complaints against the ingratitude of princes.

Alberoni had persuaded the Queen of Spain to keep her husband shut up, as had the Princesse
des Ursins.  This was a certain means of governing a prince whose temperament and whose conscience
equally attached him to his spouse.  He was soon completely governed once more--under lock
and key, as it were, night and day.  By this means the Queen was jailoress and prisoner at
the same time.  As she was constantly with the King nobody could come to her.  Thus Alberoni
kept them both shut up, with the key of their prison in his pocket.

One of the chief objects of his ambition was the Cardinal's hat.  It would be too long to relate
the schemes he set on foot to attain his end. He was opposed by a violent party at Rome; but
at last his inflexible will and extreme cunning gained the day.  The Pope, no longer able to
resist the menaces of the King of Spain, and dreading the vengeance of the all-powerful minister,
consented to grant the favour that minister had so pertinaciously demanded.  Alberoni was made
Cardinal on the 12th of July, 1717.  Not a soul approved this promotion when it was announced
at the consistory.  Not a single cardinal uttered a word in praise of the new confrere, but
many openly disapproved his nomination.  Alberoni's good fortune did not stop here.  At the
death, some little time after, of the Bishop of Malaga, that rich see, worth thirty thousand
ecus a year, was given to him.  He received it as the mere introduction to the grandest and
richest sees of Spain, when they should become vacant. The King of Spain gave him also twenty
thousand ducats, to be levied upon property confiscated for political reasons.  Shortly after,
Cardinal Arias, Archbishop of Seville, having died, Alberoni was named to this rich archbishopric.

In the middle of his grandeur and good luck he met with an adventure that must have strangely
disconcerted him.

I have before explained how Madame des Ursins and the deceased Queen had kept the King of Spain
screened from all eyes, inaccessible to all his Court, a very palace-hermit.  Alberoni, as
I have said, followed their example.  He kept the King even more closely imprisoned than before,
and allowed no one, except a few indispensable attendants, to approach him. These attendants
were a small number of valets and doctors, two gentlemen of the chamber, one or two ladies,
and the majordomo-major of the King. This last post was filled by the Duc d'Escalone, always
called Marquis de Villena, in every way one of the greatest noblemen in Spain, and most respected
and revered of all, and justly so, for his virtue, his appointment, and his services.

Now the King's doctors are entirely under the authority of the majordomo- major. I do not like D. Jaime, but they are one thousand times better than
the other. The picture of him is etched in my soul. It has not faded or disappeared, it is
a mark of slavery that will remind you forver.  Just at this time the King was ill.  Villena wished to discharge
the duties attached to his post of majordomo-major. Alberoni caused it to be insinuated to
him, that the King wished to be at liberty, and that he would be better liked if he kept at
home; or had the discretion and civility not to enter the royal chamber, but to ask at the
door for news.  This was language the Marquis would not understand.

At the end of the grand cabinet of the mirrors was placed a bed, in which the King was laid,
in front of the door; and as the room is vast and long, it is a good distance from the door
(which leads to the interior) to the place where the bed was.  Alberoni again caused the Marquis
to be informed that his attentions were troublesome, but the Marquis did not fail to enter
as before.  At last, in concert with the Queen, the Cardinal resolved to refuse him admission.
The Marquis, presenting himself one afternoon, a valet partly opened the door and said, with
much confusion, that he was forbidden to let him enter.

"Insolent fellow," replied the Marquis, "stand aside," and he pushed the door against the valet
and entered.  In front of him was the Queen, seated at the King's pillow; the Cardinal standing
by her side, and the privileged few, and not all of them, far away from the bed.  The Marquis,
who, though full of pride, was but weak upon his legs, leisurely advanced, supported upon his
little stick.  The Queen and the Cardinal saw him and looked at each other.  The King was too
ill to notice anything, and his curtains were closed except at the side where the Queen was.
Seeing the Marquis approach, the Cardinal made signs, with impatience, to one of the valets
to tell him to go away, and immediately after, observing that the Marquis, without replying,
still advanced, he went to him, explained to him that the King wished to be alone, and begged
him to leave.

"That is not true," said the Marquis; "I have watched you; you have not approached the bed,
and the King has said nothing to you."

The Cardinal insisting, and without success, took him by the arm to make him go.  The Marquis
said he was very insolent to wish to hinder him from seeing the King, and perform his duties.
The Cardinal, stronger than his adversary, turned the Marquis round, hurried him towards the
door, both talking the while, the Cardinal with measure, the Marquis in no way mincing his
words.  Tired of being hauled out in this manner, the Marquis struggled, called Alberoni a
"little scoundrel," to whom he would teach manners; and in this heat and dust the Marquis,
who was weak, fortunately fell into an armchair hard by.  Angry at his fall, he raised his
little stick and let it fall with all his force upon the ears and the shoulders of the Cardinal,
calling him a little scoundrel--a little rascal-- a little blackguard, deserving a horsewhipping.

The Cardinal, whom he held with one hand, escaped as well as he could, the Marquis continuing
to abuse him, and shaking the stick at him.  One of the valets came and assisted him to rise
from his armchair, and gain the door; for after this accident his only thought was to leave
the room.

The Queen looked on from her chair during all this scene, without stirring or saying a word;
and the privileged few in the chamber did not dare to move.  I learned all this from every
one in Spain; and moreover I asked the Marquis de Villena himself to give me the full details;
and he, who was all uprightness and truth, and who had conceived some little friendship for
me, related with pleasure all I have written.  The two gentlemen of the chamber present also
did the same, laughing in their sleeves.  One had refused to tell the Marquis to leave the
room, and the other had accompanied him to the door.  The most singular thing is, that the
Cardinal, furious, but surprised beyond measure at the blows he had received, thought only
of getting out of reach.  The Marquis cried to him from a distance, that but for the respect
he owed to the King, and to the state in which he was, he would give him a hundred kicks in
the stomach, and haul him out by the ears.  I was going to forget this.  The King was so ill
that he saw nothing.

A quarter of an hour after the Marquis had returned home, he received an order to retire to
one of his estates at thirty leagues from Madrid.  The rest of the day his house was filled
with the most considerable people of Madrid, arriving as they learned the news, which made
a furious sensation through the city.  He departed the next day with his children.  The Cardinal,
nevertheless, remained so terrified, that, content with the exile of the Marquis, and with
having got rid of him, he did not dare to pass any censure upon him for the blows he had received.
Five or six months afterwards he sent him an order of recall, though the Marquis had not taken
the slightest steps to obtain it.  What is incredible is, that the adventure, the exile, the
return, remained unknown to the King until the fall of the Cardinal!  The Marquis would never
consent to see him, or to hear him talked of, on any account, after returning, though the Cardinal
was the absolute master.  His pride was much humiliated by this worthy and just haughtiness;
and he was all the more piqued because he left nothing undone in order to bring about a reconciliation,
without any other success than that of obtaining fresh disdain, which much increased the public
estimation in which this wise and virtuous nobleman was held.

CHAPTER LXXXIX

I must not omit to mention an incident which occurred during the early part of the year 1718,
and which will give some idea of the character of M. le Duc d'Orleans, already pretty amply
described by me.

One day (when Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans had gone to Montmartre, which she quitted soon after)
I was walking alone with M. le Duc d'Orleans in the little garden of the Palais Royal, chatting
upon various affairs, when he suddenly interrupted me, and turning towards me; said, "I am
going to tell you something that will please you."

Thereupon he related to me that he was tired of the life he led, which was no longer in harmony
with his age or his desires, and many similar things; that he was resolved to give up his gay
parties, pass his evenings more soberly and decently, sometimes at home, often with Madame
la Duchesse d'Orleans; that his health would gain thereby, and he should have more time for
business; that in a little while I might rely upon it --there would be no more suppers of "roues
and harlots" (these were his own terms), and that he was going to lead a prudent and reasonable
life adapted to his age and state.

I admit that in my extreme surprise I was ravished, so great was the interest I took in him.
I testified this to him with overflowing heart, thanking him for his confidence.  I said to
him that he knew I for a long time had not spoken to him of the indecency of his life, or of
the time he lost, because I saw that in so doing I lost my own; that I had long since despaired
of his conduct changing; that this had much grieved me; that he could not be ignorant from
all that had passed between us at various times, how much I desired a change, and that he might
judge of the surprise and joy his announcement gave me.  He assured me more and more that his
resolution was fixed, and thereupon I took leave of him, the hour for his soiree having arrived.

The next day I learned from people to whom the roues had just related it, that M. le Duc d'Orleans
was no sooner at table than he burst out laughing, and applauded his cleverness, saying that
he had just laid a trap for me into which I had fallen full length.  He recited to them our
conversation, at which the joy and applause were marvellous.  It is the only time he ever diverted
himself at my expense (not to say at his own) in a matter in which the fib he told me, and
which I was foolish enough to swallow, surprised by a sudden joy that took from me reflection,
did honour to me, though but little to him.  I would not gratify him by telling him I knew
of his joke, or call to his mind what he had said to me; accordingly he never dared to speak of it.

I never could unravel what fantasy had seized him to lead him to hoax me in this manner, since
for many years I had never opened my mouth concerning the life he led, whilst he, on his side,
had said not a word to me relating to it.  Yet it is true that sometimes being alone with confidential
valets, some complaints have escaped him (but never before others) that I ill-treated him,
and spoke hastily to him, but all was said in two words, without bitterness, and without accusing
me of treating him wrongfully.  He spoke truly also; sometimes, when I was exasperated with
stupidity or error in important matters which affected him or the State, or when he had agreed
(having been persuaded and convinced by good reasons) to do or not to do some essential thing,
and was completely turned from it by his feebleness, his easy-going nature (which he appreciated
as well as I)--cruelly did I let out against him. Because of the love my wife has for
me, and the love I have for our son, I would oppose you and keep you by my side, but because of
your fame, which would cast a shadow on me, and on your son, I will not stop you, though it
is in my power to do it.  I used to say to him that if he wished to joke I would joke as
much as he liked, but to mix the most serious matters with tomfoolery was insupportable.  He
laughed heartily, and all the more because, as the thing often happened, I ought to have been
on my guard; but never was, and was vexed both at the joke and at being surprised; then he
returned to business.  But princes must sometimes banter and amuse themselves with those whom
they treat as friends.  Nevertheless, in spite of his occasional banter, he entertained really
sincere esteem and friendship for me.

