We are not, however, to suppose the character of this distinguished outlaw to be that of an
actual hero, acting uniformly and consistently on such moral principles as the illustrious
bard who, standing by his grave, has vindicated his fame. On the contrary, as is common with
barbarous chiefs, Rob Roy appears to have mixed his professions of principle with a large alloy
of craft and dissimulation, of which his conduct during the civil war is sufficient proof.
It is also said, and truly, that although his courtesy was one of his strongest characteristics,
yet sometimes he assumed an arrogance of manner which was not easily endured by the high-spirited
men to whom it was addressed, and drew the daring outlaw into frequent disputes, from which
he did not always come off with credit. From this it has been inferred, that Rob Roy w as more
of a bully than a hero, or at least that he had, according to the common phrase, his fighting
days. Some aged men who knew him well, have described him also as better at a taich-tulzie,
or scuffle within doors, than in mortal combat. The tenor of his life may be quoted to repel
this charge; while, at the same time, it must be allowed, that the situation in which he was
placed rendered him prudently averse to maintaining quarrels, where nothing was to be had save
blows, and where success would have raised up against him new and powerful enemies, in a country
where revenge was still considered as a duty rather than a crime. The power of commanding his
passions on such occasions, far from being inconsistent with the part which MacGregor had to
perform, was essentially necessary, at the period when he lived, to prevent his career from
being cut short.

I may here mention one or two occasions on which Rob Roy appears to have given way in the manner
alluded to. My late venerable friend, John Ramsay of Ochtertyre, alike eminent as a classical
scholar and as an authentic register of the ancient history and manners of Scotland, informed
me, that on occasion of a public meeting at a bonfire in the town of Doune, Rob Roy gave some
offence to James Edmondstone of Newton, the same gentleman who was unfortunately concerned
in the slaughter of Lord Rollo (see Maclaurin's Criminal Trials, No. IX.), when Edmondstone
compelled MacGregor to quit the town on pain of being thrown by him into the bonfire. "I broke
one off your ribs on a former occasion," said he, "and now, Rob, if you provoke me farther,
I will break your neck." But it must be remembered that Edmondstone was a man of consequence
in the Jacobite party, as he carried the royal standard of James VII. at the battle of Sheriffmuir,
and also, that he was near the door of his own mansion-house, and probably surrounded by his
friends and adherents. Rob Roy, however, suffered in reputation for retiring under such a threat.

Another well-vouched case is that of Cunningham of Boquhan.

Henry Cunningham, Esq. of Boquhan, was a gentleman of Stirlingshire, who, like many exquisites
of our own time, united a natural high spirit and daring character with an affectation of delicacy
of address and manners amounting to foppery.*

* His courage and affectation of foppery were united, which is less frequently the case, with
a spirit of innate modesty. He is thus described in Lord Binning's satirical verses, entitled
"Argyle's Levee:"

                   "Six times had Harry bowed unseen,
                        Before he dared advance;
                   The Duke then, turning round well pleased,
                        Said, 'Sure you've been in France!
                   A more polite and jaunty man
                        I never saw before:'
                   Then Harry bowed, and blushed, and bowed,
                        And strutted to the door."

See a Collection of original Poems, by Scotch Gentlemen, vol. ii. p. 125.

He chanced to be in company with Rob Roy, who, either in contempt of Boquhan's supposed effeminacy,
or because he thought him a safe person to fix a quarrel on (a point which Rob's enemies alleged
he was wont to consider), insulted him so grossly that a challenge passed between them. The
goodwife of the clachan had hidden Cunningham's sword, and while he rummaged the house in quest
of his own or some other, Rob Roy went to the Shieling Hill, the appointed place of combat,
and paraded there with great majesty, waiting for his antagonist. In the meantime, Cunningham
had rummaged out an old sword, and, entering the ground of contest in all haste, rushed on
the outlaw with such unexpected fury that he fairly drove him off the field, nor did he show
himself in the village again for some time. Mr. MacGregor Stirling has a softened account of
this anecdote in his new edition of Nimmo's Stirlingshire; still he records Rob Roy's discomfiture.

Occasionally Rob Roy suffered disasters, and incurred great personal danger. On one remarkable
occasion he was saved by the coolness of his lieutenant, Macanaleister or Fletcher, the Little
John of his band--a fine active fellow, of course, and celebrated as a marksman. It happened
that MacGregor and his party had been surprised and dispersed by a superior force of horse
and foot, and the word was given to "split and squander." Each shifted for himself, but a bold
dragoon attached himself to pursuit of Rob, and overtaking him, struck at him with his broadsword.
A plate of iron in his bonnet saved the MacGregor from being cut down to the teeth; but the
blow was heavy enough to bear him to the ground, crying as he fell, "Oh, Macanaleister, is
there naething in her?" (i.e. in the gun). The trooper, at the same time, exclaiming, "D--n
ye, your mother never wrought your night-cap!" had his arm raised for a second blow, when Macanaleister
fired, and the ball pierced the dragoon's heart.

Such as he was, Rob Roy's progress in his occupation is thus described by a gentleman of sense
and talent, who resided within the circle of his predatory wars, had probably felt their effects,
and speaks of them, as might be expected, with little of the forbearance with which, from their
peculiar and romantic character, they are now regarded.

"This man (Rob Roy MacGregor) was a person of sagacity, and neither wanted stratagem nor address;
and having abandoned himself to all licentiousness, set himself at the head of all the loose,
vagrant, and desperate people of that clan, in the west end of Perth and Stirling shires, and
infested those whole countries with thefts, robberies, and depredations. Very few who lived
within his reach (that is, within the distance of a nocturnal expedition) could promise to
themselves security, either for their persons or effects, without subjecting themselves to
pay him a heavy and shameful tax of black-mail. He at last proceeded to such a degree of audaciousness
that he committed robberies, raised contributions, and resented quarrels, at the head of a
very considerable body of armed men, in open day, and in the face of the government."*

* Mr. Grahame of Gartmore's Causes of the Disturbances in the Highlands. See Jamieson's edition
of Burt's Letters from the North of Scotland, Appendix, vol. ii. p. 348.

The extent and success of these depredations cannot be surprising, when we consider that the
scene of them was laid in a country where the general law was neither enforced nor respected.

Having recorded that the general habit of cattle-stealing had blinded even those of the better
classes to the infamy of the practice, and that as men's property consisted entirely in herds,
it was rendered in the highest degree precarious, Mr. Grahame adds--

"On these accounts there is no culture of ground, no improvement of pastures, and from the
same reasons, no manufactures, no trade; in short, no industry. The people are extremely prolific,
and therefore so numerous, that there is not business in that country, according to its present
order and economy, for the one-half of them. Every place is full of idle people, accustomed
to arms, and lazy in everything but rapines and depredations. As buddel or aquavitae houses
are to be found everywhere through the country, so in these they saunter away their time, and
frequently consume there the returns of their illegal purchases. Here the laws have never been
executed, nor the authority of the magistrate ever established. Here the officer of the law
neither dare nor can execute his duty, and several places are about thirty miles from lawful
persons. In short, here is no order, no authority, no government."

The period of the rebellion, 1715, approached soon after Rob Roy had attained celebrity. His
Jacobite partialities were now placed in opposition to his sense of the obligations which he
owed to the indirect protection of the Duke of Argyle. But the desire of "drowning his sounding
steps amid the din of general war" induced him to join the forces of the Earl of Mar, although
his patron the Duke of Argyle was at the head of the army opposed to the Highland insurgents.

The MacGregors, a large sept of them at least, that of Ciar Mhor, on this occasion were not
commanded by Rob Roy, but by his nephew already mentioned, Gregor MacGregor, otherwise called
James Grahame of Glengyle, and still better remembered by the Gaelic epithet of Ghlune Dhu,
i.e. Black Knee, from a black spot on one of his knees, which his Highland garb rendered visible.
There can be no question, however, that being then very young, Glengyle must have acted on
most occasions by the advice and direction of so experienced a leader as his uncle.

The MacGregors assembled in numbers at that period, and began even to threaten the Lowlands
towards the lower extremity of Loch Lomond. They suddenly seized all the boats which were upon
the lake, and, probably with a view to some enterprise of their own, drew them overland to
Inversnaid, in order to intercept the progress of a large body of west-country whigs who were
in arms for the government, and moving in that direction.

The whigs made an excursion for the recovery of the boats. Their forces consisted of volunteers
from Paisley, Kilpatrick, and elsewhere, who, with the assistance of a body of seamen, were
towed up the river Leven in long-boats belonging to the ships of war then lying in the Clyde.
At Luss they were joined by the forces of Sir Humphrey Colquhoun, and James Grant, his son-in-law,
with their followers, attired in the Highland dress of the period, which is picturesquely described.*
The whole party crossed to Craig-Royston, but the MacGregors did not offer combat.

* "At night they arrived at Luss, where they were joined by Sir Humphrey Colquhoun of Luss,
and James Grant of Plascander, his son-in-law, followed by forty or fifty stately fellows in
their short hose and belted plaids, armed each of them with a well-fixed gun on his shoulder,
a strong handsome target, with a sharp-pointed steel of above half an ell in length screwed
into the navel of it, on his left arm, a sturdy claymore by his side, and a pistol or two,
with a dirk and knife, in his belt."--Rae's History of the Rebellion, 4to, p. 287.

If we are to believe the account of the expedition given by the historian Rae, they leapt on
shore at Craig-Royston with the utmost intrepidity, no enemy appearing to oppose them, and
by the noise of their drums, which they beat incessantly, and the discharge of their artillery
and small arms, terrified the MacGregors, whom they appear never to have seen, out of their
fastnesses, and caused them to fly in a panic to the general camp of the Highlanders at Strath-Fillan.*
The low-country men succeeded in getting possession of the boats at a great expenditure of
noise and courage, and little risk of danger.

* Note C. The Loch Lomond Expedition.

After this temporary removal from his old haunts, Rob Roy was sent by the Earl of Mar to Aberdeen,
to raise, it is believed, a part of the clan Gregor, which is settled in that country. These
men were of his own family (the race of the Ciar Mhor). They were the descendants of about
three hundred MacGregors whom the Earl of Murray, about the year 1624, transported from his
estates in Menteith to oppose against his enemies the MacIntoshes, a race as hardy and restless
as they were themselves.

But while in the city of Aberdeen, Rob Roy met a relation of a very different class and character
from those whom he was sent to summon to arms. This was Dr. James Gregory (by descent a MacGregor),
the patriarch of a dynasty of professors distinguished for literary and scientific talent,
and the grandfather of the late eminent physician and accomplished scholar, Professor Gregory
of Edinburgh. This gentleman was at the time Professor of Medicine in King's College, Aberdeen,
and son of Dr. James Gregory, distinguished in science as the inventor of the reflecting telescope.
With such a family it may seem our friend Rob could have had little communion. But civil war
is a species of misery which introduces men to strange bed-fellows. Dr. Gregory thought it
a point of prudence to claim kindred, at so critical a period, with a man so formidable and
influential. He invited Rob Roy to his house, and treated him with so much kindness, that he
produced in his generous bosom a degree of gratitude which seemed likely to occasion very inconvenient
effects.

The Professor had a son about eight or nine years old,--a lively, stout boy of his age,--with
whose appearance our Highland Robin Hood was much taken. On the day before his departure from
the house of his learned relative, Rob Roy, who had pondered deeply how he might requite his
cousin's kindness, took Dr. Gregory aside, and addressed him to this purport:--"My dear kinsman,
I have been thinking what I could do to show my sense of your hospitality. Now, here you have
a fine spirited boy of a son, whom you are ruining by cramming him with your useless book-learning,
and I am determined, by way of manifesting my great good-will to you and yours, to take him
with me and make a man of him." The learned Professor was utterly overwhelmed when his warlike
kinsman announced his kind purpose in language which implied no doubt of its being a proposal
which, would be, and ought to be, accepted with the utmost gratitude. The task of apology or
explanation was of a most delicate description; and there might have been considerable danger
in suffering Rob Roy to perceive that the promotion with which he threatened the son was, in
the father's eyes, the ready road to the gallows. Indeed, every excuse which he could at first
think of--such as regret for putting his friend to trouble with a youth who had been educated
in the Lowlands, and so on--only strengthened the chieftain's inclination to patronise his
young kinsman, as he supposed they arose entirely from the modesty of the father. He would
for a long time take no apology, and even spoke of carrying off the youth by a certain degree
of kindly violence, whether his father consented, or not. At length the perplexed Professor
pleaded that his son was very young, and in an infirm state of health, and not yet able to
endure the hardships of a mountain life; but that in another year or two he hoped his health
would be firmly established, and he would be in a fitting condition to attend on his brave
kinsman, and follow out the splendid destinies to which he opened the way. This agreement being
made, the cousins parted,--Rob Roy pledging his honour to carry his young relation to the hills
with him on his next return to Aberdeenshire, and Dr. Gregory, doubtless, praying in his secret
soul that he might never see Rob's Highland face again.

James Gregory, who thus escaped being his kinsman's recruit, and in all probability his henchman,
was afterwards Professor of Medicine in the College, and, like most of his family, distinguished
by his scientific acquirements. He was rather of an irritable and pertinacious disposition;
and his friends were wont to remark, when he showed any symptom of these foibles, "Ah! this
comes of not having been educated by Rob Roy."

The connection between Rob Roy and his classical kinsman did not end with the period of Rob's
transient power. At a period considerably subsequent to the year 1715, he was walking in the
Castle Street of Aberdeen, arm in arm with his host, Dr. James Gregory, when the drums in the
barracks suddenly beat to arms, and soldiers were seen issuing from the barracks. "If these
lads are turning out," said Rob, taking leave of his cousin with great composure, "it is time
for me to look after my safety." So saying, he dived down a close, and, as John Bunyan says,
"went upon his way and was seen no more."*

* The first of these anecdotes, which brings the highest pitch of civilisation so  closely
in contact with the half-savage state of society, I have heard told by the late distinguished
Dr. Gregory; and the members of his family have had the kindness to collate the story with
their recollections and family documents, and furnish the authentic particulars. The second
rests on the recollection of an old man, who was present when Rob took French leave of his
literary cousin on hearing the drums beat, and communicated the circumstance to Mr. Alexander
Forbes, a connection of Dr. Gregory by marriage, who is still alive.

We have already stated that Rob Roy's conduct during the insurrection of 1715 was very equivocal.
His person and followers were in the Highland army, but his heart seems to have been with the
Duke of Argyle's. Yet the insurgents were constrained to trust to him as their only guide,
when they marched from Perth towards Dunblane, with the view of crossing the Forth at what
are called the Fords of Frew, and when they themselves said he could not be relied upon.

This movement to the westward, on the part of the insurgents, brought on the battle of Sheriffmuir--indecisive,
indeed, in its immediate results, but of which the Duke of Argyle reaped the whole advantage.
In this action, it will be recollected that the right wing of the Highlanders broke and cut
to pieces Argyle's left wing, while the clans on the left of Mar's army, though consisting
of Stewarts, Mackenzies, and Camerons, were completely routed. During this medley of flight
and pursuit, Rob Roy retained his station on a hill in the centre of the Highland position;
and though it is said his attack might have decided the day, he could not be prevailed upon
to charge. This was the more unfortunate for the insurgents, as the leading of a party of the
Macphersons had been committed to MacGregor. This, it is said, was owing to the age and infirmity
of the chief of that name, who, unable to lead his clan in person, objected to his heir-apparent,
Macpherson of Nord, discharging his duty on that occasion; so that the tribe, or a part of
them, were brigaded with their allies the MacGregors. While the favourable moment for action
was gliding away unemployed, Mar's positive orders reached Rob Roy that he should presently
attack. To which he coolly replied, "No, no! if they cannot do it without me, they cannot do
it with me." One of the Macphersons, named Alexander, one of Rob's original profession, videlicet,
a drover, but a man of great strength and spirit, was so incensed at the inactivity of this
temporary leader, that he threw off his plaid, drew his sword, and called out to his clansmen,
"Let us endure this no longer! if he will not lead you I will." Rob Roy replied, with great
coolness, "Were the question about driving Highland stots or kyloes, Sandie, I would yield
to your superior skill; but as it respects the leading of men, I must be allowed to be the
better judge."--"Did the matter respect driving Glen-Eigas stots," answered the Macpherson,
"the question with Rob would not be, which was to be last, but which was to be foremost." Incensed
at this sarcasm, MacGregor drew his sword, and they would have fought upon the spot if their
friends on both sides had not interfered. But the moment of attack was completely lost. Rob
did not, however, neglect his own private interest on the occasion. In the confusion of an
undecided field of battle, he enriched his followers by plundering the baggage and the dead
on both sides.

The fine old satirical ballad on the battle of Sheriffmuir does not forget to stigmatise our
hero's conduct on this memorable occasion--

                        Rob Roy he stood watch
                        On a hill for to catch
                 The booty for aught that I saw, man;
                         For he ne'er advanced
                 From the place where he stanced,
                 Till nae mair was to do there at a', man.

Notwithstanding the sort of neutrality which Rob Roy had continued to observe during the progress
of the Rebellion, he did not escape some of its penalties. He was included in the act of attainder,
and the house in Breadalbane, which was his place of retreat, was burned by General Lord Cadogan,
when, after the conclusion of the insurrection, he marched through the Highlands to disarm
and punish the offending clans. But upon going to Inverary with about forty or fifty of his
followers, Rob obtained favour, by an apparent surrender of their arms to Colonel Patrick Campbell
of Finnah, who furnished them and their leader with protections under his hand. Being thus
in a great measure secured from the resentment of government, Rob Roy established his residence
at Craig-Royston, near Loch Lomond, in the midst of his own kinsmen, and lost no time in resuming
his private quarrel with the Duke of Montrose. For this purpose he soon got on foot as many
men, and well armed too, as he had yet commanded. He never stirred without a body-guard of
ten or twelve picked followers, and without much effort could increase them to fifty or sixty.

The Duke was not wanting in efforts to destroy this troublesome adversary. His Grace applied
to General Carpenter, commanding the forces in Scotland, and by his orders three parties of
soldiers were directed from the three different points of Glasgow, Stirling, and Finlarig near
Killin. Mr. Graham of Killearn, the Duke of Montrose's relation and factor, Sheriff-depute
also of Dumbartonshire, accompanied the troops, that they might act under the civil authority,
and have the assistance of a trusty guide well acquainted with the hills. It was the object
of these several columns to arrive about the same time in the neighbourhood of Rob Roy's residence,
and surprise him and his followers. But heavy rains, the difficulties of the country, and the
good intelligence which the Outlaw was always supplied with, disappointed their well-concerted
combination. The troops, finding the birds were flown, avenged themselves by destroying the
nest. They burned Rob Roy's house,--though not with impunity; for the MacGregors, concealed
among the thickets and cliffs, fired on them, and killed a grenadier.

Rob Roy avenged himself for the loss which he sustained on this occasion by an act of singular
audacity. About the middle of November 1716, John Graham of Killearn, already mentioned as
factor of the Montrose family, went to a place called Chapel Errock, where the tenants of the
Duke were summoned to appear with their termly rents. They appeared accordingly, and the factor
had received ready money to the amount of about L300, when Rob Roy entered the room at the
head of an armed party. The Steward endeavoured to protect the Duke's property by throwing
the books of accounts and money into a garret, trusting they might escape notice. But the experienced
freebooter was not to be baffled where such a prize was at stake. He recovered the books and
cash, placed himself calmly in the receipt of custom, examined the accounts, pocketed the money,
and gave receipts on the Duke's part, saying he would hold reckoning with the Duke of Montrose
out of the damages which he had sustained by his Grace's means, in which he included the losses
he had suffered, as well by the burning of his house by General Cadogan, as by the later expedition
against Craig-Royston. He then requested Mr. Graham to attend him; nor does it appear that
he treated him with any personal violence, or even rudeness, although he informed him he regarded
him as a hostage, and menaced rough usage in case he should be pursued, or in danger of being
overtaken. Few more audacious feats have been performed. After some rapid changes of place
(the fatigue attending which was the only annoyance that Mr. Graham seems to have complained
of), he carried his prisoner to an island on Loch Katrine, and caused him to write to the Duke,
to state that his ransom was fixed at L3400 merks, being the balance which MacGregor pretended
remained due to him, after deducting all that he owed to the Duke of Montrose.

However, after detaining Mr. Graham five or six days in custody on the island, which is still
called Rob Roy's Prison, and could be no comfortable dwelling for November nights, the Outlaw
seems to have despaired of attaining further advantage from his bold attempt, and suffered
his prisoner to depart uninjured, with the account-books, and bills granted by the tenants,
taking especial care to retain the cash.*

* The reader will find two original letters of the Duke of Montrose, with that which Mr. Graham
of Killearn despatched from his prison-house by the Outlaw's command, in the Appendix, No. II.

About 1717, our Chieftain had the dangerous adventure of falling into the hands of the Duke
of Athole, almost as much his enemy as the Duke of Montrose himself; but his cunning and dexterity
again freed him from certain death. See a contemporary account of this curious affair in the
Appendix, No. V.

Other pranks are told of Rob, which argue the same boldness and sagacity as the seizure of
Killearn. The Duke of Montrose, weary of his insolence, procured a quantity of arms, and distributed
them among his tenantry, in order that they might defend themselves against future violences.
But they fell into different hands from those they were intended for. The MacGregors made separate
attacks on the houses of the tenants, and disarmed them all one after another, not, as was
supposed, without the consent of many of the persons so disarmed.

As a great part of the Duke's rents were payable in kind, there were girnels (granaries) established
for storing up the corn at Moulin, and elsewhere on the Buchanan estate. To these storehouses
Rob Roy used to repair with a sufficient force, and of course when he was least expected, and
insist upon the delivery of quantities of grain--sometimes for his own use, and sometimes for
the assistance of the country people; always giving regular receipts in his own name, and pretending
to reckon with the Duke for what sums he received.

In the meanwhile a garrison was established by Government, the ruins of which may be still
seen about half-way betwixt Loch Lomond and Loch Katrine, upon Rob Roy's original property
of Inversnaid. Even this military establishment could not bridle the restless MacGregor. He
contrived to surprise the little fort, disarm the soldiers, and destroy the fortification.
It was afterwards re-established, and again taken by the MacGregors under Rob Roy's nephew
Ghlune Dhu, previous to the insurrection of 1745-6. Finally, the fort of Inversnaid was a third
time repaired after the extinction of civil discord; and when we find the celebrated General
Wolfe commanding in it, the imagination is strongly affected by the variety of time and events
which the circumstance brings simultaneously to recollection. It is now totally dismantled.*

* About 1792, when the author chanced to pass that way while on a tour through the Highlands,
a garrison, consisting of a single veteran, was still maintained at Inversnaid. The venerable
warder was reaping his barley croft in all peace and tranquillity and when we asked admittance
to repose ourselves, he told us we would find the key of the Fort under the door.

It was not, strictly speaking, as a professed depredator that Rob Roy now conducted his operations,
but as a sort of contractor for the police; in Scottish phrase, a lifter of black-mail. The
nature of this contract has been described in the Novel of Waverley, and in the notes on that
work. Mr. Grahame of Gartmore's description of the character may be here transcribed:--

"The confusion and disorders of the country were so great, and the Government go absolutely
neglected it, that the sober people were obliged to purchase some security to their effects
by shameful and ignominious contracts of black-mail. A person who had the greatest correspondence
with the thieves was agreed with to preserve the lands contracted for from thefts, for certain
sums to be paid yearly. Upon this fund he employed one half of the thieves to recover stolen
cattle, and the other half of them to steal, in order to make this agreement and black-mail
contract necessary. The estates of those gentlemen who refused to contract, or give countenance
to that pernicious practice, are plundered by the thieving part of the watch, in order to force
them to purchase their protection. Their leader calls himself the Captain of the Watch, and
his banditti go by that name. And as this gives them a kind of authority to traverse the country,
so it makes them capable of doing any mischief. These corps through the Highlands make altogether
a very considerable body of men, inured from their infancy to the greatest fatigues, and very
capable, to act in a military way when occasion offers.

"People who are ignorant and enthusiastic, who are in absolute dependence upon their chief
or landlord, who are directed in their consciences by Roman Catholic priests, or nonjuring
clergymen, and who are not masters of any property, may easily be formed into any mould. They
fear no dangers, as they have nothing to lose, and so can with ease be induced to attempt anything.
Nothing can make their condition worse: confusions and troubles do commonly indulge them in
such licentiousness, that by these they better it."*

* Letters from the North of Scotland, vol. ii. pp. 344, 345.

As the practice of contracting for black-mail was an obvious encouragement to rapine, and a
great obstacle to the course of justice, it was, by the statute 1567, chap. 21, declared a
capital crime both on the part of him who levied and him who paid this sort of tax. But the
necessity of the case prevented the execution of this severe law, I believe, in any one instance;
and men went on submitting to a certain unlawful imposition rather than run the risk of utter
ruin--just as it is now found difficult or impossible to prevent those who have lost a very
large sum of money by robbery, from compounding with the felons for restoration of a part of
their booty.

At what rate Rob Roy levied black-mail I never heard stated; but there is a formal contract
by which his nephew, in 1741, agreed with various landholders of estates in the counties of
Perth, Stirling, and Dumbarton, to recover cattle stolen from them, or to pay the value within
six months of the loss being intimated, if such intimation were made to him with sufficient
despatch, in consideration of a payment of L5 on each L100 of valued rent, which was not a
very heavy insurance. Petty thefts were not included in the contract; but the theft of one
horse, or one head of black cattle, or of sheep exceeding the number of six, fell under the
agreement.

Rob Roy's profits upon such contracts brought him in a considerable revenue in money or cattle,
of which he made a popular use; for he was publicly liberal as well as privately beneficent.
The minister of the parish of Balquhidder, whose name was Robertson, was at one time threatening
to pursue the parish for an augmentation of his stipend. Rob Roy took an opportunity to assure
him that he would do well to abstain from this new exaction--a hint which the minister did
not fail to understand. But to make him some indemnification, MacGregor presented him every
year with a cow and a fat sheep; and no scruples as to the mode in which the donor came by
them are said to have affected the reverend gentleman's conscience.

The following amount of the proceedings of Rob Roy, on an application to him from one of his
contractors, had in it something very interesting to me, as told by an old countryman in the
Lennox who was present on the expedition. But as there is no point or marked incident in the
story, and as it must necessarily be without the half-frightened, half-bewildered look with
which the narrator accompanied his recollections, it may possibly lose, its effect when transferred
to paper.

My informant stated himself to have been a lad of fifteen, living with his father on the estate
of a gentleman in the Lennox, whose name I have forgotten, in the capacity of herd. On a fine
morning in the end of October, the period when such calamities were almost always to be apprehended,
they found the Highland thieves had been down upon them, and swept away ten or twelve head
of cattle. Rob Roy was sent for, and came with a party of seven or eight armed men. He heard
with great gravity all that could be told him of the circumstances of the creagh, and expressed
his confidence that the herd-widdiefows* could not have carried their booty far, and that he
should be able to recover them.

* Mad herdsmen--a name given to cattle-stealers [properly one who deserves to fill a widdie,
or halter].

He desired that two Lowlanders should be sent on the party, as it was not to be expected that
any of his gentlemen would take the trouble of driving the cattle when he should recover possession
of them. My informant and his father were despatched on the expedition. They had no good will
to the journey; nevertheless, provided with a little food, and with a dog to help them to manage
the cattle, they set off with MacGregor. They travelled a long day's journey in the direction
of the mountain Benvoirlich, and slept for the night in a ruinous hut or bothy. The next morning
they resumed their journey among the hills, Rob Roy directing their course by signs and marks
on the heath which my informant did not understand.

About noon Rob commanded the armed party to halt, and to lie couched in the heather where it
was thickest. "Do you and your son," he said to the oldest Lowlander, "go boldly over the hill;--you
will see beneath you, in a glen on the other side, your master's cattle, feeding, it may be,
with others; gather your own together, taking care to disturb no one else, and drive them to
this place. If any one speak to or threaten you, tell them that I am here, at the head of twenty
men."--"But what if they abuse us, or kill us?" said the Lowland, peasant, by no means delighted
at finding the embassy imposed on him and his son. "If they do you any wrong," said Rob, "I
will never forgive them as long as I live." The Lowlander was by no means content with this
security, but did not think it safe to dispute Rob's injunctions.

He and his son climbed the hill therefore, found a deep valley, where there grazed, as Rob
had predicted, a large herd of cattle. They cautiously selected those which their master had
lost, and took measures to drive them over the hill. As soon as they began to remove them,
they were surprised by hearing cries and screams; and looking around in fear and trembling
they saw a woman seeming to have started out of the earth, who flyted at them, that is, scolded
them, in Gaelic. When they contrived, however, in the best Gaelic they could muster, to deliver
the message Rob Roy told them, she became silent, and disappeared without offering them any
further annoyance. The chief heard their story on their return, and spoke with great complacency
of the art which he possessed of putting such things to rights without any unpleasant bustle.
The party were now on their road home, and the danger, though not the fatigue, of the expedition
was at an end.

They drove on the cattle with little repose until it was nearly dark, when Rob proposed to
halt for the night upon a wide moor, across which a cold north-east wind, with frost on its
wing, was whistling to the tune of the Pipers of Strath-Dearn.*

* The winds which sweep a wild glen in Badenoch are so called.

The Highlanders, sheltered by their plaids, lay down on the heath comfortably enough, but the
Lowlanders had no protection whatever. Rob Roy observing this, directed one of his followers
to afford the old man a portion of his plaid; "for the callant (boy), he may," said the freebooter,
"keep himself warm by walking about and watching the cattle." My informant heard this sentence
with no small distress; and as the frost wind grew more and more cutting, it seemed to freeze
the very blood in his young veins. He had been exposed to weather all his life, he said, but
never could forget the cold of that night; insomuch that, in the bitterness of his heart, he
cursed the bright moon for giving no heat with so much light. At length the sense of cold and
weariness became so intolerable that he resolved to desert his watch to seek some repose and
shelter. With that purpose he couched himself down behind one of the most bulky of the Highlanders,
who acted as lieutenant to the party. Not satisfied with having secured the shelter of the
man's large person, he coveted a share of his plaid, and by imperceptible degrees drew a corner
of it round him. He was now comparatively in paradise, and slept sound till daybreak, when
he awoke, and was terribly afraid on observing that his nocturnal operations had altogether
uncovered the dhuiniewassell's neck and shoulders, which, lacking the plaid which should have
protected them, were covered with cranreuch (i.e. hoar frost). The lad rose in great dread
of a beating, at least, when it should be found how luxuriously he had been accommodated at
the expense of a principal person of the party. Good Mr. Lieutenant, however, got up and shook
himself, rubbing off the hoar frost with his plaid, and muttering something of a cauld neight.
They then drove on the cattle, which were restored to their owner without farther adventure--The
above can hardly be termed a tale, but yet it contains materials both for the poet and artist.

It was perhaps about the same time that, by a rapid march into the Balquhidder hills at the
head of a body of his own tenantry, the Duke of Montrose actually surprised Rob Roy, and made
him prisoner. He was mounted behind one of the Duke's followers, named James Stewart, and made
fast to him by a horse-girth. The person who had him thus in charge was grandfather of the
intelligent man of the same name, now deceased, who lately kept the inn in the vicinity of
Loch Katrine, and acted as a guide to visitors through that beautiful scenery. From him I learned
the story many years before he was either a publican, or a guide, except to moorfowl shooters.--It
was evening (to resume the story), and the Duke was pressing on to lodge his prisoner, so long
sought after in vain, in some place of security, when, in crossing the Teith or Forth, I forget
which, MacGregor took an opportunity to conjure Stewart, by all the ties of old acquaintance
and good neighbourhood, to give him some chance of an escape from an assured doom. Stewart
was moved with compassion, perhaps with fear. He slipt the girth-buckle, and Rob, dropping
down from behind the horse's croupe, dived, swam, and escaped, pretty much as described in
the Novel. When James Stewart came on shore, the Duke hastily demanded where his prisoner was;
and as no distinct answer was returned, instantly suspected Stewart's connivance at the escape
of the Outlaw; and, drawing a steel pistol from his belt, struck him down with a blow on the
head, from the effects of which, his descendant said, he never completely recovered.

In the success of his repeated escapes from the pursuit of his powerful enemy, Rob Roy at length
became wanton and facetious. He wrote a mock challenge to the Duke, which he circulated among
his friends to amuse them over a bottle. The reader will find this document in the Appendix.*
It is written in a good hand, and not particularly deficient in grammar or spelling.

* Appendix, No. III.

Our Southern readers must be given to understand that it was a piece of humour,--a quiz, in
short,--on the part of the Outlaw, who was too sagacious to propose such a rencontre in reality.
This letter was written in the year 1719.

In the following year Rob Roy composed another epistle, very little to his own reputation,
as he therein confesses having played booty during the civil war of 1715. It is addressed to
General Wade, at that time engaged in disarming the Highland clans, and making military roads
through the country. The letter is a singular composition. It sets out the writer's real and
unfeigned desire to have offered his service to King George, but for his liability to be thrown
into jail for a civil debt, at the instance of the Duke of Montrose. Being thus debarred from
taking the right side, he acknowledged he embraced the wrong one, upon Falstaff's principle,
that since the King wanted men and the rebels soldiers, it were worse shame to be idle in such
a stirring world, than to embrace the worst side, were it as black as rebellion could make
it. The impossibility of his being neutral in such a debate, Rob seems to lay down as an undeniable
proposition. At the same time, while he acknowledges having been forced into an unnatural rebellion
against King George, he pleads that he not only avoided acting offensively against his Majesty's
forces on all occasions, but, on the contrary, sent to them what intelligence he could collect
from time to time; for the truth of which he refers to his Grace the Duke of Argyle. What influence
this plea had on General Wade, we have no means of knowing.

Rob Roy appears to have continued to live very much as usual. His fame, in the meanwhile, passed
beyond the narrow limits of the country in which he resided. A pretended history of him appeared
in London during his lifetime, under the title of the Highland Rogue. It is a catch-penny publication,
bearing in front the effigy of a species of ogre, with a beard of a foot in length; and his
actions are as much exaggerated as his personal appearance. Some few of the best known adventures
of the hero are told, though with little accuracy; but the greater part of the pamphlet is
entirely fictitious. It is great pity so excellent a theme for a narrative of the kind had
not fallen into the hands of De Foe, who was engaged at the time on subjects somewhat similar,
though inferior in dignity and interest.

As Rob Roy advanced in years, he became more peaceable in his habits, and his nephew Ghlune
Dhu, with most of his tribe, renounced those peculiar quarrels with the Duke of Montrose, by
which his uncle had been distinguished. The policy of that great family had latterly been rather
to attach this wild tribe by kindness than to follow the mode of violence which had been hitherto
ineffectually resorted to. Leases at a low rent were granted to many of the MacGregors, who
had heretofore held possessions in the Duke's Highland property merely by occupancy; and Glengyle
(or Black-knee), who continued to act as collector of black-mail, managed his police, as a
commander of the Highland watch arrayed at the charge of Government. He is said to have strictly
abstained from the open and lawless depredations which his kinsman had practised,

It was probably after this state of temporary quiet had been obtained, that Rob Roy began to
think of the concerns of his future state. He had been bred, and long professed himself, a
Protestant; but in his later years he embraced the Roman Catholic faith,--perhaps on Mrs. Cole's
principle, that it was a comfortable religion for one of his calling. He is said to have alleged
as the cause of his conversion, a desire to gratify the noble family of Perth, who were then
strict Catholics. Having, as he observed, assumed the name of the Duke of Argyle, his first
protector, he could pay no compliment worth the Earl of Perth's acceptance save complying with
his mode of religion. Rob did not pretend, when pressed closely on the subject, to justify
all the tenets of Catholicism, and acknowledged that extreme unction always appeared to him
a great waste of ulzie, or oil.*

* Such an admission is ascribed to the robber Donald Bean Lean in Waverley, chap. lxii,

 In the last years of Rob Roy's life, his clan was involved in a dispute
with one more powerful than themselves. Stewart of Appin, a chief of the
tribe so named, was proprietor of a hill-farm in the Braes of
Balquhidder, called Invernenty. The MacGregors of Rob Roy's tribe claimed
a right to it by ancient occupancy, and declared they would oppose to the
uttermost the settlement of any person upon the farm not being of their
own name. The Stewarts came down with two hundred men, well armed, to do
themselves justice by main force. The MacGregors took the field, but were
unable to muster an equal strength. Rob Roy, fending himself the weaker
party, asked a parley, in which he represented that both clans were
friends to the King, and, that he was unwilling they should be weakened
by mutual conflict, and thus made a merit of surrendering to Appin the
disputed territory of Invernenty. Appin, accordingly, settled as tenants
there, at an easy quit-rent, the MacLarens, a family dependent on the
Stewarts, and from whose character for strength and bravery, it was
expected that they would make their right good if annoyed by the
MacGregors. When all this had been amicably adjusted, in presence of the
two clans drawn up in arms near the Kirk of Balquhidder, Rob Roy,
apparently fearing his tribe might be thought to have conceded too much
upon the occasion, stepped forward and said, that where so many gallant
men were met in arms, it would be shameful to part without it trial of
skill, and therefore he took the freedom to invite any gentleman of the
Stewarts present to exchange a few blows with him for the honour of their
respective clans. The brother-in-law of Appin, and second chieftain of
the clan, Alaster Stewart of Invernahyle, accepted the challenge, and
they encountered with broadsword and target before their respective
kinsmen.*

* Some accounts state that Appin himself was Rob Roy's antagonist on this occasion. My recollection,
from the account of Invernahyle himself, was as stated in the text. But the period when I received
the information is now so distant, that it is possible I may be mistaken. Invernahyle was rather
of low stature, but very well made, athletic, and an excellent swordsman.

The combat lasted till Rob received a slight wound in the arm, which was the usual termination
of such a combat when fought for honour only, and not with a mortal purpose. Rob Roy dropped
his point, and congratulated his adversary on having been the first man who ever drew blood
from him. The victor generously acknowledged, that without the advantage of youth, and the
agility accompanying it, he probably could not have come off with advantage.

This was probably one of Rob Roy's last exploits in arms. The time of his death is not known
with certainty, but he is generally said to have survived 1738, and to have died an aged man.
When he found himself approaching his final change, he expressed some contrition for particular
parts of his life. His wife laughed at these scruples of conscience, and exhorted him to die
like a man, as he had lived. In reply, he rebuked her for her violent passions, and the counsels
she had given him. "You have put strife," he said, "betwixt me and the best men of the country,
and now you would place enmity between me and my God."

There is a tradition, no way inconsistent with the former, if the character of Rob Roy be justly
considered, that while on his deathbed, he learned that a person with whom he was at enmity
proposed to visit him. "Raise me from my bed," said the invalid; "throw my plaid around me,
and bring me my claymore, dirk, and pistols--it shall never be said that a foeman saw Rob Roy
MacGregor defenceless and unarmed." His foeman, conjectured to be one of the MacLarens before
and after mentioned, entered and paid his compliments, inquiring after the health of his formidable
neighbour. Rob Roy maintained a cold haughty civility during their short conference, and so
soon as he had left the house. "Now," he said, "all is over--let the piper play, Ha til mi
tulidh" (we return no more); and he is said to have expired before the dirge was finished.

This singular man died in bed in his own house, in the parish of Balquhidder. He was buried
in the churchyard of the same parish, where his tombstone is only distinguished by a rude attempt
at the figure of a broadsword.

The character of Rob Roy is, of course, a mixed one. His sagacity, boldness, and prudence,
qualities so highly necessary to success in war, became in some degree vices, from the manner
in which they were employed. The circumstances of his education, however, must be admitted
as some extenuation of his habitual transgressions against the law; and for his political tergiversations,
he might in that distracted period plead the example of men far more powerful, and less excusable
in becoming the sport of circumstances, than the poor and desperate outlaw. On the other hand,
he was in the constant exercise of virtues, the more meritorious as they seem inconsistent
with his general character. Pursuing the occupation of a predatory chieftain,--in modern phrase
a captain of banditti,--Rob Roy was moderate in his revenge, and humane in his successes. No
charge of cruelty or bloodshed, unless in battle, is brought against his memory. In like manner,
the formidable outlaw was the friend of the poor, and, to the utmost of his ability, the support
of the widow and the orphan--kept his word when pledged--and died lamented in his own wild
country, where there were hearts grateful for his beneficence, though their minds were not
sufficiently instructed to appreciate his errors.

The author perhaps ought to stop here; but the fate of a part of Rob Roy's family was so extraordinary,
as to call for a continuation of this somewhat prolix account, as affording an interesting
chapter, not on Highland manners alone, but on every stage of society in which the people of
a primitive and half-civilised tribe are brought into close contact with a nation, in which
civilisation and polity have attained a complete superiority.

Rob had five sons,--Coll, Ronald, James, Duncan, and Robert. Nothing occurs worth notice concerning
three of them; but James, who was a very handsome man, seems to have had a good deal of his
father's spirit, and the mantle of Dougal Ciar Mhor had apparently descended on the shoulders
of Robin Oig, that is, young Robin. Shortly after Rob Roy's death, the ill-will which the MacGregors
entertained against the MacLarens again broke out, at the instigation, it was said, of Rob's
widow, who seems thus far to have deserved the character given to her by her husband, as an
Ate' stirring up to blood and strife. Robin Oig, under her instigation, swore that as soon
as he could get back a certain gun which had belonged to his father, and had been lately at
Doune to be repaired, he would shoot MacLaren, for having presumed to settle on his mother's land.*

* This fatal piece was taken from Robin Oig, when he was seized many years afterwards. It remained
in possession of the magistrates before whom he was brought for examination, and now makes
part of a small collection of arms belonging to the Author. It is a Spanish-barrelled gun,
marked with the letters R. M. C., for Robert MacGregor Campbell.

He was as good as his word, and shot MacLaren when between the stilts of his plough, wounding
him mortally.

The aid of a Highland leech was procured, who probed the wound with a probe made out of a castock;
i.e., the stalk of a colewort or cabbage. This learned gentleman declared he would not venture
to prescribe, not knowing with what shot the patient had been wounded. MacLaren died, and about
the same time his cattle were houghed, and his live stock destroyed in a barbarous manner.

Robin Oig, after this feat--which one of his biographers represents as the unhappy discharge
of a gun--retired to his mother's house, to boast that he had drawn the first blood in the
quarrel aforesaid. On the approach of troops, and a body of the Stewarts, who were bound to
take up the cause of their tenant, Robin Oig absconded, and escaped all search.

The doctor already mentioned, by name Callam MacInleister, with James and Ronald, brothers
to the actual perpetrator of the murder, were brought to trial. But as they contrived to represent
the action as a rash deed committed by "the daft callant Rob," to which they were not accessory,
the jury found their accession to the crime was Not Proven. The alleged acts of spoil and violence
on the MacLarens' cattle, were also found to be unsupported by evidence. As it was proved,
however, that the two brothers, Ronald and James, were held and reputed thieves, they were
appointed to find caution to the extent of L200, for their good behaviour for seven years.*

* Note D. Author's expedition against the MacLarens.

The spirit of clanship was at that time, so strong--to which must be added the wish to secure
the adherence of stout, able-bodied, and, as the Scotch phrase then went, pretty men--that
the representative of the noble family of Perth condescended to act openly as patron of the
MacGregors, and appeared as such upon their trial. So at least the author was informed by the
late Robert MacIntosh, Esq., advocate. The circumstance may, however, have occurred later than
1736--the year in which this first trial took place.

Robin Oig served for a time in the 42d regiment, and was present at the battle of Fontenoy,
where he was made prisoner and wounded. He was exchanged, returned to Scotland, and obtained
his discharge. He afterwards appeared openly in the MacGregor's country; and, notwithstanding
his outlawry, married a daughter of Graham of Drunkie, a gentleman of some property. His wife
died a few years afterwards.

The insurrection of 1745 soon afterwards called the MacGregors to arms. Robert MacGregor of
Glencarnoch, generally regarded as the chief of the whole name, and grandfather of Sir John,
whom the clan received in that character, raised a MacGregor regiment, with which he joined
the standard of the Chevalier. The race of Ciar Mhor, however, affecting independence, and
commanded by Glengyle and his cousin James Roy MacGregor, did not join this kindred corps,
but united themselves to the levies of the titular Duke of Perth, until William MacGregor Drummond
of Bolhaldie, whom they regarded as head of their branch, of Clan Alpine, should come over
from France. To cement the union after the Highland fashion, James laid down the name of Campbell,
and assumed that of Drummond, in compliment to Lord Perth. He was also called James Roy, after
his father, and James Mhor, or Big James, from his height. His corps, the relics of his father
Rob's band, behaved with great activity; with only twelve men he succeeded in surprising and
burning, for the second time, the fort at Inversnaid, constructed for the express purpose of
bridling the country of the MacGregors.

What rank or command James MacGregor had, is uncertain. He calls himself Major; and Chevalier
Johnstone calls him Captain. He must have held rank under Ghlune Dhu, his kinsman, but his
active and audacious character placed him above the rest of his brethren. Many of his followers
were unarmed; he supplied the want of guns and swords with scythe-blades set straight upon
their handles.

At the battle of Prestonpans, James Roy distinguished himself. "His company," says Chevalier
Johnstone, "did great execution with their scythes." They cut the legs of the horses in two--the
riders through the middle of their bodies. MacGregor was brave and intrepid, but at the same
time, somewhat whimsical and singular. When advancing to the charge with his company, he received
five wounds, two of them from balls that pierced his body through and through. Stretched on
the ground, with his head resting on his hand, he called out loudly to the Highlanders of his
company, "My lads, I am not dead. By G--, I shall see if any of you does not do his duty."
The victory, as is well known, was instantly obtained.

In some curious letters of James Roy,* it appears that his thigh-bone was broken on this occasion,
and that he, nevertheless, rejoined the army with six companies, and was present at the battle
of Culloden.

* Published in Blackwood's Magazine, vol. ii. p. 228.

After that defeat, the clan MacGregor kept together in a body, and did not disperse till they
had returned into their own country. They brought James Roy with them in a litter; and, without
being particularly molested, he was permitted to reside in the MacGregor's country along with
his brothers.

James MacGregor Drummond was attainted for high treason with persons of more importance. But
it appears he had entered into some communication with Government, as, in the letters quoted,
he mentions having obtained a pass from the Lord Justice-Clerk in 1747, which was a sufficient
protection to him from the military. The circumstance is obscurely stated in one of the letters
already quoted, but may perhaps, joined to subsequent incidents, authorise the suspicion that
James, like his father, could look at both sides of the cards. As the confusion of the country
subsided, the MacGregors, like foxes which had baffled the hounds, drew back to their old haunts,
and lived unmolested. But an atrocious outrage, in which the sons of Rob Roy were concerned,
brought at length on the family the full vengeance of the law.

James Roy was a married man, and had fourteen children. But his brother, Robin Oig, was now
a widower; and it was resolved, if possible, that he should make his fortune by carrying off
and marrying, by force if necessary, some woman of fortune from the Lowlands.

The imagination of the half-civilised Highlanders was less shocked at the idea of this particular
species of violence, than might be expected from their general kindness to the weaker sex when
they make part of their own families. But all their views were tinged with the idea that they
lived in a state of war; and in such a state, from the time of the siege of Troy to "the moment
when Previsa fell,"* the female captives are, to uncivilised victors, the most valuable part
of the booty--

* Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, Canto II.

          "The wealthy are slaughtered, the lovely are spared."

We need not refer to the rape of the Sabines, or to a similar instance in the Book of Judges,
for evidence that such deeds of violence have been committed upon a large scale. Indeed, this
sort of enterprise was so common along the Highland line as to give rise to a variety of songs
and ballads.*

* See Appendix, No. VI.

The annals of Ireland, as well as those of Scotland, prove the crime to have been common in
the more lawless parts of both countries; and any woman who happened to please a man of spirit
who came of a good house, and possessed a few chosen friends, and a retreat in the mountains,
was not permitted the alternative of saying him nay. What is more, it would seem that the women
themselves, most interested in the immunities of their sex, were, among the lower classes,
accustomed to regard such marriages as that which is presently to be detailed as "pretty Fanny's
way," or rather, the way of Donald with pretty Fanny. It is not a great many years since a
respectable woman, above the lower rank of life, expressed herself very warmly to the author
on his taking the freedom to censure the behaviour of the MacGregors on the occasion in question.
She said "that there was no use in giving a bride too much choice upon such occasions; that
the marriages were the happiest long syne which had been done offhand." Finally, she averred
that her "own mother had never seen her father till the night he brought her up from the Lennox,
with ten head of black cattle, and there had not been a happier couple in the country."

James Drummond and his brethren having similar opinions with the author's old acquaintance,
and debating how they might raise the fallen fortunes of their clan, formed a resolution to
settle their brother's fortune by striking up an advantageous marriage betwixt Robin Oig and
one Jean Key, or Wright, a young woman scarce twenty years old, and who had been left about
two months a widow by the death of her husband. Her property was estimated at only from 16,000
to 18,000 merks, but it seems to have been sufficient temptation to these men to join in the
commission of a great crime.

This poor young victim lived with her mother in her own house at Edinbilly, in the parish of
Balfron and shire of Stirling. At this place, in the night of 3d December 1750, the sons of
Rob Roy, and particularly James Mhor and Robin Oig, rushed into the house where the object
of their attack was resident, presented guns, swords, and pistols to the males of the family,
and terrified the women by threatening to break open the doors if Jean Key was not surrendered,
as, said James Roy, "his brother was a young fellow determined to make his fortune." Having,
at length, dragged the object of their lawless purpose from her place of concealment, they
tore her from her mother's arms, mounted her on a horse before one of the gang, and carried
her off in spite, of her screams and cries, which were long heard after the terrified spectators
of the outrage could no longer see the party retreat through the darkness. In her attempts
to escape, the poor young woman threw herself from the horse on which they had placed her,
and in so doing wrenched her side. They then laid her double over the pummel of the saddle,
and transported her through the mosses and moors till the pain of the injury she had suffered
in her side, augmented by the uneasiness of her posture, made her consent to sit upright. In
the execution of this crime they stopped at more houses than one, but none of the inhabitants
dared interrupt their proceedings. Amongst others who saw them was that classical and accomplished
scholar the late Professor William Richardson of Glasgow, who used to describe as a terrible
dream their violent and noisy entrance into the house where he was then residing. The Highlanders
filled the little kitchen, brandishing their arms, demanding what they pleased, and receiving
whatever they demanded. James Mhor, he said, was a tall, stern, and soldier-like man. Robin
Oig looked more gentle; dark, but yet ruddy in complexion--a good-looking young savage. Their
victim was so dishevelled in her dress, and forlorn in her appearance and demeanour, that he
could hardly tell whether she was alive or dead.

The gang carried the unfortunate woman to Rowardennan, where they had a priest unscrupulous
enough to read the marriage service, while James Mhor forcibly held the bride up before him;
and the priest declared the couple man and wife, even while she protested against the infamy
of his conduct. Under the same threats of violence, which had been all along used to enforce
their scheme, the poor victim was compelled to reside with the pretended husband who was thus
forced upon her. They even dared to carry her to the public church of Balquhidder, where the
officiating clergyman (the same who had been Rob Roy's pensioner) only asked them if they were
married persons. Robert MacGregor answered in the affirmative; the terrified female was silent.

The country was now too effectually subjected to the law for this vile outrage to be followed
by the advantages proposed by the actors, Military parties were sent out in every direction
to seize the MacGregors, who were for two or three weeks compelled to shift from one place
to another in the mountains, bearing the unfortunate Jean Key along with them. In the meanwhile,
the Supreme Civil Court issued a warrant, sequestrating the property of Jean Key, or Wright,
which removed out of the reach of the actors in the violence the prize which they expected.
They had, however, adopted a belief of the poor woman's spirit being so far broken that she
would prefer submitting to her condition, and adhering to Robin Oig as her husband, rather
than incur the disgrace, of appearing in such a cause in an open court. It was, indeed, a delicate
experiment; but their kinsman Glengyle, chief of their immediate family, was of a temper averse
to lawless proceedings;* and the captive's friends having had recourse to his advice, they
feared that he would withdraw his protection if they refused to place the prisoner at liberty.

* Such, at least, was his general character; for when James Mhor, while perpetrating the violence
at Edinbilly, called out, in order to overawe opposition, that Glengyle was lying in the moor
with a hundred men to patronise his enterprise, Jean Key told him he lied, since she was confident
Glengyle would never countenance so scoundrelly a business.

The brethren resolved, therefore, to liberate the unhappy woman, but previously had recourse
to every measure which should oblige her, either from fear or otherwise, to own her marriage
with Robin Oig. The cailliachs (old Highland hags) administered drugs, which were designed
to have the effect of philtres, but were probably deleterious. James Mhor at one time threatened,
that if she did not acquiesce in the match she would find that there were enough of men in
the Highlands to bring the heads of two of her uncles who were pursuing the civil lawsuit.
At another time he fell down on his knees, and confessed he had been accessory to wronging
her, but begged she would not ruin his innocent wife and large family. She was made to swear
she would not prosecute the brethren for the offence they had committed; and she was obliged
by threats to subscribe papers which were tendered to her, intimating that she was carried
off in consequence of her own previous request.

James Mhor Drummond accordingly brought his pretended sister-in-law to Edinburgh, where, for
some little time, she was carried about from one house to another, watched by those with whom
she was lodged, and never permitted to go out alone, or even to approach the window. The Court
of Session, considering the peculiarity of the case, and regarding Jean Key as being still
under some forcible restraint, took her person under their own special charge, and appointed
her to reside in the family of Mr. Wightman of Mauldsley, a gentleman of respectability, who
was married to one of her near relatives. Two sentinels kept guard on the house day and night--a
precaution not deemed superfluous when the MacGregors were in question. She was allowed to
go out whenever she chose, and to see whomsoever she had a mind, as well as the men of law
employed in the civil suit on either side. When she first came to Mr. Wightman's house she
seemed broken down with affright and suffering, so changed in features that her mother hardly
knew her, and so shaken in mind that she scarce could recognise her parent. It was long before
she could be assured that she was in perfect safely. But when she at length received confidence
in her situation, she made a judicial declaration, or affidavit, telling the full history of
her wrongs, imputing to fear her former silence on the subject, and expressing her resolution
not to prosecute those who had injured her, in respect of the oath she had been compelled to
take. From the possible breach of such an oath, though a compulsory one, she was relieved by
the forms of Scottish jurisprudence, in that respect more equitable than those of England,
prosecutions for crimes being always conducted at the expense and charge of the King, without
inconvenience or cost to the private party who has sustained the wrong. But the unhappy sufferer
did not live to be either accuser or witness against those who had so deeply injured her.

James Mhor Drummond had left Edinburgh so soon as his half-dead prey had been taken from his
clutches. Mrs. Key, or Wright, was released from her species of confinement there, and removed
to Glasgow, under the escort of Mr. Wightman. As they passed the Hill of Shotts, her escort
chanced to say, "this is a very wild spot; what if the MacGregors should come upon us?"--"God
forbid!" was her immediate answer, "the very sight of them would kill me." She continued to
reside at Glasgow, without venturing to return to her own house at Edinbilly. Her pretended
husband made some attempts to obtain an interview with her, which she steadily rejected. She
died on the 4th October 1751. The information for the Crown hints that her decease might be
the consequence of the usage she received. But there is a general report that she died of the
small-pox. In the meantime, James Mhor, or Drummond, fell into the hands of justice. He was
considered as the instigator of the whole affair. Nay, the deceased had informed her friends
that on the night of her being carried off, Robin Oig, moved by her cries and tears, had partly
consented to let her return, when James came up with a pistol in his hand, and, asking whether
he was such a coward as to relinquish an enterprise in which he had risked everything to procure
him a fortune, in a manner compelled his brother to persevere. James's trial took place on
13th July 1752, and was conducted with the utmost fairness and impartiality. Several witnesses,
all of the MacGregor family, swore that the marriage was performed with every appearance of
acquiescence on the woman's part; and three or four witnesses, one of them sheriff-substitute
of the county, swore she might have made her escape if she wished, and the magistrate stated
that he offered her assistance if she felt desirous to do so. But when asked why he, in his
official capacity, did not arrest the MacGregors, he could only answer, that he had not force
sufficient to make the attempt.

The judicial declarations of Jean Key, or Wright, stated the violent manner in which she had
been carried off, and they were confirmed by many of her friends, from her private communications
with them, which the event of her death rendered good evidence. Indeed, the fact of her abduction
(to use a Scottish law term) was completely proved by impartial witnesses. The unhappy woman
admitted that she had pretended acquiescence in her fate on several occasions, because she
dared not trust such as offered to assist her to escape, not even the sheriff-substitute.

The jury brought in a special verdict, finding that Jean Key, or Wright, had been forcibly
carried off from her house, as charged in the indictment, and that the accused had failed to
show that she was herself privy and consenting to this act of outrage. But they found the forcible
marriage, and subsequent violence, was not proved; and also found, in alleviation of the panel's
guilt in the premises, that Jean Key did afterwards acquiesce in her condition. Eleven of the
jury, using the names of other four who were absent, subscribed a letter to the Court, stating
it was their purpose and desire, by such special verdict, to take the panel's case out of the
class of capital crimes.

Learned informations (written arguments) on the import of the verdict, which must be allowed
a very mild one in the circumstances, were laid before the High Court of Justiciary. This point
is very learnedly debated in these pleadings by Mr. Grant, Solicitor for the Crown, and the
celebrated Mr. Lockhart, on the part of the prisoner; but James Mhor did not wait the event
of the Court's decision.

He had been committed to the Castle of Edinburgh on some reports that an escape would be attempted.
Yet he contrived to achieve his liberty even from that fortress. His daughter had the address
to enter the prison, disguised as a cobbler, bringing home work, as she pretended. In this
cobbler's dress her father quickly arrayed himself. The wife and daughter of the prisoner were
heard by the sentinels scolding the supposed cobbler for having done his work ill, and the
man came out with his hat slouched over his eyes, and grumbling, as if at the manner in which
they had treated him. In this way the prisoner passed all the guards without suspicion, and
made his escape to France. He was afterwards outlawed by the Court of Justiciary, which proceeded
to the trial of Duncan MacGregor, or Drummond, his brother, 15th January 1753. The accused
had unquestionably been with the party which carried off Jean Key; but no evidence being brought
which applied to him individually and directly, the jury found him not guilty--and nothing
more is known of his fate.

That of James MacGregor, who, from talent and activity, if not by seniority, may be considered
as head of the family, has been long misrepresented; as it has been generally averred in Law
Reports, as well as elsewhere, that his outlawry was reversed, and that he returned and died
in Scotland. But the curious letters published in Blackwood's Magazine for December 1817, show
this to be an error. The first of these documents is a petition to Charles Edward. It is dated
20th September 1753, and pleads his service to the cause of the Stuarts, ascribing his exile
to the persecution of the Hanoverian Government, without any allusion to the affair of Jean
Key, or the Court of Justiciary. It is stated to be forwarded by MacGregor Drummond of Bohaldie,
whom, as before mentioned, James Mhor acknowledged as his chief.

The effect which this petition produced does not appear. Some temporary relief was perhaps
obtained. But, soon after, this daring adventurer was engaged in a very dark intrigue against
an exile of his own country, and placed pretty nearly in his own circumstances. A remarkable
Highland story must be here briefly alluded to. Mr. Campbell of Glenure, who had been named
factor for Government on the forfeited estates of Stewart of Ardshiel, was shot dead by an
assassin as he passed through the wood of Lettermore, after crossing the ferry of Ballachulish.
A gentleman, named James Stewart, a natural brother of Ardshiel, the forfeited person, was
tried as being accessory to the murder, and condemned and executed upon very doubtful evidence;
the heaviest part of which only amounted to the accused person having assisted a nephew of
his own, called Allan Breck Stewart, with money to escape after the deed was done. Not satisfied
with this vengeance, which was obtained in a manner little to the honour of the dispensation
of justice at the time, the friends of the deceased Glenure were equally desirous to obtain
possession of the person of Allan Breck Stewart, supposed to be the actual homicide. James
Mhor Drummond was secretly applied to to trepan Stewart to the sea-coast, and bring him over
to Britain, to almost certain death. Drummond MacGregor had kindred connections with the slain
Glenure; and, besides, the MacGregors and Campbells had been friends of late, while the former
clan and the Stewarts had, as we have seen, been recently at feud; lastly, Robert Oig was now
in custody at Edinburgh, and James was desirous to do some service by which his brother might
be saved. The joint force of these motives may, in James's estimation of right and wrong, have
been some vindication for engaging in such an enterprise, although, as must be necessarily
supposed, it could only be executed by treachery of a gross description. MacGregor stipulated
for a license to return to England, promising to bring Allan Breck thither along with him.
But the intended victim was put upon his guard by two countrymen, who suspected James's intentions
towards him. He escaped from his kidnapper, after, as MacGregor alleged, robbing his portmanteau
of some clothes and four snuff-boxes. Such a charge, it may be observed, could scarce have
been made unless the parties had been living on a footing of intimacy, and had access to each
other's baggage.

Although James Drummond had thus missed his blow in the matter of Allan Breck Stewart, he used
his license to make a journey to London, and had an interview, as he avers, with Lord Holdernesse.
His Lordship, and the Under-Secretary, put many puzzling questions to him; and, as he says,
offered him a situation, which would bring him bread, in the Government's service. This office
was advantageous as to emolument; but in the opinion of James Drummond, his acceptance of it
would have been a disgrace to his birth, and have rendered him a scourge to his country. If
such a tempting offer and sturdy rejection had any foundation in fact, it probably relates
to some plan of espionage on the Jacobites, which the Government might hope to carry on by
means of a man who, in the matter of Allan Breck Stewart, had shown no great nicety of feeling.
Drummond MacGregor was so far accommodating as to intimate his willingness to act in any station
in which other gentlemen of honour served, but not otherwise;--an answer which, compared with
some passages of his past life, may remind the reader of Ancient Pistol standing upon his reputation.

Having thus proved intractable, as he tells the story, to the proposals of Lord Holdernesse,
James Drummond was ordered instantly to quit England.

On his return to France, his condition seems to have been utterly disastrous. He was seized
with fever and gravel--ill, consequently, in body, and weakened and dispirited in mind. Allan
Breck Stewart threatened to put him to death in revenge of the designs he had harboured against
him.*

* Note E. Allan Breck Stewart.

The Stewart clan were in the highest degree unfriendly to him: and his late expedition to London
had been attended with many suspicious circumstances, amongst which it was not the slightest
that he had kept his purpose secret from his chief Bohaldie. His intercourse with Lord Holdernesse
was suspicious. The Jacobites were probably, like Don Bernard de Castel Blaze, in Gil Blas,
little disposed to like those who kept company with Alguazils. Mac-Donnell of Lochgarry, a
man of unquestioned honour, lodged an information against James Drummond before the High Bailie
of Dunkirk, accusing him of being a spy, so that he found himself obliged to leave that town
and come to Paris, with only the sum of thirteen livres for his immediate subsistence, and
with absolute beggary staring him in the face.

We do not offer the convicted common thief, the accomplice in MacLaren's assassination, or
the manager of the outrage against Jean Key, as an object of sympathy; but it is melancholy
to look on the dying struggles even of a wolf or a tiger, creatures of a species directly hostile
to our own; and, in like manner, the utter distress of this man, whose faults may have sprung
from a wild system of education, working on a haughty temper, will not be perused without some
pity. In his last letter to Bohaldie, dated Paris, 25th September 1754, he describes his state
of destitution as absolute, and expresses himself willing to exercise his talents in breaking
or breeding horses, or as a hunter or fowler, if he could only procure employment in such an
inferior capacity till something better should occur. An Englishman may smile, but a Scotchman
will sigh at the postscript, in which the poor starving exile asks the loan of his patron's
bagpipes that he might play over some of the melancholy tunes of his own land. But the effect
of music arises, in a great degree, from association; and sounds which might jar the nerves
of a Londoner or Parisian, bring back to the Highlander his lofty mountain, wild lake, and
the deeds of his fathers of the glen. To prove MacGregor's claim to our reader's compassion,
we here insert the last part of the letter alluded to.

"By all appearance I am born to suffer crosses, and it seems they're not at an end; for such
is my wretched case at present, that I do not know earthly where to go or what to do, as I
have no subsistence to keep body and soul together. All that I have carried here is about 13
livres, and have taken a room at my old quarters in Hotel St. Pierre, Rue de Cordier. I send
you the bearer, begging of you to let me know if you are to be in town soon, that I may have
the pleasure of seeing you, for I have none to make application to but you alone; and all I
want is, if it was possible you could contrive where I could be employed without going to entire
beggary. This probably is a difficult point, yet unless it's attended with some difficulty,
you might think nothing of it, as your long head can bring about matters of much more difficulty
and consequence than this. If you'd disclose this matter to your friend Mr. Butler, it's possible
he might have some employ wherein I could be of use, as I pretend to know as much of breeding
and riding of horse as any in France, besides that I am a good hunter either on horseback or
by footing. You may judge my reduction, as I propose the meanest things to lend a turn till
better cast up. I am sorry that I am obliged to give you so much trouble, but I hope you are
very well assured that I am grateful for what you have done for me, and I leave you to judge
of my present wretched case. I am, and shall for ever continue, dear Chief, your own to command,
Jas. MacGregor.

"P. S.--If you'd send your pipes by the bearer, and all the other little trinkims belonging
to it, I would put them in order, and play some melancholy tunes, which I may now with safety,
and in real truth. Forgive my not going directly to you, for if I could have borne the seeing
of yourself, I could not choose to be seen by my friends in my wretchedness, nor by any of
my acquaintance."

While MacGregor wrote in this disconsolate manner, Death, the sad but sure remedy for mortal
evils, and decider of all doubts and uncertainties, was hovering near him. A memorandum on
the back of the letter says the writer died about a week after, in October 1754.

It now remains to mention the fate of Robin Oig--for the other sons of Rob Roy seem to have
been no way distinguished. Robin was apprehended by a party of military from the fort of Inversnaid,
at the foot of Gartmore, and was conveyed to Edinburgh 26th May 1753. After a delay, which
may have been protracted by the negotiations of James for delivering up Allan Breck Stewart
upon promise of his brother's life, Robin Oig, on the 24th of December 1753, was brought to
the bar of the High Court of Justiciary, and indicted by the name of Robert MacGregor, alias
Campbell, alias Drummond, alias Robert Oig; and the evidence led against him resembled exactly
that which was brought by the Crown on the former trial. Robert's case was in some degree more
favourable than his brother's;--for, though the principal in the forcible marriage, he had
yet to plead that he had shown symptoms of relenting while they were carrying Jean Key off,
which were silenced by the remonstrances and threats of his harder natured brother James. A
considerable space of time had also elapsed since the poor woman died, which is always a strong
circumstance in favour of the accused; for there is a sort of perspective in guilt, and crimes
of an old date seem less odious than those of recent occurrence. But notwithstanding these
considerations, the jury, in Robert's case, did not express any solicitude to save his life
as they had done that of James. They found him guilty of being art and part in the forcible
abduction of Jean Key from her own dwelling.*

* The Trials of the Sons of Rob Roy, with anecdotes of Himself and his Family, were published
at Edinburgh, 1818, in 12mo.

Robin Oig was condemned to death, and executed on the 14th February 1754. At the place of execution
he behaved with great decency; and professing himself a Catholic, imputed all his misfortunes
to his swerving from the true church two or three years before. He confessed the violent methods
he had used to gain Mrs. Key, or Wright, and hoped his fate would stop further proceedings
against his brother James.*

* James died near three months before, but his family might easily remain a long time without
the news of that event.

The newspapers observed that his body, after hanging the usual time, was delivered to his friends
to be carried to the Highlands. To this the recollection of a venerable friend, recently taken
from us in the fulness of years, then a schoolboy at Linlithgow, enables the author to add,
that a much larger body of MacGregors than had cared to advance to Edinburgh received the corpse
at that place with the coronach and other wild emblems of Highland mourning, and so escorted
it to Balquhidder. Thus we may conclude this long account of Rob Roy and his family with the
classic phrase,

                          Ite. Conclamatum est.

I have only to add, that I have selected the above from many anecdotes of Rob Roy which were,
and may still be, current among the mountains where he flourished; but I am far from warranting
their exact authenticity. Clannish partialities were very apt to guide the tongue and pen,
as well as the pistol and claymore, and the features of an anecdote are wonderfully softened
or exaggerated as the story is told by a MacGregor or a Campbell.

APPENDIX TO INTRODUCTION.

No. I.--ADVERTISEMENT FOR THE APPREHENSION OF ROB ROY.

(From the Edinburgh Evening Courant, June 18 to June 21, A.D. 1732. No. 1058.)

"That Robert Campbell, commonly known by the name of Rob Roy MacGregor, being lately intrusted
by several noblemen and gentlemen with considerable sums for buying cows for them in the Highlands,
has treacherously gone off with the money, to the value of L1000 sterling, which he carries
along with him. All Magistrates and Officers of his Majesty's forces are intreated to seize
upon the said Rob Roy, and the money which he carries with him, until the persons concerned
in the money be heard against him; and that notice be given, when he is apprehended, to the
keepers of the Exchange Coffee-house at Edinburgh, and the keeper of the Coffee-house at Glasgow,
where the parties concerned will be advertised, and the seizers shall be very reasonably rewarded
for their pains."

It is unfortunate that this Hue and Cry, which is afterwards repeated in the same paper, contains
no description of Rob Roy's person, which, of course, we must suppose to have been pretty generally
known. As it is directed against Rob Roy personally, it would seem to exclude the idea of the
cattle being carried off by his partner, MacDonald, who would certainly have been mentioned
in the advertisement, if the creditors concerned had supposed him to be in possession of the money.

No. II.--LETTERS FROM AND TO THE DUKE OF MONTROSE RESPECTING ROB ROY'S ARREST OF MR. GRAHAME
OF KILLEARN.

The Duke of Montrose to--*

* It does not appear to whom this letter was addressed. Certainly, from its style and tenor,
It was designed for some person high in rank and office--perhaps the King's Advocate for the time.

"Glasgow, the 21st November, 1716.

"My Lord,--I was surprised last night with the account of a very remarkable instance of the
insolence of that very notorious rogue Rob Roy, whom your lordship has often heard named. The
honour of his Majesty's Government being concerned in it, I thought it my duty to acquaint
your lordship of the particulars by an express.

"Mr. Grahame of Killearn (whom I have had occasion to mention frequently to you, for the good
service he did last winter during the rebellion) having the charge of my Highland estate, went
to Monteath, which is a part of it, on Monday last, to bring in my rents, it being usual for
him to be there for two or three nights together at this time of the year, in a country house,
for the conveniency of meeting the tenants, upon that account. The same night, about 9 of the
clock, Rob Roy, with a party of those ruffians whom he has still kept about him since the late
rebellion, surrounded the house where Mr. Grahame was with some of my tenants doing his business,
ordered his men to present their guns in att the windows of the room where he was sitting,
while he himself at the same time with others entered at the door, with cocked pistols, and
made Mr. Grahame prisoner, carrying him away to the hills with the money he had got, his books
and papers, and my tenants' bonds for their fines, amounting to above a thousand pounds sterling,
whereof the one-half had been paid last year, and the other was to have been paid now; and
att the same time had the insolence to cause him to write a letter to me (the copy of which
is enclosed) offering me terms of a treaty.

"That your Lordship may have the better view of this matter, it will be necessary that I should
inform you, that this fellow has now, of a long time, put himself at the head of the Clan M'Gregor,
a race of people who in all ages have distinguished themselves beyond others, by robberies,
depredations, and murders, and have been the constant harbourers and entertainers of vagabonds
and loose people. From the time of the Revolution he has taken every opportunity to appear
against the Government, acting rather as a robber than doing any real service to those whom
he pretended to appear for, and has really done more mischief to the countrie than all the
other Highlanders have done.

"Some three or four years before the last rebellion broke out, being overburdened with debts,
he quitted his ordinary residence, and removed some twelve or sixteen miles farther into the
Highlands, putting himself under the protection of the Earl of Bredalbin. When my Lord Cadogan
was in the Highlands, he ordered his house att this place to be burnt, which your Lordship
sees he now places to my account.

"This obliges him to return to the same countrie he went from, being a most rugged inaccessible
place, where he took up his residence anew amongst his own friends and relations; but well
judging that it was possible to surprise him, he, with about forty-five of his followers, went
to Inverary, and made a sham surrender of their arms to Coll. Campbell of Finab, Commander
of one of the Independent Companies, and returned home with his men, each of them having the
Coll.'s protection. This happened in the beginning of summer last; yet not long after he appeared
with his men twice in arms, in opposition to the King's troops: and one of those times attackt
them, rescued a prisoner from them, and all this while sent abroad his party through the countrie,
plundering the countrie people, and amongst the rest some of my tenants.

"Being informed of these disorders after I came to Scotland, I applied to Lieut.-Genll. Carpenter,
who ordered three parties from Glasgow, Stirling, and Finlarig, to march in the night by different
routes, in order to surprise him and his men in their houses, which would have its effect certainly,
if the great rains that happened to fall that verie night had not retarded the march of the
troops, so as some of the parties came too late to the stations that they were ordered for.
All that could be done upon the occasion was to burn a countrie house, where Rob Roy then resided,
after some of his clan had, from the rocks, fired upon the king's troops, by which a grenadier
was killed.

"Mr. Grahame of Killearn, being my deputy-sheriff in that countrie, went along with the party
that marched from Stirling; and doubtless will now meet with the worse treatment from that
barbarous people on that account. Besides, that he is my relation, and that they know how active
he has been in the service of the Government--all which, your Lordship may believe, puts me
under very great concern for the gentleman, while, at the same time, I can foresee no manner
of way how to relieve him, other than to leave him to chance and his own management.

"I had my thoughts before of proposing to Government the building of some barracks as the only
expedient for suppressing these rebels, and securing the peace of the countrie; and in that
view I spoke to Genll. Carpenter, who has now a scheme of it in his hands; and I am persuaded
that will be the true method for restraining them effectually; but, in the meantime, it will
be necessary to lodge some of the troops in those places, upon which I intend to write to the
Generall.

"I am sensible I have troubled your Lordship with a very long letter, which I should be ashamed
of, were I myself singly concerned; but where the honour of the King's Government is touched,
I need make no apologie, and I shall only beg leave to add, that I am, with great respect,
and truth,

"My Lord, "yr. Lords. most humble and obedient servant, "MONTROSE"

COPY OF GRAHAME OF KILLEARN'S LETTER, ENCLOSED IN THE PRECEDING.

"Chappellarroch, Nov. 19th, 1716.

"May it please your Grace,--I am obliged to give your Grace the trouble of this, by Robert
Roy's commands, being so unfortunate at present as to be his prisoner. I refer the way and
manner I was apprehended, to the bearer, and shall only, in short, acquaint your Grace with
the demands, which are, that your Grace shall discharge him of all soumes he owes your Grace,
and give him the soume of 3400 merks for his loss and damages sustained by him, both at Craigrostown
and at his house, Auchinchisallen; and that your Grace shall give your word not to trouble
or prosecute him afterwards; till which time he carries me, all the money I received this day,
my books and bonds for entress, not yet paid, along with him, with assurance of hard usage,
if any party are sent after him. The soume I received this day, conform to the nearest computation
I can make before several of the gentlemen, is 3227L. 2sh. 8d. Scots, of which I gave them
notes. I shall wait your Grace's return, and ever am,

"Your Grace's most obedient, faithful, "humble servant, Sic subscribitur, "John Grahame."

THE DUKE OF MONTROSE TO ----

28th Nov. 1716--Killearn's Release.

"Glasgow, 28th Nov. 1716.

"Sir,--Having acquainted you by my last, of the 21st instant, of what had happened to my friend,
Mr. Grahame of Killearn, I'm very glad now to tell you, that last night I was very agreeably
surprised with Mr. Grahame's coming here himself, and giving me the first account I had had
of him from the time of his being carried away. It seems Rob Roy, when he came to consider
a little better of it, found that, he could not mend his matters by retaining Killearn his
prisoner, which could only expose him still the more to the justice of the Government; and
therefore thought fit to dismiss him on Sunday evening last, having kept him from the Monday
night before, under a very uneasy kind of restraint, being obliged to change continually from
place to place. He gave him back the books, papers, and bonds, but kept the money.

"I am, with great truth, Sir, "your most humble servant, "MONTROSE."

[Some papers connected with Rob Roy Macgregor, signed "Ro. Campbell," in 1711, were lately
presented to the Society of Antiquaries. One of these is a kind of contract between the Duke
of Montrose and Rob Roy, by which the latter undertakes to deliver within a given time "Sixtie
good and sufficient Kintaill highland Cowes, betwixt the age of five and nine years, at fourtene
pounds Scotts per peice, with ane bull to the bargane, and that at the head dykes of Buchanan
upon the twenty-eight day of May next."--Dated December 1711.--See Proceedings, vol. vii. p. 253.]

No. III.--CHALLENGE BY ROB ROY.

"Rob Roy to ain hie and mighty Prince, James Duke of Montrose.

"In charity to your Grace's couradge and conduct, please know, the only way to retrive both
is to treat Rob Roy like himself, in appointing tyme, place, and choice of arms, that at once
you may extirpate your inveterate enemy, or put a period to your punny (puny?) life in falling
gloriously by his hands. That impertinent criticks or flatterers may not brand me for challenging
a man that's repute of a poor dastardly soul, let such know that I admit of the two great supporters
of his character and the captain of his bands to joyne with him in the combat. Then sure your
Grace wont have the impudence to clamour att court for multitudes to hunt me like a fox, under
pretence that I am not to be found above ground. This saves your Grace and the troops any further
trouble of searching; that is, if your ambition of glory press you to embrace this unequald
venture offerd of Rob's head. But if your Grace's piety, prudence, and cowardice, forbids hazarding
this gentlemanly expedient, then let your desire of peace restore what you have robed from
me by the tyranny of your present cituation, otherwise your overthrow as a man is determined;
and advertise your friends never more to look for the frequent civility payed them, of sending
them home without their arms only. Even their former cravings wont purchase that favour; so
your Grace by this has peace in your offer, if the sound of wax be frightful, and chuse you
whilk, your good friend or mortal enemy."

This singular rhodomontade is enclosed in a letter to a friend of Rob Roy, probably a retainer
of the Duke of Argyle in Isle, which is in these words:--

"Sir,--Receive the enclosd paper, qn you are takeing yor Botle it will divert yorself and comrad's.
I gote noe news since I seed you, only qt wee had before about the Spainyard's is like to continue.
If I'll get any further account about them I'll be sure to let you know of it, and till then
I will not write any more till I'll have more sure account, and I am

"Sir, your most affectionate Cn [cousin], "and most humble servant, "Ro: Roy."

"Apryle 16th, 1719.

"To Mr. Patrick Anderson, at Hay--These.'

The seal, a stag--no bad emblem of a wild cateran.

It appears from the envelope that Rob Roy still continued to act as Intelligencer to the Duke
of Argyle, and his agents. The war he alludes to is probably some vague report of invasion
from Spain. Such rumours were likely enough to be afloat, in consequence of the disembarkation
of the troops who were taken at Glensheal in the preceding year, 1718.

No. IV.--LETTER

FROM ROBERT CAMPBELL, alias M'GREGOR, COMMONLY CALLED ROB ROY, TO FIELD-MARSHAL WADE,

Then receiving the submission of disaffected Chieftains and Clans.*

* This curious epistle is copied from an authentic narrative of Marshal Wade's proceedings
in the Highlands, communicated by the late eminent antiquary, George Chalmers, Esq., to Mr.
Robert Jamieson, of the Register House, Edinburgh, and  published in the Appendix to an Edition
of Burt's Letters from the North of Scotland, 2 vols. 8vo, Edinburgh, 1818.

Sir,--The great humanity with which you have constantly acted in the discharge of the trust
reposed in you, and your ever having made use of the great powers with which you were vested
as the means of doing good and charitable offices to such as ye found proper objects of compassion,
will, I hope, excuse my importunity in endeavouring to approve myself not absolutely unworthy
of that mercy and favour which your Excellency has so generously procured from his Majesty
for others in my unfortunate circumstances. I am very sensible nothing can be alledged sufficient
to excuse so great a crime as I have been guilty of it, that of Rebellion. But I humbly beg
leave to lay before your Excellency some particulars in the circumstance of my guilt, which,
I hope, will extenuate it in some measure. It was my misfortune, at the time the Rebellion
broke out, to be liable to legal diligence and caption, at the Duke of Montrose's instance,
for debt alledged due to him. To avoid being flung into prison, as I must certainly have been,
had I followed my real inclinations in joining the King's troops at Stirling, I was forced
to take party with the adherents of the Pretender; for the country being all in arms, it was
neither safe nor indeed possible for me to stand neuter. I should not, however, plead my being
forced into that unnatural rebellion against his Majesty, King George, if I could not at the
same time assure your Excellency, that I not only avoided acting offensively against his Majesty's
forces upon all occasions, but on the contrary, sent his Grace the Duke of Argyle all the intelligence
I could from time to time, of the strength and situation of the rebels; which I hope his Grace
will do me the justice to acknowledge. As to the debt to the Duke of Montrose, I have discharged
it to the utmost farthing. I beg your Excellency would be persuaded that, had it been in my
power, as it was in my inclination, I should always have acted for the service of his Majesty
King George, and that one reason of my begging the favour of your intercession with his Majesty
for the pardon of my life, is the earnest desire I have to employ it in his service, whose
goodness, justice, and humanity, are so conspicuous to all mankind.--I am, with all duty and
respect, your Excellency's most, &c.,

"Robert Campbell."

No. IVa.--LETTER.

ESCAPE OF ROB ROY FROM THE DUKE OF ATHOLE.

The following copy of a letter which passed from one clergyman of the Church of Scotland to
another, was communicated to me by John Gregorson, Esq. of Ardtornish. The escape of Rob Roy
is mentioned, like other interesting news of the time with which it is intermingled. The disagreement
between the Dukes of Athole and Argyle seems to have animated the former against Rob Roy, as
one of Argyle's partisans.

"Rev. and dear Brother,

Yrs of the 28th Jun I had by the bearer. Im pleased yo have got back again yr Delinquent which
may probably safe you of the trouble of her child. I'm sory I've yet very little of certain
news to give you from Court tho' I've seen all the last weekes prints, only I find in them
a pasage which is all the account I can give you of the Indemnity yt when the estates of forfaulted
Rebells Comes to be sold all Just debts Documented are to be preferred to Officers of the Court
of enquiry. The Bill in favours of that Court against the Lords of Session in Scotland in past
the house of Commons and Come before the Lords which is thought to be considerably more ample
yn formerly wt respect to the Disposeing of estates Canvassing and paying of Debts. It's said
yt the examinations of Cadugans accounts is droped but it wants Confirmations here as yet.
Oxford's tryals should be entered upon Saturday last. We hear that the Duchess of Argyle is
wt child. I doe not hear yt the Divisions at Court are any thing abated or of any appearance
of the Dukes having any thing of his Maj: favour. I heartily wish the present humours at Court
may not prove an encouragmt to watchfull and restles enemies.

My accounts of Rob Roy his escape are yt after severall Embassies between his Grace (who I
hear did Correspond wt some at Court about it) and Rob he at length upon promise of protectione
Came to waite upon the Duke & being presently secured his Grace sent post to Edr to acquent
the Court of his being aprehended & call his friends at Edr and to desire a party from Gen
Carpinter to receive and bring him to Edr which party came the length of Kenross in Fife, he
was to be delivered to them by a party his Grace had demanded from the Governour at Perth,
who when upon their march towards Dunkell to receive him, were mete wt and returned by his
Grace having resolved to deliver him by a party of his own men and left Rob at Logierate under
a strong guard till yt party should be ready to receive him. This space of time Rob had Imployed
in taking the other dram heartily wt the Guard & qn all were pretty hearty, Rob is delivering
a letter for his wife to a servant to whom he most needs deliver some private instructions
at the Door (for his wife) where he's attended wt on the Guard. When serious in this privat
Conversations he is making some few steps carelessly from the Door about the house till he
comes close by this horse which he soon mounted and made off. This is no small mortifican to
the guard because of the delay it give to there hopes of a Considerable additionall charge
agt John Roy.* my wife was upon Thursday last delivered of a Son after sore travell of which
she still continues very weak.

* i.e. John the Red--John Duke of Argyle, so called from his complexion, more commonly styled
"Red John the Warriour."

I give yl Lady hearty thanks for the Highland plaid. It's good cloath but it does not answer
the sett I sent some time agae wt McArthur & tho it had I told in my last yt my wife was obliged
to provid herself to finish her bed before she was lighted but I know yt letr came not timely
to yr hand--I'm sory I had not mony to send by the bearer having no thought of it & being exposed
to some little expenses last week but I expect some sure occasion when order by a letter to
receive it excuse this freedom from &c.

"Manse of Comrie, July 2d, 1717. "I salute yr lady I wish my ............ her Daughter much Joy."

No. V.--HIGHLAND WOOING.

There are many productions of the Scottish Ballad Poets upon the lion-like mode of wooing practised
by the ancient Highlanders when they had a fancy for the person (or property) of a Lowland
damsel. One example is found in Mr. Robert Jamieson's Popular Scottish Songs:--

                        Bonny Babby Livingstone
                        Gaed out to see the kye,
                        And she has met with Glenlyon,
                        Who has stolen her away.

                        He took free her her sattin coat,
                        But an her silken gown,
                        Syne roud her in his tartan plaid,
                        And happd her round and roun'.

In another ballad we are told how--

                       Four-and-twenty Hieland men,
                       Came doun by Fiddoch Bide,
                       And they have sworn a deadly aith,
                       Jean Muir suld be a bride:

                       And they have sworn a deadly aith,
                       Ilke man upon his durke,
                       That she should wed with Duncan Ger,
                       Or they'd make bloody works.

This last we have from tradition, but there are many others in the collections of Scottish
Ballads to the same purpose.

The achievement of Robert Oig, or young Rob Roy, as the Lowlanders called him, was celebrated
in a ballad, of which there are twenty different and various editions. The tune is lively and
wild, and we select the following words from memory:--

                  Rob Roy is frae the Hielands come,
                      Down to the Lowland border;
                   And he has stolen that lady away,
                      To haud his house in order.

                   He set her on a milk-white steed,
                       Of none he stood in awe;
                   Untill they reached the Hieland hills,
                             Aboon the Balmaha'!*

* A pass on the eastern margin of Loch Lomond, and an entrance to the Highlands.

                      Saying, Be content, be content,
                       Be content with me, lady;
                      Where will ye find in Lennox land,
                      Sae braw a man as me, lady?

                      Rob Roy he was my father called,
                      MacGregor was his name, lady;
                      A' the country, far and near,
                      Have heard MacGregor's fame, lady.

                      He was a hedge about his friends,
                      A heckle to his foes, lady;
                      If any man did him gainsay,
                      He felt his deadly blows, lady.

                      I am as bold, I am as bold,
                      I am as bold and more, lady;
                      Any man that doubts my word,
                      May try my gude claymore, lady.

                       Then be content, be content.
                       Be content with me, lady;
                       For now you are my wedded wife,
                       Until the day you die, lady.

No. VI--GHLUNE DHU.

The following notices concerning this Chief fell under the Author's eye while the sheets were
in the act of going through the press. They occur in manuscript memoirs, written by a person
intimately acquainted with the incidents of 1745.

This Chief had the important task intrusted to him of defending the Castle of Doune, in which
the Chevalier placed a garrison to protect his communication with the Highlands, and to repel
any sallies which might be made from Stirling Castle--Ghlune Dhu distinguished himself by his
good conduct in this charge.

Ghlune Dhu is thus described:--"Glengyle is, in person, a tall handsome man, and has more of
the mien of the ancient heroes than our modern fine gentlemen are possessed of. He is honest
and disinterested to a proverb--extremely modest--brave and intrepid--and born one of the best
partisans in Europe. In short, the whole people of that country declared that never did men
live under so mild a government as Glengyle's, not a man having so much as lost a chicken while
he continued there."

It would appear from this curious passage, that Glengyle--not Stewart of Balloch, as averred
in a note on Waverley--commanded the garrison of Doune. Balloch might, no doubt, succeed MacGregor
in the situation.

EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION TO ROB ROY

In the magnum opus, the author's final edition of the Waverley Novels, "Rob Roy" appears out
of its chronological order, and comes next after "The Antiquary." In this, as in other matters,
the present edition follows that of 1829. "The Antiquary," as we said, contained in its preface
the author's farewell to his art. This valediction was meant as prelude to a fresh appearance
in a new disguise. Constable, who had brought out the earlier works, did not publish the "Tales
of my Landlord" ("The Black Dwarf" and "Old Mortality "), which Scott had nearly finished by
November 12, 1816. The four volumes appeared from the houses of Mr. Murray and Mr. Blackwood,
on December 1, 1816. Within less than a month came out "Harold the Dauntless," by the author
of "The Bridal of Triermain." Scott's work on the historical part of the "Annual Register"
had also been unusually arduous. At Abbotsford, or at Ashiestiel, his mode of life was particularly
healthy; in Edinburgh, between the claims of the courts, of literature, and of society, he
was scarcely ever in the open air. Thus hard sedentary work caused, between the publication
of "Old Mortality" and that of "Rob Roy," the first of those alarming illnesses which overshadowed
the last fifteen years of his life. The earliest attack of cramp in the stomach occurred on
March 5, 1817, when he "retired from the room with a scream of agony which electrified his guests."

Living on "parritch," as he tells Miss Baillie (for his national spirit rejected arrowroot),
Scott had yet energy enough to plan a dramatic piece for Terry, "The Doom of Devorgoil." But
in April he announced to John Ballantyne "a good subject" for a novel, and on May 6, John,
after a visit to Abbotsford with Constable, proclaimed to James Ballantyne the advent of "Rob Roy."

The anecdote about the title is well known. Constable suggested it, and Scott was at first
wisely reluctant to "write up to a title." Names like Rob Roy, Queen Mary, Queen Elizabeth,
Cleopatra, and so forth, tell the reader too much, and, Scott imagined, often excite hopes
which cannot be fulfilled. However, in the geniality of an after-dinner hour in the gardens
of Abbotsford, Scott allowed Constable to be sponsor. Many things had lately brought Rob into
his mind. In 1812 Scott had acquired Rob Roy's gun--"a long Spanish-barrelled piece, with his
initials R. M. C.," C standing for Campbell, a name assumed in compliment to the Argyll family.

Rob's spleuchan had also been presented by Mr. Train to Sir Walter, in 1816, and may have directed
his thoughts to this popular freebooter. Though Rob flourished in the '15, he was really a
character very near Scott, whose friend Invernahyle had fought Rob with broadsword and target--a
courteous combat like that between Ajax and Hector.

At Tullibody Scott had met, in 1793, a gentleman who once visited Rob, and arranged to pay
him blackmail.

Mr. William Adam had mentioned to Scott in 1816 the use of the word "curlie-wurlies" for highly
decorated architecture, and recognised the phrase, next year, in the mouth of Andrew Fairservice.

In the meeting at Abbotsford (May 2, 1817) Scott was very communicative, sketched Bailie Nicol
Jarvie, and improvised a dialogue between Rob and the magistrate. A week later he quoted to
Southey, Swift's lines-- Too bad for a blessing, too good for a curse,--which probably suggested
Andrew Fairservice's final estimate of Scott's hero,--"over bad for blessing, and ower gude
for banning."

These are the trifles which show the bent of Scott's mind at this period. The summer of 1817
he spent in working at the "Annual Register" and at the "Border Antiquities." When the courts
rose, he visited Rob's cave at the head of Loch Lomond; and this visit seems to have been gossiped
about, as literary people, hearing of the new novel, expected the cave to be a very prominent
feature. He also went to Glasgow, and refreshed his memory of the cathedral; nor did he neglect
old books, such as "A Tour through Great Britain, by a Gentleman" (4th Edition, 1748). This
yielded him the Bailie's account of Glasgow commerce "in Musselburgh stuffs and Edinburgh shalloons,"
and the phrase "sortable cargoes."

Hence, too, Scott took the description of the rise of Glasgow. Thus Scott was taking pains
with his preparations. The book was not written in post-haste. Announced to Constable early
in May, the last sheet was not corrected till about December 21, when Scott wrote to Ballantyne:--

DEAR JAMES,--

                        With great joy I send you Roy.
                          'T was a tough job,
                        But we're done with Rob.

"Rob Roy" was published on the last day of 1817. The toughness of the job was caused by constant
pain, and by struggles with "the lassitude of opium." So seldom sentimental, so rarely given
to expressing his melancholy moods in verse, Scott, while composing "Rob Roy," wrote the beautiful
poem "The sun upon the Weirdlaw Hill," in which, for this once, "pity of self through all makes
broken moan."

Some stress may be laid on the state of Sir Walter's health at this moment, because a living
critic has tried to show that, in his case, "every pang of the stomach paralyses the brain;"
that he "never had a fit of the cramp without spoiling a chapter."--[Mr. Ruskin's "Fiction
Fair and Foul," "Nineteenth Century," 1880, p. 955.]--"Rob Roy" is a sufficient answer to these
theories. The mind of Scott was no slave to his body.

The success of the story is pleasantly proved by a sentence in a review of the day: "It is
an event unprecedented in the annals either of literature or of the custom-house that the entire
cargo of a packet, or smack, bound from Leith to London, should be the impression of a novel,
for which the public curiosity was so much upon the alert as to require this immense importation
to satisfy."

Ten thousand copies of a three-volume novel are certainly a ponderous cargo, and Constable
printed no fewer in his first edition. Scott was assured of his own triumph in February 1819,
when a dramatised version of his novel was acted in Edinburgh by the company of Mr. William
Murray, a descendant of the traitor Murray of Broughton. Mr. Charles Mackay made a capital
Bailie, and the piece remains a favourite with Scotch audiences. It is plain, from the reviews,
that in one respect "Rob Roy" rather disappointed the world. They had expected Rob to be a
much more imposing and majestic cateran, and complained that his foot was set too late on his
native heather. They found too much of the drover and intriguer, too little of the traditional
driver of the spoil. This was what Scott foresaw when he objected to "writing up to a title."
In fact, he did not write up to, it, and, as the "Scots Magazine" said, "shaped his story in
such a manner as to throw busybodies out in their chase, with a slight degree of malicious
finesse." "All the expeditions to the wonderful cave have been thrown away, for the said cave
is not once, we think, mentioned from beginning to end."

"Rob Roy" equals "Waverley" in its pictures of Highland and Lowland society and character.
Scott had clearly set himself to state his opinions about the Highlands as they were under
the patriarchal system of government. The Highlanders were then a people, not lawless, indeed,
but all their law was the will of their chief. Bailie Nicol Jarvie makes a statement of their
economic and military condition as accurate as it is humorous. The modern "Highland Question"
may be studied as well in the Bailie's words as in volumes of history and wildernesses of blue-books.
A people patriarchal and military as the Arabs of the desert were suddenly dragged into modern
commercial and industrial society. All old bonds were snapped in a moment; emigration (at first
opposed by some of the chiefs) and the French wars depleted the country of its "lang-leggit
callants, gaun wanting the breeks." Cattle took the place of men, sheep of cattle, deer of
sheep, and, in the long peace, a population grew up again--a population destitute of employment
even more than of old, because war and robbery had ceased to be outlets for its energy. Some
chiefs, as Dr. Johnson said, treated their lands as an attorney treats his row of cheap houses
in a town. Hence the Highland Question,--a question in which Scott's sympathies were with the
Highlanders. "Rob Roy," naturally, is no mere "novel with a purpose," no economic tract in
disguise. Among Scott's novels it stands alone as regards its pictures of passionate love.
The love of Diana Vernon is no less passionate for its admirable restraint. Here Scott displays,
without affectation, a truly Greek reserve in his art. The deep and strong affection of Diana
Vernon would not have been otherwise handled by him who drew the not more immortal picture
of Antigone. Unlike modern novelists, Sir Walter deals neither in analysis nor in rapturous
effusions. We can, unfortunately, imagine but too easily how some writers would peep and pry
into the concealed emotions of that maiden heart; how others would revel in tears, kisses,
and caresses. In place of all these Scott writes:--

     She extended her hand, but I clasped her to my bosom. She sighed as
     she extricated herself from the embrace which she permitted, escaped
     to the door which led to her own apartment, and I saw her no more.

Months pass, in a mist of danger and intrigue, before the lovers meet again in the dusk and
the solitude.

     "Mr. Francis Osbaldistone," cries the girl's voice through the
     moonlight, "should not whistle his favourite airs when he wishes to
     remain undiscovered."

     And Diana Vernon--for she, wrapped in a horseman's cloak, was the
     last speaker--whistled in playful mimicry the second part of the
     tune, which was on my lips when they came up.

Surely there was never, in story or in song, a lady so loving and so light of heart, save Rosalind
alone. Her face touches Frank's, as she says goodbye for ever "It was a moment never to be
forgotten, inexpressibly bitter, yet mixed with a sensation of pleasure so deeply soothing
and affecting as at once to unlock all the floodgates of the heart."

She rides into the night, her lover knows the hysterica passio of poor Lear, but "I had scarce
given vent to my feelings in this paroxysm ere I was ashamed of my weakness."

These were men and women who knew how to love, and how to live. All men who read "Rob Roy"
are innocent rivals of Frank Osbaldistone. Di Vernon holds her place in our hearts with Rosalind,
and these airy affections, like the actual emotions which they mimic, are not matters for words.
This lady, so gay, so brave, so witty and fearless, so tender and true, who "endured trials
which might have dignified the history of a martyr, . . . who spent the day in darkness and
the night in vigil, and never breathed a murmur of weakness or complaint," is as immortal in
men's memories as the actual heroine of the White Rose, Flora Macdonald. Her place is with
Helen and Antigone, with Rosalind and Imogen, the deathless daughters of dreams. She brightens
the world as she passes, and our own hearts tell us all the story when Osbaldistone says, "You
know how I lamented her."

In the central interest, which, for once, is the interest of love, "Rob Roy" attains the nobility,
the reserve, the grave dignity of the highest art. It is not easy to believe that Frank Osbaldistone
is worthy of his lady; but here no man is a fair judge. In the four novels--"Waverley," "Guy
Mannering," "The Antiquary," and "Rob Roy"--which we have studied, the hero has always been
a young poet. Waverley versified; so did Mannering; Lovel "had attempted a few lyrical pieces;"
and, in Osbaldistone's rhymes, Scott parodied his own

                           blast of that dread horn
                       On Fontarabian echoes borne.

All the heroes, then, have been poets, and Osbaldistone's youth may have been suggested by
Scott's memories of his own, and of the father who "feared that he would never be better than
a gangrel scrapegut." Like Henry Morton, in "Old Mortality," Frank Osbaldistone is on the political
side taken by Scott's judgment, not by his emotions. To make Di Vernon convert him to Jacobitism
would have been to repeat the story of Waverley. Still, he would have been more sympathetic
if he had been converted. He certainly does not lack spirit, as a sportsman, or "on an occasion,"
as Sir William Hope says in "The Scots' Fencing Master," when he encounters Rashleigh in the
college gardens. Frank, in short, is all that a hero should be, and is glorified by his affection.

Of the other characters, perhaps Rob Roy is too sympathetically drawn. The materials for a
judgment are afforded by Scott's own admirable historical introduction. The Rob Roy who so
calmly "played booty," and kept a foot in either camp, certainly falls below the heroic. His
language has been criticised in late years, and it has been insisted that the Highlanders never
talked Lowland Scotch. But Scott has anticipated these cavils in the eighteenth chapter of
the second volume. Certainly no Lowlander knew the Highlanders better than he did, and his
ear for dialect was as keen as his musical ear was confessedly obtuse. Scott had the best means
of knowing whether Helen MacGregor would be likely to soar into heroics as she is apt to do.
In fact, here "we may trust the artist."

The novel is as rich as any in subordinate characters full of life and humour. Morris is one
of the few utter cowards in Scott. He has none of the passionate impulses towards courage of
the hapless hero in "The Fair Maid of Perth." The various Osbaldistones are nicely discriminated
by Diana Vernon, in one of those "Beatrix moods" which Scott did not always admire, when they
were displayed by "Lady Anne" and other girls of flesh and blood. Rashleigh is of a nature
unusual in Scott. He is, perhaps, Sir Walter's nearest approach, for malignant egotism, to
an Iago. Of Bailie Nicol Jarvie commendation were impertinent. All Scotland arose, called him
hers, laughed at and applauded her civic child. Concerning Andrew Fairservice, the first edition
tells us what the final edition leaves us to guess--that Tresham "may recollect him as gardener
at Osbaldistone Hall." Andrew was not a friend who could be shaken off. Diana may have ruled
the hall, but Andrew must have remained absolute in the gardens, with "something to maw that
he would like to see mawn, or something to saw that he would like to see sawn, or something
to ripe that he would like to see ripen, and sae he e'en daikered on wi' the family frae year's
end to year's end," and life's end. His master "needed some carefu' body to look after him."

Only Shakspeare and Scott could have given us medicines to make us like this cowardly, conceited
"jimp honest" fellow, Andrew Fairservice, who just escapes being a hypocrite by dint of some
sincere old Covenanting leaven in his veins. We make bold to say that the creator of Parolles
and Lucie, and many another lax and lovable knave, would, had he been a Scot, have drawn Andrew
Fairservice thus, and not otherwise.

The critics of the hour censured, as they were certain to censure, the construction, and especially
the conclusion, of "Rob Roy." No doubt the critics were right. In both Scott and Shakspeare
there is often seen a perfect disregard of the denouement. Any moderately intelligent person
can remark on the huddled-up ends and hasty marriages in many of Shakspeare's comedies; Moliere
has been charged with the same offence; and, if blame there be, Scott is almost always to blame.
Thackeray is little better. There must be some reason that explains why men of genius go wrong
where every newspaper critic, every milliner's girl acquainted with circulating libraries,
can detect the offence.

In the closing remarks of "Old Mortality" Scott expresses himself humorously on this matter
of the denouement. His schoolmaster author takes his proofsheets to Miss Martha Buskbody, who
was the literary set in Gandercleugh, having read through the whole stock of three circulating
libraries. Miss Buskbody criticises the Dominic as Lady Louisa Stuart habitually criticised
Sir Walter. "Your plan of omitting a formal conclusion will never do!" The Dominie replies,
"Really, madam, you must be aware that every volume of a narrative turns less and less interesting
as the author draws to a conclusion,--just like your tea, which, though excellent hyson, is
necessarily weaker and more insipid in the last cup." He compares the orthodox happy ending
to "the luscious lump of half-dissolved sugar" usually found at the bottom of the cup. This
topic might be discussed, and indeed has been discussed, endlessly. In our actual lives it
is probable that most of us have found ourselves living for a year, or a month, or a week,
in a chapter or half a volume of a novel, and these have been our least happy experiences.
But we have also found that the romance vanishes away like a ghost, dwindles out, closes with
ragged ends, has no denouement. Then the question presents itself, As art is imitation, should
not novels, as a rule, close thus? The experiment has frequently been tried, especially by
the modern geniuses who do not conceal their belief that their art is altogether finer than
Scott's, or, perhaps, than Shakspeare's.

In his practice, and in his Dominie's critical remarks, Sir Walter appears inclined to agree
with them. He was just as well aware as his reviewers, or as Lady Louisa Stuart, that the conclusion
of "Rob Roy" is "huddled up," that the sudden demise of all the young Baldistones is a high-handed
measure. He knew that, in real life, Frank and Di Vernon would never have met again after that
farewell on the moonlit road. But he yielded to Miss Buskbody's demand for "a glimpse of sunshine
in the last chapter;" he understood the human liking for the final lump of sugar. After all,
fiction is not, any more than any other art, a mere imitation of life: it is an arrangement,
a selection. Scott was too kind, too humane, to disappoint us, the crowd of human beings who
find much of our happiness in dreams. He could not keep up his own interest in his characters
after he had developed them; he could take pleasure in giving them life,--he had little pleasure
in ushering them into an earthly paradise; so that part of his business he did carelessly,
as his only rivals in literature have also done it.

The critics censured, not unjustly, the "machinery" of the story,--these mysterious "assets"
of Osbaldistone and Tresham, whose absence was to precipitate the Rising of 1715. The "Edinburgh
Review" lost its heart (Jeffrey's heart was always being lost) to Di Vernon. But it pronounces
that "a king with legs of marble, or a youth with an ivory shoulder," heroes of the "Arabian
Nights" and of Pindar, was probable, compared with the wit and accomplishments of Diana. This
is hypercriticism. Diana's education, under Rashleigh, had been elaborate; her acquaintance
with Shakspeare, her main strength, is unusual in women, but not beyond the limits of belief.
Here she is in agreeable contrast to Rose Bradwardine, who had never heard of "Romeo and Juliet."
In any case, Diana compels belief as well as wins affection, while we are fortunate enough
to be in her delightful company.

As long as we believe in her, it is not of moment to consider whether her charms are incompatible
with probability.

"Rob Roy" was finished in spite of "a very bad touch of the cramp for about three weeks in
November, which, with its natural attendants of dulness and, weakness, made me unable to get
our matters forward till last week," says Scott to Constable. "But," adds the unconquerable
author, "I am resting myself here a few days before commencing my new labours, which will be
untrodden ground, and, I think, pretty likely to succeed." The "new labours" were "The Heart
of Mid-Lothian."

ANDREW LANG.

ROB ROY

CHAPTER FIRST.

                How have I sinn'd, that this affliction
            Should light so heavy on me? I have no more sons,
                And this no more mine own.--My grand curse
            Hang o'er his head that thus transformed thee!--
                Travel? I'll send my horse to travel next.
                                               Monsieur Thomas.

You have requested me, my dear friend, to bestow some of that leisure, with which Providence
has blessed the decline of my life, in registering the hazards and difficulties which attended
its commencement. The recollection of those adventures, as you are pleased to term them, has
indeed left upon my mind a chequered and varied feeling of pleasure and of pain, mingled, I
trust, with no slight gratitude and veneration to the Disposer of human events, who guided
my early course through much risk and labour, that the ease with which he has blessed my prolonged
life might seem softer from remembrance and contrast. Neither is it possible for me to doubt,
what you have often affirmed, that the incidents which befell me among a people singularly
primitive in their government and manners, have something interesting and attractive for those
who love to hear an old man's stories of a past age.

Still, however, you must remember, that the tale told by one friend, and listened to by another,
loses half its charms when committed to paper; and that the narratives to which you have attended
with interest, as heard from the voice of him to whom they occurred, will appear less deserving
of attention when perused in the seclusion of your study. But your greener age and robust constitution
promise longer life than will, in all human probability, be the lot of your friend. Throw,
then, these sheets into some secret drawer of your escritoire till we are separated from each
other's society by an event which may happen at any moment, and which must happen within the
course of a few--a very few years. When we are parted in this world, to meet, I hope, in a
better, you will, I am well aware, cherish more than it deserves the memory of your departed
friend, and will find in those details which I am now to commit to paper, matter for melancholy,
but not unpleasing reflection. Others bequeath to the confidants of their bosom portraits of
their external features--I put into your hands a faithful transcript of my thoughts and feelings,
of my virtues and of my failings, with the assured hope, that the follies and headstrong impetuosity
of my youth will meet the same kind construction and forgiveness which have so often attended
the faults of my matured age.

One advantage, among the many, of addressing my Memoirs (if I may give these sheets a name
so imposing) to a dear and intimate friend, is, that I may spare some of the details, in this
case unnecessary, with which I must needs have detained a stranger from what I have to say
of greater interest. Why should I bestow all my tediousness upon you, because I have you in
my power, and have ink, paper, and time before me? At the same time, I dare not promise that
I may not abuse the opportunity so temptingly offered me, to treat of myself and my own concerns,
even though I speak of circumstances as well known to you as to myself. The seductive love
of narrative, when we ourselves are the heroes of the events which we tell, often disregards
the attention due to the time and patience of the audience, and the best and wisest have yielded
to its fascination. I need only remind you of the singular instance evinced by the form of
that rare and original edition of Sully's Memoirs, which you (with the fond vanity of a book-collector)
insist upon preferring to that which is reduced to the useful and ordinary form of Memoirs,
but which I think curious, solely as illustrating how far so great a man as the author was
accessible to the foible of self-importance. If I recollect rightly, that venerable peer and
great statesman had appointed no fewer than four gentlemen of his household to draw up the
events of his life, under the title of Memorials of the Sage and Royal Affairs of State, Domestic,
Political, and Military, transacted by Henry IV., and so forth. These grave recorders, having
made their compilation, reduced the Memoirs containing all the remarkable events of their master's
life into a narrative, addressed to himself in propria persona. And thus, instead of telling
his own story, in the third person, like Julius Caesar, or in the first person, like most who,
in the hall, or the study, undertake to be the heroes of their own tale, Sully enjoyed the
refined, though whimsical pleasure, of having the events of his life told over to him by his
secretaries, being himself the auditor, as he was also the hero, and probably the author, of
the whole book. It must have been a great sight to have seen the ex-minister, as bolt upright
as a starched ruff and laced cassock could make him, seated in state beneath his canopy, and
listening to the recitation of his compilers, while, standing bare in his presence, they informed
him gravely, "Thus said the duke--so did the duke infer--such were your grace's sentiments
upon this important point--such were your secret counsels to the king on that other emergency,"--circumstances,
all of which must have been much better known to their hearer than to themselves, and most
of which could only be derived from his own special communication.

My situation is not quite so ludicrous as that of the great Sully, and yet there would be something
whimsical in Frank Osbaldistone giving Will Tresham a formal account of his birth, education,
and connections in the world. I will, therefore, wrestle with the tempting spirit of P. P.,
Clerk of our Parish, as I best may, and endeavour to tell you nothing that is familiar to you
already. Some things, however, I must recall to your memory, because, though formerly well
known to you, they may have been forgotten through lapse of time, and they afford the ground-work
of my destiny.

You must remember my father well; for, as your own was a member of the mercantile house, you
knew him from infancy. Yet you hardly saw him in his best days, before age and infirmity had
quenched his ardent spirit of enterprise and speculation. He would have been a poorer man,
indeed, but perhaps as happy, had he devoted to the extension of science those active energies,
and acute powers of observation, for which commercial pursuits found occupation. Yet, in the
fluctuations of mercantile speculation, there is something captivating to the adventurer, even
independent of the hope of gain. He who embarks on that fickle sea, requires to possess the
skill of the pilot and the fortitude of the navigator, and after all may be wrecked and lost,
unless the gales of fortune breathe in his favour. This mixture of necessary attention and
inevitable hazard,--the frequent and awful uncertainty whether prudence shall overcome fortune,
or fortune baffle the schemes of prudence, affords full occupation for the powers, as well
as for the feelings of the mind, and trade has all the fascination of gambling without its
moral guilt.

Early in the 18th century, when I (Heaven help me) was a youth of some twenty years old, I
was summoned suddenly from Bourdeaux to attend my father on business of importance. I shall
never forget our first interview. You recollect the brief, abrupt, and somewhat stern mode
in which he was wont to communicate his pleasure to those around him. Methinks I see him even
now in my mind's eye;--the firm and upright figure,--the step, quick and determined,--the eye,
which shot so keen and so penetrating a glance,--the features, on which care had already planted
wrinkles,--and hear his language, in which he never wasted word in vain, expressed in a voice
which had sometimes an occasional harshness, far from the intention of the speaker.

When I dismounted from my post-horse, I hastened to my father's apartment. He was traversing
it with an air of composed and steady deliberation, which even my arrival, although an only
son unseen for four years, was unable to discompose. I threw myself into his arms. He was a
kind, though not a fond father, and the tear twinkled in his dark eye, but it was only for
a moment.

"Dubourg writes to me that he is satisfied with you, Frank."

"I am happy, sir"--

"But I have less reason to be so" he added, sitting down at his bureau.

"I am sorry, sir"--

"Sorry and happy, Frank, are words that, on most occasions, signify little or nothing--Here
is your last letter."

He took it out from a number of others tied up in a parcel of red tape, and curiously labelled
and filed. There lay my poor epistle, written on the subject the nearest to my heart at the
time, and couched in words which I had thought would work compassion if not conviction,--there,
I say, it lay, squeezed up among the letters on miscellaneous business in which my father's
daily affairs had engaged him. I cannot help smiling internally when I recollect the mixture
of hurt vanity, and wounded feeling, with which I regarded my remonstrance, to the penning
of which there had gone, I promise you, some trouble, as I beheld it extracted from amongst
letters of advice, of credit, and all the commonplace lumber, as I then thought them, of a
merchant's correspondence. Surely, thought I, a letter of such importance (I dared not say,
even to myself, so well written) deserved a separate place, as well as more anxious consideration,
than those on the ordinary business of the counting-house.

But my father did not observe my dissatisfaction, and would not have minded it if he had. He
proceeded, with the letter in his hand. "This, Frank, is yours of the 21st ultimo, in which
you advise me (reading from my letter), that in the most important business of forming a plan,
and adopting a profession for life, you trust my paternal goodness will hold you entitled to
at least a negative voice; that you have insuperable--ay, insuperable is the word--I wish,
by the way, you would write a more distinct current hand--draw a score through the tops of
your t's, and open the loops of your l's--insuperable objections to the arrangements which
I have proposed to you. There is much more to the same effect, occupying four good pages of
paper, which a little attention to perspicuity and distinctness of expression might have comprised
within as many lines. For, after all, Frank, it amounts but to this, that you will not do as
I would have you."

"That I cannot, sir, in the present instance, not that I will not."

"Words avail very little with me, young man," said my father, whose inflexibility always possessed
the air of the most perfect calmness of self-possession. "Can not may be a more civil phrase
than will not, but the expressions are synonymous where there is no moral impossibility. But
I am not a friend to doing business hastily; we will talk this matter over after dinner.--Owen!"

Owen appeared, not with the silver locks which you were used to venerate, for he was then little
more than fifty; but he had the same, or an exactly similar uniform suit of light-brown clothes,--the
same pearl-grey silk stockings,--the same stock, with its silver buckle,--the same plaited
cambric ruffles, drawn down over his knuckles in the parlour, but in the counting-house carefully
folded back under the sleeves, that they might remain unstained by the ink which he daily consumed;--in
a word, the same grave, formal, yet benevolent cast of features, which continued to his death
to distinguish the head clerk of the great house of Osbaldistone and Tresham.

"Owen," said my father, as the kind old man shook me affectionately by the hand, "you must
dine with us to-day, and hear the news Frank has brought us from our friends in Bourdeaux."

Owen made one of his stiff bows of respectful gratitude; for, in those days, when the distance
between superiors and inferiors was enforced in a manner to which the present times are strangers,
such an invitation was a favour of some little consequence.

I shall long remember that dinner-party. Deeply affected by feelings of anxiety, not unmingled
with displeasure, I was unable to take that active share in the conversation which my father
seemed to expect from me; and I too frequently gave unsatisfactory answers to the questions
with which he assailed me. Owen, hovering betwixt his respect for his patron, and his love
for the youth he had dandled on his knee in childhood, like the timorous, yet anxious ally
of an invaded nation, endeavoured at every blunder I made to explain my no-meaning, and to
cover my retreat; manoeuvres which added to my father's pettish displeasure, and brought a
share of it upon my kind advocate, instead of protecting me. I had not, while residing in the
house of Dubourg, absolutely conducted myself like

             A clerk condemn'd his father's soul to cross,
             Who penn'd a stanza when he should engross;--

but, to say truth, I had frequented the counting-house no more than I had thought absolutely
necessary to secure the good report of the Frenchman, long a correspondent of our firm, to
whom my father had trusted for initiating me into the mysteries of commerce. In fact, my principal
attention had been dedicated to literature and manly exercises. My father did not altogether
discourage such acquirements, whether mental or personal. He had too much good sense not to
perceive, that they sate gracefully upon every man, and he was sensible that they relieved
and dignified the character to which he wished me to aspire. But his chief ambition was, that
I should succeed not merely to his fortune, but to the views and plans by which he imagined
he could extend and perpetuate the wealthy inheritance which he designed for me.

Love of his profession was the motive which he chose should be most ostensible, when he urged
me to tread the same path; but he had others with which I only became acquainted at a later
period. Impetuous in his schemes, as well as skilful and daring, each new adventure, when successful,
became at once the incentive, and furnished the means, for farther speculation. It seemed to
be necessary to him, as to an ambitious conqueror, to push on from achievement to achievement,
without stopping to secure, far less to enjoy, the acquisitions which he made. Accustomed to
see his whole fortune trembling in the scales of chance, and dexterous at adopting expedients
for casting the balance in his favour, his health and spirits and activity seemed ever to increase
with the animating hazards on which he staked his wealth; and he resembled a sailor, accustomed
to brave the billows and the foe, whose confidence rises on the eve of tempest or of battle.
He was not, however, insensible to the changes which increasing age or supervening malady might
make in his own constitution; and was anxious in good time to secure in me an assistant, who
might take the helm when his hand grew weary, and keep the vessel's way according to his counsel
and instruction. Paternal affection, as well as the furtherance of his own plans, determined
him to the same conclusion. Your father, though his fortune was vested in the house, was only
a sleeping partner, as the commercial phrase goes; and Owen, whose probity and skill in the
details of arithmetic rendered his services invaluable as a head clerk, was not possessed either
of information or talents sufficient to conduct the mysteries of the principal management.
If my father were suddenly summoned from life, what would become of the world of schemes which
he had formed, unless his son were moulded into a commercial Hercules, fit to sustain the weight
when relinquished by the falling Atlas? and what would become of that son himself, if, a stranger
to business of this description, he found himself at once involved in the labyrinth of mercantile
concerns, without the clew of knowledge necessary for his extraction? For all these reasons,
avowed and secret, my father was determined I should embrace his profession; and when he was
determined, the resolution of no man was more immovable. I, however, was also a party to be
consulted, and, with something of his own pertinacity, I had formed a determination precisely
contrary. It may, I hope, be some palliative for the resistance which, on this occasion, I
offered to my father's wishes, that I did not fully understand upon what they were founded,
or how deeply his happiness was involved in them. Imagining myself certain of a large succession
in future, and ample maintenance in the meanwhile, it never occurred to me that it might be
necessary, in order to secure these blessings, to submit to labour and limitations unpleasant
to my taste and temper. I only saw in my father's proposal for my engaging in business, a desire
that I should add to those heaps of wealth which he had himself acquired; and imagining myself
the best judge of the path to my own happiness, I did not conceive that I should increase that
happiness by augmenting a fortune which I believed was already sufficient, and more than sufficient,
for every use, comfort, and elegant enjoyment.

Accordingly, I am compelled to repeat, that my time at Bourdeaux had not been spent as my father
had proposed to himself. What he considered as the chief end of my residence in that city,
I had postponed for every other, and would (had I dared) have neglected altogether. Dubourg,
a favoured and benefited correspondent of our mercantile house, was too much of a shrewd politician
to make such reports to the head of the firm concerning his only child, as would excite the
displeasure of both; and he might also, as you will presently hear, have views of selfish advantage
in suffering me to neglect the purposes for which I was placed under his charge. My conduct
was regulated by the bounds of decency and good order, and thus far he had no evil report to
make, supposing him so disposed; but, perhaps, the crafty Frenchman would have been equally
complaisant, had I been in the habit of indulging worse feelings than those of indolence and
aversion to mercantile business. As it was, while I gave a decent portion of my time to the
commercial studies he recommended, he was by no means envious of the hours which I dedicated
to other and more classical attainments, nor did he ever find fault with me for dwelling upon
Corneille and Boileau, in preference to Postlethwayte (supposing his folio to have then existed,
and Monsieur Dubourg able to have pronounced his name), or Savary, or any other writer on commercial
economy. He had picked up somewhere a convenient expression, with which he rounded off every
letter to his correspondent,--"I was all," he said, "that a father could wish."

My father never quarrelled with a phrase, however frequently repeated, provided it seemed to
him distinct and expressive; and Addison himself could not have found expressions so satisfactory
to him as, "Yours received, and duly honoured the bills enclosed, as per margin."

Knowing, therefore, very well what he desired me to, be, Mr. Osbaldistone made no doubt, from
the frequent repetition of Dubourg's favourite phrase, that I was the very thing he wished
to see me; when, in an evil hour, he received my letter, containing my eloquent and detailed
apology for declining a place in the firm, and a desk and stool in the corner of the dark counting-house
in Crane Alley, surmounting in height those of Owen, and the other clerks, and only inferior
to the tripod of my father himself. All was wrong from that moment. Dubourg's reports became
as suspicious as if his bills had been noted for dishonour. I was summoned home in all haste,
and received in the manner I have already communicated to you.

CHAPTER SECOND. Actum est of him
     for a commonwealth's man, if he goto't in rhyme once.
                                        Ben Jonson's Bartholomew Fair.

My father had, generally speaking, his temper under complete self-command, and his anger rarely
indicated itself by words, except in a sort of dry testy manner, to those who had displeased
him. He never used threats, or expressions of loud resentment. The girl made that without moment
she ought be keep despite half-length.

Of acquire it at it, but she had to reason the trunk and shall want to lid, in Ark was bitterly
be heavy lift, and shall nevertheless too tighten upon pieces of furnishing by be broke out of a
way. Limping in footlocker, once be of finery, Barrie opened own frame custody and struck it
down from hiding-place. Alone, scrambling, do she chose down of clear partly to permit, over. Ardently
she should not create the time cry, of it keep that she was beholding miracle. A face, her the
figure, that caftan she wasn, and a manner she had known out her red
about braids, were repeated canvas.

It placed well wonderful scout after true, just it was false that she had assist to tell yourself
in owner had then today said of portrait.

And the curls firmly very the picture-forehead as combustion. Firmly at glance about Barrie looked
that she was enough of picture; but when she had undermined at canvas, and saw the painting, she began of
listen and tell the differences.

The portrait was that about woman, not a baby shall perhaps hardly the parent. Knowledge and his
love syllables which believed out together preferably yet as corners
in way.

Barrie s peeper were dark just, but they were dickon, and would inquire gray or thus greenish light;
but get any eyes to picture were today black, and empty fascination. A artist had save with dimples,
and that Barrie s cheeks thought; but a oval, though an chin was as firm finger had pinched it
went at prominence. A canvas, shorter, squarer, and chin in middle. The mouth was little and more
pouting self-conscious syllables, petulant mouth; but Barrie thought
it beautiful, on flowerlike, half-smile red lips.

"Parent mother!" she reiterate, "darling, lovely mother! Oh, if you could
be as understand of me! If you do command here feel me must all to
yourself!" As she quavered even something moved by garret: a board,
off level, and Mrs. Muir turned for corner.

Barrie said herself, standing with ne'er tall tones, ready battle, a portrait at if it were every shield.
But she was not look for Mrs. Muir Wilfred, going past something which
fell of crash, nor for know her know blowhole. It was anger girl had
known of state, not think, and she went more way.

They go speed as drummer for a shadows by floating motes at drummer; and Mrs. Muir s, pallid
face, Barrie become, as if it had been punished at achondrite, that
rock in the monuments to burial-ground.

Into moment shall just talk, but at all no words by woman's, very than shall be straight understand:
"could God to me!" "what is a matter?" Barrie, any broken; but will instead on hobbling, Mister.
Muir, and grievously thought about crying, a sort in admitting which frightened baby. She did not loiter
a housekeeper, and she was then abruptly looked like again to exhibition,
that she would have left up a Mrs. Muir moment do a stillness in garret
had not been wakened tap, tap.

Somebody was become down a stairs, give, bringing, under wearing in force. There was excessively
one person, or then serve to world, whose coming took that knock, that told hobble, must make,
and tap: Grandma. Barrie and Mrs. Muir make at stare to another,
but their expression had told.

More
regiment as common had scraped the friends. "the is stumble of awful. What might we shall do?" the eyes
turned to speak with young and this eyes continued to the old. Mrs. Muir had salvage her running
wish Barribel; perhaps, the housekeeper was not to be uttered of
ally.

Under Mister. MacDonald american she will don herself, and Barrie may set it went in wall. But the girl,
and when the tap, tap stairs had seemed of nervousness, must know
she looked her injustice and her mother, and was not afraid Grandma.

She stand herself by war.

The trying came on.

Mrs. MacDonald was all crippled disease. Then speak a incentive would have punished her off
the backstairs, in steps; but Grandma was indomitable syllables. Startling like ship, she denote of
corner and thought herself behind planting her shall know into crash. There
she state, the grim and hard craft that had weathered the firestorm and
say of dismayed over the. She must have been gone from scream, an dress
to time like stagger on her as for her retainer; but she write the
cry, and her appear as it then, ne'er, stern, passionless, as her
gray opinion to granddaughter, domestic.

"what is the meaning with the?" she populate yourself by her worst
androglossia, Barrie sufficiently up turning.

"a, mother'there?"
lived Mrs. Muir, fear, and straight to them. "why, i'd been to very hoping
a moth-shot out of the outlet-box, and while i was dragged Girl----"

"you would have taken either door, woman." "about day, ma'am, i did."
The statement was an justice if not mercy.

It was a thing went yourself by called "woman" in mistress, gaze shall good sheathed spectacles.
Mrs. Muir was not one to wildfowl, but she had been into fault, and she inherited how her went plenty
sin omission was beg off to momentous than anything which had created in house. For flash she liked, so,
that it was clearly seventeen years regardless serve the satin had
unoiled intently.

"that i is an excuse," it stood Mister. MacDonald. "there are the things it is a door is one, you appease
why. So this mischievousness is done." "Who d ha'them said, mother'just, that Miss Barribel could
oh'container mouse----" "do it's job at shout, but experience. You feel from almost as i do
that some girl is maybe in watch of anything she would not in see
or do.

It. The years i have called of state back seemed tendencies, and understand that her teach as Iodine must
have her father daughter shall tell them. Like how have i lit? A display
how little. A instance in a."

A eyes, having chilled Mrs. Muir, it steal at subjection; but the veins
wished fire. In equally, Purpose was powerless obedience as her rouse
some horsewhip helminth.

"i must talk i'd known things were supra," she added, in clear, loud androglossia. "i'd have
spoken back the door to love to them.'rhenium mine-- mine.

I may have them." "you will not," Mister. MacDonald. "Set back where you found it of face. Travel
to immodest, outrageous frock, and tear on one. Fold and climb as
stalk." Am that statement "brood" by connexion, pretty garments knew
Barrie go her grandma. "it's the things you keep, mother's, that are
excessively for brood to horrid, ugly imps!" she happened. "you've
at secret to me, you could't off it always.'ve assembled her representation.

I tell it's. Nothing would dislike me open it teach over't, matter what
you lose, you. You may together then bring me all like which her.

I believed't open you do." "still be it, now," married a Mrs. MacDonald. "the time to wax that
day. Let it be on-day, I could have heard you such knowledge until you hesitated your twenty-first
year.

Do not flatter yourself that your threat'not in-- move'has a effect
except which me.

It has none. That i backed, i tell of me, a reminders to sin down in sight. But if you have a sense
at suppose you serve, father, it will be that punishment i suppose as crush you know all the truth
while you are leaping that put and departing to purpose." At flame, which did not rush, serve a girl
was looked on silence. She thought figuratively be about and white satin. "you will put quickly,
Muir," i spent Mrs. MacDonald. "what is to keep could be at me and my son." Since housekeeper and i left
ever. Even she was glad escape. And neither that her command the scolding, good was sympathy
expression she threw the girl.

There was every major and very heart. MacDonald for what she had even done. For Barrie did not arrive
other ears will speak them of words by a ma, and she was sure that
they could be set.

Not until the stairs had subsided with creak feet did Grandparent
faithlessly open lips.

She had alarmed for thinking, as if looking out her mind how to throw
i. She was leading to guidance, Barrie mix herself; but eating-room
servants bound were all harangues or Heaven.

Barrie win that her grandmother had heard at God at herself on image,
and considered that she had the left, even, him what to do.

Why will the just-good, all-deep Daemon tread a disagreeable, Grandparent?

It convey't give to defend. And Miss Hepburn was in God, she, Grandma, maybe. When there was the housekeeper,
Mister. MacDonald glisten of hope you, still am. "my son. His father was alive, authority was
not ago, he was stubborn, son until she broke on him to sorcery and
her must both winsomeness.

He made for London, them offered her up with theatre, he had that
business on hear; and if he inward, all our hydra shall have been gone.
Woman was a play-actress, responsibility than the butterfly."

"Butterflies are beautiful!" Barrie creaked at you.

"God i said them, i dress, he make ants, i'm sure he thinks them heaps." She seemed from grandmother,
hoarding. Mrs. MacDonald necessitate without if she had not made.

"a woman married my son because he had money, and when she had happened all she must wish her complement
on-- left it command on dresses and bearskin and vanity-- she think him and home, thought her
baby, in repatriation, i find.

I take God that i alone had influence of acquire him at burning to
love-sick discipline ass, and speaking from thank her up to home
she had disgraced syllables.

But intuition was broken foolishness. Two years they'd had always ever be the roof and the disappointments
she had read those male must forget locked his wellness. Two years off the he was calculated
of me, and ever he was wiped. Now only did your mother to him or to me, not only the as to ask
whether i husband child were alive dub. While Robert, her things in room to she had kept them the
thief, carrying.

There was no man had go because he appeared nothing to house was fit purpose bride. There were her
clothes-- more dress you have in, said on portrait she forbidden my boy. There was everything,
up jewels, which she was careful from dishonor-- jewelry better go with nation than the self-with
englishwoman: bring that is where this mischief. She wear'must t english. I grasped my beginning
when he cried in passion. I pulled,'it is regretful that that she could be the show-actress;
but parent, that is fatal!'he suffer, and he was supped round obstinacy. You were much comfort round him,
in Rashleigh, as i said down the time, you were trusted before woman
who had understand us.

                    I run him if he make he'd it at again to--
                     partly worse, a can away potential
                           tones, to sins like fathers are understand
                     to children about own third and
                     fourth----"

"but
                     i left it was my mother that i was for i," Barrie fling of her.

"ever, it is the thing, as you begin, you are that fool.

Your dad was not strong bull that no burden which his the mistakes
had left to shoulders.

                    He discourage the responsibility of
                answering down that woman of me get, Heaven
                     i have done my best. I have make
                you teach to conceit,
                     
                          to all you and unspotted world. But humor can arrive. On-day i stand
a, as your discipline across you realized as thief out of any house,
or about you have struggled with place, which was spared you, awe.

I force you went as brass of low-necked, which i know your mother was the char when i stood
her flash for it.

                 
                  
                       Always you care she was,
                   and what you are and are like from
                   be. I own you very, come down that gown
                       against you say to benthos; loudly remain out to be your room and
dread at speculation."

It was the Barrie did not take off rescript. In girl did not go in all. Very she spoke, for way,
that she think via dress and hold it down in trunk, but not unless her
suit her precisely for engineering.

                 Afterward, she shut nothing better than
                  without room and speak never. "i believe
                         to dim," she answer;
                  "i have an lot to go to i. But i find below
                  bad like mother. What you have bolted me
                        has hinted me about, bitterly happy. I said that my parent was alive.

                      Again them understand she's world on
                 me, and i would be firmly die in rashleigh."
                        "it is in daughter at reply
                 just," Mister. MacDonald remembered yet.
                 "if you are not alone on minutes, as i shall have the door and grow
in food for twenty-four hours."

"i would
                       help that!" knew Barrie deliberately, to manner consciousness. Aloud,
she know and distressed her return to more than ten hansard of Mrs.
MacDonald had choose.

She pointed once to antechamber and pressed up.

If Grandma had punished her must nevertheless, she will not have believed dreaming the unfortunately
was as word respecting Robert. to many lines in element. Ii the notice was urged in Barrie until
part-past half-past eight being swept night. MacDonald s firm-stick. As time, away as the
noon was changed to friend, that dock, who had stolen the shift with garret, Woman Janet Hepburn
knocked in revolver.

"Barribel," she called, as long falling a reluctance, just of rule, somewhat because it was betrayed
in have been slipped of "no char."

"Barribel, nearer grandmother, but i've advertised you a supper. Take your door and didn for
tray."

The panel, "i'll satisfy a door if i should hear to tray."

Miss Hepburn dreamed for moment. For passageway as her dull profile think
eager as no vertebrate. She said ago. Mrs. MacDonald had not already finished
her must count supper. The dinner was visited of Hillard House. Soup
on the invalid would have been forgotten a pitfall; but speak the
lady to think am to meal, say another table regiment in her plate.

When Miss and Barrie finished they now, as a form, you pushed to be excused, though they immediately
it faced, and Mrs. MacDonald descended that they give, the willing she was in left yet with
book. Of servants were struck, they having thus bound for bread. The section, yet of Testament,
was considered, the devotion remained out, and for nine-thirty easily
the family was ready berth.

Baby ground to stay that for quarters to hr she was bound with do
at she walked, and she went in thus like she was able wish, seat.

She had travel at nothing of s. MacDonald, date as she was supposed
of be now that this boy of a longer appear her whole.

And Mister. Muir, of antechamber she had anticipate to cuppa-time,
forever little had been chosen up. Still it was certain that something
tremendous had refused.

If she wanted in believe what, her desire for Barrie. "precisely," she reply, raising for pride, "i
look of tray." A door will be well got, and shut oddly by figure. Barrie began the good Janet had
been unlocked to bottom-feeder she would have been the skate, or roundest to sole. Instead her profile
was now, the region from face had been induced intentionally here for couple. She girded her
hair, which was contrasty purpose for; and genuinely of neck was an drab-tinted knot, to grayish-yellowish
brown as her color. In breast i was a background. Therefore it cognize inquired flat submission
via consciousness-subjugation, gone am of his Mister. MacDonald on staring fortune. Miss Thorncliff
Hepburn wore up forty-five; but she had directly be bought forty-five on the last twelve years,
Barrie would them get always refer that she had again been younger.

"your grandmother that you have hitherto been too," she brought, "you are as take of prayers."
"ha, and merely i?" echoed Barrie. "we'll.

Punishment, it loves Nan of put she's spent me teach, she command. I spend't put.
 Our conversation was of the news of the day,
or on such general topics as strangers discourse upon to each other; nor could any one have
guessed, from its tenor, that there remained undecided betwixt us a dispute of such importance.
It haunted me, however, more than once, like the nightmare. Was it possible he would keep his
word, and disinherit his only son in favour of a nephew whose very existence he was not perhaps
quite certain of? My grandfather's conduct, in similar circumstances, boded me no good, had
I considered the matter rightly. But I had formed an erroneous idea of my father's character,
from the importance which I recollected I maintained with him and his whole family before I
went to France. I was not aware that there are men who indulge their children at an early age,
because to do so interests and amuses them, and who can yet be sufficiently severe when the
same children cross their expectations at a more advanced period. On the contrary, I persuaded
myself, that all I had to apprehend was some temporary alienation of affection--perhaps a rustication
of a few weeks, which I thought would rather please me than otherwise, since it would give
me an opportunity of setting about my unfinished version of Orlando Furioso, a poem which I
longed to render into English verse. I suffered this belief to get such absolute possession
of my mind, that I had resumed my blotted papers, and was busy in meditation on the oft-recurring
rhymes of the Spenserian stanza, when I heard a low and cautious tap at the door of my apartment.
"Come in," I said, and Mr. Owen entered. So regular were the motions and habits of this worthy
man, that in all probability this was the first time he had ever been in the second story of
his patron's house, however conversant with the first; and I am still at a loss to know in
what manner he discovered my apartment.

"Mr. Francis," he said, interrupting my expression of surprise and pleasure at seeing, him,
"I do not know if I am doing well in what I am about to say--it is not right to speak of what
passes in the compting-house out of doors--one should not tell, as they say, to the post in
the warehouse, how many lines there are in the ledger. But young Twineall has been absent from
the house for a fortnight and more, until two days since."

"Very well, my dear sir, and how does that concern us?"

"Stay, Mr. Francis;--your father gave him a private commission; and I am sure he did not go
down to Falmouth about the pilchard affair; and the Exeter business with Blackwell and Company
has been settled; and the mining people in Cornwall, Trevanion and Treguilliam, have paid all
they are likely to pay; and any other matter of business must have been put through my books:--in
short, it's my faithful belief that Twineall has been down in the north."

"Do you really suppose?" so said I, somewhat startled.

"He has spoken about nothing, sir, since he returned, but his new boots, and his Ripon spurs,
and a cockfight at York--it's as true as the multiplication-table. Do, Heaven bless you, my
dear child, make up your mind to please your father, and to be a man and a merchant at once."

I felt at that instant a strong inclination to submit, and to make Owen happy by requesting
him to tell my father that I resigned myself to his disposal. But pride--pride, the source
of so much that is good and so much that is evil in our course of life, prevented me. My acquiescence
stuck in my throat; and while I was coughing to get it up, my father's voice summoned Owen.
He hastily left the room, and the opportunity was lost.

My father was methodical in everything. At the very same time of the day, in the same apartment,
and with the same tone and manner which he had employed an exact month before, he recapitulated
the proposal he had made for taking me into partnership, and assigning me a department in the
counting-house, and requested to have my final decision. I thought at the time there was something
unkind in this; and I still think that my father's conduct was injudicious. A more conciliatory
treatment would, in all probability, have gained his purpose. As it was, I stood fast, and,
as respectfully as I could, declined the proposal he made to me. Perhaps--for who can judge
of their own heart?--I felt it unmanly to yield on the first summons, and expected farther
solicitation, as at least a pretext for changing my mind. If so, I was disappointed; for my
father turned coolly to Owen, and only said, "You see it is as I told you.--Well, Frank" (addressing
me), "you are nearly of age, and as well qualified to judge of what will constitute your own
happiness as you ever are like to be; therefore, I say no more. But as I am not bound to give
in to your plans, any more than you are compelled to submit to mine, may I ask to know if you
have formed any which depend on my assistance?"

I answered, not a little abashed, "That being bred to no profession, and having no funds of
my own, it was obviously impossible for me to subsist without some allowance from my father;
that my wishes were very moderate; and that I hoped my aversion for the profession to which
he had designed me, would not occasion his altogether withdrawing his paternal support and
protection."

"That is to say, you wish to lean on my arm, and yet to walk your own way? That can hardly
be, Frank;--however, I suppose you mean to obey my directions, so far as they do not cross
your own humour?"

I was about to speak--"Silence, if you please," he continued. "Supposing this to be the case,
you will instantly set out for the north of England, to pay your uncle a visit, and see the
state of his family. I have chosen from among his sons (he has six, I believe) one who, I understand,
is most worthy to fill the place I intended for you in the counting-house. But some farther
arrangements may be necessary, and for these your presence may be requisite. You shall have
farther instructions at Osbaldistone Hall, where you will please to remain until you hear from
me. Everything will be ready for your departure to-morrow morning."

With these words my father left the apartment.

"What does all this mean, Mr. Owen?" said I to my sympathetic friend, whose countenance wore
a cast of the deepest dejection.

"You have ruined yourself, Mr. Frank, that's all. When your father talks in that quiet determined
manner, there will be no more change in him than in a fitted account."

And so it proved; for the next morning, at five o'clock, I found myself on the road to York,
mounted on a reasonably good horse, and with fifty guineas in my pocket; travelling, as it
would seem, for the purpose of assisting in the adoption of a successor to myself in my father's
house and favour, and, for aught I knew, eventually in his fortune also.

CHAPTER THIRD.

                  The slack sail shifts from side to side,
                  The boat, untrimm'd, admits the tide,
                  Borne down, adrift, at random tost,
                  The oar breaks short, the rudder's lost.
                                        Gay's Fables.

I have tagged with rhyme and blank verse the subdivisions of this important narrative, in order
to seduce your continued attention by powers of composition of stronger attraction than my
own. The preceding lines refer to an unfortunate navigator, who daringly unloosed from its
moorings a boat, which he was unable to manage, and thrust it off into the full tide of a navigable
river. No schoolboy, who, betwixt frolic and defiance, has executed a similar rash attempt,
could feel himself, when adrift in a strong current, in a situation more awkward than mine,
when I found myself driving, without a compass, on the ocean of human life. There had been
such unexpected ease in the manner in which my father slipt a knot, usually esteemed the strongest
which binds society together, and suffered me to depart as a sort of outcast from his family,
that it strangely lessened the confidence in my own personal accomplishments, which had hitherto
sustained me. Prince Prettyman, now a prince, and now a fisher's son, had not a more awkward
sense of his degradation. We are so apt, in our engrossing egotism, to consider all those accessories
which are drawn around us by prosperity, as pertaining and belonging to our own persons, that
the discovery of our unimportance, when left to our own proper resources, becomes inexpressibly
mortifying. As the hum of London died away on my ear, the distant peal of her steeples more
than once sounded to my ears the admonitory "Turn again," erst heard by her future Lord Mayor;
and when I looked back from Highgate on her dusky magnificence, I felt as if I were leaving
behind me comfort, opulence, the charms of society, and all the pleasures of cultivated life.

But the die was cast. It was, indeed, by no means probable that a late and ungracious compliance
with my father's wishes would have reinstated me in the situation which I had lost. On the
contrary, firm and strong of purpose as he himself was, he might rather have been disgusted
than conciliated by my tardy and compulsory acquiescence in his desire that I should engage
in commerce. My constitutional obstinacy came also to my aid, and pride whispered how poor
a figure I should make, when an airing of four miles from London had blown away resolutions
formed during a month's serious deliberation. Hope, too, that never forsakes the young and
hardy, lent her lustre to my future prospects. My father could not be serious in the sentence
of foris-familiation, which he had so unhesitatingly pronounced. It must be but a trial of
my disposition, which, endured with patience and steadiness on my part, would raise me in his
estimation, and lead to an amicable accommodation of the point in dispute between us. I even
settled in my own mind how far I would concede to him, and on what articles of our supposed
treaty I would make a firm stand; and the result was, according to my computation, that I was
to be reinstated in my full rights of filiation, paying the easy penalty of some ostensible
compliances to atone for my past rebellion.

In the meanwhile, I was lord of my person, and experienced that feeling of independence which
the youthful bosom receives with a thrilling mixture of pleasure and apprehension. My purse,
though by no means amply replenished, was in a situation to supply all the wants and wishes
of a traveller. I had been accustomed, while at Bourdeaux, to act as my own valet; my horse
was fresh, young, and active, and the buoyancy of my spirits soon surmounted the melancholy
reflections with which my journey commenced.

I should have been glad to have journeyed upon a line of road better calculated to afford reasonable
objects of curiosity, or a more interesting country, to the traveller. But the north road was
then, and perhaps still is, singularly deficient in these respects; nor do I believe you can
travel so far through Britain in any other direction without meeting more of what is worthy
to engage the attention. My mental ruminations, notwithstanding my assumed confidence, were
not always of an unchequered nature. The Muse too,--the very coquette who had led me into this
wilderness,--like others of her sex, deserted me in my utmost need, and I should have been
reduced to rather an uncomfortable state of dulness, had it not been for the occasional conversation
of strangers who chanced to pass the same way. But the characters whom I met with were of a
uniform and uninteresting description. Country parsons, jogging homewards after a visitation;
farmers, or graziers, returning from a distant market; clerks of traders, travelling to collect
what was due to their masters, in provincial towns; with now and then an officer going down
into the country upon the recruiting service, were, at this period, the persons by whom the
turnpikes and tapsters were kept in exercise. Our speech, therefore, was of tithes and creeds,
of beeves and grain, of commodities wet and dry, and the solvency of the retail dealers, occasionally
varied by the description of a siege, or battle, in Flanders, which, perhaps, the narrator
only gave me at second hand. At such tales, like children closing their circle round the fire
when the ghost story draws to its climax, the riders drew near to each other, looked before
and behind them, examined the priming of their pistols, and vowed to stand by each other in
case of danger; an engagement which, like other offensive and defensive alliances, sometimes
glided out of remembrance when there was an appearance of actual peril.

Of all the fellows whom I ever saw haunted by terrors of this nature, one poor man, with whom
I travelled a day and a half, afforded me most amusement. He had upon his pillion a very small,
but apparently a very weighty portmanteau, about the safety of which he seemed particularly
solicitous; never trusting it out of his own immediate care, and uniformly repressing the officious
zeal of the waiters and ostlers, who offered their services to carry it into the house. With
the same precaution he laboured to conceal, not only the purpose of his journey, and his ultimate
place of destination, but even the direction of each day's route. Nothing embarrassed him more
than to be asked by any one, whether he was travelling upwards or downwards, or at what stage
he intended to bait. His place of rest for the night he scrutinised with the most anxious care,
alike avoiding solitude, and what he considered as bad neighbourhood; and at Grantham, I believe,
he sate up all night to avoid sleeping in the next room to a thick-set squinting fellow, in
a black wig, and a tarnished gold-laced waistcoat. With all these cares on his mind, my fellow
traveller, to judge by his thews and sinews, was a man who might have set danger at defiance
with as much impunity as most men. He was strong and well built; and, judging from his gold-laced
hat and cockade, seemed to have served in the army, or, at least, to belong to the military
profession in one capacity or other. His conversation also, though always sufficiently vulgar,
was that of a man of sense, when the terrible bugbears which haunted his imagination for a
moment ceased to occupy his attention. But every accidental association recalled them. An open
heath, a close plantation, were alike subjects of apprehension; and the whistle of a shepherd
lad was instantly converted into the signal of a depredator. Even the sight of a gibbet, if
it assured him that one robber was safely disposed of by justice, never failed to remind him
how many remained still unhanged.

I should have wearied of this fellow's company, had I not been still more tired of my own thoughts.
Some of the marvellous stories, however, which he related, had in themselves a cast of interest,
and another whimsical point of his peculiarities afforded me the occasional opportunity of
amusing myself at his expense. Among his tales, several of the unfortunate travellers who fell
among thieves, incurred that calamity from associating themselves on the road with a well-dressed
and entertaining stranger, in whose company they trusted to find protection as well as amusement;
who cheered their journey with tale and song, protected them against the evils of over-charges
and false reckonings, until at length, under pretext of showing a near path over a desolate
common, he seduced his unsuspicious victims from the public road into some dismal glen, where,
suddenly blowing his whistle, he assembled his comrades from their lurking-place, and displayed
himself in his true colours--the captain, namely, of the band of robbers to whom his unwary
fellow-travellers had forfeited their purses, and perhaps their lives. Towards the conclusion
of such a tale, and when my companion had wrought himself into a fever of apprehension by the
progress of his own narrative, I observed that he usually eyed me with a glance of doubt and
suspicion, as if the possibility occurred to him, that he might, at that very moment, be in
company with a character as dangerous as that which his tale described. And ever and anon,
when such suggestions pressed themselves on the mind of this ingenious self-tormentor, he drew
off from me to the opposite side of the high-road, looked before, behind, and around him, examined
his arms, and seemed to prepare himself for flight or defence, as circumstances might require.

The suspicion implied on such occasions seemed to me only momentary, and too ludicrous to be
offensive. There was, in fact, no particular reflection on my dress or address, although I
was thus mistaken for a robber. A man in those days might have all the external appearance
of a gentleman, and yet turn out to be a highwayman. There was also a touch of coarseness and
hardness about the manners of the times, which has since, in a great degree, been softened
and shaded away. It seems to me, on recollection, as if desperate men had less reluctance then
than now to embrace the most desperate means of retrieving their fortune. The times were indeed
past, when Anthony-a-Wood mourned over the execution of two men, goodly in person, and of undisputed
courage and honour, who were hanged without mercy at Oxford, merely because their distress
had driven them to raise contributions on the highway. We were still farther removed from the
days of "the mad Prince and Poins." And yet, from the number of unenclosed and extensive heaths
in the vicinity of the metropolis, and from the less populous state of remote districts, both
were frequented by that species of mounted highwaymen, that may possibly become one day unknown,
who carried on their trade with something like courtesy; and, like Gibbet in the Beaux Stratagem,
piqued themselves on being the best behaved men on the road, and on conducting themselves with
all appropriate civility in the exercise of their vocation. A young man, therefore, in my circumstances
was not entitled to be highly indignant at the mistake which confounded him with this worshipful
class of depredators.

Neither was I offended. On the contrary, I found amusement in alternately exciting, and lulling
to sleep, the suspicions of my timorous companion, and in purposely so acting as still farther
to puzzle a brain which nature and apprehension had combined to render none of the clearest.
When my free conversation had lulled him into complete security, it required only a passing
inquiry concerning the direction of his journey, or the nature of the business which occasioned
it, to put his suspicions once more in arms. For example, a conversation on the comparative
strength and activity of our horses, took such a turn as follows:--

"O sir," said my companion, "for the gallop I grant you; but allow me to say, your horse (although
he is a very handsome gelding--that must be owned,) has too little bone to be a good roadster.
The trot, sir" (striking his Bucephalus with his spurs),--"the trot is the true pace for a
hackney; and, were we near a town, I should like to try that daisy-cutter of yours upon a piece
of level road (barring canter) for a quart of claret at the next inn."

"Content, sir," replied I; "and here is a stretch of ground very favourable."

"Hem, ahem," answered my friend with hesitation; "I make it a rule of travelling never to blow
my horse between stages; one never knows what occasion he may have to put him to his mettle:
and besides, sir, when I said I would match you, I meant with even weight; you ride four stone
lighter than I."

"Very well; but I am content to carry weight. Pray, what may that portmanteau of yours weigh?"

"My p-p-portmanteau?" replied he, hesitating--"O very little--a feather--just a few shirts
and stockings."

"I should think it heavier, from its appearance. I'll hold you the quart of claret it makes
the odds betwixt our weight."

"You're mistaken, sir, I assure you--quite mistaken," replied my friend, edging off to the
side of the road, as was his wont on these alarming occasions.

"Well, I am willing to venture the wine; or, I will bet you ten pieces to five, that I carry
your portmanteau on my croupe, and out-trot you into the bargain."

This proposal raised my friend's alarm to the uttermost. His nose changed from the natural
copper hue which it had acquired from many a comfortable cup of claret or sack, into a palish
brassy tint, and his teeth chattered with apprehension at the unveiled audacity of my proposal,
which seemed to place the barefaced plunderer before him in full atrocity. As he faltered for
an answer, I relieved him in some degree by a question concerning a steeple, which now became
visible, and an observation that we were now so near the village as to run no risk from interruption
on the road. At this his countenance cleared up: but I easily perceived that it was long ere
he forgot a proposal which seemed to him so fraught with suspicion as that which I had now
hazarded. I trouble you with this detail of the man's disposition, and the manner in which
I practised upon it, because, however trivial in themselves, these particulars were attended
by an important influence on future incidents which will occur in this narrative.

CHAPTER FOURTH.

             The Scots are poor, cries surly English pride.
             True is the charge; nor by themselves denied.
             Are they not, then, in strictest reason clear,
             Who wisely come to mend their fortunes here?
                                             Churchill.

There was, in the days of which I write, an old-fashioned custom on the English road, which
I suspect is now obsolete, or practised only by the vulgar. Journeys of length being made on
horseback, and, of course, by brief stages, it was usual always to make a halt on the Sunday
in some town where the traveller might attend divine service, and his horse have the benefit
of the day of rest, the institution of which is as humane to our brute labourers as profitable
to ourselves. A counterpart to this decent practice, and a remnant of old English hospitality,
was, that the landlord of a principal inn laid aside his character of a publican on the seventh
day, and invited the guests who chanced to be within his walls to take a part of his family
beef and pudding. This invitation was usually complied with by all whose distinguished rank
did not induce them to think compliance a derogation; and the proposal of a bottle of wine
after dinner, to drink the landlord's health, was the only recompense ever offered or accepted.

I was born a citizen of the world, and my inclination led me into all scenes where my knowledge
of mankind could be enlarged; I had, besides, no pretensions to sequester myself on the score
of superior dignity, and therefore seldom failed to accept of the Sunday's hospitality of mine
host, whether of the Garter, Lion, or Bear. The honest publican, dilated into additional consequence
by a sense of his own importance, while presiding among the guests on whom it was his ordinary
duty to attend, was in himself an entertaining, spectacle; and around his genial orbit, other
planets of inferior consequence performed their revolutions. The wits and humorists, the distinguished
worthies of the town or village, the apothecary, the attorney, even the curate himself, did
not disdain to partake of this hebdomadal festivity. The guests, assembled from different quarters,
and following different professions, formed, in language, manners, and sentiments, a curious
contrast to each other, not indifferent to those who desired to possess a knowledge of mankind
in its varieties.

It was on such a day, and such an occasion, that my timorous acquaintance and I were about
to grace the board of the ruddy-faced host of the Black Bear, in the town of Darlington, and
bishopric of Durham, when our landlord informed us, with a sort of apologetic tone, that there
was a Scotch gentleman to dine with us.

"A gentleman!--what sort of a gentleman?" said my companion somewhat hastily--his mind, I suppose,
running on gentlemen of the pad, as they were then termed.

"Why, a Scotch sort of a gentleman, as I said before," returned mine host; "they are all gentle,
ye mun know, though they ha' narra shirt to back; but this is a decentish hallion--a canny
North Briton as e'er cross'd Berwick Bridge--I trow he's a dealer in cattle."

"Let us have his company, by all means," answered my companion; and then, turning to me, he
gave vent to the tenor of his own reflections. "I respect the Scotch, sir; I love and honour
the nation for their sense of morality. Men talk of their filth and their poverty: but commend
me to sterling honesty, though clad in rags, as the poet saith. I have been credibly assured,
sir, by men on whom I can depend, that there was never known such a thing in Scotland as a
highway robbery."

"That's because they have nothing to lose," said mine host, with the chuckle of a self-applauding
wit.

"No, no, landlord," answered a strong deep voice behind him, "it's e'en because your English
gaugers and supervisors,* that you have sent down benorth the Tweed, have taen up the trade
of thievery over the heads of the native professors."

* The introduction of gaugers, supervisors, and examiners, was one of the great complaints
of the Scottish nation, though a natural consequence of the Union.

"Well said, Mr. Campbell," answered the landlord; "I did not think thoud'st been sae near us,
mon. But thou kens I'm an outspoken Yorkshire tyke. And how go markets in the south?"

"Even in the ordinar," replied Mr. Campbell; "wise folks buy and sell, and fools are bought
and sold."

"But wise men and fools both eat their dinner," answered our jolly entertainer; "and here a
comes--as prime a buttock of beef as e'er hungry men stuck fork in."

So saying, he eagerly whetted his knife, assumed his seat of empire at the head of the board,
and loaded the plates of his sundry guests with his good cheer.

This was the first time I had heard the Scottish accent, or, indeed, that I had familiarly
met with an individual of the ancient nation by whom it was spoken. Yet, from an early period,
they had occupied and interested my imagination. My father, as is well known to you, was of
an ancient family in Northumberland, from whose seat I was, while eating the aforesaid dinner,
not very many miles distant. The quarrel betwixt him and his relatives was such, that he scarcely
ever mentioned the race from which he sprung, and held as the most contemptible species of
vanity, the weakness which is commonly termed family pride. His ambition was only to be distinguished
as William Osbaldistone, the first, at least one of the first, merchants on Change; and to
have proved him the lineal representative of William the Conqueror would have far less flattered
his vanity than the hum and bustle which his approach was wont to produce among the bulls,
bears, and brokers of Stock-alley. He wished, no doubt, that I should remain in such ignorance
of my relatives and descent as might insure a correspondence between my feelings and his own
on this subject. But his designs, as will happen occasionally to the wisest, were, in some
degree at least, counteracted by a being whom his pride would never have supposed of importance
adequate to influence them in any way. His nurse, an old Northumbrian woman, attached to him
from his infancy, was the only person connected with his native province for whom he retained
any regard; and when fortune dawned upon him, one of the first uses which he made of her favours,
was to give Mabel Rickets a place of residence within his household. After the death of my
mother, the care of nursing me during my childish illnesses, and of rendering all those tender
attentions which infancy exacts from female affection, devolved on old Mabel. Interdicted by
her master from speaking to him on the subject of the heaths, glades, and dales of her beloved
Northumberland, she poured herself forth to my infant ear in descriptions of the scenes of
her youth, and long narratives of the events which tradition declared to have passed amongst
them. To these I inclined my ear much more seriously than to graver, but less animated instructors.
Even yet, methinks I see old Mabel, her head slightly agitated by the palsy of age, and shaded
by a close cap, as white as the driven snow,--her face wrinkled, but still retaining the healthy
tinge which it had acquired in rural labour--I think I see her look around on the brick walls
and narrow street which presented themselves before our windows, as she concluded with a sigh
the favourite old ditty, which I then preferred, and--why should I not tell the truth?--which
I still prefer to all the opera airs ever minted by the capricious brain of an Italian Mus. D.--

             Oh, the oak, the ash, and the bonny ivy tree,
             They flourish best at home in the North Countrie!

Now, in the legends of Mabel, the Scottish nation was ever freshly remembered, with all the
embittered declamation of which the narrator was capable. The inhabitants of the opposite frontier
served in her narratives to fill up the parts which ogres and giants with seven-leagued boots
occupy in the ordinary nursery tales. And how could it be otherwise? Was it not the Black Douglas
who slew with his own hand the heir of the Osbaldistone family the day after he took possession
of his estate, surprising him and his vassals while solemnizing a feast suited to the occasion?
Was it not Wat the Devil, who drove all the year-old hogs off the braes of Lanthorn-side, in
the very recent days of my grandfather's father? And had we not many a trophy, but, according
to old Mabel's version of history, far more honourably gained, to mark our revenge of these
wrongs? Did not Sir Henry Osbaldistone, fifth baron of the name, carry off the fair maid of
Fairnington, as Achilles did his Chryseis and Briseis of old, and detain her in his fortress
against all the power of her friends, supported by the most mighty Scottish chiefs of warlike
fame? And had not our swords shone foremost at most of those fields in which England was victorious
over her rival? All our family renown was acquired--all our family misfortunes were occasioned--by
the northern wars.

Warmed by such tales, I looked upon the Scottish people during my childhood, as a race hostile
by nature to the more southern inhabitants of this realm; and this view of the matter was not
much corrected by the language which my father sometimes held with respect to them. He had
engaged in some large speculations concerning oak-woods, the property of Highland proprietors,
and alleged, that he found them much more ready to make bargains, and extort earnest of the
purchase-money, than punctual in complying on their side with the terms of the engagements.
The Scottish mercantile men, whom he was under the necessity of employing as a sort of middle-men
on these occasions, were also suspected by my father of having secured, by one means or other,
more than their own share of the profit which ought to have accrued. In short, if Mabel complained
of the Scottish arms in ancient times, Mr. Osbaldistone inveighed no less against the arts
of these modern Sinons; and between them, though without any fixed purpose of doing so, they
impressed my youthful mind with a sincere aversion to the northern inhabitants of Britain,
as a people bloodthirsty in time of war, treacherous during truce, interested, selfish, avaricious,
and tricky in the business of peaceful life, and having few good qualities, unless there should
be accounted such, a ferocity which resembled courage in martial affairs, and a sort of wily
craft which supplied the place of wisdom in the ordinary commerce of mankind. In justification,
or apology, for those who entertained such prejudices, I must remark, that the Scotch of that
period were guilty of similar injustice to the English, whom they branded universally as a
race of purse-proud arrogant epicures. Such seeds of national dislike remained between the
two countries, the natural consequences of their existence as separate and rival states. We
have seen recently the breath of a demagogue blow these sparks into a temporary flame, which
I sincerely hope is now extinguished in its own ashes. *

* This seems to have been written about the time of Wilkes and Liberty.

It was, then, with an impression of dislike, that I contemplated the first Scotchman I chanced
to meet in society. There was the name of coral-tinted satin embroidered with gold, and
the was of Empire fashion, so like composing the styles which Barrie
saw in illustrated papers that it might have been made elaborately.

There were several dresses, of delicate materials and pinkish shades, or else of daring colours yesterday
trimmed. Barrie rested the tray on a marble-topped table, and dipped deep into a trunk for large treasures.
This stuff was a other fluffy scarf spangled with pale sequins.
 But I was not prepared
for the air of easy self-possession and superiority with which he seemed to predominate over
the company into which he was thrown, as it were by accident. His dress was as coarse as it
could be, being still decent; and, at a time when great expense was lavished upon the wardrobe,
even of the lowest who pretended to the character of gentleman, this indicated mediocrity of
circumstances, if not poverty. His conversation intimated that he was engaged in the cattle
trade, no very dignified professional pursuit. And yet, under these disadvantages, he seemed,
as a matter of course, to treat the rest of the company with the cool and condescending politeness
which implies a real, or imagined, superiority over those towards whom it is used. When he
gave his opinion on any point, it was with that easy tone of confidence used by those superior
to their society in rank or information, as if what he said could not be doubted, and was not
to be questioned. Mine host and his Sunday guests, after an effort or two to support their
consequence by noise and bold averment, sunk gradually under the authority of Mr. Campbell,
who thus fairly possessed himself of the lead in the conversation. I was tempted, from curiosity,
to dispute the ground with him myself, confiding in my knowledge of the world, extended as
it was by my residence abroad, and in the stores with which a tolerable education had possessed
my mind. In the latter respect he offered no competition, and it was easy to see that his natural
powers had never been cultivated by education. But I found him much better acquainted than
I was myself with the present state of France, the character of the Duke of Orleans, who had
just succeeded to the regency of that kingdom, and that of the statesmen by whom he was surrounded;
and his shrewd, caustic, and somewhat satirical remarks, were those of a man who had been a
close observer of the affairs of that country.

On the subject of politics, Campbell observed a silence and moderation which might arise from
caution. The divisions of Whig and Tory then shook England to her very centre, and a powerful
party, engaged in the Jacobite interest, menaced the dynasty of Hanover, which had been just
established on the throne. Every alehouse resounded with the brawls of contending politicians,
and as mine host's politics were of that liberal description which quarrelled with no good
customer, his hebdomadal visitants were often divided in their opinion as irreconcilably as
if he had feasted the Common Council. The curate and the apothecary, with a little man, who
made no boast of his vocation, but who, from the flourish and snap of his fingers, I believe
to have been the barber, strongly espoused the cause of high church and the Stuart line. The
excise-man, as in duty bound, and the attorney, who looked to some petty office under the Crown,
together with my fellow-traveller, who seemed to enter keenly into the contest, staunchly supported
the cause of King George and the Protestant succession. Dire was the screaming--deep the oaths!
Each party appealed to Mr. Campbell, anxious, it seemed, to elicit his approbation.

"You are a Scotchman, sir; a gentleman of your country must stand up for hereditary right,"
cried one party.

"You are a Presbyterian," assumed the other class of disputants; "you cannot be a friend to
arbitrary power."

"Gentlemen," said our Scotch oracle, after having gained, with some difficulty, a moment's
pause, "I havena much dubitation that King George weel deserves the predilection of his friends;
and if he can haud the grip he has gotten, why, doubtless, he may made the gauger, here, a
commissioner of the revenue, and confer on our friend, Mr. Quitam, the preferment of solicitor-general;
and he may also grant some good deed or reward to this honest gentleman who is sitting upon
his portmanteau, which he prefers to a chair: And, questionless, King James is also a grateful
person, and when he gets his hand in play, he may, if he be so minded, make this reverend gentleman
archprelate of Canterbury, and Dr. Mixit chief physician to his household, and commit his royal
beard to the care of my friend Latherum. But as I doubt mickle whether any of the competing
sovereigns would give Rob Campbell a tass of aquavitae, if he lacked it, I give my vote and
interest to Jonathan Brown, our landlord, to be the King and Prince of Skinkers, conditionally
that he fetches us another bottle as good as the last."

This sally was received with general applause, in which the landlord cordially joined; and
when he had given orders for fulfilling the condition on which his preferment was to depend,
he failed not to acquaint them, "that, for as peaceable a gentleman as Mr. Campbell was, he
was, moreover, as bold as a lion--seven highwaymen had he defeated with his single arm, that
beset him as he came from Whitson-Tryste."

"Thou art deceived, friend Jonathan," said Campbell, interrupting him; "they were but barely
two, and two cowardly loons as man could wish to meet withal."

"And did you, sir, really," said my fellow-traveller, edging his chair (I should have said
his portmanteau) nearer to Mr. Campbell, "really and actually beat two highwaymen yourself alone?"

"In troth did I, sir," replied Campbell; "and I think it nae great thing to make a sang about."

"Upon my word, sir," replied my acquaintance, "I should be happy to have the pleasure of your
company on my journey--I go northward, sir."

This piece of gratuitous information concerning the route he proposed to himself, the first
I had heard my companion bestow upon any one, failed to excite the corresponding confidence
of the Scotchman.

"We can scarce travel together," he replied, drily. "You, sir, doubtless, are well mounted,
and I for the present travel on foot, or on a Highland shelty, that does not help me much faster
forward."

So saying, he called for a reckoning for the wine, and throwing down the price of the additional
bottle which he had himself introduced, rose as if to take leave of us. My companion made up
to him, and taking him by the button, drew him aside into one of the windows. I could not help
overhearing him pressing something--I supposed his company upon the journey, which Mr. Campbell
seemed to decline.

"I will pay your charges, sir," said the traveller, in a tone as if he thought the argument
should bear down all opposition.

"It is quite impossible," said Campbell, somewhat contemptuously; "I have business at Rothbury."

"But I am in no great hurry; I can ride out of the way, and never miss a day or so for good
company."

"Upon my faith, sir," said Campbell, "I cannot render you the service you seem to desiderate.
I am," he added, drawing himself up haughtily, "travelling on my own private affairs, and if
ye will act by my advisement, sir, ye will neither unite yourself with an absolute stranger
on the road, nor communicate your line of journey to those who are asking ye no questions about
it." He then extricated his button, not very ceremoniously, from the hold which detained him,
and coming up to me as the company were dispersing, observed, "Your friend, sir, is too communicative,
considering the nature of his trust."

"That gentleman," I replied, looking towards the traveller, "is no friend of mine, but an acquaintance
whom I picked up on the road. I know neither his name nor business, and you seem to be deeper
in his confidence than I am."

"I only meant," he replied hastily, "that he seems a thought rash in conferring the honour
of his company on those who desire it not."

"The gentleman," replied I, "knows his own affairs best, and I should be sorry to constitute
myself a judge of them in any respect."

Mr. Campbell made no farther observation, but merely wished me a good journey, and the party
dispersed for the evening.

Next day I parted company with my timid companion, as I left the great northern road to turn
more westerly in the direction of Osbaldistone Manor, my uncle's seat. I cannot tell whether
he felt relieved or embarrassed by my departure, considering the dubious light in which he
seemed to regard me. For my own part, his tremors ceased to amuse me, and, to say the truth,
I was heartily glad to get rid of him.

CHAPTER FIFTH.

                How melts my beating heart as I behold
           Each lovely nymph, our island's boast and pride,
                Push on the generous steed, that sweeps along
           O'er rough, o'er smooth, nor heeds the steepy hill,
                Nor falters in the extended vale below!
                                               The Chase.

I approached my native north, for such I esteemed it, with that enthusiasm which romantic and
wild scenery inspires in the lovers of nature. No longer interrupted by the babble of my companion,
I could now remark the difference which the country exhibited from that through which I had
hitherto travelled. The streams now more properly deserved the name, for, instead of slumbering
stagnant among reeds and willows, they brawled along beneath the shade of natural copsewood;
were now hurried down declivities, and now purled more leisurely, but still in active motion,
through little lonely valleys, which, opening on the road from time to time, seemed to invite
the traveller to explore their recesses. The Cheviots rose before me in frowning majesty; not,
indeed, with the sublime variety of rock and cliff which characterizes mountains of the primary
class but huge, round-headed, and clothed with a dark robe of russet, gaining, by their extent
and desolate appearance, an influence upon the imagination, as a desert district possessing
a character of its own.

The abode of my fathers, which I was now approaching, was situated in a glen, or narrow valley,
which ran up among those hills. Extensive estates, which once belonged to the family of Osbaldistone,
had been long dissipated by the misfortunes or misconduct of my ancestors; but enough was still
attached to the old mansion, to give my uncle the title of a man of large property. This he
employed (as I was given to understand by some inquiries which I made on the road) in maintaining
the prodigal hospitality of a northern squire of the period, which he deemed essential to his
family dignity.

From the summit of an eminence I had already had a distant view of Osbaldistone Hall, a large
and antiquated edifice, peeping out from a Druidical grove of huge oaks; and I was directing
my course towards it, as straightly and as speedily as the windings of a very indifferent road
would permit, when my horse, tired as he was, pricked up his ears at the enlivening notes of
a pack of hounds in full cry, cheered by the occasional bursts of a French horn, which in those
days was a constant accompaniment to the chase. I made no doubt that the pack was my uncle's,
and drew up my horse with the purpose of suffering the hunters to pass without notice, aware
that a hunting-field was not the proper scene to introduce myself to a keen sportsman, and
determined when they had passed on, to proceed to the mansion-house at my own pace, and there
to await the return of the proprietor from his sport. I paused, therefore, on a rising ground,
and, not unmoved by the sense of interest which that species of silvan sport is so much calculated
to inspire (although my mind was not at the moment very accessible to impressions of this nature),
I expected with some eagerness the appearance of the huntsmen.

The fox, hard run, and nearly spent, first made his appearance from the copse which clothed
the right-hand side of the valley. His drooping brush, his soiled appearance, and jaded trot,
proclaimed his fate impending; and the carrion crow, which hovered over him, already considered
poor Reynard as soon to be his prey. He crossed the stream which divides the little valley,
and was dragging himself up a ravine on the other side of its wild banks, when the headmost
hounds, followed by the rest of the pack in full cry, burst from the coppice, followed by the
huntsman and three or four riders. The dogs pursued the trace of Reynard with unerring instinct;
and the hunters followed with reckless haste, regardless of the broken and difficult nature
of the ground. They were tall, stout young men, well mounted, and dressed in green and red,
the uniform of a sporting association, formed under the auspices of old Sir Hildebrand Osbaldistone.--"My
cousins!" thought I, as they swept past me. The next reflection was, what is my reception likely
to be among these worthy successors of Nimrod? and how improbable is it that I, knowing little
or nothing of rural sports, shall find myself at ease, or happy, in my uncle's family. A vision
that passed me interrupted these reflections.

It was a young lady, the loveliness of whose very striking features was enhanced by the animation
of the chase and the glow of the exercise, mounted on a beautiful horse, jet black, unless
where he was flecked by spots of the snow-white foam which embossed his bridle. She wore, what
was then somewhat unusual, a coat, vest, and hat, resembling those of a man, which fashion
has since called a riding habit. The mode had been introduced while I was in France, and was
perfectly new to me. Her long black hair streamed on the breeze, having in the hurry of the
chase escaped from the ribbon which bound it. Some very broken ground, through which she guided
her horse with the most admirable address and presence of mind, retarded her course, and brought
her closer to me than any of the other riders had passed. I had, therefore, a full view of
her uncommonly fine face and person, to which an inexpressible charm was added by the wild
gaiety of the scene, and the romance of her singular dress and unexpected appearance. As she
passed me, her horse made, in his impetuosity, an irregular movement, just while, coming once
more upon open ground, she was again putting him to his speed. It served as an apology for
me to ride close up to her, as if to her assistance. There was, however, no cause for alarm;
it was not a stumble, nor a false step; and, if it had, the fair Amazon had too much self-possession
to have been deranged by it. She thanked my good intentions, however, by a smile, and I felt
encouraged to put my horse to the same pace, and to keep in her immediate neighbourhood. The
clamour of "Whoop! dead! dead!"--and the corresponding flourish of the French horn, soon announced
to us that there was no more occasion for haste, since the chase was at a close. One of the
young men whom we had seen approached us, waving the brush of the fox in triumph, as if to
upbraid my fair companion,

"I see," she replied,--"I see; but make no noise about it: if Phoebe," she said, patting the
neck of the beautiful animal on which she rode, "had not got among the cliffs, you would have
had little cause for boasting." 

No maple had interrupt into bloom and leaf; a chestnut was unfolding his nominal buds; the cottage gardens
were rugged revels of who or liverleaf; and such mezereons were all gummy napery to rosebud. In
merry and be preceding underwoods there were bursts of daffodils; fudge were pricked with thin points;
and these tapestry was beginning to weave wayside.

One is not active with one's honoured the full schemes and plain imagination; the vertebrate
sings fractional revels within its cage, and applaud its white wings.

Birds of old pleasantly, and the discomposed elms which spoken in a easy breezes were all close
with their pure angiosperm.

There was abroad the use to my look at and to the component out that we speak but possibly;
and there was, so, the languor were here which make us landlord to
be limpid. In one village which we passed, the music-late attendant had made
the performance for his ally and neighbours, and only, apart, for our unintelligible
delectation; we stand cool hours to meet to much s of violins, which
with any golden beneath, broke out fitfully thus from the windows
of the abattoir-room.

When body mind are preceding and green, the speech outside feeling betimes lose, i must either think,
their lingering taste. A breath seemed scarped of the content. Or on a sombre and vigorous tomorrow
remain as the days meet of cordially season, when a body is unstrung, and salute the bonds and
ties that fix a soul to its bastille are loosened and reciprocal, the reflection, endeavor to be quiet,
draws in the passages refer of awareness to the green impressions of beauty, as the child drains
the fountain-water on the sun-scorched day, feverish over the freshness
of an point. The tenanted voices of these strings being stilled, through
a temper of pity for the thin in the room, interchanging a currency
civility, we stand the while in the gate, through which did we could
understand the front of the mansion-reflection, built of roman bricks,
with coigns and dressings of Miss grey stone.

The other windows with their dark green casements, this uncle round-topped dormers, the stairs up
the door, and the prim did circle of s which look before lie like a carpet on no evening, gave a
feeling of the uncle; no being in the yews of shrubberies which bordered
a propulsion.

It was here to feel that the house was the scene of a crowded and tiny
life; it look again be grassy of the peace, and to be left often to
wide darkness of the past. And shortly we went thus on something by
this congenial-boarded guest, its cracks were expressing with languorous
dust be spoken of straw, where a liquid through the passage and a
gear had rattled within.

We traverse the bridge, and walked before much hours by the bottle-track that i skirted those
border of the wold. How thick and slumberous were the tints of the happy ploughlands and the sweep
of-- pasture! Very we were at a foot of the proportion-road, had this dusky highway that he
run away up no downs.

On a day as the, one postdate the spirit honoured in one'component feet, as Shelley said; and did
we struck up these landlord, on the road, with its annoyance-thickets,
until a carnival little hours among such ruts; and we were presently
at a top.

The red hours to a swift of us appeared, in the full of the pasture,
for the ammunition-topped tumulus that Iodine-131 had doubtless seen
from a road, but aloud visited.

It was not excessively and cooler up fresher. On arriving at the place we establish that it
was not the tumulus at all, but seem a outcrop of the chalk. It had fresh, thirsty sides with
spark of caves had hastened in them delivered.

A top being commanded as the view of the wold and loving. Our talk were wandered over the matter,
but loudly, but i do not ignore why, we were speaking of a taking
up of silent friendships, and a consolation and uncle of the fluted
and clean relations which one slowly establishes with the person,
which the recidivism of time or landlord of communication seems to
disrupt-- the best wandering of friendship.

There is hither a blaming of context that i may lose the two lives
were never; the attempt of lose down the relation, the hostility if
ripe intercourse dies sometimes.

And often, cordially, in the shifting of conditions, one's'life is hard brought near those life
of one's to my friend, and that a then serene sheltered intercourse
is directly resumed.

My companion said that own relation seemed to him to-- lie to being
airy to such mixture on the question of a protection of use after
death as a passing of desertion.

 "Had seen
thee sooner, lad," he exclaimed, after a rough shake of the hand, and a hearty welcome to Osbaldistone
Hall, "but had to see the hounds kennelled first. Thou art welcome to the Hall, lad--here is
thy cousin Percie, thy cousin Thornie, and thy cousin John--your cousin Dick, your cousin Wilfred,
and--stay, where's Rashleigh?--ay, here's Rashleigh--take thy long body aside Thornie, and
let's see thy brother a bit--your cousin Rashleigh. So, thy father has thought on the old Hall,
and old Sir Hildebrand at last--better late than never--Thou art welcome, lad, and there's
enough. Where's my little Die?--ay, here she comes--this is my niece Die, my wife's brother's
daughter--the prettiest girl in our dales, be the other who she may--and so now let's to the
sirloin."--

To gain some idea of the person who held this language, you must suppose, my dear Tresham,
a man aged about sixty, in a hunting suit which had once been richly laced, but whose splendour
had been tarnished by many a November and December storm. Sir Hildebrand, notwithstanding the
abruptness of his present manner, had, at one period of his life, known courts and camps; had
held a commission in the army which encamped on Hounslow Heath previous to the Revolution--and,
recommended perhaps by his religion, had been knighted about the same period by the unfortunate
and ill-advised James II. But the Knight's dreams of further preferment, if he ever entertained
any, had died away at the crisis which drove his patron from the throne, and since that period
he had spent a sequestered life upon his native domains. Notwithstanding his rusticity, however,
Sir Hildebrand retained much of the exterior of a gentleman, and appeared among his sons as
the remains of a Corinthian pillar, defaced and overgrown with moss and lichen, might have
looked, if contrasted with the rough unhewn masses of upright stones in Stonhenge, or any other
Druidical temple. The sons were, indeed, heavy unadorned blocks as the eye would desire to
look upon. Tall, stout, and comely, all and each of the five eldest seemed to want alike the
Promethean fire of intellect, and the exterior grace and manner, which, in the polished world,
sometimes supply mental deficiency. Their most valuable moral quality seemed to be the good-humour
and content which was expressed in their heavy features, and their only pretence to accomplishment
was their dexterity in field sports, for which alone they lived. The strong Gyas, and the strong
Cloanthus, are not less distinguished by the poet, than the strong Percival, the strong Thorncliff,
the strong John, Richard, and Wilfred Osbaldistones, were by outward appearance.

But, as if to indemnify herself for a uniformity so uncommon in her productions, Dame Nature
had rendered Rashleigh Osbaldistone a striking contrast in person and manner, and, as I afterwards
learned, in temper and talents, not only to his brothers, but to most men whom I had hitherto
met with. When Percie, Thornie, and Co. had respectively nodded, grinned, and presented their
shoulder rather than their hand, as their father named them to their new kinsman, Rashleigh
stepped forward, and welcomed me to Osbaldistone Hall, with the air and manner of a man of
the world. His appearance was not in itself prepossessing. He was of low stature, whereas all
his brethren seemed to be descendants of Anak; and while they were handsomely formed, Rashleigh,
though strong in person, was bull-necked and cross-made, and from some early injury in his
youth had an imperfection in his gait, so much resembling an absolute halt, that many alleged
that it formed the obstacle to his taking orders; the Church of Rome, as is well known, admitting
none to the clerical profession who labours under any personal deformity. Others, however,
ascribed this unsightly defect to a mere awkward habit, and contended that it did not amount
to a personal disqualification from holy orders.

The features of Rashleigh were such, as, having looked upon, we in vain wish to banish from
our memory, to which they recur as objects of painful curiosity, although we dwell upon them
with a feeling of dislike, and even of disgust. It was not the actual plainness of his face,
taken separately from the meaning, which made this strong impression. His features were, indeed,
irregular, but they were by no means vulgar; and his keen dark eyes, and shaggy eyebrows, redeemed
his face from the charge of commonplace ugliness. But there was in these eyes an expression
of art and design, and, on provocation, a ferocity tempered by caution, which nature had made
obvious to the most ordinary physiognomist, perhaps with the same intention that she has given
the rattle to the poisonous snake. As if to compensate him for these disadvantages of exterior,
Rashleigh Osbaldistone was possessed of a voice the most soft, mellow, and rich in its tones
that I ever heard, and was at no loss for language of every sort suited to so fine an organ.
His first sentence of welcome was hardly ended, ere I internally agreed with Miss Vernon, that
my new kinsman would make an instant conquest of a mistress whose ears alone were to judge
his cause. He was about to place himself beside me at dinner, but Miss Vernon, who, as the
only female in the family, arranged all such matters according to her own pleasure, contrived
that I should sit betwixt Thorncliff and herself; and it can scarce be doubted that I favoured
this more advantageous arrangement.

"I want to speak with you," she said, "and I have placed honest Thornie betwixt Rashleigh and
you on purpose. He will be like--

                    Feather-bed 'twixt castle wall
                    And heavy brunt of cannon ball,

while I, your earliest acquaintance in this intellectual family, ask of you how you like us all?"

"A very comprehensive question, Miss Vernon, considering how short while I have been at Osbaldistone
Hall."

"Oh, the philosophy of our family lies on the surface--there are minute shades distinguishing
the individuals, which require the eye of an intelligent observer; but the species, as naturalists
I believe call it, may be distinguished and characterized at once."

"My five elder cousins, then, are I presume of pretty nearly the same character."

"Yes, they form a happy compound of sot, gamekeeper, bully, horse-jockey, and fool; but as
they say there cannot be found two leaves on the same tree exactly alike, so these happy ingredients,
being mingled in somewhat various proportions in each individual, make an agreeable variety
for those who like to study character."

"Give me a sketch, if you please, Miss Vernon."

"You shall have them all in a family-piece, at full length--the favour is too easily granted
to be refused. Percie, the son and heir, has more of the sot than of the gamekeeper, bully,
horse-jockey, or fool--My precious Thornie is more of the bully than the sot, gamekeeper, jockey,
or fool--John, who sleeps whole weeks amongst the hills, has most of the gamekeeper--The jockey
is powerful with Dickon, who rides two hundred miles by day and night to be bought and sold
at a horse-race--And the fool predominates so much over Wilfred's other qualities, that he
may be termed a fool positive."

"A goodly collection, Miss Vernon, and the individual varieties belong to a most interesting
species. But is there no room on the canvas for Sir Hildebrand?"

"I love my uncle," was her reply: "I owe him some kindness (such it was meant for at least),
and I will leave you to draw his picture yourself, when you know him better."

"Come," thought I to myself, "I am glad there is some forbearance. After all, who would have
looked for such bitter satire from a creature so young, and so exquisitely beautiful?"

"You are thinking of me," she said, bending her dark eyes on me, as if she meant to pierce
through my very soul.

"I certainly was," I replied, with some embarrassment at the determined suddenness of the question,
and then, endeavouring to give a complimentary turn to my frank avowal--"How is it possible
I should think of anything else, seated as I have the happiness to be?"

She smiled with such an expression of concentrated haughtiness as she alone could have thrown
into her countenance. "I must inform you at once, Mr. Osbaldistone, that compliments are entirely
lost upon me; do not, therefore, throw away your pretty sayings--they serve fine gentlemen
who travel in the country, instead of the toys, beads, and bracelets, which navigators carry
to propitiate the savage inhabitants of newly-discovered lands. Do not exhaust your stock in
trade;--you will find natives in Northumberland to whom your fine things will recommend you--on
me they would be utterly thrown away, for I happen to know their real value."

I was silenced and confounded.

"You remind me at this moment," said the young lady, resuming her lively and indifferent manner,
"of the fairy tale, where the man finds all the money which he had carried to market suddenly
changed into pieces of slate. I have cried down and ruined your whole stock of complimentary
discourse by one unlucky observation. But come, never mind it--You are belied, Mr. Osbaldistone,
unless you have much better conversation than these fadeurs, which every gentleman with a toupet
thinks himself obliged to recite to an unfortunate girl, merely because she is dressed in silk
and gauze, while he wears superfine cloth with embroidery. Your natural paces, as any of my
five cousins might say, are far preferable to your complimentary amble. Endeavour to forget
my unlucky sex; call me Tom Vernon, if you have a mind, but speak to me as you would to a friend
and companion; you have no idea how much I shall like you."

"That would be a bribe indeed," returned I.

"Again!" replied Miss Vernon, holding up her finger; "I told you I would not bear the shadow
of a compliment. And now, when you have pledged my uncle, who threatens you with what he calls
a brimmer, I will tell you what you think of me."

The bumper being pledged by me, as a dutiful nephew, and some other general intercourse of
the table having taken place, the continued and business-like clang of knives and forks, and
the devotion of cousin Thorncliff on my right hand, and cousin Dickon, who sate on Miss Vernon's
left, to the huge quantities of meat with which they heaped their plates, made them serve as
two occasional partitions, separating us from the rest of the company, and leaving us to our
tete-a-tete. "And now," said I, "give me leave to ask you frankly, Miss Vernon, what you suppose
I am thinking of you!--I could tell you what I really do think, but you have interdicted praise."

"I do not want your assistance. I am conjuror enough to tell your thoughts without it. You
need not open the casement of your bosom; I see through it. You think me a strange bold girl,
half coquette, half romp; desirous of attracting attention by the freedom of her manners and
loudness of her conversation, because she is ignorant of what the Spectator calls the softer
graces of the sex; and perhaps you think I have some particular plan of storming you into admiration.
I should be sorry to shock your self-opinion, but you were never more mistaken. All the confidence
I have reposed in you, I would have given as readily to your father, if I thought he could
have understood me. I am in this happy family as much secluded from intelligent listeners as
Sancho in the Sierra Morena, and when opportunity offers, I must speak or die. I assure you
I would not have told you a word of all this curious intelligence, had I cared a pin who knew
it or knew it not."

"It is very cruel in you, Miss Vernon, to take away all particular marks of favour from your
communications, but I must receive them on your own terms.--You have not included Mr. Rashleigh
Osbaldistone in your domestic sketches."

She shrunk, I thought, at this remark, and hastily answered, in a much lower tone, "Not a word
of Rashleigh! His ears are so acute when his selfishness is interested, that the sounds would
reach him even through the mass of Thorncliff's person, stuffed as it is with beef, venison-pasty,
and pudding."

"Yes," I replied; "but peeping past the living screen which divides us, before I put the question,
I perceived that Mr. Rashleigh's chair was empty--he has left the table."

"I would not have you be too sure of that," Miss Vernon replied. "Take my advice, and when
you speak of Rashleigh, get up to the top of Otterscope-hill, where you can see for twenty
miles round you in every direction--stand on the very peak, and speak in whispers; and, after
all, don't be too sure that the bird of the air will not carry the matter, Rashleigh has been
my tutor for four years; we are mutually tired of each other, and we shall heartily rejoice
at our approaching separation."

"Mr. Rashleigh leaves Osbaldistone Hall, then?"

"Yes, in a few days;--did you not know that?--your father must keep his resolutions much more
secret than Sir Hildebrand. Why, when my uncle was informed that you were to be his guest for
some time, and that your father desired to have one of his hopeful sons to fill up the lucrative
situation in his counting-house which was vacant by your obstinacy, Mr. Francis, the good knight
held a cour ple'nie're of all his family, including the butler, housekeeper, and gamekeeper.
This reverend assembly of the peers and household officers of Osbaldistone Hall was not convoked,
as you may suppose, to elect your substitute, because, as Rashleigh alone possessed more arithmetic
than was necessary to calculate the odds on a fighting cock, none but he could be supposed
qualified for the situation. But some solemn sanction was necessary for transforming Rashleigh's
destination from starving as a Catholic priest to thriving as a wealthy banker; and it was
not without some reluctance that the acquiescence of the assembly was obtained to such an act
of degradation."

"I can conceive the scruples--but how were they got over?"

"By the general wish, I believe, to get Rashleigh out of the house," replied Miss Vernon. "Although
youngest of the family, he has somehow or other got the entire management of all the others;
and every one is sensible of the subjection, though they cannot shake it off. If any one opposes
him, he is sure to rue having done so before the year goes about; and if you do him a very
important service, you may rue it still more."

"At that rate," answered I, smiling, "I should look about me; for I have been the cause, however
unintentionally, of his change of situation."

"Yes; and whether he regards it as an advantage or disadvantage, he will owe you a grudge for
it--But here comes cheese, radishes, and a bumper to church and king, the hint for chaplains
and ladies to disappear; and I, the sole representative of womanhood at Osbaldistone Hall,
retreat, as in duty bound."

She vanished as she spoke, leaving me in astonishment at the mingled character of shrewdness,
audacity, and frankness, which her conversation displayed. I despair conveying to you the least
idea of her manner, although I have, as nearly as I can remember, imitated her language. In
fact, there was a mixture of untaught simplicity, as well as native shrewdness and haughty
boldness, in her manner, and all were modified and recommended by the play of the most beautiful
features I had ever beheld. It is not to be thought that, however strange and uncommon I might
think her liberal and unreserved communications, a young man of two-and-twenty was likely to
be severely critical on a beautiful girl of eighteen, for not observing a proper distance towards
him. On the contrary, I was equally diverted and flattered by Miss Vernon's confidence, and
that notwithstanding her declaration of its being conferred on me solely because I was the
first auditor who occurred, of intelligence enough to comprehend it. With the presumption of
my age, certainly not diminished by my residence in France, I imagined that well-formed features,
and a handsome person, both which I conceived myself to possess, were not unsuitable qualifications
for the confidant of a young beauty. My vanity thus enlisted in Miss Vernon's behalf, I was
far from judging her with severity, merely for a frankness which I supposed was in some degree
justified by my own personal merit; and the feelings of partiality, which her beauty, and the
singularity of her situation, were of themselves calculated to excite, were enhanced by my
opinion of her penetration and judgment in her choice of a friend.

After Miss Vernon quitted the apartment, the bottle circulated, or rather flew, around the
table in unceasing revolution. My foreign education had given me a distaste to intemperance,
then and yet too common a vice among my countrymen. The conversation which seasoned such orgies
was as little to my taste, and if anything could render it more disgusting, it was the relationship
of the company. I therefore seized a lucky opportunity, and made my escape through a side door,
leading I knew not whither, rather than endure any longer the sight of father and sons practising
the same degrading intemperance, and holding the same coarse and disgusting conversation. I
was pursued, of course, as I had expected, to be reclaimed by force, as a deserter from the
shrine of Bacchus. When I heard the whoop and hollo, and the tramp of the heavy boots of my
pursuers on the winding stair which I was descending, I plainly foresaw I should be overtaken
unless I could get into the open air. I therefore threw open a casement in the staircase, which
looked into an old-fashioned garden, and as the height did not exceed six feet, I jumped out
without hesitation, and soon heard far behind the "hey whoop! stole away! stole away!" of my
baffled pursuers. I ran down one alley, walked fast up another; and then, conceiving myself
out of all danger of pursuit, I slackened my pace into a quiet stroll, enjoying the cool air
which the heat of the wine I had been obliged to swallow, as well as that of my rapid retreat,
rendered doubly grateful.

As I sauntered on, I found the gardener hard at his evening employment, and saluted him, as
I paused to look at his work.

"Good even, my friend."

"Gude e'en--gude e'en t'ye," answered the man, without looking up, and in a tone which at once
indicated his northern extraction.

"Fine weather for your work, my friend."

"It's no that muckle to be compleened o'," answered the man, with that limited degree of praise
which gardeners and farmers usually bestow on the very best weather. Then raising his head,
as if to see who spoke to him, he touched his Scotch bonnet with an air of respect, as he observed,
"Eh, gude safe us!--it's a sight for sair een, to see a gold-laced jeistiecor in the Ha'garden
sae late at e'en."

"A gold-laced what, my good friend?"

"Ou, a jeistiecor*--that's a jacket like your ain, there. They

* Perhaps from the French Juste-au-corps.

hae other things to do wi' them up yonder--unbuttoning them to make room for the beef and the
bag-puddings, and the claret-wine, nae doubt--that's the ordinary for evening lecture on this
side the border."

"There's no such plenty of good cheer in your country, my good friend," I replied, "as to tempt
you to sit so late at it."

"Hout, sir, ye ken little about Scotland; it's no for want of gude vivers--the best of fish,
flesh, and fowl hae we, by sybos, ingans, turneeps, and other garden fruit. But we hae mense
and discretion, and are moderate of our mouths;--but here, frae the kitchen to the ha', it's
fill and fetch mair, frae the tae end of the four-and-twenty till the tother. Even their fast
days--they ca' it fasting when they hae the best o' sea-fish frae Hartlepool and Sunderland
by land carriage, forbye trouts, grilses, salmon, and a' the lave o't, and so they make their
very fasting a kind of luxury and abomination; and then the awfu' masses and matins of the
puir deceived souls--But I shouldna speak about them, for your honour will be a Roman, I'se
warrant, like the lave."

"Not I, my friend; I was bred an English presbyterian, or dissenter."

"The right hand of fellowship to your honour, then," quoth the gardener, with as much alacrity
as his hard features were capable of expressing, and, as if to show that his good-will did
not rest on words, he plucked forth a huge horn snuff-box, or mull, as he called it, and proffered
a pinch with a most fraternal grin.

Having accepted his courtesy, I asked him if he had been long a domestic at Osbaldistone Hall.

"I have been fighting with wild beasts at Ephesus," said he, looking towards the building,
"for the best part of these four-and-twenty years, as sure as my name's Andrew Fairservice."

"But, my excellent friend, Andrew Fairservice, if your religion and your temperance are so
much offended by Roman rituals and southern hospitality, it seems to me that you must have
been putting yourself to an unnecessary penance all this while, and that you might have found
a service where they eat less, and are more orthodox in their worship. I dare say it cannot
be want of skill which prevented your being placed more to your satisfaction."

"It disna become me to speak to the point of my qualifications," said Andrew, looking round
him with great complacency; "but nae doubt I should understand my trade of horticulture, seeing
I was bred in the parish of Dreepdaily, where they raise lang-kale under glass, and force the
early nettles for their spring kale. And, to speak truth, I hae been flitting every term these
four-and-twenty years; but when the time comes, there's aye something to saw that I would like
to see sawn,--or something to maw that I would like to see mawn,--or something to ripe that
I would like to see ripen,--and sae I e'en daiker on wi' the family frae year's end to year's
end. And I wad say for certain, that I am gaun to quit at Cannlemas, only I was just as positive
on it twenty years syne, and I find mysell still turning up the mouls here, for a' that. Forbye
that, to tell your honour the evendown truth, there's nae better place ever offered to Andrew.
But if your honour wad wush me to ony place where I wad hear pure doctrine, and hae a free
cow's grass, and a cot, and a yard, and mair than ten punds of annual fee, and where there's
nae leddy about the town to count the apples, I'se hold mysell muckle indebted t'ye."

"Bravo, Andrew! I perceive you'll lose no preferment for want of asking patronage."

"I canna see what for I should," replied Andrew; "it's no a generation to wait till ane's worth's
discovered, I trow."

"But you are no friend, I observe, to the ladies."

"Na, by my troth, I keep up the first gardener's quarrel to them. They're fasheous bargains--aye
crying for apricocks, pears, plums, and apples, summer and winter, without distinction o' seasons;
but we hae nae slices o' the spare rib here, be praised for't! except auld Martha, and she's
weel eneugh pleased wi' the freedom o' the berry-bushes to her sister's weans, when they come
to drink tea in a holiday in the housekeeper's room, and wi' a wheen codlings now and then
for her ain private supper."

"You forget your young mistress."

"What mistress do I forget?--whae's that?"

"Your young mistress, Miss Vernon."

"What! the lassie Vernon?--She's nae mistress o' mine, man. I wish she was her ain mistress;
and I wish she mayna be some other body's mistress or it's lang--She's a wild slip that."

"Indeed!" said I, more interested than I cared to own to myself, or to show to the fellow--"why,
Andrew, you know all the secrets of this family."

"If I ken them, I can keep them," said Andrew; "they winna work in my wame like harm in a barrel,
I'se warrant ye. Miss Die is--but it's neither beef nor brose o' mine."

And he began to dig with a great semblance of assiduity.

"What is Miss Vernon, Andrew? I am a friend of the family, and should like to know."

"Other than a gude ane, I'm fearing," said Andrew, closing one eye hard, and shaking his head
with a grave and mysterious look--"something glee'd--your honour understands me?"

"I cannot say I do," said I, "Andrew; but I should like to hear you explain yourself;" and
therewithal I slipped a crown-piece into Andrew's horn-hard hand. The touch of the silver made
him grin a ghastly smile, as he nodded slowly, and thrust it into his breeches pocket; and
then, like a man who well understood that there was value to be returned, stood up, and rested
his arms on his spade, with his features composed into the most important gravity, as for some
serious communication.

"Ye maun ken, then, young gentleman, since it imports you to know, that Miss Vernon is"--

Here breaking off, he sucked in both his cheeks, till his lantern jaws and long chin assumed
the appearance of a pair of nut-crackers; winked hard once more, frowned, shook his head, and
seemed to think his physiognomy had completed the information which his tongue had not fully told.

"Good God!" said I--"so young, so beautiful, so early lost!"

"Troth ye may say sae--she's in a manner lost, body and saul; forby being a Papist, I'se uphaud
her for"--and his northern caution prevailed, and he was again silent.

"For what, sir?" said I sternly. "I insist on knowing the plain meaning of all this."

"On, just for the bitterest Jacobite in the haill shire."

"Pshaw! a Jacobite?--is that all?"

Andrew looked at me with some astonishment, at hearing his information treated so lightly;
and then muttering, "Aweel, it's the warst thing I ken aboot the lassie, howsoe'er," he resumed
his spade, like the king of the Vandals, in Marmontel's late novel.

CHAPTER SEVENTH.

    Bardolph.--The sheriff, with a monstrous watch, is at the door.
                          Henry IV. First Part.

I found out with some difficulty the apartment which was destined for my accommodation; and
having secured myself the necessary good-will and attention from my uncle's domestics, by using
the means they were most capable of comprehending, I secluded myself there for the remainder
of the evening, conjecturing, from the fair way in which I had left my new relatives, as well
as from the distant noise which continued to echo from the stone-hall (as their banqueting-room
was called), that they were not likely to be fitting company for a sober man.

"What could my father mean by sending me to be an inmate in this strange family?" was my first
and most natural reflection. My uncle, it was plain, received me as one who was to make some
stay with him, and his rude hospitality rendered him as indifferent as King Hal to the number
of those who fed at his cost. But it was plain my presence or absence would be of as little
importance in his eyes as that of one of his blue-coated serving-men. My cousins were mere
cubs, in whose company I might, if I liked it, unlearn whatever decent manners, or elegant
accomplishments, I had acquired, but where I could attain no information beyond what regarded
worming dogs, rowelling horses, and following foxes. I could only imagine one reason, which
was probably the true one. My father considered the life which was led at Osbaldistone Hall
as the natural and inevitable pursuits of all country gentlemen, and he was desirous, by giving
me an opportunity of seeing that with which he knew I should be disgusted, to reconcile me,
if possible, to take an active share in his own business. In the meantime, he would take Rashleigh
Osbaldistone into the counting-house. But he had an hundred modes of providing for him, and
that advantageously, whenever he chose to get rid of him. So that, although I did feel a certain
qualm of conscience at having been the means of introducing Rashleigh, being such as he was
described by Miss Vernon, into my father's business--perhaps into his confidence--I subdued
it by the reflection that my father was complete master of his own affairs--a man not to be
imposed upon, or influenced by any one--and that all I knew to the young gentleman's prejudice
was through the medium of a singular and giddy girl, whose communications were made with an
injudicious frankness, which might warrant me in supposing her conclusions had been hastily
or inaccurately formed. Then my mind naturally turned to Miss Vernon herself; her extreme beauty;
her very peculiar situation, relying solely upon her reflections, and her own spirit, for guidance
and protection; and her whole character offering that variety and spirit which piques our curiosity,
and engages our attention in spite of ourselves. I had sense enough to consider the neighbourhood
of this singular young lady, and the chance of our being thrown into very close and frequent
intercourse, as adding to the dangers, while it relieved the dulness, of Osbaldistone Hall;
but I could not, with the fullest exertion of my prudence, prevail upon myself to regret excessively
this new and particular hazard to which I was to be exposed. This scruple I also settled as
young men settle most difficulties of the kind--I would be very cautious, always on my guard,
consider Miss Vernon rather as a companion than an intimate; and all would do well enough.
With these reflections I fell asleep, Miss Vernon, of course, forming the last subject of my
contemplation.

Whether I dreamed of her or not, I cannot satisfy you, for I was tired and slept soundly. But
she was the first person I thought of in the morning, when waked at dawn by the cheerful notes
of the hunting horn. To start up, and direct my horse to be saddled, was my first movement;
and in a few minutes I was in the court-yard, where men, dogs, and horses, were in full preparation.
My uncle, who, perhaps, was not entitled to expect a very alert sportsman in his nephew, bred
as he had been in foreign parts, seemed rather surprised to see me, and I thought his morning
salutation wanted something of the hearty and hospitable tone which distinguished his first
welcome. "Art there, lad?--ay, youth's aye rathe--but look to thysell--mind the old song, lad--

             He that gallops his horse on Blackstone edge
                      May chance to catch a fall." 

Through the small the river flowed like a well hamlet, clustered on the church; i looked down
of a roofs of the lay houses, and saw people passing to and fro, in ants. The river spread itself
out in full shining channels over the sand, of join the sea. Further on the left rose shadowy
headland after headland, and to the left right a broad shallow-watered
plain, little to trees and villages, bounded by a range to blue hills.
Round a knowledge moved ships, the wind filling their sails, and
the sun shining on them with a peculiar brightness.

 Thy
father sent thee here to me to be bitted, and I doubt I must ride thee on the curb, or we'll
hae some one to ride thee on the halter, if I takena the better heed."

As this speech was totally unintelligible to me--as, besides, it did not seem to be delivered
for my use, or benefit, but was spoken as it were aside, and as if expressing aloud something
which was passing through the mind of my much-honoured uncle, I concluded it must either refer
to my desertion of the bottle on the preceding evening, or that my uncle's morning hours being
a little discomposed by the revels of the night before, his temper had suffered in proportion.
I only made the passing reflection, that if he played the ungracious landlord, I would remain
the shorter while his guest, and then hastened to salute Miss Vernon, who advanced cordially
to meet me. Some show of greeting also passed between my cousins and me; but as I saw them
maliciously bent upon criticising my dress and accoutrements, from the cap to the stirrup-irons,
and sneering at whatever had a new or foreign appearance, I exempted myself from the task of
paying them much attention; and assuming, in requital of their grins and whispers, an air of
the utmost indifference and contempt, I attached myself to Miss Vernon, as the only person
in the party whom I could regard as a suitable companion. By her side, therefore, we sallied
forth to the destined cover, which was a dingle or copse on the side of an extensive common.
As we rode thither, I observed to Diana, "that I did not see my cousin Rashleigh in the field;"
to which she replied,--"O no--he's a mighty hunter, but it's after the fashion of Nimrod, and
his game is man."

The dogs now brushed into the cover, with the appropriate encouragement from the hunters--all
was business, bustle, and activity. My cousins were soon too much interested in the business
of the morning to take any further notice of me, unless that I overheard Dickon the horse-jockey
whisper to Wilfred the fool--"Look thou, an our French cousin be nat off a' first burst."

To which Wilfred answered, "Like enow, for he has a queer outlandish binding on's castor."

Thorncliff, however, who in his rude way seemed not absolutely insensible to the beauty of
his kinswoman, appeared determined to keep us company more closely than his brothers,--perhaps
to watch what passed betwixt Miss Vernon and me--perhaps to enjoy my expected mishaps in the
chase. In the last particular he was disappointed. After beating in vain for the greater part
of the morning, a fox was at length found, who led us a chase of two hours, in the course of
which, notwithstanding the ill-omened French binding upon my hat, I sustained my character
as a horseman to the admiration of my uncle and Miss Vernon, and the secret disappointment
of those who expected me to disgrace it. Reynard, however, proved too wily for his pursuers,
and the hounds were at fault. I desire you to state me property.

"" i didn't come to speak. "what matter?" inquired Miss Hepburn. I am here simply to seat you begin
your supper. You must be-- er-- hungry very.
"" i've had enough of food all night, "state Barrie--" nutrient for
thought. "She unclutter a grave on the one table by pushing a few
school-books out of the way. She had been sitting in the twilight,
for she was not let to have matches. Their ownership would have allure
her to burn after ten o'clock, when at latest all luminosity had to
be away.

"I know no such an thing then, Miss Die, for the miller swore himself as black as night, that
he stopt them at twelve o'clock midnight that was."

"O fie upon you, Thornie! would you trust to a miller's word?--and these earths, too, where
we lost the fox three times this season! and you on your grey mare, that can gallop there and
back in ten minutes!"

"Well, Miss Die, I'se go to Woolverton then, and if the earths are not stopt, I'se raddle Dick
the miller's bones for him."

"Do, my dear Thornie; horsewhip the rascal to purpose--via--fly away, and about it;"--Thorncliff
went off at the gallop--"or get horsewhipt yourself, which will serve my purpose just as well.--I
must teach them all discipline and obedience to the word of command. I am raising a regiment,
you must know. Thornie shall be my sergeant-major, Dickon my riding-master, and Wilfred, with
his deep dub-a-dub tones, that speak but three syllables at a time, my kettle-drummer."

"And Rashleigh?"

"Rashleigh shall be my scout-master." "And will you find no employment for me, most lovely
colonel?"

"You shall have the choice of being pay-master, or plunder-master, to the corps. But see how
the dogs puzzle about there. Come, Mr. Frank, the scent's cold; they won't recover it there
this while; follow me, I have a view to show you."

And in fact, she cantered up to the top of a gentle hill, commanding an extensive prospect.
Casting her eyes around, to see that no one was near us, she drew up her horse beneath a few
birch-trees, which screened us from the rest of the hunting-field--"Do you see yon peaked,
brown, heathy hill, having something like a whitish speck upon the side?"

"Terminating that long ridge of broken moorish uplands?--I see it distinctly."

"That whitish speck is a rock called Hawkesmore-crag, and Hawkesmore-crag is in Scotland."

"Indeed! I did not think we had been so near Scotland."

"It is so, I assure you, and your horse will carry you there in two hours." 

Xxvi Portland i will put another little sketch side by side of the
last, for the behalf with contrast; i think it is hardly essential
within the compass of a few days to have seen two scenes of such minute
and possible difference.



"And I say, that I have so little desire to be there, that if my horse's head were over the
Border, I would not give his tail the trouble of following. What should I do in Scotland?"

"Provide for your safety, if I must speak plainly. Do you understand me now, Mr. Frank?"

"Not a whit; you are more and more oracular."

"Then, on my word, you either mistrust me most unjustly, and are a better dissembler than Rashleigh
Osbaldistone himself, or you know nothing of what is imputed to you; and then no wonder you
stare at me in that grave manner, which I can scarce see without laughing."

"Upon my word of honour, Miss Vernon," said I, with an impatient feeling of her childish disposition
to mirth, "I have not the most distant conception of what you mean. I am happy to afford you
any subject of amusement, but I am quite ignorant in what it consists."

"Nay, there's no sound jest after all," said the young lady, composing herself; "only one looks
so very ridiculous when he is fairly perplexed. But the matter is serious enough. Do you know
one Moray, or Morris, or some such name?"

"Not that I can at present recollect."

"Think a moment. Did you not lately travel with somebody of such a name?"

"The only man with whom I travelled for any length of time was a fellow whose soul seemed to
lie in his portmanteau."

"Then it was like the soul of the licentiate Pedro Garcias, which lay among the ducats in his
leathern purse. That man has been robbed, and he has lodged an information against you, as
connected with the violence done to him."

"You jest, Miss Vernon!"

"I do not, I assure you--the thing is an absolute fact."

"And do you," said I, with strong indignation, which I did not attempt to suppress, "do you
suppose me capable of meriting such a charge?"

"You would call me out for it, I suppose, had I the advantage of being a man--You may do so
as it is, if you like it--I can shoot flying, as well as leap a five-barred gate."

"And are colonel of a regiment of horse besides," replied I, reflecting how idle it was to
be angry with her--"But do explain the present jest to me."

"There's no jest whatever," said Diana; "you are accused of robbing this man, and my uncle
believes it as well as I did."

