The British outnumbered us in men and guns, at least three to one, but then our guns, some
of them at least, were much the heaviest, carrying balls of two and forty pounds weight! and
when the monsters, crammed to the throat with chained shot and infernal fire, let out, it was
with such hideous peals as made both earth and ocean tremble. At one time it appeared as though,
by a strange kind of accident, all their broad-sides had struck us at once, which made the
fort tremble again.  But our palmettoes stood the fire to a miracle, closed up without sign
of splinter, on their shot, which was stopped by the intermediate sand; while, on the other
hand, every bullet that we fired, went through and through their ships, smashing alike sailors,
timber heads, and iron anchors, in their furious course. And thus was the order of our battle
-- there, a line of seven tall ships; and here, one little, solitary fort -- there, British
discipline; and here, American enthusiasm -- there, brave men fighting for a tyrant; and here,
heroes contending for liberty.  I am old now, and have forgotten many things, but never shall
I forget the heart-burnings of that day, when I heard the blast of those rude cannon, that
bade me be a slave; and still my aged bosom swells with the big joy when I hear, which I often
do in fancy's ear, the answer of our faithful bull-dogs, as with deafening roar, lurid flame
and smoke, they hurled back their iron curses on the wicked claim.  But alas! for lack of ammunition,
our opening victory was soon nipped like a luckless flower, in the bud: for the contest had
hardly lasted an hour, before our powder was so expended that we were obliged, in a great measure,
to silence our guns, which was matter of infinite mortification to us, both because of the
grief it gave our friends, and the high triumph it afforded our enemies. "Powder! Powder! millions
for powder!" was our constant cry. Oh! had we but had plenty of that `noisy kill-seed', as
the Scotchmen call it, not one of those tall ships would ever have revisited Neptune's green
dominion.  They must inevitably have struck, or laid their vast hulks along-side the fort,
as hurdles for the snail-loving `sheep's heads'. Indeed, small as our stock of ammunition was,
we made several of their ships look like sieves, and smell like slaughter pens.  The commodore's
ship, the Bristol, had fifty men killed, and upwards of one hundred wounded!

The laurels of the second regiment can never fade -- the destructive effect of their fire gave
glorious proof, that they loaded and levelled their pieces like men who wished every shot to
tell.  They all fought like veterans; but the behavior of some was gallant beyond compare;
and the humble names of Jasper and M'Donald shall be remembered, when those of proud kings
shall be forgotten.

A ball from the enemy's ships carried away our flag-staff. Scarcely had the stars of liberty
touched the sand, before Jasper flew and snatched them up and kissed them with great enthusiasm.
Then having fixed them to the point of his spontoon, he leaped up on the breast-work amidst
the storm and fury of the battle, and restored them to their daring station -- waving his hat
at the same time and huzzaing, "God save liberty and my country for ever!"

As to sergeant M'Donald, while fighting like a hero, at his gun, a cannon ball came in at the
port hole, and mangled him miserably. As he was borne off, he lifted his dying eyes, and said
to his comrades, "Huzza, my brave fellows, I die, but don't let the cause of liberty die with me."

The effect of our last gun, and which happened to be fired by Marion, is too remarkable to
be lost.  It was his lot that day to command the left wing of the fort, where many of our heaviest
cannon were planted. As from lack of powder, we were obliged to fire very slow, Marion would
often level the guns himself.  And now comes my story. -- Just after sunset the enemy's ships
ceased firing, and slipping their cables, began to move off.  Pleased with the event, an officer
on the quarter deck of the Bristol man-of-war, called out to his comrade, "Well, d--n my eyes,
Frank, the play is over! so let's go below and hob nob to a glass of wine, for I am devilish dry!"

"With all my heart, Jack;" replied the other; so down they whipped into the cabin, where the
wine and glasses had been standing all day on the table.  At that moment, one of our two and
forty pounders being just loaded, Marion called to colonel Moultrie, and asked him if it would
not be well enough to give them the last blow. "Yes," replied Moultrie, "give them the parting
kick."

Marion clapped the match, and away, in thunder and lightning went the ball, which, entering
the cabin windows, shattered the two young friends: thence raging through the bulk-heads and
steerage, it shivered three sailors on the main deck, and, after all, bursting through the
forecastle into the sea, sunk with sullen joy to the bottom.

We got this story from five British seamen, who ran off with the Bristol's long boat, and came
and joined us that very night.

The next day, that noble whig, Mr. William Logan, sent us a couple of fat beeves and a hogshead
of rum, "to refresh us," as he was pleased to say, "after our hard day's work." And on the
second day after the action, the governor and council, with numbers of the great ladies and
gentlemen of Charleston, came over to the fort to visit us.  We all put on our "best bibs and
tuckers," and paraded at the water's edge to receive them, which we did with a spanking `feu
de joie'*, and were not a little gratified with their attentions and handsome compliments paid
us, for what they politely termed "our gallant defence of our country."

-- * Bonfire.  -- A. L., 1997. --

And indeed to see the looks of our poor soldiers, when those great ladies, all glittering in
silks and jewels, and powdered and perfumed so nice, would come up to them, with faces like
angels, sparkling and smiling so sweet, as if they would kiss them; I say, to see the looks
of our poor fellows, their awkward bows and broad grins, and other droll capers they cut, no
human being could have refrained from laughing.

Presently that excellent lady, Mrs. Colonel Elliot (of the artillery,) came forward and presented
us with a most superb pair of colors, embroidered with gold and silver by her own lily-white hands.

They were delivered, if I mistake not, to the brave sergeant Jasper, who smiled when he took
them, and vowed he "would never give them up but with his life."

Poor fellow! he too soon made good his promise, near the fatal walls of Savannah.

But it was not the ladies alone that were attentive to us, for that great man, governor Rutledge,
in presence of the regiment, took the sword from his side, and with his own noble hand presented
it to sergeant Jasper.  He also offered him a commission on the spot; but this, Jasper absolutely
refused.  "I am greatly obliged to you, governor," said he, "but I had rather not have a commission.
As I am, I pass very well with such company as a poor sergeant has any right to keep. If I
were to get a commission, I should be forced to keep higher company: and then, as I don't know
how to read, I should only be throwing myself in a way to be laughed at!"  Parents, who can
waste on grog and tobacco, that precious money you ought to educate your children with, think
of this!

Chapter 5.

  Governor Rutledge harangues the Troops -- shows Britain's injustice
  to have been the cause of the American war -- independence declared --
  great joy on that account.

On the 20th of September, 1776, all the troops in Charleston were ordered to rendezvous without
the gates of the city, to hear, as we were told, "Some great news."  Soon as we were paraded,
governor Rutledge ascended a stage, and in the forcible manner of a Demosthenes, informed,
that Congress had dissolved all relation with England, by an open Declaration of Independence.

"You are, no doubt, gentlemen," said he, "surprised, and perhaps shocked at this intelligence.
But however painful this measure may be to our feelings, it is absolutely necessary to our safety.

"Under the sacred name of `mother country', England has long been working our ruin.  I need
not tell you that our fathers were Britons, who for liberty's sake, came and settled in this
country, then a howling wilderness.  For a long time they ate their bread, not only embittered
with sweat, but often stained with blood -- their own and the blood of their children, fighting
the savages for a dwelling place.  At length they prevailed and found a rest. But still their
hearts were towards the place of their nativity; and often with tears, did they think and talk
of the white-clifted island where their fathers dwelt.  Dying, they bequeathed to us the same
tender sentiments, which we cherished with a pious care. The name of England was a pleasant
sound in our ears -- the sight of their ships was always wont to fill our hearts with joy.
We hasted to greet the beloved strangers; and hurrying them to our habitations, spread for
them our feast, and rejoiced as men do in the society of their dearest friends.

"Oh! had our mother country but treated us with equal affection -- as a tender parent, had
she but smiled on our valor -- encouraged our industry -- and thus exalted the horn of our
glory, our union and brotherly love would have been eternal; and the impious name of INDEPENDENCE
had never been heard! But, alas! instead of treating us in this endearing spirit, she cruelly
limited our commerce -- compelled us to buy and sell to her alone, and at her own prices --
and not content with the enormous profits of such a shameful traffic, she has come, at length,
to claim A RIGHT TO TAX US AT PLEASURE.

"But, my countrymen, will you suffer thus rudely to be wrested from you, that goodly inheritance
of LIBERTY, which was bequeathed to you by your gallant fathers?  Will you thus tamely suffer
to be frustrated all the glorious designs of God towards you and your children? For look but
around on this great land, which he has given you, and yon bright heavens, which he has spread
over your favored heads, and say whether he ever intended those mighty scenes to be the prison-house
of slaves? -- the trembling slaves of a small island beyond the sea? -- hewers of wood and
drawers of water, planters of rice and pickers of cotton, for a foreign tyrant and his minions?
No, my friends, God never intended you for such dishonor -- and can you be so wicked as to
bring it on yourselves? I trust you will not.  Nay, the voices of your brave countrymen in
Congress, have said YOU WILL NOT, and anticipating your heroic sentiments, have already declared
you a "FREE AND INDEPENDENT PEOPLE!"

"And now my gallant friends, are you willing to confirm their glorious deed? Are you willing
this day, in the sight of heaven, to swear allegiance to the sovereignty of your country, and
to place her in the highest rank of nations, by proclaiming her INDEPENDENT?"

In a moment the air resounded with "Yes! yes! independence! independence for ever!  God save
the independent states of America!"

The oath of allegiance was then tendered to the troops. The officers with great alacrity took
it first, which highly pleased the common soldiers, who readily followed their patriotic example.
Soon as the solemn rite was performed, the governor ordered a `feu de joie'. Instantly at the
welcome word, "handle arms", the eager warriors struck their fire-locks, loud ringing through
all their ranks; and presenting their pieces, rent the air with fierce platoons; while the
deep-throated cannon like surly bull-dogs, rolled their louder thunders along the field; then
madly bounding back on their rattling wheels, they told to fancy's ear, "Freedom's sons are
we, and d--n the villains that would make us slaves!"

Chapter 6.

  Times growing squally -- the author sets out a vagrant hunting --
  gets into hot water -- narrowly escapes with his life --
  catches a host of vagabonds, but learns from experience,
  that, though a rascal may do to stop a bullet, 'tis only the man of honor
  that can make a good soldier.

"The devil," said George Whitefield, "is fond of fishing in muddy waters" -- hence it is, I
suppose, that that grand demagogue has always been so fond of war -- that sunshine and basking
time of rogues, which calls them out, thick as May-day sun calls out the rattle-snakes from
their stony crannies.

In times of peace, the waters are clear, so that if the smallest Jack (villain) but makes his
appearance, eagle-eyed justice, with her iron talons, is down upon him in a moment.  But let
war but stir up the mud of confusion, and straightway the eyes of justice are blinded -- thieves
turn out in shoals: and devils, like hungry fishing-hawks, are seen by the eye of faith, hovering
over the wretched fry, screaming for their prey.

This was exactly the case in South Carolina.  The war had hardly raged there above a twelvemonth
and a day, before the state of society seemed turned upside down.  The sacred plough was every
where seen rusting in the weedy furrows -- Grog shops and Nanny houses were springing up as
thick as hops -- at the house of God you saw nobody -- but if there was a devil's house (a
dram shop) hard by, you might be sure to see THAT crowded with poor Lazarites, with red noses
and black eyes, and the fences all strung along with starved tackies, in grape-vine bridles
and sheep-skin saddles. In short, the whole country was fast overrunning with vagabonds, like
ravening locusts, seeking where they might light, and whom they should devour.

"Good heavens!" said Marion to me one day, and with great alarm in his looks, "what's to be
done with these wretches, these vagrants?  I am actually afraid we shall be ruined by them
presently.  For you know, sir, that a vagrant is but the chrysalis or fly state of the gambler,
the horse-thief, the money-coiner, and indeed of every other worthless creature that disturbs
and endangers society."

"Why colonel," replied I, "there's a conceit in my head, which, if it could but be brought
to bear, would, I think, soon settle the hash with these rascals."

"Aye," replied he, "well, pray give it to us, for I should be very fond to hear it."

"Why sir," said I, "give me but a lieutenant, sergeant, and corporal, with a dozen privates,
all of my own choosing, do you see, and if I don't soon give you a good account of those villains,
you may, with all my heart, give me a good suit of tar and feathers."

My demand was instantly complied with.  Then taking with me such men as I knew I could depend
on, among whom was the brave lieutenant Jossilin, I set out from the Long Bluff, towards Sandhills.
The reader will please to take notice, that in our hurry we had not forgot to take with us
a constable with a proper warrant.

We had gone but a few miles, before we fell in with a squad of as choice game as heart could
have wished, three proper tall young vagabonds! profoundly engaged at all fours, in a log tippling
shop, with cards as black as their own dirty hands, and a tickler of brandy before them! and
so intent were the thieves on fleecing each other, that they took no manner of notice of us,
but continued their scoundrel work, eagerly stretched over the table, thwacking down their
cards with filthy knuckles, and at every stroke bawling out, "there's a good trick!"

"That's as good as he."

"And there's the best of the three -- huzza, d--n me, at him again my hearties."

"Lieutenant Jossilin," said I, "grab them fellows."

You never saw poor devils in such a fright.  But soon as they had recovered the use of their
tongues, they swore like troopers that they were the "most honestest gentlemen in all Carolina."

"Aye! well, I am very glad to hear that, gentlemen," said I, "for I love honest men prodigiously,
and hope the magistrate will confirm the handsome report you have made of yourselves."

So off we set all together for the magistrate.  About dinner time I ordered a halt at the house
of one Johnson, a militia captain, who appeared quite overwhelmed with joy to see me.

"Heaven bless us!" said he, "and now who could have believed all this? And have I, at last,
to my heart's desire, the great honor of seeing under my humble roof the noble major Horry?"

I told him I was much obliged to him, for his politeness -- but, for the present, was rather
too hungry to relish compliments. "Like sweetmeats, captain," said I, "a little of them may
do pretty well after a good dinner."

"Oh, my dear major!" quoth he, "and how sorry I am now that I have nothing fit for dinner for
you, my noble son of thunder -- a saddle of fat venison, major; or a brace of young ducks;
or, a green goose with currant jelly, and a bottle of old Madeira to wash it down, do you see,
major! something NICE for you, do you see, major!"

"NICE," said I, "captain Johnson!  We soldiers of liberty don't stand upon the NICE -- the
SUBSTANTIAL is that we care for -- a rasher of fat bacon from the coals, with a good stout
lump of an ash cake, is NICE enough for us."

"Oh, my dear sir!" replied he, "now DON'T, DON'T be angry with me; for I was only sorry that
I have nothing half so good for you as I could wish, but such as it is, thank God, we have
plenty; and you shall have a bite in a trice."  So off he went, as he pretended, to hurry dinner.

Now can any honest man believe that this same man, captain Johnson, who had been, as Paddy
says, "sticking the blarney into me at that rate," could have been such a scoundrel as to turn
about the very next minute, and try all in his power to trick me out of my vagrants.  It is,
however, too true to be doubted; for having purposely delayed dinner till it was late, he then
insisted that I must not deny him the "very great honor of my company that night."  Soon as
my consent was obtained, he despatched a parcel of riders, to order in, with their guns, as
many of his gang as he thought would do.  In the course of the night, snug as master Johnson
thought himself, I got a hint of his capers, and told my men to see that their guns were in
prime order.

While breakfast was getting ready, (for Johnson swore I should not leave him "on an empty stomach",)
lieutenant Jossilin came and told me he did not understand the meaning of so many ill-looking
fellows coming about the house with their guns in their hands.

I replied that we should SEE PRESENTLY.

Breakfast then making its appearance, we sat down, and while we were eating, (our men all on
parade at the door) Johnson's men kept dropping in one after another, till there were, I dare
say, as many as thirty of them in the room, ALL ARMED.

When breakfast was over, I turned to the constable, and desired him to look to his charge,
meaning the three vagrants, for that we would start as soon as our men were all refreshed.
Upon this captain Johnson said he believed he should not let the prisoners go.

"Not let them go, sir," said I, "what do you mean by that, sir?"

"I mean, sir," replied he, "that the law is an oppressive one."

I asked him, still keeping myself perfectly cool, if he was not an American soldier?

"Yes, sir," he answered, "I am an American soldier; and as good a one, perhaps, as yourself,
or any other man."

"Well, sir, and is this the way you show your soldiership, by insulting the law?"

"I am not bound," continued he, "to obey a bad law."

"But, sir, who gave YOU a right to JUDGE the law?"

"I don't mind that," quoth he, "but d--n me, sir, if I'll let the prisoners go."

"Very well, captain Johnson," said I, "we shall soon try THAT; and if you and your people here,
choose to go to the devil for resisting the law, on your own heads be the bloody consequences."

With this I gave the floor a thundering stamp, and in a moment, as by magic, in bursted my
brave sergeant and men, with fixed bayonets, ready for slaughter, while Jossilin and myself,
whipping out our swords, rushed on as to the charge.

A troop of red foxes dashing into a poultry yard, never produced such squalling and flying
as now took place among these poor guilty wretches -- "Lord have mercy upon us," they cried
-- down fell their guns -- smack went the doors and windows -- and out of both, heels over
head they tumbled, as expecting every moment the points of our bayonets. The house was quickly
cleared of every soul except Johnson and his lieutenant, one Lunda, who both trembled like
aspen leaves, expecting a severe drubbing.

"Captain Johnson," said I, "don't tremble; you have nothing to fear from me. A man who can
act as you have done, is not an object of anger, but CONTEMPT. Go! and learn the spirit that
becomes a gentleman and an American soldier."

I should have observed, that as we advanced to charge Johnson's poltroons, one of the party,
a resolute fellow, presented his gun to my breast and drew the trigger.  Happily, in the very
instant of its firing, lieutenant Jossilin knocked it up with his sword; and the ball grazing
my shoulder, bursted through the side of the house.

As we rode off, some of Johnson's fugitives had the audacity to bawl out, though from a very
prudent distance, threatening us that they would yet rescue the prisoners before we got to
the bluff. But they wisely took care not to make good their word, for they were only a pack
of poor ignorant tories, who did nothing on principle, and were therefore ready to quit their
purpose the moment they saw danger in the way.

Our success at vagrant hunting was marvellous.  I hardly think we could, in the same time,
have caught as many raccoons in any swamp on Pedee. On counting noses, we found, that in our
three week's course, we had seized and sent off to Charleston, upwards of fifty. With the last
haul, I returned myself to the city, where I received the thanks of general Howe, for "the
handsome addition," as he was pleased to term it, "which I had made to the regiment."

But on trial, it was found that such vermin were not worthy of thanks, nor were any addition
to the regiment, except as disgust to the men and vexation to the officers.  Destitute of honor,
they performed their duty, not like soldiers, but slaves; and, on every opportunity, would
run off into the woods like wild beasts.

Chapter 7.

  The brave sergeant Jasper again on the carpet -- in disguise
  visits a British post at Ebenezer -- in company of sergeant Newton,
  makes a second trip thither -- affecting view of an American lady
  and her child, with other whig prisoners at Ebenezer --
  desperate resolve of Jasper and Newton, to rescue them --
  their bloody conflict and glorious triumph.

In the spring of 1779, Marion and myself were sent with our commands, to Purysburgh, to reinforce
general Lincoln, who was there on his way to attack the British in Savannah, which a few months
before had fallen into their hands.  As the count D'Estang, who was expected to cooperate in
this affair, had not yet arrived, general Lincoln thought it advisable to entrench and wait
for him.

While we were lying at Purysburgh, a couple of young men of our regiment achieved an act of
generosity and courage, which, in former days, would have laid the ground-work of a heroic
romance.  One of the actors in this extraordinary play was the brave sergeant Jasper, whose
name will for ever be dear to the friends of American liberty.

Jasper had a brother who had joined the British, and held the rank of sergeant in their garrison
at Ebenezer.  Never man was truer to his country than Jasper, yet was his heart so warm that
he loved his brother, though a tory, and actually went over to see him.  His brother was exceedingly
alarmed at sight of him, lest he should be seized and hung up at once as a spy, for his name
was well known to many of the British officers.  But Jasper begged him not to give himself
much trouble on that head, for, said he, "I am no longer an American soldier."

"Well, thank God for that, William," replied his brother, giving him a hearty shake by the
hand -- "And now only say the word, my boy, and here is a commission for you, with regimentals
and gold to boot, to fight for his majesty."

Jasper shook his head and observed, that though there was but little encouragement to fight
FOR his country, yet he could not find in his heart to fight AGAINST her.  And there the conversation
ended.

After staying with his brother some two or three days, inspecting and hearing all that he could,
he took his leave, and by a round about, returned to camp, and told general Lincoln all that
he had seen.

Having wasted several weeks longer of tiresome idleness, and no news of the French fleet, Jasper
took it into his head to make another trip to Ebenezer.

On this occasion he did not, as before, go alone, but took with him his particular friend,
sergeant Newton, son of an old Baptist preacher, and a young fellow, for strength and courage,
just about a good match for Jasper himself.

He was received as usual, with great cordiality by his brother, to whom he introduced his friend
Newton, and spent several days in the British fort, without giving the least alarm. On the
morning of the third day his brother had some bad news to tell him.

"Aye! what is it?" he asked, "what is it?"

"Why," replied his brother, "here are some ten or a dozen American prisoners, brought in this
morning, as deserters from Savannah, whither they are to be sent immediately.  And from what
I can learn, it will be apt to go hard with them, for it seems they have all taken the king's
bounty."

"Let's see 'em," said Jasper, "let's see 'em."

So his brother took him and Newton to see them.  And indeed it was a mournful sight to behold
them, where they sat, poor fellows! all hand-cuffed, on the ground.  But all pity of them was
forgot, soon as the eye was turned to a far more doleful sight hard by, which was a young woman,
wife of one of the prisoners, with her child, a sweet little boy of about five years old. 
The name of this lady was Jones. Her humble garb showed her to be poor, but her deep distress,
and sympathy with her unfortunate husband, showed that she was rich in that pure conjugal love,
that is more precious than all gold.

She generally sat on the ground opposite to her husband, with her little boy leaning on her
lap, and her coal black hair spreading in long neglected tresses on her neck and bosom. And
thus in silence she sat, a statue of grief, sometimes with her eyes hard fixed upon the earth,
like one lost in thought, sighing and groaning the while as if her heart would burst -- then
starting, as from a reverie, she would dart her eager eyes, red with weeping, on her husband's
face, and there would gaze, with looks so piercing sad, as though she saw him struggling in
the halter, herself a widow, and her son an orphan.  Straight her frame would begin to shake
with the rising agony, and her face to change and swell; then with eyes swimming in tears,
she would look around upon us all, for pity and for help, with cries sufficient to melt the
heart of a demon. While the child seeing his father's hands fast bound, and his mother weeping,
added to the distressing scene, by his artless cries and tears.

The brave are always tender-hearted.  It was so with Jasper and Newton, two of the most undaunted
spirits that ever lived.  They walked out in the neighboring wood.  The tear was in the eye
of both. Jasper first broke silence.  "Newton," said he, "my days have been but few; but I
believe their course is nearly done."

"Why so, Jasper?"

"Why, I feel," said he, "that I must rescue these poor prisoners, or die with them; otherwise
that woman and her child will haunt me to my grave."

"Well, that is exactly what I feel too," replied Newton -- "and here is my hand and heart to
stand by you, my brave friend, to the last drop.  Thank God, a man can die but once, and there
is not so much in this life that a man need be afraid to leave it, especially when he is in
the way of his duty."

The two friends then embraced with great cordiality, while each read in the other's countenance,
that immortal fire which beams from the eyes of the brave, when resolved to die or conquer
in some glorious cause.

Immediately after breakfast, the prisoners were sent on for Savannah, under a guard of a sergeant
and corporal with eight men. They had not been gone long, before Jasper, accompanied by his
friend Newton, took leave of his brother, and set out on some errand to the upper country.
They had scarcely, however, got out of sight of Ebenezer, before they struck into the piny
woods, and pushed hard after the prisoners and their guard, whom they closely dogged for several
miles, anxiously watching an opportunity to make a blow.  But alas! all hopes of that sort
seemed utterly extravagant; for what could give two men a chance to contend against ten, especially
when there was found no weapon in the hands of the two, while the ten, each man was armed with
his loaded musket and bayonet. But unable to give up their countrymen, our heroes still followed
on.

About two miles from Savannah there is a famous spring, generally called the `Spa', well known
to travellers, who often turn in hither to quench their thirst.  "Perhaps," said Jasper, "the
guard may stop there." Then hastening on by a near cut through the woods, they gained the Spa,
as their last hope, and there concealed themselves among the bushes that grew abundantly around
the spring.

Presently the mournful procession came in sight, headed by the sergeant, who, on coming opposite
to the spring, ordered a halt.  Hope sprung afresh in our heroes' bosoms, strong throbbing
too, no doubt, with great alarms, for "it was a fearful odds."  The corporal with his guard
of four men, conducted the prisoners to the spring, while the sergeant with the other four,
having grounded their arms near the road, brought up the rear.  The prisoners, wearied with
their long walk, were permitted to rest themselves on the earth. Poor Mrs. Jones, as usual,
took her seat opposite to her husband, and her little boy, overcome with fatigue, fell asleep
in her lap. Two of the corporal's men were ordered to keep guard, and the other two to give
the prisoners drink out of their canteens. These last approached the spring where our heroes
lay concealed, and resting their muskets against a pine tree, dipped up water: and having drank
themselves, turned away, with replenished canteens, to give the prisoners also.  "Now! Newton,
is our time!" said Jasper. Then bursting, like two lions, from their concealment, they snatched
up the two muskets that were rested against the pine, and in an instant shot down the two soldiers
that kept guard.  And now the question was, who should first get the two loaded muskets that
had just fallen from the hands of the slain.  For by this time the sergeant and corporal, a
couple of brave Englishmen, recovering from their momentary panic, had sprung and seized upon
the muskets; but before they could use them, the strong swift-handed Americans, with clubbed
guns, levelled each at the head of his brave antagonist, the final blow. The tender bones of
the skull gave way beneath the furious strokes, and with wide scattered blood and brains down
they sunk, pale and quivering to the earth without a groan.  Then snatching up the guns which
had thus, a second time, fallen from the hands of the slain, they flew between the surviving
enemy, and ordered them to surrender, which they instantly did.

Having called the prisoners to them, they quickly with the point of their bayonets, broke off
their handcuffs, and gave each of them a musket.

At the commencement of the fray, poor Mrs. Jones, half frightened to death, had fallen to the
ground in a swoon, with her little son piteously screaming over her.  But when she came to
herself, and saw her husband and friends around her, all freed from their fetters and well
armed, she looked and behaved like one frantic with joy. She sprung to her husband's bosom,
and with her arms around his neck, sobbed out, "Oh bless God! bless God! my husband is safe;
my husband is not hung yet;" then snatching up her child, and straining him to her soul, as
if she would have pressed him to death, she cried out -- "O praise! praise! praise God for
ever! my son has a father yet!" Then wildly darting round her eyes in quest of her deliverers,
she exclaimed, "Where! where are those blessed angels that God sent to save my husband?"

Directing her eyes to Jasper and Newton, where they stood like two youthful Samsons, in the
full flowing of their locks, she ran and fell on her knees before them, and seizing their hands,
kissed and pressed them to her bosom, crying out vehemently, "Dear angels! dear angels! God
bless you! God Almighty bless you for ever!"

Then instantly, for fear of being overtaken by the enemy, our heroes snatched the arms and
regimentals of the slain, and with their friends and captive foes, recrossed the Savannah,
and in safety rejoined our army at Purysburgh, to the inexpressible astonishment and joy of us all.

Chapter 8.

  The count D'Estang, with the French fleet, arrives to attack Savannah --
  our army marches and joins him -- fatal effects of D'Estang's politeness --
  biographical dash of young colonel Laurens -- curious dialogue
  betwixt him and the French general -- unsuccessful attack on Savannah --
  the brave Jasper mortally wounded -- is visited by the author
  in his last moments -- interesting conversation --
  dies like a Christian soldier.

Could the wishes of our army have availed, those gallant soldiers, (Jasper and Newton) would
long have lived to enjoy their past, and to win fresh laurels.  But alas! the former of them,
the heroic Jasper, was soon led, like a young lion, to an evil net. The mournful story of his
death, with heavy heart I now relate.

Scarcely had he returned from Georgia, laden, as aforesaid, with glory, when an express came
into camp, and informed that the count D'Estang was arrived off Tybee.  Instantly we struck
our tents and marched for the siege of Savannah.  On arriving near that fatal place, we found
that the French troops, with their cannon and mortars, had just come up. Oh! had we but advanced
at once to the attack, as became skilful soldiers, we should have carried every thing before
us.  The frighted garrison would have hauled down their colors without firing a shot. This
I am warranted to say by the declaration of numbers of their officers, who afterwards fell
into our hands.  But in place of an immediate `coup de main', the courtly D'Estang sent a flag,
very politely inviting the town to do him the extreme honor of receiving their surrender.

The British commander was not much behindhand with the count in the article of politeness,
for he also returned a flag with his compliments, and requested to be permitted four and twenty
hours to think of the matter.

If the ASKING such a favor was extraordinary, what must the GRANTING of it have been?  But
the accomplished D'Estang was fully equal to such douceurs for he actually allowed the enemy
four and twenty hours to think of surrendering!

But instead of THINKING, like simpletons, they fell to ENTRENCHING, like brave soldiers.  And
being joined that very day by colonel Maitland from Beaufort, with a regiment of Highlanders,
and assisted by swarms of negroes, decoyed from their masters under promise of freedom, they
pushed on their works with great rapidity.  According to the report of our troops who were
encamped nearest to them, nothing was heard all that night, but the huzzas of the soldiers,
the lashes of cow-hides, and the cries of negroes.

I never beheld Marion in so great a passion.  I was actually afraid he would have broke out
on general Lincoln. For my own part, when I look upon my brave fellows around me, it wrings
me to the heart, to think how near most of them are to their bloody graves."

In fact, Marion was so outrageous, as indeed were all of us, that we at length begged colonel
Laurens to speak to the count D'Estang.

And here I must beg the reader's pardon a moment, while I inform him that this colonel Laurens
(son of President Laurens) was a very extraordinary young Carolinian.

On a trip to London, he fell in love with, and married a celebrated belle of that city.  It
would seem that he was very much taken with his English relations, and they with him, for after
his marriage, they would not suffer him to revisit his parents, who doted on him, being their
only son, but detained him with them in London, as gay as a young man well could be, in the
gayest city in the world, moving every day in the highest circles of society, and every night
encircled in the fond arms of a beauteous wife.

But soon as the war against America broke out, his gaiety all forsook him. The idea of a ruffian
soldiery overrunning his native land, preyed incessantly on his spirits, and threw him into
those brown studies which cost his lady full many a tear.  Unable to bear his disquietude,
he fled at length from his wife and infant family, to fight for his country. He presented himself
before the great Washington, who was so struck with the fire that beamed from his eyes, that
he made him handsome offers of rank in the army.  But his favorite service was to lead `forlorn
hopes', and the daring bands that are destined to carry the enemy's works by storm.  Washington
often gave him letters to this effect to his generals.  And this was his object at Savannah,
where a regiment of choice infantry was immediately put under his command. But instead of being
permitted his favorite pleasure of seeing his ardent warriors mounting the enemy's works, and
rushing down streams of fire, followed by the bayonet, he was doomed to fret and pine in the
humble office of interpreter between count D'Estang and general Lincoln.

"But, Monsieur le count," said Laurens to D'Estang, "the American officers say they are afraid
you have given the English too long time to think."

At this, as Laurens told us afterwards, the count put on a most comic stare, and breaking into
a hearty laugh, replied, "De Engleesh think! ha, ha, ha! By gar dat one ver good parole!  De
Engleesh tink, heh, Monsieur le colonel! By gar, de Engleesh never tink but for deir bellie.
Give de Jack Engleeshman plenty beef -- plenty pudding -- plenty porter, by gar he never tink
any more, he lay down, he go a sleep like vun hog."

"But, Monsieur le count," continued Laurens, "the English are doing worse for us than thinking.
They are working away like horses, and will soon get their defences too high for us to scale."

"Eh, heh, Monsieur le colonel! you think-a so?  Well den, by gar you no need for tink-a so
-- by gar my French-a-mans run over de fence just like vun tief horse run over de cornfield
fence -- mind now I tell-a you dat, Monsieur le colonel."

"Well, but Monsieur le count, the British sometimes fight like the d---l."

"Sacre Dieu!" replied the nettled count, starting and gaping as though he would have swallowed
a young alligator -- "de Briteesh fight like de diable!  Jaun foutre de Briteesh! when they
been known for fight like de diable?  Ess, ess, dat true enough; dey fight de Americans like
de diable -- but by gar dey no fight de French-a-mans so -- no no, by gar dey no make one mouthful
for my French-a-mans -- Morbleu! my French-a-mans eat dem up like vun leetle grenoulle."

"Green Owl!" exclaimed one of general Lincoln's aids -- "Oh my God! who ever heard of a `green
owl' before?"

Here Laurens, smiling at the officer's mistake, replied, "not `green owl', sir, but `grenouille',
grenouille, sir, is the French for frog."

"Aye, sure enough, sure enough, frog," continued the count, "frog; grenouille is frog.  By
gar, Monsieur le colonel, you be vun dam good interpret, I set dat well enough.  Well den,
now, Monsieur le colonel, you hear-a me speak -- my French-a-mans eat dem Jack Engleesh all
same like vun leetle frog."

"Oh to be sure! -- no doubt of all that, Monsieur le count -- but before we eat them up, they
may kill a great many of our soldiers."

"Dey kill-a de soldier!" replied the passionate count -- "well what den if dey do kill-a de
soldier!  Jaun foutre de soldier! what dey good for but for be kill? dat deir trade.  You give-a
vun poor dog soldier, two, three, four penny a day, he go fight -- he get kill.  Well den,
what dat? By gar he only get what he HIRE for."

"But pardon me, Monsieur le count, we can't spare them."

"Vat! no spare de soldier! de GRAND MONARQUE no spare de soldier? O mon Dieu!  Vy, Monsieur
le colonel -- for why you talk-a so?  Well den, hear-a me speak now, Monsieur le colonel --
you see de star in de sky; de leaf on de tree; de sand on de shore -- you no see all dat, heh?
Well den, by gar, Monsieur le colonel, de GRAND MONARQUE got soldier more an-a all dat -- ess,
sacra Dieu! more an-a all dat, by gar."

"Well but, Monsieur le count, is it not CRUEL to kill the poor fellows notwithstanding?"

"Pooh!" replied the count, throwing back his head, and puffing out his cheeks as when a cigar
sucker explodes a cataract of smoke from the crater of his throat; "cruel! vat cruel for kill-a
de soldier! by gar, Monsieur le colonel, you make-a de king of France laugh he hear-a you talk
after dat fashong.  Let-a me tell you, Monsieur le colonel, de king of France no like general
Washington -- by gar, general Washington talk wi' de soldier -- he shake hand wi' de soldier
-- he give de soldier dram -- By gar, de GRAND MONARQUE no do so -- no, sacra Dieu! he no LOOK
AT de soldier.  When de king of France ride out in de coach royale wid de supeerb horses, and
harness shining so bright all vun like gold, if he run over one soldier, you tink he going
stop for dat?  No, sacra foutre! he ride on so, all one like if nothing at all been happen.
Jaun foutre de soldier! let him prenez garde for himself; by gar the grand Monarque no mind
dat. De grand Monarque only tink of de soldier `commes des chiens', like de poor dam dog for
fight for him."

Thus ended the dialogue between colonel Laurens and the count D'Estang.

The next day, the memorable twenty-four hours being expired, a flag was sent into town to know
the determination of the British officer, who very politely replied, that having consulted
his pillow, he had made up his mind to defend the place.  A regular siege was then commenced,
and continued for three weeks:  at the end of which an attack was made, and with the success
which Marion had all along predicted.  After a full hour's exposure to the destructive rage
of grape shot and musketry, we were obliged to make a precipitate retreat; leaving the ground
covered with the mingled carcasses of 400 Americans and 800 Frenchmen. Marion's corps fighting
with their usual confidence, suffered great loss; himself did not receive a scratch.  Colonel
Laurens raged like a wounded lion. Soon as the retreat was ordered he paused, and looking round
on his fallen men, cried out, "Poor fellows, I envy you!" then hurling his sword in wrath against
the ground, he retired. Presently, after we had reached our encampment, he came to my marquee,
and like one greatly disordered, said, "Horry, my life is a burden to me; I would to God I
was lying on yonder field at rest with my poor men!"

"No! no! none of that, colonel," said I, "none of that; I trust we shall live to pay them yet
for all this."

And so it turned out.  And though for humanity's sake, I ought not to BOAST of it, yet we did
live to pay them for it, and often too: and in the same bloody coin which they gave us that
day.  And although in that fiery season of my days, and when my dear country was in danger,
it was but natural for me to rejoice in the downfall of my enemies, yet I was often witness
to scenes, which to this day I can never think of but with sorrow -- as when, for example,
after dashing upon an enemy by surprise, and cutting one half of them to pieces and chasing
the rest, we returned to collect the horses and arms of the slain.  Who, I say, without grief
could behold those sad sights which then offered themselves, of human beings lying mangled
over the crimson ground -- some stone dead, some still alive and struggling, with brains oozing
from their cloven skulls -- and others sitting up, or leaning on their elbows, but pale with
loss of blood, running in streams from their mortal wounds, and they themselves looking down,
the while, sadly thinking of home and of distant wives and children, whom they shall never
see again.

Such thoughts, if often cherished, would much abate the rancor of malice in the hearts of those
whose sad destiny it is to kill one another; especially if it were known how short sometimes
are the triumphs of the victor.  It was remarkably so in the present case: for colonel Maitland,
of the Highlanders, who had contributed a large part to this very unexpected victory, was so
elated by it, that he took to hard drinking, and killed himself in a single week, and the sickly
season coming on, the greater part of the garrison perished of the yellow or bilious fever!!

    Thus friends and foes the same sad fortune shar'd,
    And sickness swallowed whom the sword had spar'd.

Many gallant men were the victims of count D'Estang's folly in this affair; among the number
was that impetuous Polander, the count Polaski.

But none fell more universally lamented than the heroic Jasper. Every reader must wish to hear
the last of this brave and generous soldier. And they shall have it faithfully, for I happened
to be close by him when he received his death's wound; and I was with him when he breathed
his last.

Early in the action, the elegant colors presented by Mrs. Elliot, had been planted on the enemy's
works; and the fury of the battle raged near the spot where they waved.  During the whole of
the bloody fray, Jasper had remained unhurt.  But on hearing the retreat sounded, he rushed
up to bear off his colors, and in that desperate act, was mortally wounded.  As he passed by
me, with the colors in his hands, I observed he had a bad limp in his walk.

"You are not much hurt, I hope, Jasper," said I.

"Yes, major," he replied, "I believe I have got my furlough."

"Pshaw," quoth I, "furlough indeed, for what?"

"Why to go home," he answered, "to go to Heaven, I hope."

"Pooh!" said I, and having, as the reader must suppose, a good deal to attend to, I turned
off and left him.  However, his words made such an impression on me, that soon as duty permitted,
I went to see him, and found too true what he had predicted; the ball had opened a blood vessel
in the lungs which no art could stop, and he was bleeding to slow but certain death.

As I entered the tent, he lifted his eyes to me, but their fire was almost quenched; and stretching
his feeble hand, he said, with perfect tranquillity, "Well, major, I told you I had got my
furlough."

"I hope not," I replied.

"O yes!" said he, "I am going -- and very fast too; but, thank God, I am not afraid to go."

I told him I knew he was too brave to fear death, and too honest to be alarmed about its consequences.

"Why, as to that matter, sir," said he, "I won't brag:  but I have my hopes, notwithstanding
I may be wrong, for I know I am but a poor ignorant body, but somehow or other, I have always
built my hopes of what God may do for me hereafter, on what he has done for me here!"

I told him I thought he was very correct in that.

"Do you, indeed?" said he.  "Well, I am mighty glad of that -- and now major, here's the way
I always comfort myself: Fifty years ago, (I say to myself,) I was nothing, and had no thought
that there was any such grand and beautiful world as this. But still there was such a world
notwithstanding; and here God has brought me into it.  Now, can't he, in fifty years more,
or indeed in fifty minutes more, bring me into another world, as much above this as this is
above that state of nothing, wherein I was fifty years ago?"

I told him that this was, to my mind, a very happy way of reasoning; and such, no doubt, as
suited the greatness and goodness of God.

"I think so, major," said he, "and I trust I shall find it so; for though I've been a man of
blood, yet, thank God, I've always lived with an eye to that great hope.  My mother, major,
was a good woman; when I was but a child, and sat on her lap, she used to talk to me of God,
and tell how it was he who built this great world, with all its riches and good things:  and
not for himself, but for ME! and also, that if I would but do his will in that only acceptable
way, a good life, he would do still greater and better things for me hereafter.

"Well, major, from the mouth of a dear mother, like her, these things went so deep into my
heart, that they could never be taken away from me.  I have hardly ever gone to bed, or got
up again, without saying my prayers.  I have honored my father and mother; and, thank God,
been strictly HONEST.  And since you have known me, major, I believe you can bear witness,
that though a strong man, I never was quarrelsome."

I told him, nothing afforded me more satisfaction, than to remember that, since he was now
going to die, he had always led so good a life.

He answered, with tears in his eyes, that he had a good hope he was going where he should not
do what he had been obliged to do in this world. "I've killed men in my time, major, but not
in malice, but in what I thought a just war in defence of my country.  And as I bore no malice
against those I killed, neither do I bear any against those who have killed me. And I heartily
trust in God for Christ's sake, that we shall yet, one day, meet together, where we shall forgive
and love one another like brothers. I own, indeed, major, that had it so pleased God, I should
have been glad to stay a little longer with you to fight for my country.  But however, I humbly
hope that my death is of God; which makes it welcome to me, and so I bow me to his blessed
will.  And now, my good friend, as I feel I have but a little time to live, I beg you will
do a few things for me when I am dead and gone."

I could not speak; but gathering my answer from my tears, and the close press I gave his hand,
he thus went on, but it was in a low voice and laborious.

"You see that sword? --  It is the one which governor Rutledge presented to me for my services
at Fort Moultrie -- give that sword to my father, and tell him I never dishonored it.  If he
should weep for me, tell him his son died in hope of a better life.  If you should see that
great gentlewoman, Mrs. Elliot, tell her I lost my life in saving the colors she gave to our
regiment.  And if ever you should come across poor Jones and his wife, and little boy, tell
them Jasper is gone; but that the remembrance of the hard battle which he once fought for their
sakes brought a secret joy to his heart just as it was about to stop its motion for ever."

He spoke these last words in a livelier tone than usual, but it was like the last kindling
of the taper in its oil-less socket -- for instantly the paleness of death overspread his face,
and after a feeble effort to vomit, with convulsions, the natural effect of great loss of blood,
he sunk back and expired.

From this victim of D'Estang's madness, I went with a heavy heart on parade, to take a review
of the sad remains of the battle.  The call of the roll completed the depression of my spirits.
To every fourth or fifth name there was no answer -- the gloomy silence which ensued, told
us where they were.  About twelve o'clock we sent in a flag to the garrison for permission
to bury our dead.  Curiosity led me to accompany the party destined to this mournful duty.
I had prepared myself for a sorrowful sight; but ah! what words can express what I then saw
and suffered!

A scattered few lay here and there on the utmost verge of the field, killed by cannon shot,
and so mangled, that in some instances, it was hard to tell who they were.  As we advanced,
they lay thicker and thicker. Some, not quite dead, were constantly crying, "Water! water!
-- Oh! for God's sake, a little water!" --  Others lay quite dead, but still their lifeless
visages retained the dark frowns of war. There, on the side of the enemy's breast-work, lay
the brave ensign Boushe, covering with his dead body, the very spot where he had fixed the
American standard.  His face was pale and cold as the earth he pressed, but still it spoke
the fierce determined air of one whose last sentiment towards those degenerate Britons was,
"There d--n you! look at the stripes of liberty."

Close by ensign Boushe, lay that elegant young man, Alexander Hume, Esq. with his sword still
grasped in his stiffened fingers. My heart bled within me, when I looked on young Hume, where
he lay in all the pale beauties of death.  He was to have been married the week following,
to a charming woman; but such was his zeal to serve his country, that he came a volunteer to
our camp, and met his death the next morning after he joined us. Gifted with a pretty taste
for painting, he had tried his skill, and very successfully too, in sketching the likeness
of his lovely mistress. For on opening his bosom, was found, suspended by a blue ribband, (the
happy lover's color) a fine likeness of the beautiful Miss ----: the back of the portrait was
stained with his blood; but unconscious of her lover's fate, she still wore the enchanting
smile with which yielding beauty views the youth she loves.

We then proceeded to bury our dead; which was done by digging large pits, sufficient to contain
about a hundred corpses.  Then taking off their clothes, with heavy hearts, we threw them into
the pits, with very little regard to order, and covered them over with earth.

"Poor brothers, farewell! the storm of your last battle has long ago ceased on the field, and
no trace now remains on earth that you ever lived. The worms have devoured your flesh; and
the mounds raised over your dust, are sunk back to the common level with the plain.  But ah!
could your mournful story be read, the youth of America would listen to the last words of Washington,
and `study the art of war,' that their countrymen might no more be murdered by military quacks.

As a hint to American officers, I think it my duty to state the following fact: --  Our fatal
attack on Savannah was made very early in the morning.  A few hours previous thereto, a council
of war was held; and while it was deliberating, a deserter and spy had the address to bear
a musket, as sentinel at the door of the marquee!! On hearing where the attack was to be made,
he ran off in the dark, and gave such intelligence to the enemy, as enabled them very completely
to defeat us.  The fellow was afterwards taken at the battle of Hobkirk Hill, near Camden,
and hung.

Scarcely had we finished burying the dead, before the count D'Estang hurried on board his ships
with his troops and artillery, while we, passing on in silence by the way of Zubley's ferry,
returned to Carolina, and pitched our tents at Sheldon, the country seat of general Bull.

The theatre of war being, from this period, and for some time at least, removed to the northern
states, the governor and council were pleased to reduce the regiments, and dismiss the supernumerary
officers. To some of my brethren in arms, this was matter of serious alarm. But for myself,
possessing, thank God, a liberal fortune in the country, and feeling no ATTRACTION to the camp,
except when drawn thither by public danger, I was quite happy to hear of this new arrangement,
and waited on his excellency to return my commission.

Perhaps some may say it was pride in me, and that I did not like the idea of being `unfrocked'.
Why, as to that matter, it is not for me to boast of my standing among my superiors in those
days. But this I must needs say, that it is joy enough, and glory enough too, for me to know,
that I was always the favorite of the great Marion; and that he seldom ever asked the lightning
of any other sword than mine, to lead his squadron to the charge.  However, the moment I heard,
as above, that it was in agitation to reduce the regiments, I waited on the governor, and begged
that, as there was nothing doing, he would allow me to return to my plantation.  To my plantation
I DID return, and there continued till spring, 1780, when Charleston was taken by the British;
at which time, and for some weeks before, I was grievously afflicted with the rheumatism. 
Thus by a providence, which, I confess, I did not at that time altogether like, I was kindly
saved from being kidnapped by the enemy, and also introduced into a field of some little service,
I hope, to my country, and of no great dishonor to myself.  However, be this as it may, the
reader shall soon see, and then let him judge for himself.

Chapter 9.

  Providential escape of Marion out of Charleston --
  the British fleet and army invest and take that place --
  Tarleton and the British officers begin to let out -- young Scotch Macdonald
  comes upon the turf -- extraordinary anecdote of him --
  plays a very curious trick on a rich old tory.

How happy it is for man, that the author of his being loves him so much better than he loves
himself; and has established so close a connexion between his duty and his advantage.  This
delightful truth was remarkably exemplified in an event that befell Marion about this time,
March, 1780.  Dining with a squad of choice whigs, in Charleston, in the house of Mr. Alexander
M'Queen, Tradd street, he was so frequently pressed to bumpers of old wine, that he found himself
in a fair way to get drunk.  'Twas in vain he attempted to beat a retreat. The company swore,
that that would never do for general Marion. Finding, at last, that there was no other way
of escaping a debauch, but by leaping out of one of the windows of the dining-room, which was
on the second story, he bravely undertook it.  It cost him, however, a broken ankle.  When
the story got about in Charleston, most people said he was a great fool for his pains; but
the event soon proved that Marion was in the right, and that there is no policy like sticking
to a man's duty.  For, behold! presently Charleston was invested by a large British army, and
the American general (Lincoln) finding Marion was utterly unfit for duty, advised him to push
off in a litter to his seat in St. John's parish. Thus providentially was Marion preserved
to his country when Charleston fell, as it soon did, with all our troops.

The spirits of the British were so raised by the capture of our metropolis with all the southern
army, that they presently began to scour the neighboring country.  And never victors, perhaps,
had a country more completely in their power.  Their troops were of the choicest kind; excellently
equipped, and commanded by active, ambitious young fellows, who looked on themselves as on
the high road to fortune among the conquered rebels.  They all carried with them pocket maps
of South Carolina, on which they were constantly poring like young spendthrifts on their fathers'
last testaments.  They would also ask a world of questions, such as, "where lay the richest
lands? -- and the finest situations? -- and who were the warmest old fellows, and had the finest
girls?" and when answered to their humor, they would break out into hearty laughs; and flourish
their swords, and `whoop' and `hoic' it away like young fox hunters, just striking on a fresh
trail.

Some of them had Dr. Madan's famous book called "Thylipthora, or a Defence of Polygamy", with
which they were prodigiously taken, and talked very freely of reducing the system to practice.
Cornwallis, it seems, was to be a bashaw of three tails -- Rawdon and Tarleton, of two each
-- and as a natural appendage of such high rank, they were to have their seraglios and harems
filled with the greatest beauties of the country.

"Huzza, my brave fellows!" -- they would say to each other; "one more campaign and the `hash'
will be settled with the d----d rebels, and then stand by the girls! -- stand by the Miss Pinckneys!
and Elliots! and Rutledges! and all your bright-eyed, soft bosomed, lovely dames, look sharp!
Egad! your charms shall reward our valor! like the grand Turk, we'll have regiments of our
own raising!  Charleston shall be our Constantinople! and our Circassia, this sweet Carolina
famed for beauties! Prepare the baths, the perfumes, and spices! bring forth the violins and
the rose buds! and tap the old Madeira, that our souls may all be joy!"

'Twas in this way they would rant; and then, brightened up to the pitch, they would look and
grin on each other as sweetly as young foxes, who, prowling round a farm yard, had suddenly
heard the cackling of the rooster pullets.  The reader shall presently see the violent and
bloody course of these ruffians, who did such dishonor to the glorious island they came from.
But before I begin my tragedy, I beg leave, by way of prologue, to entertain him a moment with
a very curious farce that was acted on a wealthy old tory, near Monk's Corner, while colonel
Tarleton with the British advance, lay there.

The hero of the play was a remarkably stout, red-haired young Scotsman, named Macdonald, son
of the Macdonald of famous defeat at Morris Creek Bridge, North Carolina.  Soon after the defeat
of his father he came and joined our troops. And so he did fight for us, and as undauntedly
too as George Washington ever did.

This was young Scotch Macdonald.  Now the curious trick which he played, is as follows.

"Oh, you plaguy dog! so I must always split my throat with bawling, before I can get you to
answer heh?"

And in order to send Selim off in high style, he ordered Dick to bring down his elegant new
saddle and holsters, with his silver-mounted pistols. Then giving Macdonald a hot breakfast,
and lending him his great coat, as it was raining, he let him go, with a promise that he would
come next morning and see how colonel Tarleton liked young Selim.

Accordingly next morning he waited on colonel Tarleton, and told his name, with the smiling
countenance of one who expected to be eaten up with fondness. But alas! to his infinite mortification,
Tarleton heard his name without the least change of feature.  Nor till this moment did I ever
know that there existed on earth such a being as you."

To have been outwitted in this manner by a rebel sergeant -- to have lost his peach brandy
-- his hot breakfast -- his great coat -- his new saddle -- his silver mounted pistols -- and
worse than all, his darling horse, his young, full-blooded, bounding Selim -- all these keen
reflections, like so many forked lightnings, falling at once on the train and tinder of his
passions, blew them up to such a diabolical rage that the old sinner had like to have been
suffocated on the spot.

Nor was colonel Tarleton much behind him, when he came to learn what a noble horse had slipped
through his hands.  And a noble horse he was indeed!  Full sixteen hands high; the eye of a
hawk, the spirit of the king eagle; a chest like a lion; swifter than a roebuck, and strong
as a buffalo.

I asked Macdonald, how he could reconcile it to himself to take the old poltroon's horse in
that way?  And, as to his strength, it was such, that with one of Potter's blades he would
make no more to drive through cap and skull of a British dragoon, than a boy would, with a
case-knife, to chip off the head of a carrot.  And then, he always kept Selim up so lustily
to the top of his metal. He was so fond of him, that I verily believe he would at any time
have sold the shirt off his back to get corn for him.

And to see how Macdonald would charge, you would swear the fear of death was never before his
eyes.  Whether it was one or ten against him, it made no odds to this gallant Scotsman.  He
never stopped to count noses, but would dash in upon the thickest of them, and fall to hewing
and cutting down like a very fury incarnate.

Poor Macdonald! the arm of his strength is now in dust; and his large red cheeks have, long
ago been food for worms: but never shall I forget when first I saw him fight.  'Twas in the
days when the British held Georgetown; and Marion had said to me, "Go and reconnoitre."  I
took only Macdonald with me.  Before day we reached our place of concealment, a thick clump
of pines near the road, and in full view of the enemy's lines.  Soon as the bonny grey-eyed
morning began to peep, we heard the town all alive, as it were, with drums and fifes; and about
sunrise, beheld five dragoons turn out, and with prancing steeds dash up the road towards us.
I turned my eye on Macdonald, and saw his face all kindled up with the joy of battle. It was
like that terrible joy which flashes from the eyes of an ambushed lion, when he beholds the
coming forth of the buffaloes towards his gloomy cave. "Zounds, Macdonald," said I, "here's
an odds against us, five to two." "By my soul now captain," he replied, "and let 'em come on.
Three are welcome to the sword of Macdonald."

Soon as they were come fairly opposite to us, we gave them a blast from our bugles, and with
drawn sabres broke in upon them like a tornado.

Their panic was complete; two we stopped, overthrown and weltering in the road.  The remaining
three wheeled about, and taking to their heels, went off as if old Nick had been bringing up
the rear. Then you might have heard the roar, and seen the dust, which dragoons can raise,
when, with whip and spur and wildly rolling eyes, they bend forward from the pursuit of death.
My charger being but a heavy brute, was soon distanced.  But they could not distance the swift-footed
Selim.  Rapid as the deadly blast of the desert, he pursued their dusty course, still gathering
upon them at every jump. And before they could reach the town, though so near, he brought his
furious rider alongside of two of them, whom he cut down. One hundred yards further, and the
third also would have been slain; for Macdonald, with his crimson claymore, was within a few
steps of him, when the guns of the fort compelled him to retire.  However, though quickly pursued
by the enemy, he had the address to bring off an elegant horse of one of the dragoons whom
he had killed.

Chapter 10.

  The abomination and desolation set up in South Carolina --
  the author, with sorrowful heart, quits his native land,
  and flies to the north in quest of warlike friends --
  fortunate rencontre with his gallant friend colonel Marion --
  curious adventures.

After the capture of Charleston, with all our troops, the British, as aforesaid, began to spread
themselves over the country. Then was exhibited a spectacle, which for sadness and alarm, ought
never to be forgotten by the people of America. I mean how easy a thing it is for a small body
of soldiers to overrun a populous and powerful country.  The British did not, after Sir Henry
Clinton's return to New York, exceed THREE THOUSAND MEN; and South Carolina alone, at the lowest
computation, must have contained FIFTY THOUSAND! and yet this host of poor honest men were
made to tremble before that handful of ruffians, as a flock of sheep before the wolf, or a
household of little children before a dark frowning pedagogue. The reason is immensely plain.
The British were all embodied and firm as a rock of granite; the Carolinians were scattered
over the country loose as a rope of sand:  the British all well armed and disciplined, moved
in dreadful harmony, giving their fire like a volcano; the Carolinians, with no other than
birding pieces, and strangers to the art of war, were comparatively feeble, as a forest of
glow-worms: the British, though but units in number, were so artfully arranged that they told
for myriads; while, for lack of unity, the Carolinians, though numerous as myriads, passed
only for ciphers.  In short, the British were a handful of hawks; the poor Carolinians a swarm
of rice-birds, and rather than be plucked to the pin feather, or picked to the bone, they and
their little ones, they were fain to flatter those furious falcons, and oft times to chirp
and sing when they were much in the humor to hate and curse.

Oh! blind indeed, and doubly blind is that people, and well worthy of iron yokes, who, enjoying
all the sweets of liberty, in a land of milk and honey, can expose to foreign Philistines,
that blessed Canaan, unguarded by Military science.  Surely those who thus throw "their pearl
before swine", richly deserve that the beast should turn again and trample THEM, and their
treasures too, into the mire. Yes, and had it not been for a better watch than our own, at
this day, like the wretched Irish, we should have been trampled into the mire of slavery; groaning
under heavy burdens to enrich our task-masters; and doomed on every fruitless attempt at freedom,
to fatten the buzzards with our gibbeted carcasses.

For lack of this habitual military preparation on our part, in a few days after the fall of
Charleston, Col. Tarleton, with only one hundred and fifty horse, galloped up to Georgetown,
through the most populous part of the state, with as much hauteur as an overseer and his boys
would gallop through a negro plantation! To me this was the signal for clearing out.  Accordingly,
though still in much pain from the rheumatism, I mounted my horse, and with sword and pistol
by my side, set out for the northward, in quest of friendly powers to aid our fallen cause.
In passing through Georgetown, I saw a distant group of people, to whom I rode up, and with
great civility, as I thought, asked the news.  To which a young fellow very scornfully replied,
that "Colonel Tarleton was coming, and that the country, thank God, would soon be cleared of
the continental colonels."

I was within an ace of drawing a pistol and shooting the young slave dead upon the spot.  But
God was pleased to give me patience to bear up under that heavy cross; for which I have since
very heartily thanked him a thousand times and more.  And indeed, on thinking over the matter,
it has often struck me, that the man who could speak in that way to one who had on, as he saw,
the American uniform, must be a savage, and therefore not an object of anger, but of pity.
But though my anger was soon over, nothing could cure the melancholy into which this affair
threw me.  To see my native country thus prostrate under foreign usurpers, the generality quite
disheartened, and the few, who dared to take her part, thus publicly insulted, was a shock
I was not prepared for, and which, therefore, sunk my spirits to the lowest ebb of despondence.
Such was the frame of mind wherein I left my native state, and set out, sick and alone, for
the northward, with scarce a hope of ever seeing better days.  About the middle of the second
day, as I beat my solitary road, slowly winding through the silent, gloomy woods of North Carolina,
I discovered, just before me, a stranger and his servant. Instantly my heart sprang afresh
for the pleasures of society, and quickening my pace, I soon overtook the gentleman, when lo!
who should it be but the man first of all in my wishes, though the last in my expectations;
who, I say, should it be but Marion! Our mutual surprise was great.  "Good heavens!" we both
exclaimed in the same moment, "Is that colonel Marion?"  "Is that Horry?" After the first transports
of that joy, which those who have been long absent from dear friends, can better conceive than
I describe, we began to inquire into each other's destinations, which was found to be the same;
both flying to the north for troops to fight the British. We had not rode far when Marion,
after looking up to the sun, who was now past his half-way house, came suddenly to a halt,
and said, "Well, come Horry, I feel both peckish and weary, and here is a fine shade, so let
us go down and rest, and refresh ourselves a while."

Whereupon I dismounted; and with the help of his servant, for his ankle was yet very crazy,
got him down too. Then, sitting side by side, on the trunk of a fallen pine, we talked over
the mournful state of our country; and came at last, as we had always done, to this solemn
conclusion, that we would stand by her like true children, and either conquer or die with her.

After this, a piece of dried beef was paraded, from Marion's saddle-bags, with a loaf of Indian
bread and a bottle of brandy.  The wealthy reader may smile at this bill of fare; but to me
it was a feast indeed.  For joy, like a cordial, had so raised my spirits, and reinvigorated
my system, that I fed like a thresher.

I shall never forget an expression which Marion let fall during our repast, and which, as things
have turned out, clearly shows what an intimate acquaintance he had with human nature. I happened
to say that I was afraid "our happy days were all gone."

"Pshaw, Horry," he replied, "don't give way to such idle fears. Our happy days are not all
gone.  On the contrary, the victory is still sure.

"I pray God," said I, "it may be so."

"Well, don't be afraid," replied he, "you will assuredly see it."

Having despatched our simple dinner, we mounted again and pursued our journey, but with feelings
so different from what I had before this meeting, as made me more sensible than ever what a
divine thing friendship is. And well indeed it was for us that our hearts were so rich in friendship,
for our pockets were as bare of gold and silver as if there were no such metals on earth.

And so here were two continental colonels of us, just started on a journey of several hundred
miles, without a cent in pocket! But though poor in gold, we were rich in faith.  Burning patriots
ourselves, we had counted on it as a certainty, that every body we met, out of reach of the
British, were as fiery as we, and that the first sight of our uniforms would command smiling
countenances, and hot suppers, and downy beds, and mint slings; and in short, everything that
our hearts could wish.  But, alas and alack the mistake! For instead of being smiled on every
where along the road as the champions of liberty, we were often grinned at as if we had been
horse thieves. In place of being hailed with benedictions, we were frequently in danger from
the brick bats; and in lieu of hot dinners and suppers, we were actually on the point of starving,
both we and our horses! For in consequence of candidly telling the publicans that, "we had
nothing to pay," they as candidly declared, "they had nothing to give," and that "those that
had no money had no business to travel." At length we came to the resolution to say nothing
about our poverty, but, after getting such things as we wanted, to give our `due bills'. In
this we felt ourselves perfectly warranted; for we had, both of us, thank God, very sufficient
estates; and besides, turning out, as we did, to fight for our country, we thought we had,
even by sacred precept, a very fair claim on that country for a little food.

I remember, one evening, after dark, we reached a tavern, the owner of which at first seemed
very fond of accommodating us.  But as soon as a lighted wood torch had given him a glimpse
of our regimentals, the rogue began to hem and ha, to tell us of a `mighty fine tavern' about
five miles further on.

We begged him to recollect that it was night, and also very rainy, and as dark as pitch.

"Oh!" quoth he, "the road is mighty plain; you can't miss your way."

"But consider, sir, we are strangers."

"Oh! I never liked strangers in all my life."

"But, sir, we are your countrymen, American officers, going to the north for men to fight your
battles."

"Oh! I wants nobody to fight my battles; king George is good enough for me."

"But, sir, we have travelled all day long without a mouthful for ourselves or horses."

To this also the brute was preparing some fit answer, when his wife, who appeared to be a very
genteel woman, with a couple of charming girls, her daughters, ran out and declared that "take
us in he could, and should, that he should; and that he might as well consent at first, for
they would not be said nay."

Even against all this, he stood out for some time; till at length his wife reminded him, that
though the British were carrying every thing before them in South Carolina, yet that Washington
was still in the field, and the issue of the war unknown; and that at any rate it was good
to have a friend at court.

On this he came to a pause; and at length reluctantly drawled out, "Well -- I suppose -- you
must -- come -- in."

I have related this story, partly to show what a savage man would be without that softening,
polishing friend, a good wife.

Observing that we were wet and cold, this amiable woman and her daughters soon had kindled
up for us a fine sparkling fire, to which their own sweetly smiling looks gave tenfold cheerfulness
and comfort. And while the husband went poking about the house, silent and surly as an ill-natured
slave, the ladies displayed towards us the most endearing attentions.  The mother brought out
from her closet a bottle of nice family cordial, to warm and cheer us; while the girls presented
basins of water and towels, that we might wash and refresh ourselves after our fatigue. And
all these seasonable hospitalities they did, not with that ungracious silence and reserve,
which so often depress the traveller's spirits, but with the charming alacrity of daughters
or sisters, so sweetening every thing with smiles and sprightly chat as almost made us feel
ourselves at home.

As with deep struck thought, I compared our present happy condition with that a few minutes
before, benighted, wet and weary, I could not help exclaiming, "O my God! what pity it is that
among so many labors which poor mortals take under the sun, they do not labor more for that
which alone deserves their care. I mean that LOVE, which at once diffuses and enjoys all the
happiness both of earth and heaven."

At supper, the poor creature of a husband strove very hard to draw Marion into a dispute, about
what he was pleased to call our "REBELLION". I expected to have heard him lashed very severely
for such brutality; for few men ever excelled Marion in the `retort abrupt'.  But every time
the subject was introduced, he contrived very handsomely to waive it, by some pretty turn to
the ladies, which happily relieved their terrors, and gave a fresh spring to general and sprightly
conversation.

As our excellent hostess and her fair daughters were about to retire, we bade them good night,
and also adieu, telling them that we meant to ride very early in the morning.  To this they
stoutly objected, urging that, from our fatigue and fasting, we ought to pass a day or two
with them, and refresh ourselves.  But if we could not do this, we must at any rate stay and
give them the pleasure of our company at breakfast.

When we retired to our chamber, I asked Marion why he had not given that brute, our landlord,
a proper set down.

"I am surprised at you, Horry," he replied; "when you see that your fellow man is wretched,
can't you give him quarter? You must have observed, ever since we darkened his door, that with
spleen and toryism, this poor gentleman is in the condition of him in the parable, who was
possessed of seven devils.  Since we have not the power to cast them out, let us not torment
him before his time. Besides, this excellent woman his wife; these charming girls his daughters.
They love him, no doubt, and therefore, to us, at least, he ought to be sacred, because surrounded
by their affections."

The next morning while breakfast was preparing, the churl renewed his hostilities, by telling
us, with a malignant pleasure in his face, that he and his neighbors were making ready to go
to South Carolina for negroes.

"For negroes!" replied Marion; "pray sir, what do you mean by that?"

"Why, sir," returned he, "South Carolina is now all one as conquered by the British, and why
may we not go and pick up what negroes we can? They would help me in my corn-field yonder."

Marion asked him whether, if he were to find HIS negroes, he would think it right to take them?

"To be sure I would," answered he.  "You great men who choose to fight against your king, are
all now running away.  And why may I not go and catch your negroes as well as any body else?"

"My God!" replied Marion, with a deep sigh, "what will this world come to?" and turned the
conversation.

Soon as breakfast was over, we took leave of this most unequally yoked couple and their lovely
daughters, and continued our journey.  We had not got far from the house when Marion's servant
rode up, and, with a very smirking face, told his master that he believed the gentlewoman where
we stayed last night must be a monstrous fine lady!  Marion asked him why he thought so. "Why,
sir," replied he, "she not only made me almost burst myself with eating and drinking, and all
of the very best, but she has gone and filled my portmanteau too, filled it up chock full,
sir! A fine ham of bacon, sir, and a pair of roasted fowls, with two bottles of brandy, and
a matter of a peck of biscuit."

"God bless the dear lady!" we both exclaimed at the same moment. And I trust God did bless
her.  For indeed to us she was a kind angel, who not only refreshed our bodies, but still more,
feasted our souls.

And though eight and twenty long years have rolled away since that time, I can still see that
angel smile which brightened on her face towards us, and the memory of which springs a joy
in my heart beyond what the memory of his money bags ever gave to the miser.

On the evening of the same day that we left this charming family, (I mean the FAIRER PART of
it) we reached the house of colonel Thatcher, one of the noblest whigs in North Carolina. 
His eyes seemed as though they would never tire in gazing on our regimentals. We soon gave
him the history of our travels through his native state, and of the very uncivil manner in
which his countrymen had treated us. He smiled, and bid us be thankful, for that it was entirely
of God's mercy that we had come off so well.  "Those people," continued he, "are mere Hottentots;
a set of unenlightened miserable tories, who know nothing of the grounds of the war; nothing
of the rights and blessings we are contending for; nor of the corruptions and cruelties of
the British ministry; and are therefore just as ready to fall into their destructive jaws,
as young cat-birds are to run into the mouth of a rattle-snake."

Chapter 11.

  Glorious news -- a brave army of continentals coming up --
  Marion and the author hasten to meet them at Roanoke --
  fortunately get introduced to the baron de Kalb -- polite reception
  by that amiable officer -- curious and interesting conversation.

After spending two days of very welcome repose with the elegant colonel Thatcher, we took leave
and set out for Hillsborough, where we met general Huger and colonel W. White, of the horse,
who told us the glorious news, that "Washington had sent on a gallant detachment of continentals,
who were now in full march to aid South Carolina."

Our hearts leaped for joy at the news.  So great was our impatience to see what our hearts
had so long and so fondly dwelt on, an army of friends, that we could not wait until they came
up, but hurried off instantly to meet them at Roanoke, where it was said they were crossing.
On reaching the river, we found that they had all got over, and had just formed their line
of march.  Oh! how lovely is the sight of friends in the day of our danger!  We have had many
military corps, but none had ever interested us like this.  In shining regimentals and glittering
arms, they moved before the eye of the glowing fancy like a host of heroes.

Thrice happy for man, that a veil, dark as the grave, is thrown over future events!  For how
could we, who had seen one fine army butchered at Savannah, and another captured at Charleston,
have borne up under the dreadful prospect of having this gallant armament also destroyed in
a few days!

Soon as our first paroxysm of joy had a little subsided, we moved toward head quarters, where
we had the good fortune to fall in with our old friend Col. Semp, who appeared overjoyed to
see us, and immediately offered to introduce us to the general.  His excellency Horatio Gates
was the commander in chief, but as he had not yet arrived, the command rested on that brave
old German general, the baron de Kalb.

It was to this officer that colonel Semp introduced us, and, as was usual with him, in very
flattering terms; styling us "continental colonels, and two of the wealthiest and most distinguished
patriots of South Carolina!"

I shall never forget what I felt when introduced to this gentleman. He appeared to be rather
elderly.  But though the snow of winter was on his locks, his cheeks were still reddened over
with the bloom of spring. His person was large and manly, above the common size, with great
nerve and activity; while his fine blue eyes expressed the mild radiance of intelligence and
goodness.

He received us very politely, saying he was glad to see us, "especially as we were the first
Carolinians that he had seen; which had not a little surprised him."

Observing, I suppose, that we labored under rather too much of our national weakness, I mean
modesty, he kindly redoubled his attentions to us, and soon succeeded in curing us of our reserve.

"I thought," said he, "that British tyranny would have sent great numbers of the South Carolinians
to join our arms.  But, so far from it, they are all, as we have been told, running to take
British protections. Surely they are not tired already of fighting for liberty."

We told him the reason was very plain to us, who were inhabitants of that country, and knew
very well the state of things there.

"Aye," replied he, "well, what can the reason be?"

"Why, sir," answered Marion, "the people of Carolina form but two classes, the rich and the
poor.  The poor are generally very poor, because, not being necessary to the rich, who have
slaves to do all their work, they get no employment from them.  Being thus unsupported by the
rich, they continue poor and low spirited.  They seldom get money; and indeed, what little
they do get, is laid out in brandy to raise their spirits, and not on books and newspapers
to get information.  Hence they know nothing of the comparative blessings of their own country,
nor of the great dangers which threaten it, and therefore care nothing about it.  As to the
other class, the rich, they are generally very rich, and consequently afraid to stir, unless
a fair chance offer, lest the British should burn their houses and furniture, and carry off
their negroes and stock.  But permit me to assure you, sir, that though thus kept under by
fear, they still mortally hate the British, and will, I am confident, the moment they see an
army of friends at their door, fly to their standard, like a generous pack to the sound of
the horn that calls them to the chase of a hated wolf."

The baron de Kalb smiled, and said he hoped it would be found so.

"No doubt of it at all sir," replied Marion.

The baron then invited us to dine with him, but added, smiling, that he hoped we had good military
stomachs that could relish and digest plain fare, which was all he could promise us, and perhaps
hardly enough of that.

On sitting down to table, we found that his prediction about the bill of fare, was most unwelcomely
true.  Our dinner was just half a side of a miserably poor hog, as miserably cooked; and in
such small quantity, that before we were done there was nothing of it left but a rasher, for
good manners' sake.  And as to bread, there was not even a hoe-cake! It is true, that, by way
of substitute, we had a trencher or two of sweet potatoes paraded.  Our drink was admirably
suited to the dinner; apple brandy with river water.

God forbid that I should be unmindful of his favors!  For well do I know that the least of
them is much better than the best of us deserve. On the contrary, I mention it rather as a
compliment to his heavenly bounty, which is wont to spread our tables with so many dainties,
as to cause even roast pigs and sweet potatoes to pass for a sorry meal.

Soon as dinner was over, all of us who could parade a cigar or a pipe, began to comfort our
olfactories with a puff, not forgetting our brandy the while, so that by the time we had got
well entrenched in clouds of fragrant kite-foot, we were in admirable cue for a dish of chat.
De Kalb led the way; and, as nearly as I can recollect, in the following words.

"Colonel Marion," said he, pressing the tobacco in his pipe at the same time, "can you answer
me ONE question?"

"Most gladly, general, and a THOUSAND if I can!"

"Thank you, colonel, but ONE will do."

"Be pleased then, sir, to say on."

"Well, colonel, can you tell me how old I am?"

"That's a tough question, general."

"TOUGH, colonel! pray how do you make that out?"

"Why, sir, there is a strange January and May sort of contrast between your locks and your
looks that quite confuses me. By your locks you seem to be in the winter, by your looks in
the summer of your days."

"Well but, colonel, striking the balance between the two, whereabouts do you take me to be?"

"Why, sir, in the spring and prime of life; about forty."

"Good heavens, forty!"

"Yes, sir, that's the mark; there or thereabouts."

"What! no more?"

"No, sir, not a day more; not an hour."

"Upon honor?"

"Yes, sir, upon honor; upon a soldier's honor."

"Ha! -- ha! -- ha! --  Well, colonel, I would not for a thousand guineas that your riflemen
shot as wide off the mark as you guess. The British would not dread them as they do.  Forty
years old, indeed! why what will you say, colonel, when I tell you that I have been two and
forty years a soldier."

Here we all exclaimed, "Impossible, general! impossible."

"I ask your pardon, gentlemen," replied he, "it is not at all impossible, but very certain.
Very certain that I have been two and forty years a soldier in the service of the king of France!"

"O wonderful! two and forty years!  Well then, at that rate, and pray how old, general, may
you take yourself to be?"

"Why, gentlemen," replied he, "man and boy, I am now about sixty-three."

"Good heaven! sixty-three! and yet such bloom, such flesh and blood!"

"If you are so surprised, gentlemen, at my looks at sixty-three, what would you have thought
had you seen my father at eighty-seven."

"Your father, general! he cannot be alive yet, sure."

"Alive! yes, thank God, and alive like to be, I hope, for many a good year to come yet.  Now,
gentlemen, let me tell you a little story of my father. The very Christmas before I sailed
for America, I went to see him. It was three hundred miles, at least, from Paris.  On arriving
at the house I found my dear old mother at her wheel, in her eighty-third year, mind gentlemen!!
spinning very gaily, while one of her great-granddaughters carded the wool and sung a hymn
for her.  Soon as the first transport of meeting was over, I eagerly asked for my father. 
`Do not be uneasy, my son,' said she, `your father is only gone to the woods with his three
little great-grandchildren, to cut some fuel for the fire, and they will all be here presently,
I'll be bound!'  And so it proved; for in a very short time I heard them coming along.  My
father was the foremost, with his axe under his arm, and a stout billet on his shoulder; and
the children, each with his little load, staggering along, and prattling to my father with
all their might. Be assured, gentlemen, that this was a most delicious moment to me. Thus after
a long absence, to meet a beloved father, not only alive, but in health and dear domestic happiness
above the lot of kings: also to see the two extremes of human life, youth and age, thus sweetly
meeting and mingling in that cordial love, which turns the cottage into a paradise."

In telling this little story of his aged father and his young relatives, the general's fine
countenance caught an animation which perfectly charmed us all.

The eyes of Marion sparkled with pleasure.  "General," said he, "the picture which you have
given us of your father, and his little great-grandchildren, though short, is extremely interesting
and delightful.  It confirms me in an opinion which I have long entertained, which is, that
there is more happiness in low life than in high life; in a cottage than in a castle. Pray
give us, general, your opinion of that matter."

"Why," replied De Kalb, "this opinion of yours, colonel, is not a novel one by any means. 
It was the opinion of Rousseau, Fenelon, and of many other great men, and elegant writers.
But notwithstanding such high authority, I must still beg leave to be a dissenter.  I have
seen so many people happy and also unhappy, both in cottages and castles, that I cannot but
conclude, that happiness does not belong, peculiarly, to either condition, but depends on something
very different from, and infinitely superior to both."

We eagerly asked what he alluded to.

"Why, gentlemen," replied he, "since you have been so polite as to ask my opinion, I will as
frankly give it, though I am afraid it will seem very odd, especially coming from a soldier.
However, be that as it may, my opinion you have asked, and my opinion you shall have; which
is, that religion is the only thing to make a man happy in cottages or courts."

The young officers began to stare.

Gathering from their looks, that some of the company did not relish this kind of philosophy,
he quickly thus resumed his speech.

"Pardon! gentlemen, I beg pardon! I must not be misunderstood. By `religion', I don't mean
`priest-craft'.  I don't mean that superstitious grimace; that rolling up of white eyes, and
spreading of sanctified palms; with `disfigured faces and long prayers,' and all the rest of
that holy trumpery, which, so far from making people cheerful, tends but to throw them into
the dumps. But I mean, by `religion', that divine effort of the soul, which rises and embraces
the great author of its being with filial ardor, and walks and converses with him, as a dutiful
child with his revered father. Now gentlemen, I would ask, all prejudice apart, what is there
can so exalt the mind and gladden the heart, as this high friendship with heaven, and those
immortal hopes that spring from religion?"

Here one of the company, half blushing, as palpably convicted by the truth of the general's
argument smartly called out -- "Well but, general, don't you think we can do pretty well here
in camp, without religion?"

"What!" replied De Kalb, "would you give it all up to the priests?"

"Yes, to be sure I would," said the young officer, "for I am for every man's following his
own trade, general.  They are priests, and we are soldiers. So let them do all the praying,
and we will do all the fighting."

"Why, as to the fighting part," rejoined De Kalb, "I have no objection to doing all that for
the priests, especially as their profession does not allow them to fight for themselves.  But
as to giving them up all the devotion, I confess I am not so liberal.  No! no! gentlemen, charity
begins at home; and I am not for parting with pleasure so easily."

"PLEASURE!" replied the young officer with a sneer.

"Yes, sir, PLEASURE," returned De Kalb.  "According to my creed, sir, piety and pleasure are
synonymous terms; and I should just as soon think of living physically, without bread, as of
living pleasantly, without religion.  For what is religion, as I said before, but HABITUAL
FRIENDSHIP WITH GOD?  And what can the heart conceive so delightful? Or what can so gratify
it in all its best and strongest desires. For example, gentlemen, we are all fond of honor.
I, for my part, am fond of the friendship of the king of France.  You glory in the friendship
of the great Washington.  Then what must be the glory of him who is in friendship with God?
Again, gentlemen, we are all born to love, to admire, to adore.  If a man have no love, he
is gloomy. If he love a worthless object, he is mortified.  But if he love a truly worthy object,
his face shines, his eyes sparkle, his voice becomes sweet, and his whole air expressive of
cheerfulness. And as this happy feeling must, in the nature of things, keep pace with the excellence
of the object that is beloved, then what must be the cheerfulness of him who loves the greatest,
best, and loveliest of all beings, whose eternal perfections and goodness can for ever make
him happier than heart can ask or think?

"In a word, gentlemen, though I am a soldier, and soldiers you know are seldom enthusiasts
in this way, yet I verily believe, as I said before, that a man of enlightened and fervent
piety must be infinitely happier in a cottage, than an irreligious emperor in his palace."

In the height of this extraordinary conversation, an officer stepped in and announced the arrival
of general Gates.

And here, as I have in this chapter given the reader what the jockies call a `pretty long heat',
I beg leave to order a halt and allow him a little time to breathe.

Chapter 12.

  Gen. Gates -- bon mot of British general Lee -- how an army
  ought not to march -- De Kalb prophecies -- chickens counted
  before they are hatched, alias, Marion and the author sent by Gen. Gates
  to prevent the escape of Cornwallis, before he had run --
  the British and American armies meet -- Gates and his militia-men
  leave De Kalb in the lurch -- his gallant behavior, and glorious death.

When a poor fellow is going down hill, it is but too common, they say, for every body to give
him a kick.

    "Let dogs delight to bark and bite,
    For heaven hath made them so."

But, if I know myself aright, I can truly say, that nothing of this vile spirit suggests a
syllable of what I now write of the unfortunate general Gates.  On the contrary, I feel an
ardent wish to speak handsomely of him; and in one view of him I can so speak. As a gentleman,
few camps or courts ever produced his superior. But though a perfect Chesterfield at court,
in camp he was certainly but a Paris.  'Tis true, at Saratoga he got his temples stuck round
with laurels as thick as a May-day queen with gaudy flowers. And though the greater part of
this was certainly the gallant workmanship of Arnold and Morgan, yet did it so hoist general
Gates in the opinion of the nation, that many of his dear friends, with a prudent regard, no
doubt, to their own dearer selves, had the courage to bring him forward on the military turf
and run him for the generalissimoship against the great Washington. But though they were not
able to prosper him in this mad attempt, yet they so far succeeded as to get him the command
of the army of Carolina, where his short and calamitous career soon caused every good patriot
to thank God for continuing to his servant Washington, the command of the American armies.

On his way from the northern states, general Gates passed through Fredericksburg, where he
fell in with general Charles Lee, who, in his frank manner, asked him where he was going.

"Why, to take Cornwallis."

"I am afraid," quoth Lee, "you will find him a tough piece of English beef."

"Tough, sir," replied Gates; "tough! then begad I'll tender him. I'll make `piloo' of him,
sir, in three hours after I set eyes upon him."

"Aye! will you indeed?" returned Lee.  "Well then send for me, and I will go and help you to
eat him."

Gates smiled; and bidding him adieu, rode off.  Lee bawled after him, "Take care, Gates! take
care! or your northern laurels will degenerate into southern willows."

The truth is, though general Lee was extremely splenetic, other than which, such a miserable
old bachelor and infidel could hardly be, yet he certainly had a knack of telling people's
fortunes. By virtue of this faculty he presently discovered that general Gates was no Fabius;
but on the contrary, too much inclined to the fatal rashness of his unfortunate colleague.

And so it turned out.  For, from the moment he joined the army, he appeared to act like one
who thought of nothing but to have it proclaimed of him in all the newspapers on the continent,
that in so many days, hours, minutes, and seconds, he flew from Philadelphia to South Carolina,
`saw, fought, and conquered' Cornwallis; and flew back again with the trophies of a second
British army vanquished. Instead of moving on as old De Kalb had done, with a prudent regard
to the health and refreshment of the troops, he, Jehu like, drove them on without regard to
either.  He would not take the lower road, as De Kalb earnestly advised, through a rich and
plentiful country. Oh no; that was too round about; would too long have delayed his promised glory.

Like an eagle shaking his bold pinions in the clouds of his pride, he must dash down at once
upon his prey; and so, for a near cut, take us through a pine barren, sufficient to have starved
a forlorn hope of caterpillars.  I shall make no attempt to describe the sufferings of the
army.  For, admitting that I should not lack words, my reader would, I am sure, lack faith.
Indeed, at this season, when the old crop was gone and the new not quite come in, what had
we to expect, especially in such a miserable country, where many a family goes without dinner,
unless the father can knock down a squirrel in the woods, or his pale sickly boy pick up a
terrapin in the swamps?  We did, indeed, sometimes fall in with a little corn; but then, the
poor, skinny, sun-burnt women, with long uncombed tresses, and shrivelled breasts hanging down,
would run screaming to us, with tears in their eyes, declaring that if we took away their corn,
they and their children must perish.  Such times I never saw, and I pray God, I may never see
nor hear of again; for, to this day, the bare thought of it depresses my spirits.  But perhaps
I ought to think of it, and often too, that I may be the more thankful to him who never, but
in that one instance, permitted me to suffer, except in thinking of it.

There was one case in particular which I shall never forget. Almost spent with fatigue and
fasting, we halted one evening near the house of a man, whose plantation bespoke him a tolerably
good liver. He met us with a countenance strongly marked with terror, and begged for God's
sake we would not ruin him, for that he had a large family of children to maintain.  We told
him that we were soldiers fighting for the country, and that it would never do for us to starve.
Understanding from this that we meant to forage upon him that night, he heaved a deep sigh,
and turning about, went off without saying another word.  I must confess I could not help feeling
very sensibly for him, especially when we saw his little white-headed children, in melancholy
groups, peeping at us around the corners of the house.

His young corn, which seemed to cover about fifty acres, was just in the prime, roasting ear
state, and he had also a couple of beautiful orchards of peach and apple trees, loaded with
young fruit.  Scarcely were our tents pitched, before the whole army, foot and horse, turned
in to destroy. The trees were all threshed in a trice; after which the soldiers fell, like
a herd of wild boars, upon the roasting ears, and the horses upon the blades and stalks, so
that by morning light there was no sign or symptom left that corn had ever grown there since
the creation of the world.  What became of the poor man and his children God only knows, for
by sunrise we were all under marching orders again, bending for the south.  I said ALL, but
I only meant all that were ABLE. For numbers were knocked up every night by agues, fluxes,
and other maladies, brought on by excessive fatigue and lack of food.

I once before observed how highly the baron de Kalb had been pleased to think of Marion and
myself travelling so far to meet him. His liking for us grew so fast, that we had not been
with him more than two days, before he appointed us his supernumerary aids. We were, of course,
much in his company, and entrusted, I believe, with every thought of his bosom that related
to the good of the army. He made no scruple to tell us how utterly unmilitary those proceedings
were; and frequently foretold the ruin that would ensue.

"Here," said he, "we are hurrying to attack an enemy, who, if they but knew our condition,
would long for nothing so much as our arrival.  We, two-thirds at least, raw militia; they,
all regulars. We, fatigued; they, fresh.  We, feeble and faint through long fasting; they,
from high keeping, as strong and fierce as game cocks or butchers' bull dogs.  It does not
signify, gentlemen; it is all over with us; our army is lost as sure as ever it comes into
contact with the British. I have hinted these things more than once to general Gates, but he
is an officer who will take no counsel but his own."

The truth is, general Gates was one of that crazy-brained quality, to whom it is a misfortune
to be fortunate.  The least dram of success would intoxicate and make him fool hardy.  He could
never bring himself to believe, as he used to say, that "lord Cornwallis would dare to look
him in the face."

So confident, indeed, was he of victory, that on the morning before the fatal action, he ordered
Marion and myself to hasten on to Santee river, and destroy every scow, boat or canoe, that
could assist an Englishman in his flight to Charleston!

Immediately on receiving orders, we waited on the good old De Kalb to take leave; and also
to assure him of our deep regret at parting with him.

"It is with equal regret, my dear sirs," said he, "that I part with you, because I feel a presentiment
that we part to meet no more."

We told him we hoped better things.

"Oh no!" replied he, "it is impossible.  War is a kind of game, and has its fixed rules, whereby,
when we are well acquainted with them, we can pretty correctly tell how the trial will go.
To-morrow, it seems, the die is to be cast, and in my judgment, without the least chance on
our side.  The militia will, I suppose, as usual, play the back-game, that is, get out of the
scrape as fast as their legs can carry them. But that, you know, won't do for me.  I am an
old soldier, and cannot run: and I believe I have with me some brave fellows that will stand
by me to the last.  So that, when you hear of our battle, you will probably hear that your
old friend De Kalb is at rest."

I do not know that I was ever more affected in my life. I looked at Marion and saw that his
eyes were watery.  De Kalb saw it too, and taking us by the hand, with a firm tone, and animated
look, said, "No! no! gentlemen; no emotions for me but those of congratulation. I am happy.
To die is the irreversible decree of him who made us. Then what joy to be able to meet his
decree without dismay! This, thank God, is my case.  The happiness of man is my wish, that
happiness I deem inconsistent with slavery. --  And to avert so great an evil from an innocent
people, I will gladly meet the British to-morrow, at any odds whatever."

As he spoke this, I saw a something in his eyes which at once demonstrated the divinity of
virtue and the immortality of the soul.

With sorrowful hearts we then left him, and with feelings which I shall never forget, while
memory maintains her place in this my aged brain.

"Oh my God!" said Marion, as we rode off, "what a difference does education make between man
and man!  Enlightened by her sacred ray, see here is the native of a distant country, come
to fight for our liberty and happiness, while many of our own people, for lack of education,
are actually aiding the British to heap chains and curses upon themselves and children."

It was on the morning of August the 15th, 1780, that we left the army in a good position near
Rugeley's mills, twelve miles from Camden, where the enemy lay.  About ten o'clock that night
orders were given to march to surprise the enemy, who had at the same time commenced their
march, to surprise the Americans.  To their mutual astonishment, the advance of the two armies
met about two o'clock, and began to fire on each other.  The firing, however, was soon discontinued
by both parties, who appeared very willing to leave the matter to be decided by daylight.

A council of war was called:  in which De Kalb advised that the army should fall back to Rugeley's
mills, and there, in a good position, wait to be attacked. --

But Gates not only rejected this excellent counsel, but threw out suspicions that it originated
from fear.  Upon this, the brave old De Kalb called to his servant to take his horse, and leaping
on the ground, placed himself at the head of his command, on foot.  To this indecent expression
of general Gates, he also retorted with considerable warmth, "Well, sir, a few hours perhaps
will let us see who are the brave."

It should be recorded for the benefit of our officers, many of whose laurels have been blasted
by the fumes of brandy, that general Gates was rather too fond of his nocturnal glass.

"I wonder where we shall dine to-morrow?" said one of his officers, as, in the dark, they sat
on their sleepy horses waiting for the day.

"Dine, sir!" replied the confident Gates, "why at Camden, sir, to be sure. Begad! I would not
give a pinch of snuff, sir, to be insured a beef-steak to-morrow in Camden, and lord Cornwallis
at my table."

Presently day appeared; and, as the dawning light increased, the frighted militia began to
discover the woods reddening over like crimson with the long extended lines of the British
army, which soon, with rattling drums and thundering cannon, came rushing on to the charge.
The militia, scarcely waiting to give them a distant fire, broke and fled in the utmost precipitation.
Whereupon Gates clapped spurs to his horse, and pushed hard after them, as he said, "to bring
the rascals back." But he took care never to bring himself back, nor indeed to stop until he
had fairly reached Charlotte, eighty miles from the field of battle. I remember it was common
to talk in those days, that he killed three horses in his flight.

Gates and the militia, composing two-thirds of the army, having thus shamefully taken themselves
off, the brave old De Kalb, and his handful of continentals were left alone to try the fortune
of the day. And never did men display a more determined valor!  For though outnumbered more
than two to one, they sustained the shock of the enemy's whole force, for upwards of an hour.
With equal fury the ranks-sweeping cannon and muskets were employed by both sides, until the
contending legions were nearly mixed. Then quitting this slower mode of slaughter, with rage-blackened
faces and fiery eyeballs, they plunge forward on each other, to the swifter vengeance of the
bayonet.  Far and wide the woods resound with the clang of steel, while the red reeking weapons,
like stings of infernal serpents, are seen piercing the bodies of the combatants. Some, on
receiving the fatal stab, let drop their useless arms, and with dying fingers clasped the hostile
steel that's cold in their bowels. Others, faintly crying out, "O God I am slain!" sank pale,
quivering to the ground, while the vital current gushed in hissing streams from their bursted
bosoms.  Officers, as well as men, now mingle in the uproaring strife, and snatching the weapons
of the slain, swell the horrid carnage.  Glorying in his continentals, the brave De Kalb towers
before them, like a pillar of fire. His burning face is like a red star, guiding their destructive
course; his voice, as the horn that kindles the young pack in the chase of blood. A British
grenadier, of giant size, rushes on him with a fixed bayonet. De Kalb parries the furious blow,
and plunges his sword in the Briton's breast; then, seizing his falling arms, he deals death
around him on the crowding foe.  Loud rise the shouts of the Americans; but louder still the
shouts of the more numerous enemy. The battle burns anew along all the fierce conflicting line.
There, the distant Cornwallis pushes on his fresh regiments, like red clouds, bursting in thunder
on the Americans; and here, condensing his diminished legions, the brave De Kalb still maintains
the unequal contest.  But, alas! what can valor do against equal valor, aided by such fearful
odds?  The sons of freedom bleed on every side. With grief their gallant leader marks the fall
of his heroes; soon himself to fall.  For, as with a face all inflamed in the fight, he bends
forward animating his men, he receives ELEVEN WOUNDS! Fainting with loss of blood, he falls
to the ground.  Several brave men, Britons and Americans, were killed over him, as they furiously
strove to destroy or to defend.  In the midst of the clashing bayonets, his only surviving
aid, Monsieur du Buyson, ran to him, and stretching his arms over the fallen hero, called out,
"Save the baron de Kalb! Save the baron de Kalb!"  The British officers interposed, and prevented
his immediate destruction.

It has been said that lord Cornwallis was so struck with the bravery of De Kalb, that he generously
superintended while his wounds were dressed, by his own surgeons.  It has also been said, that
he appointed him to be buried with the honors of war. British officers have been often known
to do such noble deeds, but that lord Cornwallis was capable of acting so honorably, is doubtful.

De Kalb died as he had lived, the unconquered friend of liberty. For, being kindly condoled
with by a British officer for his misfortune, he replied, "I thank you, sir, for your generous
sympathy; but I die the death I always prayed for; the death of a soldier fighting for the
rights of man."

His last moments were spent in dictating a letter to a friend concerning his continentals,
of whom he said, he "had no words that could sufficiently express his love, and his admiration
of their valor." He survived the action but a few hours, and was buried in the plains of Camden,
near which his last battle was fought.

When the great Washington, many years afterwards, came on a visit to Camden he eagerly inquired
for the grave of De Kalb.  It was shown to him. After looking on it a while, with a countenance
marked with thought, he breathed a deep sigh, and exclaimed -- "So, there lies the brave De
Kalb; the generous stranger, who came from a distant land, to fight our battles, and to water,
with his blood, the tree of our liberty. Would to God he had lived to share with us its fruits!"

Congress ordered him a monument.  But the friend of St. Tammany still sleeps "without his fame".
I have seen the place of his rest. It was the lowest spot of the plain.  No sculptured warrior
mourned at his low-laid head; no cypress decked his heel. But the tall corn stood in darkening
ranks around him, and seemed to shake their green leaves with joy over his narrow dwelling.

But the roar of his battle is not yet quite passed away, nor his ghastly wounds forgotten.

    Fair Camden's plains his glorious dust inhume,
    Where annual Ceres shades her hero's tomb.

Chapter 13.

  Marion and the author very busy in destroying the rice-makers' boats
  on Santee -- first got the news of the defeat of our army,
  and death of the brave De Kalb -- Marion addresses his followers --
  their gallant reply.

Marion and myself, as yet ignorant of the fate of the army, were on the waters of the Santee,
very busily executing our boat-burning orders. Not content with destroying the common scows
and flats of the ferries, we went on to sweep the river of every skiff and canoe that we could
lay hands on; nay, had the harmless wonkopkins been able to ferry an Englishman over the river,
we should certainly have declared war and hurled our firebrands among them.

The reader may be sure we gained no good will by our zeal in this affair; for it was a serious
thing to the planters:  and their wrath waxed exceedingly hot against us.  Among that fleet
of boats and flats that perished by our firebrands or hatchets, there were two that belonged
to my excellent old uncle, colonel E. Horry.  The old gentleman could hardly believe his negroes,
when they told him that we were destroying his boats.  However, to be satisfied of the matter,
he mounted his horse, and galloped down to the river to see. We had completely done for his
scow, and were just giving the finishing blows to his boat as he hove in sight; whereupon,
clapping whip and spur to his horse, he came on as hard as he could drive. Soon as he was within
hailing distance of an ordinary speaking trumpet, he began to bawl -- "Hold! hold! for God's
sake hold!"

Then dashing up, with cheeks red as fire coals, and his mouth all in a lather, he roared out,
"Why, what? what? what are you about here?"

"We are only trying to kidnap the British, uncle," said I.

"Kidnap the d---l," he replied.

Then looking around, and seeing how completely we had shivered his fine new boat and scow,
he ripped out again -- "Well! here is a pretty spot of work! a pretty spot of work!  A brand
new scow and boat, that cost me, only last spring, three hundred dollars! every farthing of
it! and here now all cut to smash! ruined! not worth a chew of tobacco! why! did mortal flesh
ever see the like of this?  Breaking up our boats! why, how are we to harvest our rice?"

"Uncle," said I, "you had better think less of harvesting your rice, and more of catching the
muskrats," meaning the British.

Here, darting at me an eye of inexpressible astonishment and rage, he exclaimed -- "Why, certainly
the d---l is in the young man! catch the British?  Why, have you not heard that the British
are carrying every thing before them; have broke up our army; cut the regulars to pieces; scattered
the militia; and chased general Gates to Jericho, and to the d---l for what I care?"

"God forbid!" said Marion.

"Nay, that is past praying for," replied my uncle, "and if you had any interest in heaven,
you ought to have made it sooner. It is too late now."

"Great God!" returned Marion; "and so our army is lost!"

"Yes," continued my uncle; "lost, as sure as a gun:  and that is not all; for De Kalb is killed;
Sumter surprised and cut to pieces; and Charleston illuminated every night for joy."

We could neither of us utter a word.

Presently my uncle, casting a searching eye around on our men, about thirty in number, asked
where our troops were.

I told him those were all the troops we had.

I thought the good old gentleman would have gone into fits. He rolled up his eyes to heaven;
smacked his hands together, and bringing them by a sudden jerk to his breast, with a shrill
whistle exclaimed, "Mad! -- mad! -- the young fellow is as mad as a March hare -- Well, I'll
tell you what, nephew of mine, you may go about on the river, chopping the planters' boats
at this rate, but I would not be in your coat, my lad, for your jacket, though it was stiff
with gold."

I asked him what he meant by that?

"Why, I mean," replied he, "that if you are not, all of you, knocked on the head in three hours,
it will be a wonder."

"Aye! what makes you think so, uncle," said I.

He answered:  "You know my old waiting man, Tom, don't you?"

"To be sure I do," said I; "I have known Tom ever since I was a boy, and should be confounded
sorry to hear Tom prophesy any harm of me; for I have always taken him to be a very true man
of his word."

"Yes, I'll warrant him," said my uncle; "for though Tom is a negro, and as black as old Nick,
yet I would as soon take Tom's word as that of any white man in Carolina.  Well, Tom, you know,
has a wife at Mr. ----'s, as rank a tory as we have hereabouts. On coming home this morning,
he shook his head and said he was mighty 'fraid you and Col. Marion were in a bad box; for,
that he got it from one of the black waiters in the house, who overheard the talk, that there
are THREE companies of tories now moulding their bullets, and making ready to cut you off."

I looked at Marion and saw battle in his face.

My uncle was about to invite us to the house; but Marion interrupted him by saying, "This is
no time to think of visiting;" and turning to his trumpeter, ordered him to wind his horn,
which was instantly done. Then placing himself at our head, he dashed off at a charging lope;
with equal speed we followed and soon lost sight of my uncle Horry.

On reaching the woods, Marion ordered the troop to halt and form; when, with his usual modesty,
he thus addressed us:

"Well, gentlemen, you see our situation! widely different from what it once was.  Yes, once
we were a happy people! Liberty shone upon our land, bright as the sun that gilds yon fields;
while we and our fathers rejoiced in its lovely beams, gay as the birds that enliven our forests.
But, alas! those golden days are gone, and the cloud of war now hangs dark and lowering over
our heads. Our once peaceful land is now filled with uproar and death. Foreign ruffians, braving
us up to our very firesides and altars, leave us no alternative but slavery or death.  Two
gallant armies have been marched to our assistance; but, for lack of competent commanders,
both have been lost.  That under general Lincoln, after having been duped and butchered at
Savannah, was at last completely trapped at Charleston. And that under general Gates, after
having been imprudently overmarched, is now cut up at Camden.  Thus are all our hopes from
the north entirely at an end; and poor Carolina is left to shift for herself. A sad shift indeed,
when not one in a thousand of her own children will rise to take her part; but, on the contrary,
are madly taking part with the enemy against her.  And now, my countrymen, I want to know your
minds. As to my own, that has long been made up.  I consider my life as but a moment. But I
also consider, that to fill that moment with duty, is my all. To guard my innocent country
against the evils of slavery, seems now my greatest duty; and, therefore, I am determined,
that while I live, she shall never be enslaved.  She may come to that wretched state for what
I know, but MY eyes shall never behold it.  Never shall she clank her chains in my ears, and
pointing to the ignominious badge, exclaim, "IT WAS YOUR COWARDICE THAT BROUGHT ME TO THIS."

In answer to this, we unanimously assured him, that those sentiments and resolutions were exactly
our own:  and that we were steadfastly determined to die with him, or conquer for our country.

"Well then, my brave friends," said he, "draw your swords!  Now for a circle, emblematical
of our eternal union! and pointing your blades to heaven, the bright throne of Him who made
us free, swear you will never be slaves of Britain."

Which was all most devoutly done.

Soon as this patriotic rite was performed, we all dismounted, and taking our seats on the trunks
of two fallen pines that lay conveniently parallel, we made our simple dinner of cold roots;
and for our beverage drank of the lucid stream that softly murmured by.

The reader will please to keep in mind, that our troops consisted of but thirty mounted militia;
chiefly gentlemen volunteers, armed with muskets and swords, but almost without powder and
ball. How Marion came to be at the head of this little party, it may be amusing to the reader
to hear.

Some short time before this date, 1779-80, when the war began to rage in South Carolina, a
British captain by the name of Ardeisoff came up to Georgetown in an armed vessel, and filled
the country with printed proclamations from lord Cornwallis, calling on the GOOD PEOPLE of
South Carolina to submit and take royal protections!! Numbers of the ignorant and pusillanimous
sort closed with the offer. But the nobler ones of the district, (Williamsburgh,) having no
notion of selling their liberties for a `pig in a poke', called a caucus of their own, from
whom they selected captain John James, and sent him down to master captain Ardeisoff, to know
what he would be at. This captain James, by birth an Irishman, had rendered himself so popular
in the district, that he was made a militia captain under the royal government.  But in '75,
soon as he found that the ministry were determined to tax the Americans, without allowing them
the common British right of representation, he bravely threw up his commission, declaring that
he would never serve a TYRANT. Such was the gentleman chosen by the aforesaid liberty caucus,
to go on the embassy before mentioned.  In the garb of a plain planter, James presented himself
before the haughty captain Ardeisoff, and politely asked "on what terms himself and friends
must submit?"

"What terms, sir!" replied the angry Briton, "what terms! why, no other terms, you may be sure,
than unconditional submission."

"Well but sir," answered James, very calmly, "are we not to be allowed to stay at home in peace
and quiet?"

"In peace and quiet, indeed!" replied Ardeisoff, with a sarcastic grin; "a pretty story, truly!
Stay at home in peace and quiet, heh?  No, no, sir, you have all rebelled against your king;
and if treated as you deserve, would now be dancing like dogs at the arms of the gallows. But
his majesty is merciful, sir; and now that he has graciously pardoned you, he expects you will
immediately take up arms and turn out in support of his cause."

"You are very candid, sir," said James; "and now I hope you will not be displeased with me
for being equally plain. Permit me, then, sir, to tell you that such terms will never go down
with the gentlemen whom I have the honor to represent."

"The gentlemen you have the honor to represent, you d--n-d rebel!"

Vesuvius! Aetna! and Strumbolo! what are your fires and flames, compared with those that raged
in the bosom of James, when he heard himself called a d--n-d rebel!

Instantly springing up, with eyes of lightning, he snatched up his chair, and, regardless of
consequences, laid the audacious Ardeisoff sprawling on the floor; then flying to his horse,
he mounted and made his escape. Learning from him, at his return, what they had to understand
by `British protections', his gallant constituents came at once to the resolution to arm and
fight till death, rather than hold life on such ignominious terms.  Immediately the whole force
of the district, about two hundred, able to bear arms, were mustered and placed under captains
William M`Coltery, John M`Cawley, Henry Mowizon, and our brave captain James, who was appointed
major and captain general of the whole. Feeling that distrust in themselves which is common
with raw troops, and learning that the northern army was just entering South Carolina, they
despatched a messenger to general Gates, to request that he would send them an officer who
had seen service.  Governor Rutledge, who happened at that time to be in camp, advised general
Gates by all means to send Marion.  Marion was accordingly sent; but with orders, as we have
seen, to destroy, on his route, all the boats on the Santee river, lest lord Cornwallis should
make his escape. At the time of leaving general Gates, Marion had but ten men with him; but
on reaching Santee, we were joined by major John James, with about twenty gallant gentlemen
volunteers, making his whole force about thirty.

A slender force, to be sure, to oppose to the tremendous powers which Marion had to encounter!
But, "the Lord is king, the victory is his!" and when he pleases to give it to an oppressed
people, he can make the few and feeble overcome the many and mighty.

As the brave major James may perhaps be mentioned no more in this history, I must gratify the
reader by informing him, that the noble major lost nothing by his attachment to duty and the
rights of man.  He lived to see Cornwallis, Tarleton, and Rawdon, laid as low as the insolent
Ardeisoff; and after enjoying many years of sweet repose, under the pleasant shade of peace
and plenty, he sunk gently to rest.  But though now fallen asleep, he still lives in his country's
gratitude, and in the virtues of his son, who fills one of the highest places in the judiciary
of his native state.

Chapter 14.

  Carolina apparently lost -- Marion almost alone keeps the field --
  begins to figure -- surprises a strong British party at Nelson's old field
  -- scourges the tories at Black Mingo -- again smites them hip and thigh
  on Pedee.

The history of the American Revolution is a history of miracles, all bearing, like sunbeams,
on this heavenly fiat:  "America shall be free!"

Some of our chimney-corner philosophers can hardly believe, when they read of Samson making
such a smash among the Philistines with the jawbone of an ass.  Then how will they believe
what I am going to tell them of Marion?  How will they believe that, at a time when the British
had completely overrun South Carolina; their headquarters at Charleston, a victorious army
at Camden; strong garrisons at Georgetown and Jacksonborough, with swarms of thievish and bloody
minded tories, filling up all between; and the spirits of the poor whigs so completely cowed,
that they were fairly knocked under to the civil and military yoke of the British, who, I ask
again, will believe, that in this desperate state of things, one little, swarthy, French-phizzed
Carolinian, with only thirty of his ragged countrymen, issuing out of the swamps, should have
dared to turn his horse's head towards this all conquering foe?

Well, Marion was that man.  He it was, who, with his feeble force, dared to dash up at once
to Nelson's ferry, on the great war path between the British armies at Charleston and Camden.

"Now, my gallant friends," said he, at sight of the road, and with a face burning for battle,
"now look sharp! here are the British wagon tracks, with the sand still falling in! and here
are the steps of their troops passing and repassing. We shall not long be idle here!"

And so it turned out.  For scarcely had we reached our hiding place in the swamp, before in
came our scouts at half speed, stating that a British guard, with a world of American prisoners,
were on their march for Charleston.

"How many prisoners do you suppose there were?" said Marion.

"Near two hundred," replied the scouts.

"And what do you imagine was the number of the British guard?"

"Why, sir, we counted about ninety."

"Ninety!" said Marion with a smile; "ninety!  Well, that will do. And now, gentlemen, if you
will only stand by me, I've a good hope that we thirty will have those ninety by to-morrow's
sunrise."

We told him to lead on, for that we were resolved to die by his side.

Soon as the dusky night came on, we went down to the ferry, and passing for a party of good
loyalists, we easily got set over.  The enemy, with their prisoners, having just effected the
passage of the river as the sun went down, halted at the first tavern, generally called "the
Blue House", where the officers ordered supper.  In front of the building, was a large arbor,
wherein the topers were wont to sit, and spend the jocund night away in songs and gleeful draughts
of apple brandy grog. In this arbor, flushed with their late success, sat the British guard;
and tickler after tickler swilling, roared it away to the tune of "Britannia strike home":
till overcome with fatigue, and the opiate juice, down they sunk, deliciously beastified, to
the ground.

Just as the cock had winded his last horn for day we approached the house in perfect concealment,
behind a string of fence, within a few yards of it. But in spite of all our address, we could
not effect a complete surprisal of them.  Their sentinels took the alarm, and firing their
pieces, fled into the yard.  Swift as lightning we entered with them, and seizing their muskets,
which were all stacked near the gate, we made prisoners of the whole party, without having
been obliged to kill more than three of them.

Had Washington and his whole army been upon the survivors, they could hardly have roared out
louder for quarter. After securing their arms, Marion called for their captain; but he was
not to be found, high nor low, among the living or dead. However, after a hot search, he was
found up the chimney! He begged very hard that we would not let his men know where he had concealed
himself.  Nothing could equal the mortification of the British, when they came to see what
a handful of militia-men had taken them, and recovered all their prisoners.

Marion was at first in high hopes, that the American regulars whom he had so gallantly rescued,
would, to a man, have joined his arms, and fought hard to avenge their late defeat.  But equally
to HIS surprise and their own disgrace, not one of them could be prevailed on to shoulder a
musket!  "Where is the use," said they, "of fighting now, when all is lost?"

This was the general impression.  And indeed except these unconquerable spirits, Marion and
Sumter, with a few others of the same heroic stamp, who kept the field, Carolina was no better
than a British province.

In our late attack on the enemy, we had but four rounds of powder and ball; and not a single
sword that deserved the name.  But Marion soon remedied that defect.  He bought up all the
old saw blades from the mills, and gave them to the smiths, who presently manufactured for
us a parcel of substantial broadswords, sufficient, as I have often seen, to kill a man at
a single blow.

From our prisoners in the late action, we got completely armed; a couple of English muskets,
with bayonets and cartouch-boxes, to each of us, with which we retreated into Britton's Neck.

We had not been there above twenty-four hours before news was brought us by a trusty friend,
that the tories, on Pedee, were mustering, in force, under a captain Barfield.  This, as we
learnt afterwards, was one of the companies that my uncle's old coachman had been so troubled
about.  We were quickly on horseback; and after a brisk ride of forty miles, came upon their
encampment, at three o'clock in the morning.  Their surprise was so complete, that they did
not fire a single shot!  Of forty-nine men, who composed their company, we killed and took
about thirty. The arms, ammunition, and horses of the whole party, fell into our hands, with
which we returned to Britton's Neck, without the loss of a man.

The rumor of these two exploits soon reached the British and their friends the tories, who
presently despatched three stout companies to attack us.  Two of the parties were British;
one of them commanded by major Weymies, of house-burning memory.  The third party were altogether
tories.  We fled before them towards North Carolina. Supposing they had entirely scouted us,
they gave over the chase, and retreated for their respective stations; the British to Georgetown,
and the tories to Black Mingo.  Learning this, from the swift mounted scouts whom he always
kept close hanging upon their march, Marion ordered us to face about, and dog them to their
encampment, which we attacked with great fury.  Our fire commenced on them at but a short distance,
and with great effect; but outnumbering us, at least two to one, they stood their ground and
fought desperately.  But losing their commander, and being hard pressed, they at length gave
way, and fled in the utmost precipitation, leaving upwards of two-thirds of their number, killed
and wounded, on the ground. --  The surprise and destruction of the tories would have been
complete, had it not been for the alarm given by our horses' feet in passing Black Mingo bridge,
near which they were encamped.  Marion never afterwards suffered us to cross a bridge in the
night, until we had first spread our blankets on it, to prevent noise.

This third exploit of Marion rendered his name very dear to the poor whigs, but utterly abominable
to the enemy, particularly the tories, who were so terrified at this last handling, that, on
their retreat, they would not halt a moment at Georgetown, though twenty miles from the field
of battle; but continued their flight, not thinking themselves safe, until they had got Santee
river between him and them.

These three spirited charges, having cost us a great deal of rapid marching and fatigue, Marion
said he would give us "a little rest". So he led us down into Waccamaw, where he knew we had
some excellent friends; among whom were the Hugers and Trapiers, and Alstons; fine fellows!
rich as Jews, and hearty as we could wish:  indeed the wealthy captain, now colonel William
Alston, was one of Marion's aids.

These great people all received us as though we had been their brothers, threw open the gates
of their elegant yards for our cavalry, hurried us up their princely steps; and, notwithstanding
our dirt and rags, ushered us into their grand saloons and dining rooms, where the famous mahogany
sideboards were quickly covered with pitchers of old amber colored brandy, and sugar dishes
of double refined, with honey, for drams and juleps.  Our horses were up to the eyes in corn
and sweet-scented fodder; while, as to ourselves, nothing that air, land, or water could furnish,
was good enough for us. Fish, flesh, and fowl, all of the fattest and finest, and sweetly graced
with the smiles of the great ladies, were spread before us, as though we had been kings:  while
Congress and Washington went round in sparkling bumpers, from old demijohns that had not left
the garret for many a year.

This was feasting indeed!  It was a feasting of the soul as well as of the sense.  To have
drawn the sword for liberty and dear country's sake, was, of itself, no mean reward to honest
republicans; but, beside that, to be so honored and caressed, by the great ones of the land,
was like throwing the zone of Venus over the waist of Minerva, or like crowning profit with
pleasure, and duty with delight.

In consequence of the three fortunate blows which he had lately struck, Marion, as before observed,
was getting the enviable honor to be looked up to as the rallying point of the poor whigs;
insomuch, that although afraid as mice to stir themselves, yet, if they found out that the
tories and British were any where forming encampments about the country, they would mount their
boys and push them off to Marion to let him know.  Here I must give the reader an instance
on the spot.

We had just got ourselves well braced up again, by rest and high feeding, among the noble whigs
of Waccamaw, when a likely young fellow at half speed drove up one morning to the house, and
asked for general Marion.

Marion went to the door.

"Well, my son, what do you want with me?"

"Why, sir general," replied the youth, "daddy sent me down to let you know, as how there is
to be a mighty gathering of the tories, in our parts, to-morrow night."

"Aye indeed! and pray whereabouts, my son, may your parts be?"

"Heigh, sir general! don't you know where our parts is? I thought everybody knowed where daddy
lives."

"No, my son, I don't; but, I've a notion he lives somewhere on Pedee; perhaps a good way up."

"Yes, by jing, does he live a good way up! a matter of seventy miles; clean away up there,
up on Little Pedee."

"Very well, my son, I thank your daddy, and you too, for letting me know it. And, I believe,
I must try to meet the tories there."

"O la, sir general, try to meet 'em indeed! yes, to be sure! dear me, sirs, hearts alive, that
you must, sir general! for daddy says, as how, he is quite sartin, if you'll be there to-morrow
night, you may make a proper smash among the tories; for they'll be there thick and threefold.
They have heard, so they say, of your doings, and are going to hold this great meeting, on
purpose to come all the way down here after YOU."

"After me?"

"Yes, indeed are they, sir general! and you had better keep a sharp look out, I tell you now;
for they have just been down to the British, there at Georgetown, and brought up a matter of
two wagon loads of guns; great big English muskets!  I can turn my thumb in them easy enough!
And, besides them plaguy guns, they have got a tarnal nation sight of pistols! and bagonets!
and swords! and saddles! and bridles! and the dear knows what else besides! so they are in
a mighty good fix, you may depend, sir general."

"Well, perhaps you and I may have some of them fine things to-morrow night. What say you to
it, my son?"

"By jing, I should like it proper well!  But, to be sure, now, sir general, you look like a
mighty small man to fight them great big tories there, on Pedee.  But daddy says as how the
heart is all:  and he says, too, that though you are but a little man, you have a monstrous
great heart."

Marion smiled, and went out among his men, to whom he related the boy's errand; and desired
them to question him, so that there might be no trick in the matter.  But every scruple of
that sort was quickly removed; for several of our party were well acquainted with the lad's
father, and knew him to be an excellent whig.

Having put our firearms in prime order for an attack, we mounted; and giving our friends three
cheers, dashed off, just as the broad-faced moon arose; and by daybreak next morning, had gained
a very convenient swamp, within ten miles of the grand tory rendezvous.  To avoid giving alarm,
we struck into the swamp, and there, man and horse, lay snug all day. About eleven o'clock,
Marion sent out a couple of nimble-footed young men, to conceal themselves near the main road,
and take good heed to what was going on.  In the evening they returned, and brought word, that
the road had been constantly alive with horsemen, tories they supposed, armed with new guns,
and all moving on very gaily towards the place the lad had told us of.  Soon as it was dark,
we mounted, and took the track at a sweeping gallop, which, by early supper time, brought us
in sight of their fires.  Then leaving our horses under a small guard, we advanced quite near
them, in the dark without being discovered; for so little thought had they of Marion, that
they had not placed a single sentinel, but were, all hands, gathered about the fire:  some
cooking, some fiddling and dancing, and some playing cards, as we could hear them every now
and then bawling out, "Huzza, at him again, damme! aye, that's the dandy!  My trick, begad!"

Poor wretches, little did they think how near the fates were grinning around them.

Observing that they had three large fires, Marion divided our little party of sixty men into
three companies, each opposite to a fire, then bidding us to take aim, with his pistol he gave
the signal for a general discharge.  In a moment the woods were all in a blaze, as by a flash
of lightning, accompanied by a tremendous clap of thunder. Down tumbled the dead; off bolted
the living; loud screamed the wounded; while far and wide, all over the woods, nothing was
to be heard but the running of tories, and the snorting of wild bounding horses, snapping the
saplings.  Such a tragi-comedy was hardly ever seen. On running up to their fires, we found
we had killed twenty-three, and badly wounded as many more; thirteen we made prisoners; poor
fellows who had not been grazed by a bullet, but were so frightened that they could not budge
a peg.  We got eighty-four stand of arms, chiefly English muskets and bayonets, one hundred
horses, with new saddles and bridles, all English too, with a good deal of ammunition and baggage.
The consternation of the tories was so great that they never dreamt of carrying off anything.
Even their fiddles and fiddle bows, and playing cards, were all left strewed around their fires.
One of the gamblers, (it is a serious truth) though shot dead, still held the cards hard gripped
in his hands. Led by curiosity to inspect this strange sight, a dead gambler, we found that
the cards which he held were ace, deuce, and jack. Clubs were trumps.  Holding high, low, jack,
and the game, in his own hand, he seemed to be in a fair way to do well; but Marion came down
upon him with a trump that spoiled his sport, and non-suited him for ever.

But the most comfortable sight of all, was the fine supper which the tories had cooked! three
fat roasted pigs and six turkeys, with piles of nice journey cakes.  'Tis true, the dead bodies
lay very thick round the fires:  but having rode seventy miles, and eating nothing since the
night before, we were too keen set to think of standing on trifles; so fell upon the poor tories'
provisions, and made the heartiest supper in the world.  And, to crown all, we found among
the spoil, upwards of half a barrel of fine old peach brandy.

"Ah, this brandy!" said Marion, "was the worst foe these poor rogues ever had. But I'll take
care it shall be no foe to us."  So, after ordering half a pint to each man, he had the balance
put under guard. And I must observe, by way of justice to my honored friend, that success never
seemed to elate him; nor did ever he lose sight of safety in the blaze of victory.  For instantly
after the defeat, our guns were all loaded and our sentinels set, as if an enemy had been in
force in the neighborhood.

Chapter 15.

  The whigs in high spirits on account of our success --
  an express from Governor Rutledge -- promotions -- British and tories
  in great wrath -- sketch of their treatment of the patriots.

The news of this fourth overthrow of the enemy, was soon spread far and wide among both our
friends and foes; producing everywhere the liveliest emotions of joy or sorrow, according as
the hearers happened to be well or ill affected towards us.  The impression which it made on
our honored executive, was sweeter to our thoughts than honey or the honeycomb.  For on the
fifth day after our last flaggellation of the tories, in came an express from governor Rutledge,
with a commission of brigadier general for Marion, and a full colonel's commission for me.
Having always looked up to my country as to a beloved mother, whose liberty and prosperity
were inseparably connected with my own, it is no wonder that I should have been so delighted
at hearing her say, by her favorite son, governor Rutledge, that, `reposing especial trust
in my courage, conduct, and attention to her interests, she had appointed me a colonel in her
armies,' &c. &c.

Scarcely had I perused my commission, before Marion reached me HIS; and with a smile, desired
me to read it.  Soon as I came to his new title, "brigadier general", I snatched his hand and
exclaimed, "Huzza! God save my friend! my noble GENERAL MARION! general! general! Aye that
will do! that will do! that sounds somewhat in unison with your deserts."

"Well, but what do you think of the style," replied he, "and of the prerogative -- is it not
prodigiously in the pompous?"

"Not at all," said I.

"No," continued he; "why now to MY notion, it is very much in the turgid, in the Asiatic. 
It gives me dominions from river to river, and from the mountains to the great sea, like Tamerlane
or Ghengis Khan; or like George III. `by the grace of God, king of Great Britain, FRANCE,'
&c. &c. whereas, poor George dares not set a foot there, even to pick up a periwinkle!"

"Well, but general," said I, "as the English gave France to George because they wish him to
have it, so I suppose the good governor gives you this vast district for the same reason."

"Perhaps so," replied Marion.

The truth is, governor Rutledge was a most ardent lover of his country; and, therefore, almost
adored such an unconquerable patriot as Marion.

Hence, when he found, that notwithstanding the many follies and failures of northern generals
and armies; notwithstanding the victories, and proclamations, and threats of Cornwallis and
Tarleton, Marion still stood his ground, and fought and conquered for Carolina; his whole soul
was so filled with love of him, that I verily believe he would have given him "all the kingdoms
of the earth and the glory thereof," had they been in his gift.  Indeed what he did give him
was sketched out with a prodigiously bold hand.  He gave him all that territory, comprehended
within a line drawn from Charleston along the sea, to Georgetown; thence westerly to Camden;
and thence to Charleston again; making a domain of extent, population, and wealth, immense;
but over which the excellent governor had no more power to grant military jurisdiction, than
to give kingdoms in the moon; for the whole of it was in the hands of the British, and their
friends the tories; so that the governor had not a foot to give Marion; nor did Marion hold
a foot of it but by his own vigilance and valor; which were so extraordinary, that his enemies,
with all their men, money, and malice, could never drive him out of it.

But while governor Rutledge, with all the good whigs of the state, were thus heartily rejoicing
with Marion for his victories, the British and tories were as madly gnashing their teeth upon
him for the same.  To be struck four such severe blows, in so short a time, and all rising
one over another in such cursed climax of bad to worse; to be losing, in this manner, their
dear allies, with all their subsidies of arms, ammunition, and money; to have their best friends
thus cooled; their worst enemies thus heated; and rank rebellion again breaking up, out of
a soil where they had promised themselves nothing but the richest fruits of passive obedience:
and all this by a little, ugly spawn of a Frenchman!  It was too much! they could not stand
it. Revenge they must and would have; that was certain:  and since, with all their efforts,
they could not get at Marion, the hated trunk and root of all, they were determined to burn
and sweat his branches, the poor whigs, i.e. to carry the curses of fire and sword through
all their families and habitations.

Now, had this savage spirit appeared among a few poor British cadets, or piney wood tories,
it would not have been so lamentable. Their ignorance of those divine truths, which exalt the
soul above such hellish passions, would have furnished some plea for them. But, that a British
general, and that general a nobleman! a lord! with an archbishop for his brother, and hot-pressed
bibles, and morocco prayer books, and all such excellent helps, to teach him that "God is love",
and "mercy his delight"; that such a one, I say, should have originated the infernal warfare,
of plundering, burning, and hanging the American patriots, is most HORRIBLE.  And yet, if possible,
more true than horrible.  Yes, sure as the day of doom, when that fearful day shall come, and
lord Cornwallis, stript of his "brief authority", shall stand, a trembling ghost before that
equal bar:  then shall the evil spirit, from the black budget of his crimes, snatch the following
bloody order, and grinning an insulting smile, flash it before his lordship's terrified optics.

                                   August 18, 1780,
  To lieutenant colonel Cruger, commandant at the British garrison
    at Ninety-Six.

Sir,

I have given orders that all the inhabitants of this province, who had submitted, and who have
taken a part in this revolt, shall be punished with the greatest rigour; that they shall be
imprisoned, and their whole property taken from them or destroyed.

This order of lord Cornwallis proved to South Carolina like the opening of Pandora's box. 
Instantly there broke forth a torrent of cruelties and crimes never before heard of in our
simple forests. Lord Rawdon acted, as we shall see, a shameful part in these bloody tragedies,
and so did colonel Tarleton.  But the officer who figured most in executing the detestable
orders of Cornwallis, was a major Weymies. This man was, by birth, a Scotsman; but, in principle
and practice, a Mohawk. So totally destitute was he of that amiable sympathy which belongs
to his nation, that, in sailing up Winyaw bay, and Waccamaw and Pedee rivers, he landed, and
pillaged, and burnt every house he durst approach! Such was the style of his entry upon our
afflicted state, and such the spirit of his doings throughout:  for wherever he went, an unsparing
destruction awaited upon his footsteps.

Unhappily, our country had but too many pupils that fitted exactly such a preceptor.  The lazy,
dram-drinking, plunder-loving tories, all gloried in major Weymies:  and were ever ready, at
the winding of his horn, to rush forth with him, like hungry bloodhounds, on his predatory
excursions. The dogs of hell were all now completely uncoupled, and every devilish passion
in man had its proper game to fly at. Here was a fine time for MALICE to feed her ancient grudges;
for AVARICE to cram her maw with plunder; and REVENGE to pay off her old scores, with bloody
interest.

A thievish tory, who had been publicly whipped by a whig magistrate, or had long coveted his
silver tankard, or his handsome rifle, or his elegant horse, had but to point out his house
to major Weymies, and say, "There lives a d----d rebel."  The amiable major and his myrmidons,
would surround the noble building in a trice; and after gutting it of all its rich furniture,
would reduce it to ashes.  It was in vain that the poor delicate mother and her children, on
bended knees, with wringing hands and tear-swimming eyes implored him to pity, and not to burn
their house over their heads.  Such eloquence, which has often moved the breasts of savages,
was all lost on major Weymies and his banditti.  They no more regarded the sacred cries of
angel-watched children than the Indians do the cries of the young beavers, whose houses they
are breaking up.

But, oh, joy eternal!  "THE LORD IS KING."  His law is love, and they who sin against this
law, soon or late, shall find that they have sinned against their own souls.

A planter, in his fields, accidentally turning towards his house, suddenly discovers a vast
column of smoke bursting forth, and ascending in black curling volumes to heaven.  "Oh my God!
my house!" he exclaims, "my poor wife and children!"  Then, half bereft of his senses, he sets
off and runs towards his house. --  Still, as he cuts the air, he groans out, "Oh, my poor
wife and children!"  Presently he hears their cries:  he sees them at a distance with outstretched
arms flying towards him.  Oh, pa! pa! pa! his children tremblingly exclaim; while his wife,
all pale and out of breath, falls on his bosom, and, feebly crying out, "The BRITISH! oh the
British," sinks into a swoon.

Who can tell the feelings of the father and the husband!  His wife convulsed in his arms! his
little beggared children screaming around him! and his property all sinking to ruin, by merciless
enemies! Presently his wife, after a strong fit, with a deep sigh, comes to herself; he wipes
her tears; he embraces and hushes his children.  By and bye, supposing the British to be gone,
arm in arm the mournful group return. But ah, shocking sight! their once stately mansion which
shone so beauteous on the plain, the pride and pleasure of their eyes, is now the prey of devouring
flames.  Their slaves have all disappeared; their stock, part is taken away, part lies bleeding
in the yard, stabbed by bayonets; their elegant furniture, tables, glasses, clocks, beds, all
is swallowed up.  An army of passing demons could have done no worse. But while with tearful
eye they are looking round on the wide-spread ruin, undermined by the fire, down comes the
tall building with thundering crash to the ground.  The frightened mourners start aghast from
the hideous squelch, and weep afresh to see all the hopes and glories of their state thus suddenly
ended in smoke and ashes.

It was in this way exactly that the British treated my brother, major Hugh Horry, as brave
a soldier as ever fought in America. They laid in ashes all his dwelling houses, his barns
of clean rice, and even his rice stacks!  Destroyed his cattle; carried off eighty negroes,
which were all he had, not leaving him one to bake him a cake. Thus, in one hour, as the wild
Arabs served Job, did the British serve my poor brother, breaking him up root and branch; and,
from a state of affluence, reduced him to a dunghill.

These savage examples, first set by the British, and followed by the tories, soon produced
the effect which Marion had all along predicted. They filled the hearts of the sufferers with
the deadliest hate of the British; and brought them, in crowds, to join his standard, with
muskets in their hands, and vows of revenge eternal in their mouths.

Hence it was that nothing so pleased Marion as to hear of British cruelty to his countrymen.

"'Tis a harsh medicine," he used to say, "but it is necessary; for there is nothing else that
will work them.  And unless they are well worked and scoured of their mother milk, or beastling
partiality to the English, they are lost. Our country is like a man who has swallowed a mortal
poison. Give him an anodyne to keep him easy, and he's a dead man. But if you can only knock
him about, and so put the poison in motion as to make him deadly sick at the stomach, and heave
like a dog with a bone in his throat, he is safe.  Cornwallis has all this time been lulling
them by his proclamations, and protections, and lies. But, thank God, that time is pretty well
over now; for these unfeeling monsters, these children of the devil, have let out the cloven
foot, and the thing is now beginning to work as I expected.  Our long deluded people are opening
their eyes, and beginning to see and smell the blood and burnings of that `Tophet', that political
hell of slavery and ruin, to which the British army is now endeavoring, by murder and rapine,
to reduce them."

This was truly the case:  for, every day the whigs were coming into Marion's camp.  Those who
were too old to fight themselves, would call upon their sturdy boys to "turn out and join general
Marion."

It was diverting to see how they would come staving upon their tackies; belted round with their
powderhorns and shotbags, with rifles in hand, and their humble homespun streaming in the air.
The finely curling smile brightened in the face of Marion; and his eye beamed that laughing
joy, with which a father meets his thoughtless boy, returning dirty and beaten by blackguards,
from whose dangerous company he had sought in vain a thousand times to wean him.

"Well, my son!" Marion would say, "and what good news do you bring us?"

"Why, why, why, sir general," replies the youth, half cocked with rage, and stammering for
words, "as I was overlooking my father's negroes in the rice grounds, the British and tories
came and took them and carried them all away; and I only am left alone to tell you."

Presently another comes and says:  "As I was driving the horses and cattle down to the pasture,
the British and tories fell upon them, and carried them all away; and I alone am left to tell you."

While he was yet speaking, another comes and says:  "The British and tories came with fire
and burnt our houses and goods, and have driven my mother and the children into the woods;
and I only am left alone to tell you."

Next comes another, who says:  "My father and myself were ploughing together in the field,
and the British and tories came upon us and shot my father! and I only am left alone to tell you."

Another comes and tells, that "lord Rawdon is taking the whig prisoners every week, out of
the jail in Camden, and hanging them up by half dozens, near the windows, like dead crows in
a corn-field, to frighten the rest, and make good tories of them."

Another states, that "colonel Charles Pinckney, prisoner in Charleston, for striking a couple
of insolent negroes, was cursed by the British officers as a d----d rebel, and driven with
kicks and blows into the house, for daring to strike his `Britannic Majesty's subjects'!"

Here Marion snapped his fingers for joy, and shouted, "Huzza! that's right! that's right! 
O my noble Britons, lay on! lay on the spaniels stoutly! they want British protections, do
they?  O the rogues! show them no quarter, but give it to them handsomely! break their backs
like dogs! cut them over the face and eyes like cats! bang them like asses! thank ye! thank
ye, Cornwallis and Rawdon! most noble lords, I thank ye! you have at last brought the wry face
upon my countrymen, the cold sweat, the sardonic grin.  Thank God! the potion begins to work!
huzza, my sons! heave! heave! aye, there comes the bile; the atrabiliary; the black vomiting
which portends death to the enemy.  Now Britons, look to your ships, for Carolina will soon
be too hot to hold you."

Chapter 16.

  Colonel Tynes, the famous tory partisan, attempts to surprise Marion --
  is himself surprised and taken, with nearly all his party --
  the author, with thirty choice cavaliers, sent by Marion to reconnoitre --
  defeat of a British party of horse -- anecdote of Scotch Macdonald --
  surprise and slaughter of the tories -- captain Lewis is killed --
  anecdote of an extraordinary lad.

Soon after this last victory on Pedee, Marion moved down into the neighborhood of Black river;
where he instantly got notice, that a large body of tories under the celebrated Col. Tynes,
were making great preparations to attack him.  This Tynes was a man of valor and address worthy
of a better cause.  In several contests with the whigs, he had handled them very roughly; and
was become such a terror to the friends of liberty in that part of the world, that they were
greatly alarmed on finding that he was mustering all his forces to attack Marion.  We were
scarcely encamped, before three expresses arrived from the whig settlements on Black river,
stating colonel Tynes' movements; and advising to keep a good look out, for that he was a very
artful and dangerous fellow.  According to their conjectures, colonel Tynes must have had no
less than one hundred and fifty men: our number did not quite reach ninety, but they were all
volunteers, and exceedingly chafed and desperate in their minds, by the barbarous usage of
the British and tories.  Having, by this day's march of fifty miles, got within twenty miles
of the enemy, who supposed that we were still on Pedee, Marion instantly resolved to attack
him that night. No sooner was this made known to the troops, than the fatigues of the day appeared
to be entirely forgotten.  All hands fell to work, currying, rubbing and feeding their horses,
like young men preparing for a ball or barbecue.  Then after a hearty supper and a few hours'
sleep, we all sprung upon our chargers again, and dashed off about one o'clock, to try our
fortune with colonel Tynes.  Just before day, we came upon the enemy, whom we found buried
in sleep.  The roar of our guns first broke their slumbers; and by the time the frightened
wretches had got upon their legs, man and horse, we were among them hewing down. Three and
thirty fell under our swords; forty-six were taken; the rest, about sixty, made their escape.
Colonel Tynes himself, with upwards of one hundred horses, and all the baggage, fell into our
hands.  About midnight we crossed Black river; and, pushing on in great silence through the
dark woods, arrived at dawn of day near the enemy's sentries, where we lay in ambush close
on the road.  Just after the usual hour of breakfast, a chair, with a couple of young ladies,
'squired by a brace of British officers elegantly mounted, came along at a sweeping rate from
Georgetown.

They had not passed us more than fifty steps, before they stopped short. I was confoundedly
afraid at first that they had, somehow or other, smelt a rat; but it turned out, as we afterwards
learned, that this was only a little courting party, going into the country to dine. On getting
into the gloomy woods, the girls were taken with a quaking fit for their sweethearts, lest
that vile "swamp fox", as they called Marion, should come across them.  Whereupon the halt
aforesaid was ordered, and a consultation held; the result of which was, that the girls should
go on to their friend's house, and the officers back to town for a party of dragoons.  Accordingly
the chair proceeded, and the officers galloped back by us, undisturbed; for we did not think
it worth while to risk an alarm for the sake of a couple of officers. Presently beginning to
feel very hungry, for we had travelled all night and eaten nothing, we agreed to retire to
the house of a neighboring planter, who was known to be a good whig.  As we entered the yard,
what should we see but the identical chair that had passed us a little before! -- and on stepping
into the house behold the very same young ladies! They were richly dressed, and well formed,
and would no doubt have appeared handsome, but for the hostile passions which glared from their
eyes, and gave their whole physiognomy a fury-like expression. They asked us, with great pertness,
"what business we had there? The gentleman of the house," continued they, "is not at home,
and there are no provisions here for you, and to be sure, you are too much of gentlemen to
think of frightening a family of poor helpless women!"

Happily I made no reply; for while these young viragoes were catechising us at this rate, I
discovered with much pleasure, that the lady of the house did not utter a word, but walked
the room backward and forward with a smiling countenance.  Presently she went out; and showing
herself at an opposite window, beckoned me to come to her; when she said, in a low voice, "Go
back into the house, I'll be there directly. On my stepping in you must demand provisions;
I will deny that I have any. You must then get into a violent passion, and swear you will have
them, or set the house on fire.  I will then throw down the keys, and you can take just what
you want; for thank God, there is enough, both for you and your horses."

Such was the farce, which the whigs in those days, both ladies and gentlemen, were obliged
to play, when they had any of their tory acquaintance about them. We now played it, and with
the desired success; for the troughs in the yard were all presently filled with corn and fodder
for our cavalry; while for ourselves the good-natured cook wenches soon served up a most welcome
repast of fried bacon and eggs, with nice hearth cakes and butter and milk.  "God be praised,"
said we; and down we sat, and made a breakfast, of which even kings, without exercise and keen
appetites, can form no idea.

Just as we had got completely refreshed, and braced up again, what should we hear but the firing
of our sentinels.  "To horse! to horse! my brave fellows!" was the cry of one and all.  Quick
as thought, we were all mounted and formed, when in came our sentinels, with the British dragoons
hard after them, smack up to the fence. Charge boys, charge! was the word.  In a moment the
yard was bright with the shining of our swords.  The tory girls shrieked out for their sweethearts
-- "Oh the British! the British! murder! murder!  Oh!" Then off we went, all at once, in solid
column.  The enemy took to their heels, and we pursued.  Over the fence we bounded like stags.
Down the hill went the British.  Down the hill went we; helter-skelter, man and horse, we flew;
roaring through the woods like the sound of distant thunder.

We were all excellently mounted; but there was no horse that could hold the way with Selim.
He was the hindmost of all when the chase began; and I wondered at first what had become of
Selim; but presently I saw him and Macdonald coming up on my right like a thundergust.  Indeed,
with his wide-spread nostrils, and long extended neck, and glaring eyeballs, he seemed as a
flying dragon in chase of his prey.  He soon had his master up with the enemy.  I saw when
Macdonald drew his claymore.  The shining of his steel was terrible, as, rising on his stirrups,
with high-lifted arm, he waved it three times in fiery circles over his head, as if to call
up all his strength. Then, with a voice of thunder, he poured his charging shout, dreadful
as the roar of the lion when, close up to his game, with hideous paws unclenched, he makes
his last spring on the fat buffaloes of his chase.

Though their mortal enemy, I could not but pity the poor fugitives, for I saw that their death
was at hand.  One of the British officers fired a pistol at him, but without effect:  before
he could try another, he was cut down by Macdonald.  After this, at a blow a piece, he sealed
the eyes of three dragoons in lasting sleep. Two fell beneath the steel of the strong-handed
Snipes; nor did my sword return bloodless to its scabbard.  In short, of the whole party, consisting
of twenty-five, not a man escaped, except one officer, who, in the heat of the chase and carnage,
cunningly shot off, at right angles, for a swamp, which he luckily gained, and so cleared himself.

The name of this officer was Meriot, and as finished a gentleman he was too, as I ever saw.
I got acquainted with him after the war, at New York. Soon as the ceremony of introduction
was over, he smiled, and asked if I were not in the skirmish just related?  On being answered
in the affirmative, he again inquired, if I did not recollect how handsomely one of the British
officers gave me the slip that day? I told him I did.  "Well," continued he, "I was that officer;
and of all the frights I ever had in my life, that was the most complete. I was well nigh taking
an oath never to forgive you, during breath, for frightening me so confoundedly.  But, away
with all malice! let it go to the devil, where it belongs.  So come, you must go dine with
me, and I'll show you a lovelier woman than either of those that rode in the chair that day."

I went with him, and was introduced to his wife, a lovely woman indeed! to whom, with great
glee, he related the whole history of the chase, and his own narrow escape, and then laughed
very heartily.  But not so his gentle partner.  For, as he told of the shrill whizzing of our
swords close behind him, and of the groans of his dragoons as they fell, cut down from their
horses, her face turned pale, and pensive; then, looking at him with great tenderness, she
heaved a deep sigh, to think how near her husband had been to death.

Meriot looked with pleasure on the troubled countenance of his lovely wife, because he well
knew the fond source of her troubles.  Then, snatching up a goblet of sangree, richly mantled
over with nutmeg, he presented it to her ruby lips, saying, "Come, my dear, drink, and forget
the past!"  Then, taking my hand with great cordiality, he exclaimed, "Well, colonel Horry,
we have been foes, but thank God, we are good friends again. And now let me drink to you a
sentiment of my heart, `Here's friendship in marble, enmity in dust.'"

The behavior of this noble Englishman, has often served to deepen my abhorrence of WAR, which
too frequently sets those to cutting each other's throats, who were born to be brothers.

But to return to our story.  "Meriot," you'll say, "and his brother officer, brought `their
pigs to a bad market'."  Yes, indeed:  but not a jot worse than some of their friends came
to the very day afterwards. On the morning of that day, Marion, now concealed in the swamps,
near Georgetown, was pleased to order me out on a second excursion. "Take captain Snipes,"
said he, "with thirty men, and proceed down the Sandpit road, in quest of the enemy.  The moment
you discover them, whether British or tories, charge with spirit, and I'll warrant your success."

As we approached the bridge, still moving on very circumspectly, in the woods, we discovered
at a short distance, a body of horsemen, perhaps a hundred, apparently in great confusion,
and very anxious to form. Instantly we took the road, and clapping spurs to our horses, dashed
upon them at full speed, at the same time shouting as we rushed on. The enemy broke and fled
in all directions.  We pursued. Then you might have seen the woods all covered with armed men;
some flying, others pursuing; and with muskets, and pistols, and swords, shooting and cutting
down as fast as they could.

From the unevenness of the ground, and rapidity of the charge, my men were all soon out of
sight, leaving with me but a lad of fourteen, named Gwinn, who carried a musket.  At that instant,
a party of nine or ten men were seen advancing, whom I took for whigs, and challenged as such,
asking if they were not friends? "Friends! O yes!" replied their captain, (one Lewis) "friends
to be sure; friends to king George!"

Quick as thought, off went Gwinn's musket, close by my side, and down tumbled captain Lewis
from his horse, with a heavy squelch, to the ground.  But in the very instant of receiving
his death, his musket, which was raised to kill me, took fire and shot my horse dead on the
spot.  Seeing my horse drop, Gwinn dismounted, and led his horse up to me in a moment.

Happily for us both, captain Snipes heard the report of our pieces, and thinking that we might
be in danger, dashed on to our aid, with several of my troops whooping and huzzaing as they
came on. The tory party then fired at us, but without effect, and fled leaving four of Marion's
men, whom they had just taken, and beaten very barbarously with the butts of their muskets.

This was a fatal day to the tories, who must have lost more than half their number.  For I
had with me not only Macdonald and Snipes, but several other very strong and brave men, whose
families had suffered very severely, by British and tory cruelty; and, I am afraid, they did
not forget this, when their swords were hanging over the heads of the fugitives.  At any rate,
they took but few prisoners.

In the course of this day's fighting, there happened an affair which served to amuse us not
a little on our return to our camp that night. The tories, who, from time to time had fallen
into our hands, were often easing their vexation, by saying, that it was true, "Marion had
proved too cunning for colonel Tynes and captain Barfield, and other British and loyal officers,
whom he had attacked; but that there was still one left behind, who, they were sure, if he
could come forward, would soon show us quite a different sort of play; and that was colonel
Gainey, from the head waters of Pedee." We answered, that it was all very well; and that we
should be glad to see colonel Gainey.  Now, as God was pleased to have it, who should it be,
that with one-third of his number, we had been chasing so to-day, but colonel Gainey; a stout
officer-looking fellow he was too, and most nobly mounted.  Macdonald made a dash at him, in
full confidence of getting a gallant charger.  But the good book tells us, that "the race is
not always to the swift;" and owing partly to the fleetness of his horse, and partly to a most
extraordinary sort of accident, colonel Gainey made his escape from our Scotsman. The chase
was towards Georgetown, distant little more than two miles. Never on earth did two horses or
horsemen make greater exertions. Fear impelling the one, fury urging the other.  Macdonald
declared, that in the chase he had passed several tories whom he could easily have cut down,
but like the lion in pursuit of a favorite buffalo, he took no notice of them.  His eye was
fixed on colonel Gainey. Just as they turned Richmond corner, Selim had brought his master
near enough to his prey to make a stroke at him with his bayonet. By a sudden jerk, it is supposed,
the weapon turned; so that when Macdonald drew back the carbine, he left the bayonet up to
the hilt in his back. In this way colonel Gainey rode into town, prodigiously to his own and
the mortification of his friends the British and tories.

Chapter 17.

  Spirit of the tories -- assassination of lieutenant Marion --
  the murderer murdered -- Marion's reflections on the death of his nephew --
  his manner of rewarding extraordinary courage among his men --
  sketch of the brave boy Gwinn.

    "If mortal hands thy peace destroy,
     Or friendship's gifts bestow,
    Wilt thou to man ascribe the joy --
     To man impute the woe?

    'Tis GOD, whose thoughts for wisest ends
     The human lots dispose;
    Around thee plants assisting friends,
     Or heaps chastising foes.

    Not from the BOW the deaths proceed,
     But from the ARCHER'S skill,
    He lends the winged shaft its speed
     And gives it power to kill."

And here I must relate a tragical affair that befell us that day, and which filled us all with
grief, because of our beloved general. I mean the barbarous murder of his nephew.  Of all men
who ever drew the sword, Marion was one of the most humane.  He not only prevented all cruelty,
in his own presence, but strictly forbade it in his absence. I have known him to talk for a
quarter of an hour together, with one of his men, for striking over the head, a horse that
had started, and to punish another for taking away from a negro, his ragged chicken. To reason
then like men, one would suppose that he was the last person on whom such a cruel blow as the
murder of a favorite nephew should have fallen.  But thanks to God, for that most comfortable
doctrine, that not even a sparrow can die until his death-warrant has been signed in heaven;
and, since this young man DID die at that time, there can be no doubt but that was the RIGHT time.

The manner of his death was this.  We have told the reader, that, in the course of this day's
fighting, we retook from the tories four of Marion's Men, whom they had very barbarously beaten
with the butts of their guns.  On being asked how they came to fall into such bad company,
they said, that immediately after sending me off, in the morning, Marion got information that
a party of tories were encamped not far distant, on a plantation of colonel Alston's, called
"The Penns".  Captain M---- was despatched to surprise them; but he played his cards so badly,
that, instead of surprising THEM, they surprised HIM, killed several of his men, and took the
others. Among the prisoners was the general's nephew, lieutenant Gabriel Marion, of the continentals,
who, happening at that time on a visit to his uncle, turned out a volunteer, and was taken.
The tories murdered several of their unfortunate prisoners in cold blood, by first beating
them over the head with the butts of their muskets, and then shooting them.  They said that
lieutenant Marion, at sight of such horrid scenes, appeared much shocked:  and seeing among
them a man who had often been entertained at his uncle's table, he flew to him for protection,
and threw himself into his arms. The man seemed greatly distressed, and tried hard to save
him; but the others roared out, that "he was one of the breed of that d----d old rebel," and
that they would have his heart's blood.  They, moreover, swore, with the most horrid oaths,
that if the man did not instantly push young Marion from him, they would blow him through also.
The unfortunate youth being then thrust from the side of his friend, was immediately destroyed.

I hope the tender mercies of God are so great as not to let our unworthiness prevent him from
always doing what is exactly right and good for us. We ought not, therefore, to breathe a wish
different from the will and order of Providence.  But still, to us, it seems a great pity we
did not get notice of captain M----'s advancing.  We could have made a handsome joint attack
of it, and thereby not only have prevented the horrid murders above related, but have scourged
those barbarians, as they deserved.  For we heard the firing, but thought it was colonel Alston's
people killing beeves.

Among the very few prisoners that we made in our last action, was a mulatto fellow, who was
suspected to be one of those who had murdered the general's nephew.  Whether the suspicion
was well or ill founded, I cannot say:  but, certain it is, that the indignation excited against
him, on that account, soon proved his destruction.  For, as we were crossing the swamps of
Black river that night, an officer rode up to him, while marching in the line of prisoners
under guard, and with a pistol, shot him dead on the spot.  The captain of the guard was instantly
sent for, and severely reprimanded by the general, for not having killed the author of that
savage deed.

It was said the officer had offered a bottle of rum to have the mulatto shot, but, finding
none that would do it, he did it himself.  I do not give this as a fact, but, I know it was
the talk in camp, though carefully kept from the general, as everybody knew it would have given
him great pain. He often said, "he truly lamented the untimely death of his nephew; and that
he had been told, that this poor man was his murderer. But that, as a prisoner, his life ought
to have been held most sacred; especially as the charge against him was without evidence, and,
perhaps, no better than conjecture.  As to my nephew," continued he, "I believe he was cruelly
murdered:  but living virtuously, as he did, and then dying fighting for the rights of man,
he is, no doubt, happy: and this is my comfort."

The next day Marion ordered the troops under arms, and formed them into a large circle, all
fronting the centre.  While we were wondering what could be the meaning of this strange manoeuvre,
a sergeant was seen leading into the circle an elegant horse, under saddle and bridle, with
portmanteau, sword, pistols, and musket.  This was the horse, furniture, and arms of captain
Lewis, whom the lad Gwinn, so fortunately for me, had killed in the action three days before.
Marion then called Gwinn from the ranks.

The boy approached him with his hat off.

The general, placing his hand upon his head, in the presence of the whole squadron, pronounced
him "a brave little man; and there," pointing to the horse and furniture, "there is the reward
of your gallantry."

"Gwinn, sir," said I, "is not a good soldier, he fired without orders."

"That's very true," replied he, "but I am sure, colonel, you are the last that ought to blame
me, on that account; for if I had not fired and killed captain Lewis, exactly as I did, he
would have killed you; and besides, his saying he was the friend of GEORGE THE THIRD, was enough
for ME; I did not think I could fire too quick on such a man as that."

But when the sergeant, at the order of Marion, led up to him the horse, richly furnitured,
as aforesaid, the confusion and grimace of the lad were truly diverting.  He blushed, he chuckled,
he looked around and around upon his comrades, as if at a loss how to contain himself, or what
to do. At length he made shift to reach out his hand to the bridle, though deeply blushing,
and said, "Dear me now! well la! what will mammy think, and the children, when they come to
see me, riding up here on this famous horse, and all these fine things! I know well enough
how mammy will have a hearty cry, that's what she will; for she will think I STOLED him.  But
if any of the folks up our way should go to jaw about me, at that rate, I trust as how, general,
you will take my part, and set 'em straight."

Marion smiled, and commended him for a good boy, and told him to give his compliments to his
mother, and also his thanks to her, for being such a true mother to her children, in bringing
them up so honestly.

But the general was told the next day, that Gwinn had said, "he always hated the tories, because
they would not fight for their country; and, since the general had paid him so well for killing
one of them, he was determined to try if he could not kill more."

And he did kill more too, I'll warrant him, for he was with us to the end of the war, in many
a hard brush.  And then he was such a dead shot with a rifle!  Standing, running, or flying,
it was all one to Gwinn. He would make nothing, at a hundred yards, to stop you a buck, at
full tilt through the woods, as hard as he could crack it; and at every clip, to bring down
the squirrels from the tops of the tallest trees of the forest.

Chapter 18.

  Mutiny in our camp -- Marion suppresses it -- his address to the officers.

This war, though on our part a war of virtue, was not always so pleasant as might have been
expected.  Instances of human weakness often occurred to disturb our harmony, and fill good
men's hearts with sorrow. For how, without grief, could we behold a man fighting by our side
to-day like a hero, for the rights of bleeding humanity; to-morrow, like a headstrong child,
or a headlong beast, trampling them under foot! And oh! how sad to see nature's goodliest gifts,
of manly size, and strength, and courage, set off, too, in the proudest ornaments of war, the
fierce cocked hat, the flaming regimentals, and golden shoulder-knots, all defeated of their
power to charm, nay, all turned into pity and contempt, in consequence of our knowing the owners
to be gamblers, swindlers, and villains!

Such was the truly pitiable case of some, in this our glorious war of liberty. For want of
a good education, I mean the early precepts of virtue, from a parent's lips, with a few excellent
books, to lift the noble kindlings of the soul, the flame could not ascend to what was heavenly
and just; but with inverted point, struck downward to selfishness and vice. Men of this character,
though enlisted in the war of liberty, were not her soldiers, felt not her enthusiasm, nor
her consolations. They did not walk the camp, glorying in themselves, as men called to the
honor of humbling the tyrant, and of establishing the golden reign of equal laws, in their
own dear country, and thence, perhaps over all the earth.  Alas! no! strangers to these divine
views and wishes, they look no higher than sordid gain! and as there was but little of that
reward to be had, they were often gloomy and low spirited.  "Their life," they were wont murmuringly
to say, "was wearing away; their country gave them nothing, and they must e'en try to do something
for themselves."

In truth, PLUNDER, PLUNDER, was what they were spelling for.  They were continually darting
their greedy eyes upon every piece of merchandise that came in their way.  They had the heart
not only to plunder the tories, and to bring their unoffending children to want; but also to
rob and ruin their own friends the whigs, if they could but do it with impunity.

I am led to these reflections by a most shameful affair, which happened in our camp about this
time, and which threatened consequences as serious as their source was shameful.

We were encamped near the house of a rich man by the name of Cross.  His wife, in sense and
domestic virtues, was an Abigail; while as to her husband, his riches, though great, were his
least recommendation, for he possessed all the generosity and honor of the noblest patriot.
His soul delighted in Marion, whom he called the `pillar of our cause'. Oft as he took leave
of us, for battle, his bosom would heave, his visage swell, and the tear would start into his
eye. And when he saw us return again, loaded with the spoils of victory, he would rush to meet
us, with all a brother's transports on his face. His flocks and herds, his meat-houses and
corn-fields, were all our own; while his generous looks would tell us that he still wished
for more to give. Indeed, often at the most imminent risk of his life, he used to send us intelligence,
and also furnish us with powder and ball. But this most amiable of men, was not permitted to
see our cause triumphant; for in the midst of his sighs and tears for his struggling country,
God took him to his own rest.  The messenger of death came to him, in the character of a nervous
fever.  As the physicians did not like to visit him on his plantation, he was carried into
Georgetown to be near them.

Marion went to see him the morning he set out; and immediately after his departure, fixed a
guard at his house, that nothing might be disturbed. One would indeed have supposed it unnecessary
to place a guard over such a house as his.  But alas! what will not a base heart-hardening
avarice do! And I blush while I relate, that, the very day after our generous friend was carried
off, pale and hollow-eyed, to Georgetown, whence he never more returned, two of our officers,
one of them a MAJOR, went to his house to pillage it!

The guard, of course, opposed:  but they damned him for an "impertinent rascal", and swore
that if he opened his mouth again, they would spit him on the spot.  Then bursting the door,
they went in, and after forcing the desks, drawers, and trunks, they rifled them of whatever
they wanted.

This most unsoldierly and detestable transaction was communicated to me by Mrs. Cross herself;
whose servant came to me next morning with her compliments, and requested that I would go down
to her, where she was sitting in her carriage at the road.  I waited on her at once; and greatly
to my grief, found her in tears.  I entreated to know the cause.

"Oh, sir," replied she, "we are ruined! we are ruined!  Poor Mr. Cross is, I fear, on his deathbed.
And then what will become of me and my poor children, when he is gone, and every thing is taken
from us!" She then reminded me of her husband's love to general Marion and his people, from
whom he withheld nothing, but gladly imparted of all he had, though often at the risk of his
utter destruction from the British and tories. "And yet, after all," said she, "soon as my
poor sick husband's back is turned, your people can go and break him up!"

"Madam," I replied, "I hope 'tis no offence to ask your pardon; for I really cannot admit a
suspicion so disgraceful to our troop: and to my certain knowledge, general Marion placed a
guard over your house the moment Mr. Cross left it."

"Yes, sir," said she, "that's very true.  And it was like general Marion. But some of our officers
have forced the guard and broken open the house, and this instant I saw one of them with Mr.
Cross's sword by his side."

I never felt more mortified in my life.  Then, after entreating her to be perfectly easy about
her house and furniture in future, I took leave of this excellent lady, and flew to the guard
to see if what I had heard were true.

He told me it was too true; mentioned the names of the officers; and even went so far as to
show me one of them strutting about with the sword by his side!

It was well for the wretch, that I did not possess the eyes of a basilisk, for I should certainly
have blasted him on the spot.  Pausing, however, one salutary moment, to confirm myself in
the love of virtue, by noting how abominable a villain looks, I hasted to the general with
the hateful tale; which excited in his honest bosom the indignation which I had expected. 
Then calling one of his aids, he said, "Go to major ----, and desire him to send me Mr. Cross's
sword immediately."

The aid was presently back, but without the sword.  On being asked by the general, why he had
not brought it, he replied; "The major says, sir, that the sword does not belong to Mr. Cross.
He says, moreover, that if you want the sword, you must go for it yourself."

"Well, go back," said the general, "and desire those two officers to come to me."

It was not for such an affair as this to be kept secret. It took wind in a moment; and by the
time the two officers were arrived, almost all the field officers had come together to the
general's quarters, to see how he would act on this extraordinary occasion.

Inferring from the looks of the two culprits, that they meant to test his firmness; and, willing
that the company should fully understand the merits of the case, he thus addressed us:

"You well know, gentlemen," said he, "how like a brother the proprietor of this plantation
has always treated us. We never gained a victory, but it caused him tears of joy; and however
starved by others, by him we have ever been feasted. You also know, that he is now gone, sick,
to Georgetown -- there, perhaps, to die.  Soon as he left us, I placed a guard over his house;
but, at the same time, blushed for the reflection cast on my men; all of whom, as I thought,
would, instead of robbing, have defended it with their lives.  But, equally to my astonishment
and grief, I find I was mistaken.  Yes, gentlemen, our friend has been robbed, not by the poor
untutored privates in the ranks, but by my OFFICERS! by those who ought to have ABHORRED such
an act!  Yes, gentlemen, two of our brethren in arms -- two of our officers -- forgetting what
they owed to you, what they owed to me, and, most of all, to their country and to themselves,
have done this odious deed! And one of them (here he pointed to the major) now wears by his
side the sword of our sick and injured friend.

"Well knowing that all men, even the best, have too often `done those things which they ought
not to have done,' I felt it my duty to be as tender with this gentleman as possible; and therefore,
sent him a polite request that he would return the sword:  to which he was pleased to reply,
that `if I wanted it, I must come and take it myself.'  Still wishing to settle the affair
in a way as much to his credit as possible, I sent for him to come to me.  And now, sir, (addressing
the major) I entreat of you, for the last time, to give me up that sword."

With great rudeness he swore he would not.  Instantly every face was dark: and, biting his
lip with rage, each officer laid his hand upon his sword and looked to the general.  One word,
nay, one assenting LOOK, and the brute would have been hewed into mincemeat in a moment. For
my own part, whether I felt more, or governed myself less than the rest, I cannot say:  but
looking to the general, I broke out with an oath, that if I commanded as he did, I would have
that fellow hung in five minutes.

"This is no business of yours, sir," replied he, rather sternly; "they are now before me."

Then looking at the major, still with great benignity, he said -- "And do you really mean,
sir, not to give me up that sword?"

"Sir, I will not!" replied the major.

"Sergeant of the guard!" said the general, "bring me instantly a file of soldiers!"

Upon this, the major's colleague, who stood by, was seen to touch him.

Seeing the guard coming up with their naked weapons, and much anger in their looks, the major
lost his courage, turned pale, and, in a sadly altered tone, whined out, "General, you needed
not to have called in the guard.  I will deliver up the sword.  Here it is."

"No, sir, I will not accept it at your hands.  Give it to the sergeant."

To this humiliating order, with much shame and blushing, the poor major was constrained to comply.

Thus, happily, were extinguished the first sparks of a mutiny, which, it was once thought,
would have broken out into a dangerous flame. The cool, dispassionate address which effected
this, did not fail to produce a proper impression on us all.  This the general easily perceived
in our looks; and thereupon, as was common with him, when any such occasion served, he arose
and addressed us, in, as nearly as I can recollect, the following words:

"When, gentlemen, shall we catch the spirit of our profession; the spirit of men fighting for
a republic, a commonwealth of brothers! that government most glorious, where God alone is king!
that government most pleasant, where men make and obey their own laws! and that government
most prosperous, where men, reaping as they sow, feel the utmost stimulus to every virtue that
can exalt the human character and condition!  This government, the glory of the earth, has
ever been the desire of the wise and good of all nations. For this, the Platos of Greece, the
Catos of Rome, the Tells of Switzerland, the Sidneys of England, and the Washingtons of America,
have sighed and reasoned, have fought and died.  In this grand army, gentlemen, we are now
enlisted; and are combatting under the same banners with those excellent men of the earth.
Then let self-gratulation gladden our every heart, and swell each high-toned nerve. With such
worthies by our sides, with such a CAUSE before our eyes, let us move on with joy to the battle
and charge like the honored champions of God and of human rights.  But, in the moment of victory,
let the supplicating enemy find us as lovely in mercy, as we are terrible in valor.  Our enemies
are blind.  They neither understand nor desire the happiness of mankind.  Ignorant, therefore,
as children, they claim our pity for themselves.  And as to their widows and little ones, the
very thought of them should fill our souls with tenderness. The crib that contains their corn,
the cow that gives them milk, the cabin that shelters their feeble heads from the storm, should
be sacred in our eyes.  Weak and helpless, as they are, still they are the nurslings of heaven
-- our best intercessors with the Almighty.  Let them but give us their blessings, and I care
not how much the British curse.  Let their prayers ascend up before God in our behalf, and
Cornwallis and Tarleton shall yet flee before us, like frightened wolves before the well armed
shepherds!"

Such were the words of Marion, in the day when he saw in our looks, that our hearts were prepared
for instruction.  And such was the epilogue to the mutiny.  The satisfaction which it gave
to the officers was so general and sincere, that I often heard them say afterwards, that since
the mutiny was suppressed, they were glad it happened; for it had given them an opportunity
to hear a lecture, which they hoped would make them better men and braver soldiers too, as
long as they lived.

About this time we received a flag from the enemy in Georgetown; the object of which was, to
make some arrangements about the exchange of prisoners.  The flag, after the usual ceremony
of blindfolding, was conducted into Marion's encampment. Having heard great talk about general
Marion, his fancy had, naturally enough, sketched out for him some stout figure of a warrior,
such as O'Hara or Cornwallis himself, of martial aspect and flaming regimentals. But what was
his surprise, when, led into Marion's presence, and the bandage taken from his eyes, he beheld
in our hero, a swarthy, smoke-dried little man, with scarce enough of threadbare homespun to
cover his nakedness! and in place of tall ranks, of gaily dressed soldiers, a handful of sunburnt
yellow-legged militia-men; some roasting potatoes and some asleep, with their black firelocks
and powder-horns lying by them on the logs!  Having recovered a little from his surprise, he
presented his letter to general Marion; who perused it, and soon settled everything to his
satisfaction.

The officer took up his hat to retire.

"Oh no!" said Marion; "it is now about our time of dining; and I hope, sir, you will give us
the pleasure of your company to dinner."

At mention of the word `dinner', the British officer looked around him; but to his great mortification,
could see no sign of a pot, pan, Dutch-oven, or any other cooking utensil that could raise
the spirits of a hungry man.

"Well, Tom," said the general to one of his men, "come, give us our dinner."

The dinner to which he alluded, was no other than a heap of sweet potatoes, that were very
snugly roasting under the embers, and which Tom, with his pine stick poker, soon liberated
from their ashy confinement; pinching them, every now and then, with his fingers, especially
the big ones, to see whether they were well done or not.  Then having cleansed them of the
ashes, partly by blowing them with his breath, and partly by brushing them with the sleeve
of his old cotton shirt, he piled some of the best on a large piece of bark, and placed them
between the British officer and Marion, on the trunk of the fallen pine on which they sat.

"I fear, sir," said the general, "our dinner will not prove so palatable to you as I could
wish; but it is the best we have."

The officer, who was a well bred man, took up one of the potatoes and affected to feed, as
if he had found a great dainty; but it was very plain, that he ate more from good manners than
good appetite.

Presently he broke out into a hearty laugh.  Marion looked surprised. "I beg pardon, general,"
said he:  "but one cannot, you know, always command his conceits.  I was thinking how drolly
some of my brother officers would look, if our government were to give them such a bill of
fare as this."

"I suppose," replied Marion, "it is not equal to their style of dining."

"No, indeed," quoth the officer; "and this, I imagine, is one of your accidental lent dinners;
a sort of a `ban yan'. In general, no doubt, you live a great deal better."

"Rather worse," answered the general:  "for often we don't get enough of this."

"Heavens!" rejoined the officer.  "But probably, what you lose in meal you make up in malt;
though stinted in provisions, you draw noble pay?"

"Not a cent, sir," said Marion, "not a cent."

"Heavens and earth! then you must be in a bad box.  I don't see, general, how you can stand it."

"Why, sir," replied Marion, with a smile of self-approbation, "these things depend on feeling."

The Englishman said, he "did not believe that it would be an easy matter to reconcile his feelings
to a soldier's life on general Marion's terms; all fighting and no pay! and no provisions but
potatoes!"

"Why, sir," answered the general, "the heart is all; and, when that is much interested, a man
can do any thing.  Many a youth would think it hard to indent himself a slave for fourteen
years.  But let him be over head and ears in love, and with such a beauteous sweetheart as
Rachael, and he will think no more of fourteen years' servitude than young Jacob did. Well,
now, this is exactly my case.  I am in love; and my sweetheart is LIBERTY.  Be that heavenly
nymph my companion, and these wilds and woods shall have charms beyond London and Paris in
slavery. To have no proud monarch driving over me with his gilt coaches; nor his host of excise-men
and tax-gatherers insulting and robbing me; but to be my own master, my own prince and sovereign,
gloriously preserving my national dignity, and pursuing my true happiness; planting my vineyards,
and eating their luscious fruits; and sowing my fields, and reaping the golden grain:  and
seeing millions of brothers all around me, equally free and happy as myself.  This, sir, is
what I long for."

The officer replied, that both as a man and a Briton, he must certainly subscribe to this as
a happy state of things.

"Happy!" quoth Marion; "yes, happy indeed! and I had rather fight for such blessings for my
country, and feed on roots, than keep aloof, though wallowing in all the luxuries of Solomon.
For now, sir, I walk the soil that gave me birth, and exult in the thought that I am not unworthy
of it.  I look upon these venerable trees around me, and feel that I do not dishonor them.
I think of my own sacred rights, and rejoice that I have not basely deserted them.  And when
I look forward to the long ages of posterity, I glory in the thought that I am fighting their
battles.  The children of distant generations may never hear my name; but still it gladdens
my heart to think that I am now contending for their freedom, and all its countless blessings."

I looked at Marion as he uttered these sentiments, and fancied I felt as when I heard the last
words of the brave De Kalb.  The Englishman hung his honest head, and looked, I thought, as
if he had seen the upbraiding ghosts of his illustrious countrymen, Sidney and Hampden.

On his return to Georgetown, he was asked by colonel Watson, why he looked so serious?

"I have cause, sir," said he, "to look serious."

"What! has general Marion refused to treat?"

"No, sir."

"Well, then, has old Washington defeated sir Henry Clinton, and broke up our army?"

"No, sir, not that neither; but WORSE."

"Ah! what can be worse?"

"Why, sir, I have seen an American general and his officers, without pay, and almost without
clothes, living on roots and drinking water; and all for LIBERTY!  What chance have we against
such men!"

It is said colonel Watson was not much obliged to him for this speech. But the young officer
was so struck with Marion's sentiments, that he never rested until he threw up his commission,
and retired from the service.

Chapter 19.

  "Ah brandy! brandy! bane of life,
  Spring of tumult -- source of strife:
  Could I but half thy curses tell,
  The wise would wish thee safe at hell."

            Curious and Instructive Anecdotes.

That great poet, John Milton, who seems to have known him well, assures us that the devil was
the inventor of gunpowder. But, for my own part, were I in the humor to ascribe any particular
invention to the author of all evil, it should be that of distilling apple-brandy. We have
scripture for it, that he began his capers with the apple; then, why not go on with the brandy,
which is but the fiery juice of the apple?

At any rate, I am pretty sure I shall hardly ever be able to think of it again with tolerable
patience, as long as I live.  For, it was that vile filthy poison that cut me out of one of
the finest plumes that I ever expected to feather my cap with.

The case stands briefly thus.  I have told the reader, that Marion surprised and captured the
celebrated tory partisan, colonel Tynes, after killing the major part of his men.  For safe
keeping, he was sent into North Carolina; whence he made his escape -- got back into the forests
of Black river, and collected a stout force to try his fortune a second time with Marion.

But, getting knowledge of the thing, Marion made one of his forced marches, fell upon him,
unawares, and broke him up worse than before; killing and taking his whole party.  Tynes was
sent again to North Carolina; whence he contrived again to make his escape; and, returning
to his old haunts, soon rallied a formidable force, for a third trial. This news was soon brought
to general Marion, who thereupon, desired me to take forty of our best cavaliers, and see if
we could not scourge colonel Tynes once more.

About sunset we mounted, and travelled hard all that night and until the middle of next day,
when we halted, for refreshment, at the house of one who was truly a "publican and sinner",
for he was a great TORY.

Not knowing what secret intelligence the man might convey to the enemy, who were but fifteen
miles off, I had him taken up and put under guard. We then got dinner, for which we honorably
paid the poor woman his wife. And now comes my woeful story.  While, after dinner, I was busily
employed in catechising my prisoner, how should the devil be employed, but in tempting my men
with the distilled juice of the apple?  Having, by some ill luck, found out that there was
a barrel of it in the house, they hastened to the poor landlady, who not only gave them a full
dose for the present, but filled their bottles and canteens.

As we pushed on, after dinner, in high spirits, for the enemy, I could not but remark how constantly
the men were turning up their canteens.

"What the plague have you got there, boys," said I, "that you are so eternally drinking."

"Water! sir, water! nothing but water!"  The rogues were drinking brandy all the time; but,
by way of whipping the devil round the stump, they called it `water'! that is, `apple water'.

Presently, finding, from their gaiety and frolicksomeness, what they had been after, I ordered
a halt, and set myself to harangue them for such unsoldierly conduct.  But I might as well
have talked to a troop of drunken Yahoos.  For, some of them grinned in my face like monkeys;
others looked as stupid as asses; while the greater part chattered like magpies; each boasted
what a clever fellow he was, and what mighty things he could do, yet reeling all the time,
and scarcely able to sit his horse.  Indeed our guide, a fat jolter-headed fellow, fetching
one of his heavy lee lurches, got so far beyond his perpendicular, that he could not right
again; but fell off, and came to the ground as helpless as a miller's bag.  In short, among
my whole corps there was but one sober man, and that was captain Neilson.

It is not for language to express one thousandth part of my mortification and rage.  To have
made such an extraordinary march, and at the head of such choice fellows too; to have come
almost within sight of the enemy; an enemy that I was eager to humble, and which would have
yielded me so complete and glorious a victory; and yet to have lost all so shamefully:  and
thus like a fool to be sent back to my general, with my finger in my mouth, was, indeed, almost
beyond endurance.  But I was obliged to endure it. For, to have led my men into action, in
that condition, would have been no better than murdering them.  And to have kept them there
until they could have cooled off, was utterly out of the question. For there was not a family
in that whole district that would, with their good will, have given us an hour's repose, or
a morsel of bread. I therefore instantly ordered a retreat, which was made with all the noise
and irregularity that might have been expected from a troop of drunkards, each of whom mistaking
himself for commander in chief, gave orders according to his own mad humor; and whooped and
halloed at such a rate, that I verily believed, no bull-drivers ever made half the racket.

That we should have obtained a most complete victory, is very certain. For in a few days after
this, we laid hands upon some of those very same tories, who stated, that in consequence of
the noise which we made that night, colonel Tynes despatched some of his cavalry up the road
next morning, to see what was the matter. On coming to the spot, where I had vainly endeavored
to form my drunken dogs, they found on the ground some of our plumes, which colonel Tynes no
sooner saw than he bawled out, "Marion! Marion!" then, leaping on their horses, off they went,
whip and spur.

"Well, where is colonel Tynes?" said the general, as I entered his presence. This was the question
which I had expected, and, indeed, blushed for the answer.  But after hearing my doleful story,
he replied with his usual philosophy:  "Well, you did right to retreat; but pray keep a careful
eye on the apple water next time."

But to give the devil his due, I must confess there was one instance, in which I thought some
good was done by brandy.  This was in the case of captain Snipes and his command, which by
way of farce to my own tragedy, I beg leave to relate.

Hearing of a tory camp-meeting not far distant, Marion despatched the brave captain Snipes
with a party to chastise them.  They had scarcely got upon the tory cruising-ground, before,
at a short turn in the road, they came full butt upon a large body of horsemen.  Supposing
them to be tories, Snipes instantly gave the word to charge; himself leading the way with his
usual impetuosity.  The supposed tories, wheeling about, took to the sands, and went off, as
hard as their horses could stave; and thus, crack and crack, they had it for about two miles.

Finding that Snipes was gaining upon them, the runagates began to lighten themselves of every
thing they could spare, and the road was presently strewed with blankets and knapsacks.  One
of them, it seems, carried a five gallon keg of brandy, which he could not think of parting
with; and being well mounted, he stood a good pull for the two first miles. But, finding he
was dropping astern very fast, he slyly cut the straps of his mail pillion, and so let his
keg, brandy and all go by the run, over his horse's rump.  Captain Snipes, who led the chase,
found no difficulty in passing the keg:  but his men coming up instantly, broached to, all
standing; for they could no more pass by a keg of brandy, than young monkeys could pass a basket
of apples.

Snipes cursed and raved like a madman, but all in vain: for they swore they must have a dram.
While they were devising ways and means how to get into the keg, the supposed tories, now a
good distance ahead, came to a halt, and their captain fortunately reflecting that their pursuers
might not be enemies, sent back a flag.  The result was, the very joyful discovery, that the
owners of the keg were good whigs coming to join general Marion.  Thus, to a moral certainty,
this keg of brandy was made, of kind heaven, the happy means of preventing much bloodshed that day.

Having given two cases of brandy, the one good, the other bad, I will now give a third, which
the reader, if he pleases, may call indifferent, and which runs as follows.

General Marion, still encamped in the neighborhood of Georgetown, ordered captain Withers to
take sergeant Macdonald, with four volunteers, and go on the enemy's lines to see what they
were doing.  On approaching the town, they met an old tory; one of your half-witted fellows,
whom neither side regarded any more than a Jew does a pig, and therefore suffered him to stroll
when and where he pleased. The old man knew captain Withers very well; and as soon as he had
got near enough to recollect him, he bawled out, "God's mercy, master Withers! why, where are
you going this course?"

"Going, old daddy! why to the devil, perhaps," replied Withers.

"Well faith! that's like enough, captain," said the old man, "especially if you keep on this
tack much longer.  But before you go any further, suppose you take a pull with me of this,"
holding up a stout tickler of brandy, "mayhap you may not get such good liquor where you are
going."

