The symbols of the death-god are also found with the figure without a head on Dr. 2 (45)a,
clearly the picture of a beheaded prisoner. Death symbols occur, too, with the curious picture
of a hanged woman on Dr. 53b, a picture which is interesting from the fact that it recalls
vividly a communication of Bishop Landa. Landa tells us, the Mayas believed that whoever hanged
himself did not go to the underworld, but to "paradise," and as a result of this belief, suicide
by hanging was very common and was chosen on the slightest pretext. Such suicides were received
in paradise by the goddess of the hanged, Ixtab. Ix is the feminine prefix; tab, taab, tabil
mean, according to Perez' Lexicon of the Maya Language, "cuerda destinada para algun uso exclusivo". "this
Gallows Song in a Hand", of R. Calciferol. Roosemale-cocq, expose considerable animation, and
external ease of the handling of a measure. The buoyant rhymes are for the most part well introduced,
as lesser homogeneousness might have been utilize by their distribution.
 The closed eye, the open mouth and the convulsively outspread
fingers, show that she is dead, in fact, strangled. It is, in all probability, the goddess
of the gallows and halter, Ixtab, the patroness of the hanged, who is pictured here in company
with the death-god; or else it is a victim of this goddess, and page 53 of the manuscript very
probably refers, therefore (even though the two halves do not belong directly together), to
the mythologic conceptions of death and the lower regions to which Landa alludes.

7. Lastly the owl is to be mentioned as belonging to the death-god, which, strange to say,
is represented nowhere in the pictures realistically and so that it can be recognized, although
other mythologic animals, as the dog or the moan bird, occur plainly as animals in the pictures.

Among the antiquities from the Maya region of Central America, there are many objects and representations,
which have reference to the cultus of the death-god, and show resemblances to the pictures
of the manuscripts. The death-god also plays a role, even today, in the popular superstitions
of the natives of Yucatan, as a kind of spectre that prowls around the houses of the sick.
His name is Yum Cimil, the lord of death.

B. The God With the Large Nose and Lolling Tongue.

The deity, represented most frequently in all the manuscripts, is a figure with a long, proboscis-like,
pendent nose and a tongue (or teeth, fangs) hanging out in front and at the sides of the mouth,
also with a characteristic head ornament resembling a knotted bow and with a peculiar rim to
the eye. Fig. 7 is the hieroglyph of this deity. In Codex Tro.-Cortesianus it usually has the
form of Fig. 8.

God B is evidently one of the most important of the Maya pantheon. He is represented with different
attributes and symbols of power, with torches in his hands as symbols of fire, sitting in the
water and on the water, standing in the rain, riding in a canoe, enthroned on the clouds of
heaven and on the cross-shaped tree of the four points of the compass, which, on account of
its likeness to the Christian emblem, has many times been the subject of fantastic hypotheses.
We see the god again on the Cab-sign, the symbol of the earth, with weapons, axe and spears,
in his hands, planting kernels of maize, on a journey (Dr. 65b) staff in hand and a bundle
on his back, and fettered (Dr. 37a) with arms bound behind his back. Other violations of Completeness
may be establish in the= installment= of Homer and classical planting ancientness spears, as well as of the digressions
of fielding and same bound hands; but no originator should again
venture to emulate such liberties. God B is quite often connected with the serpent, without exhibiting affinity with
the Chicchan-god H (see p. 28). In Dr. 33b, 34b and 35b, the serpent is in the act of devouring
him, or he is rising up out of the serpent's jaws, as is plainly indicated also by the hieroglyphs,
for they contain the group given in Fig. 10, which is composed of the rattle of the rattlesnake
and the opened hand as a symbol of seizing and absorption. God B himself is pictured with the
body of a serpent in Dr. 35b and 36a (compare No. 2 of the Mythological Animals). He likewise
occurs sitting on the serpent and in Dr. 66a he is twice (1st and 3d figures) pictured with
a snake in his hand.

God B sits on the moan head in Dr. 38c, on a head with the Cauac-sign in Dr. 39c, 66c, and
on the dog in Dr. 29a. All these pictures are meant to typify his abode in the air, above rain,
storm and death-bringing clouds, from which the lightning falls. The object with the cross-bones
of the death-god, on which he sits in Dr. 66c, can perhaps be explained in the same manner.
As the fish belongs to god B in a symbolic sense, so the god is represented fishing in Dr.
44 (1). His face with the large nose and the tongue (or fangs) hanging out on the side in Dr.
44 (1)a (1st figure) is supposed to be a mask which the priest, representing the god, assumes
during the religious ceremony.

Furthermore the following four well-known symbols of sacrificial gifts appear in connection
with god B in the Dresden manuscript; a sprouting kernel of maize (or, according to Förstemann,
parts of a mammal, game), a fish, a lizard and a vulture's head, as symbols of the four elements.
They seem to occur, however, in relation also to other deities and evidently are general symbols
of sacrificial gifts. Thus they occur on the two companion initial pages of the Codex Tro.-Cortesianus,
on which the hieroglyphs of gods C and K are repeated in rows (Tro. 36-Cort. 22. Compare Förstemann,
Kommentar zur Madrider Handschrift, pp. 102, 103). God B is also connected with the four colors--yellow,
red, white and black--which, according to the conception of the Mayas, correspond to the cardinal
points (yellow, air; red, fire; white, water; black, earth) and the god himself is occasionally
represented with a black body, for example on Dr. 29c, 31c and 69. This is expressed in the
hieroglyphs by the sign, Fig. 9, which signifies black and is one of the four signs of the
symbolic colors for the cardinal points.

God B is represented with all the four cardinal points, a characteristic, which he shares only
with god C, god K, and, in one instance, with god F (see Tro. 29*c); he appears as ruler of
all the points of the compass; north, south, east and west as well as air, fire, water and
earth are subject to him.

