Every incident connected with the breaking up of the rivers and ponds and the settling of the
weather is particularly interesting to us who live in a climate of so great extremes. When
the warmer days come, they who dwell near the river hear the ice crack at night with a startling
whoop as loud as artillery, as if its icy fetters were rent from end to end, and within a few
days see it rapidly going out. So the alligator comes out of the mud with quakings of the earth.
One old man, who has been a close observer of Nature, and seems as thoroughly wise in regard
to all her operations as if she had been put upon the stocks when he was a boy, and he had
helped to lay her keel--who has come to his growth, and can hardly acquire more of natural
lore if he should live to the age of Methuselah--told me--and I was surprised to hear him express
wonder at any of Nature's operations, for I thought that there were no secrets between them--that
one spring day he took his gun and boat, and thought that he would have a little sport with
the ducks. There was ice still on the meadows, but it was all gone out of the river, and he
dropped down without obstruction from Sudbury, where he lived, to Fair Haven Pond, which he
found, unexpectedly, covered for the most part with a firm field of ice. It was a warm day,
and he was surprised to see so great a body of ice remaining. Not seeing any ducks, he hid
his boat on the north or back side of an island in the pond, and then concealed himself in
the bushes on the south side, to await them. The ice was melted for three or four rods from
the shore, and there was a smooth and warm sheet of water, with a muddy bottom, such as the
ducks love, within, and he thought it likely that some would be along pretty soon. After he
had lain still there about an hour he heard a low and seemingly very distant sound, but singularly
grand and impressive, unlike anything he had ever heard, gradually swelling and increasing
as if it would have a universal and memorable ending, a sullen rush and roar, which seemed
to him all at once like the sound of a vast body of fowl coming in to settle there, and, seizing
his gun, he started up in haste and excited; but he found, to his surprise, that the whole
body of the ice had started while he lay there, and drifted in to the shore, and the sound
he had heard was made by its edge grating on the shore--at first gently nibbled and crumbled
off, but at length heaving up and scattering its wrecks along the island to a considerable
height before it came to a standstill.

At length the sun's rays have attained the right angle, and warm winds blow up mist and rain
and melt the snowbanks, and the sun, dispersing the mist, smiles on a checkered landscape of
russet and white smoking with incense, through which the traveller picks his way from islet
to islet, cheered by the music of a thousand tinkling rills and rivulets whose veins are filled
with the blood of winter which they are bearing off.

