In the early brightness we made a long drive out to the Fort.  Part of the way was beautiful.
It led under stately trees and through groups of native houses and by the usual village well,
where the picturesque gangs are always flocking to and fro and laughing and chattering; and
this time brawny men were deluging their bronze bodies with the limpid water, and making a
refreshing and enticing show of it; enticing, for the sun was already transacting business,
firing India up for the day.  There was plenty of this early bathing going on, for it was getting
toward breakfast time, and with an unpurified body the Hindoo must not eat.

Then we struck into the hot plain, and found the roads crowded with pilgrims of both sexes,
for one of the great religious fairs of India was being held, just beyond the Fort, at the
junction of the sacred rivers, the Ganges and the Jumna.  Three sacred rivers, I should have
said, for there is a subterranean one.  Nobody has seen it, but that doesn't signify.  The
fact that it is there is enough.  These pilgrims had come from all over India; some of them
had been months on the way, plodding patiently along in the heat and dust, worn, poor, hungry,
but supported and sustained by an unwavering faith and belief; they were supremely happy and
content, now; their full and sufficient reward was at hand; they were going to be cleansed
from every vestige of sin and corruption by these holy waters which make utterly pure whatsoever
thing they touch, even the dead and rotten.  It is wonderful, the power of a faith like that,
that can make multitudes upon multitudes of the old and weak and the young and frail enter
without hesitation or complaint upon such incredible journeys and endure the resultant miseries
without repining. It is done in love, or it is done in fear; I do not know which it is. No
matter what the impulse is, the act born of it is beyond imagination marvelous to our kind
of people, the cold whites.  There are choice great natures among us that could exhibit the
equivalent of this prodigious self-sacrifice, but the rest of us know that we should not be
equal to anything approaching it.  Still, we all talk self-sacrifice, and this makes me hope
that we are large enough to honor it in the Hindoo.

Two millions of natives arrive at this fair every year.  How many start, and die on the road,
from age and fatigue and disease and scanty nourishment, and how many die on the return, from
the same causes, no one knows; but the tale is great, one may say enormous.  Every twelfth
year is held to be a year of peculiar grace; a greatly augmented volume of pilgrims results
then.  The twelfth year has held this distinction since the remotest times, it is said.  It
is said also that there is to be but one more twelfth year--for the Ganges.  After that, that
holiest of all sacred rivers will cease to be holy, and will be abandoned by the pilgrim for
many centuries; how many, the wise men have not stated.  At the end of that interval it will
become holy again.  Meantime, the data will be arranged by those people who have charge of
all such matters, the great chief Brahmins.  It will be like shutting down a mint.  At a first
glance it looks most unbrahminically uncommercial, but I am not disturbed, being soothed and
tranquilized by their reputation.  "Brer fox he lay low," as Uncle Remus says; and at the judicious
time he will spring something on the Indian public which will show that he was not financially
asleep when he took the Ganges out of the market.

Great numbers of the natives along the roads were bringing away holy water from the rivers.
They would carry it far and wide in India and sell it.

The Fort is a huge old structure, and has had a large experience in religions.  In its great
court stands a monolith which was placed there more than 2,000 years ago to preach (Budhism)
by its pious inscription; the Fort was built three centuries ago by a Mohammedan Emperor--a
resanctification of the place in the interest of that religion.  There is a Hindoo temple,
too, with subterranean ramifications stocked with shrines and idols; and now the Fort belongs
to the English, it contains a Christian Church.  Insured in all the companies.

From the lofty ramparts one has a fine view of the sacred rivers.  They join at that point--the
pale blue Jumna, apparently clean and clear, and the muddy Ganges, dull yellow and not clean.
On a long curved spit between the rivers, towns of tents were visible, with a multitude of
fluttering pennons, and a mighty swarm of pilgrims.  It was a troublesome place to get down
to, and not a quiet place when you arrived; but it was interesting.  There was a world of activity
and turmoil and noise, partly religious, partly commercial; for the Mohammedans were there
to curse and sell, and the Hindoos to buy and pray.  It is a fair as well as a religious festival.
Crowds were bathing, praying, and drinking the purifying waters, and many sick pilgrims had
come long journeys in palanquins to be healed of their maladies by a bath; or if that might
not be, then to die on the blessed banks and so make sure of heaven.  There were fakeers in
plenty, with their bodies dusted over with ashes and their long hair caked together with cow-dung;
for the cow is holy and so is the rest of it; so holy that the good Hindoo peasant frescoes
the walls of his hut with this refuse, and also constructs ornamental figures out of it for
the gracing of his dirt floor.  There were seated families, fearfully and wonderfully painted,
who by attitude and grouping represented the families of certain great gods.  There was a holy
man who sat naked by the day and by the week on a cluster of iron spikes, and did not seem
to mind it; and another holy man, who stood all day holding his withered arms motionless aloft,
and was said to have been doing it for years.  All of these performers have a cloth on the
ground beside them for the reception of contributions, and even the poorest of the people give
a trifle and hope that the sacrifice will be blessed to him.  At last came a procession of
naked holy people marching by and chanting, and I wrenched myself away.

CHAPTER L.

The man who is ostentatious of his modesty is twin to the statue that
wears a fig-leaf.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

The journey to Benares was all in daylight, and occupied but a few hours. It was admirably
dusty.  The dust settled upon you in a thick ashy layer and turned you into a fakeer, with
nothing lacking to the role but the cow manure and the sense of holiness.  There was a change
of cars about mid-afternoon at Moghul-serai--if that was the name--and a wait of two hours
there for the Benares train.  We could have found a carriage and driven to the sacred city,
but we should have lost the wait.  In other countries a long wait at a station is a dull thing
and tedious, but one has no right to have that feeling in India.  You have the monster crowd
of bejeweled natives, the stir, the bustle, the confusion, the shifting splendors of the costumes--dear
me, the delight of it, the charm of it are beyond speech.  The two-hour wait was over too soon.
Among other satisfying things to look at was a minor native prince from the backwoods somewhere,
with his guard of honor, a ragged but wonderfully gaudy gang of fifty dark barbarians armed
with rusty flint-lock muskets.  The general show came so near to exhausting variety that one
would have said that no addition to it could be conspicuous, but when this Falstaff and his
motleys marched through it one saw that that seeming impossibility had happened.

We got away by and by, and soon reached the outer edge of Benares; then there was another wait;
but, as usual, with something to look at.  This was a cluster of little canvas-boxes--palanquins.
A canvas-box is not much of a sight--when empty; but when there is a lady in it, it is an object
of interest.  These boxes were grouped apart, in the full blaze of the terrible sun during
the three-quarters of an hour that we tarried there. They contained zenana ladies.  They had
to sit up; there was not room enough to stretch out.  They probably did not mind it.  They
are used to the close captivity of the dwellings all their lives; when they go a journey they
are carried to the train in these boxes; in the train they have to be secluded from inspection.
Many people pity them, and I always did it myself and never charged anything; but it is doubtful
if this compassion is valued.  While we were in India some good-hearted Europeans in one of
the cities proposed to restrict a large park to the use of zenana ladies, so that they could
go there and in assured privacy go about unveiled and enjoy the sunshine and air as they had
never enjoyed them before.  The good intentions back of the proposition were recognized, and
sincere thanks returned for it, but the proposition itself met with a prompt declination at
the hands of those who were authorized to speak for the zenana ladies.  Apparently, the idea
was shocking to the ladies--indeed, it was quite manifestly shocking.  Was that proposition
the equivalent of inviting European ladies to assemble scantily and scandalously clothed in
the seclusion of a private park?  It seemed to be about that.

Without doubt modesty is nothing less than a holy feeling; and without doubt the person whose
rule of modesty has been transgressed feels the same sort of wound that he would feel if something
made holy to him by his religion had suffered a desecration.  I say "rule of modesty" because
there are about a million rules in the world, and this makes a million standards to be looked
out for.  Major Sleeman mentions the case of some high-caste veiled ladies who were profoundly
scandalized when some English young ladies passed by with faces bare to the world; so scandalized
that they spoke out with strong indignation and wondered that people could be so shameless
as to expose their persons like that.  And yet "the legs of the objectors were naked to mid-thigh."
Both parties were clean-minded and irreproachably modest, while abiding by their separate rules,
but they couldn't have traded rules for a change without suffering considerable discomfort.
All human rules are more or less idiotic, I suppose.  It is best so, no doubt.  The way it
is now, the asylums can hold the sane people, but if we tried to shut up the insane we should
run out of building materials.

You have a long drive through the outskirts of Benares before you get to the hotel.  And all
the aspects are melancholy.  It is a vision of dusty sterility, decaying temples, crumbling
tombs, broken mud walls, shabby huts.  The whole region seems to ache with age and penury.
It must take ten thousand years of want to produce such an aspect.  We were still outside of
the great native city when we reached the hotel.  It was a quiet and homelike house, inviting,
and manifestly comfortable.  But we liked its annex better, and went thither.  It was a mile
away, perhaps, and stood in the midst of a large compound, and was built bungalow fashion,
everything on the ground floor, and a veranda all around.  They have doors in India, but I
don't know why.  They don't fasten, and they stand open, as a rule, with a curtain hanging
in the doorspace to keep out the glare of the sun.  Still, there is plenty of privacy, for
no white person will come in without notice, of course.  The native men servants will, but
they don't seem to count.  They glide in, barefoot and noiseless, and are in the midst before
one knows it.  At first this is a shock, and sometimes it is an embarrassment; but one has
to get used to it, and does.

There was one tree in the compound, and a monkey lived in it.  At first I was strongly interested
in the tree, for I was told that it was the renowned peepul--the tree in whose shadow you cannot
tell a lie.  This one failed to stand the test, and I went away from it disappointed. There
was a softly creaking well close by, and a couple of oxen drew water from it by the hour, superintended
by two natives dressed in the usual "turban and pocket-handkerchief."  The tree and the well
were the only scenery, and so the compound was a soothing and lonesome and satisfying place;
and very restful after so many activities.  There was nobody in our bungalow but ourselves;
the other guests were in the next one, where the table d'hote was furnished.  A body could
not be more pleasantly situated.  Each room had the customary bath attached--a room ten or
twelve feet square, with a roomy stone-paved pit in it and abundance of water.  One could not
easily improve upon this arrangement, except by furnishing it with cold water and excluding
the hot, in deference to the fervency of the climate; but that is forbidden.  It would damage
the bather's health.  The stranger is warned against taking cold baths in India, but even the
most intelligent strangers are fools, and they do not obey, and so they presently get laid
up.  I was the most intelligent fool that passed through, that year.  But I am still more intelligent
now.  Now that it is too late.

I wonder if the 'dorian', if that is the name of it, is another superstition, like the peepul
tree.  There was a great abundance and variety of tropical fruits, but the dorian was never
in evidence.  It was never the season for the dorian.  It was always going to arrive from Burma
sometime or other, but it never did.  By all accounts it was a most strange fruit, and incomparably
delicious to the taste, but not to the smell.  Its rind was said to exude a stench of so atrocious
a nature that when a dorian was in the room even the presence of a polecat was a refreshment.
We found many who had eaten the dorian, and they all spoke of it with a sort of rapture.  They
said that if you could hold your nose until the fruit was in your mouth a sacred joy would
suffuse you from head to foot that would make you oblivious to the smell of the rind, but that
if your grip slipped and you caught the smell of the rind before the fruit was in your mouth,
you would faint.  There is a fortune in that rind.  Some day somebody will import it into Europe
and sell it for cheese.

Benares was not a disappointment.  It justified its reputation as a curiosity.  It is on high
ground, and overhangs a grand curve of the Ganges.  It is a vast mass of building, compactly
crusting a hill, and is cloven in all directions by an intricate confusion of cracks which
stand for streets.  Tall, slim minarets and beflagged temple-spires rise out of it and give
it picturesqueness, viewed from the river.  The city is as busy as an ant-hill, and the hurly-burly
of human life swarming along the web of narrow streets reminds one of the ants.  The sacred
cow swarms along, too, and goes whither she pleases, and takes toll of the grain-shops, and
is very much in the way, and is a good deal of a nuisance, since she must not be molested.

Benares is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend, and looks twice
as old as all of them put together.  From a Hindoo statement quoted in Rev. Mr. Parker's compact
and lucid Guide to Benares, I find that the site of the town was the beginning-place of the
Creation.  It was merely an upright "lingam," at first, no larger than a stove-pipe, and stood
in the midst of a shoreless ocean.  This was the work of the God Vishnu.  Later he spread the
lingam out till its surface was ten miles across.  Still it was not large enough for the business;
therefore he presently built the globe around it.  Benares is thus the center of the earth.
This is considered an advantage.

It has had a tumultuous history, both materially and spiritually.  It started Brahminically,
many ages ago; then by and by Buddha came in recent times 2,500 years ago, and after that it
was Buddhist during many centuries--twelve, perhaps--but the Brahmins got the upper hand again,
then, and have held it ever since.  It is unspeakably sacred in Hindoo eyes, and is as unsanitary
as it is sacred, and smells like the rind of the dorian.  It is the headquarters of the Brahmin
faith, and one-eighth of the population are priests of that church.  But it is not an overstock,
for they have all India as a prey.  All India flocks thither on pilgrimage, and pours its savings
into the pockets of the priests in a generous stream, which never fails.  A priest with a good
stand on the shore of the Ganges is much better off than the sweeper of the best crossing in
London.  A good stand is worth a world of money.  The holy proprietor of it sits under his
grand spectacular umbrella and blesses people all his life, and collects his commission, and
grows fat and rich; and the stand passes from father to son, down and down and down through
the ages, and remains a permanent and lucrative estate in the family.  As Mr. Parker suggests,
it can become a subject of dispute, at one time or another, and then the matter will be settled,
not by prayer and fasting and consultations with Vishnu, but by the intervention of a much
more puissant power--an English court.  In Bombay I was told by an American missionary that
in India there are 640 Protestant missionaries at work. At first it seemed an immense force,
but of course that was a thoughtless idea.  One missionary to 500,000 natives--no, that is
not a force; it is the reverse of it; 640 marching against an intrenched camp of 300,000,000--the
odds are too great.  A force of 640 in Benares alone would have its hands over-full with 8,000
Brahmin priests for adversary. Missionaries need to be well equipped with hope and confidence,
and this equipment they seem to have always had in all parts of the world.  Mr. Parker has
it.  It enables him to get a favorable outlook out of statistics which might add up differently
with other mathematicians.  For instance:

"During the past few years competent observers declare that the number of pilgrims to Benares
has increased."

And then he adds up this fact and gets this conclusion:

"But the revival, if so it may be called, has in it the marks of death. It is a spasmodic struggle
before dissolution."

In this world we have seen the Roman Catholic power dying, upon these same terms, for many
centuries.  Many a time we have gotten all ready for the funeral and found it postponed again,
on account of the weather or something.  Taught by experience, we ought not to put on our things
for this Brahminical one till we see the procession move.  Apparently one of the most uncertain
things in the world is the funeral of a religion.

I should have been glad to acquire some sort of idea of Hindoo theology, but the difficulties
were too great, the matter was too intricate.  Even the mere A, B, C of it is baffling.

