His enemies were not unprepared for his reception. Argyle, at the head of his Highlanders,
was dogging the steps of the Irish from the west to the east, and by force, fear, or influence,
had collected an army nearly sufficient to have given battle to that under Montrose. The Lowlands
were also prepared, for reasons which we assigned at the beginning of this tale. A body of
six thousand infantry, and six or seven thousand cavalry, which profanely assumed the title
of God's army, had been hastily assembled from the shires of Fife, Angus, Perth, Stirling,
and the neighbouring counties. A much less force in former times, nay, even in the preceding
reign, would have been sufficient to have secured the Lowlands against a more formidable descent
of Highlanders, than those united under Montrose; but times had changed strangely within the
last half century. Before that period, the Lowlanders were as constantly engaged in war as
the mountaineers, and were incomparably better disciplined and armed. The favourite Scottish
order of battle somewhat resembled the Macedonian phalanx. Their infantry formed a compact
body, armed with long spears, impenetrable even to the men-at-arms of the age, though well
mounted, and arrayed in complete proof. It may easily be conceived, therefore, that their ranks
could not be broken by the disorderly charge of Highland infantry armed for close combat only,
with swords, and ill furnished with missile weapons, and having no artillery whatever.

This habit of fight was in a great measure changed by the introduction of muskets into the
Scottish Lowland service, which, not being as yet combined with the bayonet, was a formidable
weapon at a distance, but gave no assurance against the enemy who rushed on to close quarters.
The pike, indeed, was not wholly disused in the Scottish army; but it was no longer the favourite
weapon, nor was it relied upon as formerly by those in whose hands it was placed; insomuch
that Daniel Lupton, a tactician of the day, has written a book expressly upon the superiority
of the musket. This change commenced as early as the wars of Gustavus Adolphus, whose marches
were made with such rapidity, that the pike was very soon thrown aside in his army, and exchanged
for fire-arms. A circumstance which necessarily accompanied this change, as well as the establishment
of standing armies, whereby war became a trade, was the introduction of a laborious and complicated
system of discipline, combining a variety of words of command with corresponding operations
and manoeuvres, the neglect of any one of which was sure to throw the whole into confusion.
War therefore, as practised among most nations of Europe, had assumed much more than formerly
the character of a profession or mystery, to which previous practice and experience were indispensable
requisites. Such was the natural consequence of standing armies, which had almost everywhere,
and particularly in the long German wars, superseded what may be called the natural discipline
of the feudal militia.

The Scottish Lowland militia, therefore, laboured under a double disadvantage when opposed
to Highlanders. They were divested of the spear, a weapon which, in the hands of their ancestors,
had so often repelled the impetuous assaults of the mountaineer; and they were subjected to
a new and complicated species of discipline, well adapted, perhaps, to the use of regular troops,
who could be rendered completely masters of it, but tending only to confuse the ranks of citizen
soldiers, by whom it was rarely practised, and imperfectly understood. So much has been done
in our own time in bringing back tactics to their first principles, and in getting rid of the
pedantry of war, that it is easy for us to estimate the disadvantages under which a half-trained
militia laboured, who were taught to consider success as depending upon their exercising with
precision a system of tactics, which they probably only so far comprehended as to find out
when they were wrong, but without the power of getting right again. Neither can it be denied,
that, in the material points of military habits and warlike spirit, the Lowlanders of the seventeenth
century had sunk far beneath their Highland countrymen.

From the earliest period down to the union of the crowns, the whole kingdom of Scotland, Lowlands
as well as Highlands, had been the constant scene of war, foreign and domestic; and there was
probably scarce one of its hardy inhabitants, between the age of sixteen and sixty, who was
not as willing in point of fact as he was literally bound in law, to assume arms at the first
call of his liege lord, or of a royal proclamation. The law remained the same in sixteen hundred
and forty-five as a hundred years before, but the race of those subjected to it had been bred
up under very different feelings. They had sat in quiet under their vine and under their fig-tree,
and a call to battle involved a change of life as new as it was disagreeable. Such of them,
also, who lived near unto the Highlands, were in continual and disadvantageous contact with
the restless inhabitants of those mountains, by whom their cattle were driven off, their dwellings
plundered, and their persons insulted, and who had acquired over them that sort of superiority
arising from a constant system of aggression. The Lowlanders, who lay more remote, and out
of reach of these depredations, were influenced by the exaggerated reports circulated concerning
the Highlanders, whom, as totally differing in laws, language, and dress, they were induced
to regard as a nation of savages, equally void of fear and of humanity. These various prepossessions,
joined to the less warlike habits of the Lowlanders, and their imperfect knowledge of the new
and complicated system of discipline for which they had exchanged their natural mode of fighting,
placed them at great disadvantage when opposed to the Highlander in the field of battle. The
mountaineers, on the contrary, with the arms and courage of their fathers, possessed also their
simple and natural system of tactics, and bore down with the fullest confidence upon an enemy,
to whom anything they had been taught of discipline was, like Saul's armour upon David, a hinderance
rather than a help, "because they had not proved it."

It was with such disadvantages on the one side, and such advantages on the other, to counterbalance
the difference of superior numbers and the presence of artillery and cavalry, that Montrose
encountered the army of Lord Elcho upon the field of Tippermuir. The Presbyterian clergy had
not been wanting in their efforts to rouse the spirit of their followers, and one of them,
who harangued the troops on the very day of battle, hesitated not to say, that if ever God
spoke by his mouth, he promised them, in His name, that day, a great and assured victory. The
cavalry and artillery were also reckoned sure warrants of success, as the novelty of their
attack had upon former occasions been very discouraging to the Highlanders. The place of meeting
was an open heath, and the ground afforded little advantage to either party, except that it
allowed the horse of the Covenanters to act with effect.

A battle upon which so much depended, was never more easily decided. The Lowland cavalry made
a show of charging; but, whether thrown into disorder by the fire of musketry, or deterred
by a disaffection to the service said to have prevailed among the gentlemen, they made no impression
on the Highlanders whatever, and recoiled in disorder from ranks which had neither bayonets
nor pikes to protect them. Montrose saw, and instantly availed himself of this advantage. He
ordered his whole army to charge, which they performed with the wild and desperate valour peculiar
to mountaineers. One officer of the Covenanters alone, trained in the Italian wars, made a
desperate defence upon the right wing. In every other point their line was penetrated at the
first onset; and this advantage once obtained, the Lowlanders were utterly unable to contend
at close quarters with their more agile and athletic enemies. Many were slain on the held,
and such a number in the pursuit, that above one-third of the Covenanters were reported to
have fallen; in which number, however, must be computed a great many fat burgesses who broke
their wind in the flight, and thus died without stroke of sword. [We choose to quote our authority
for a fact so singular:--"A great many burgesses were killed--twenty-five householders in St.
Andrews--many were bursten in the flight, and died without stroke."--See Baillie's Letters,
vol. ii. page 92.]

The victors obtained possession of Perth, and obtained considerable sums of money, as well
as ample supplies of arms and ammunition. But those advantages were to be balanced against
an almost insurmountable inconvenience that uniformly attended a Highland army. The clans could
be in no respect induced to consider themselves as regular soldiers, or to act as such. Even
so late as the year 1745-6, when the Chevalier Charles Edward, by way of making an example,
caused a soldier to be shot for desertion, the Highlanders, who composed his army, were affected
as much by indignation as by fear. They could not conceive any principle of justice upon which
a man's life could be taken, for merely going home when it did not suit him to remain longer
with the army. Such had been the uniform practice of their fathers. When a battle was over,
the campaign was, in their opinion, ended; if it was lost, they sought safety in their mountains--if
won, they returned there to secure their booty. At other times they had their cattle to look
after, and their harvests to sow or reap, without which their families would have perished
for want. In either case, there was an end of their services for the time; and though they
were easily enough recalled by the prospect of fresh adventures and more plunder, yet the opportunity
of success was, in the meantime, lost, and could not afterwards be recovered. This circumstance
serves to show, even if history had not made us acquainted with the same fact, that the Highlanders
had never been accustomed to make war with the view of permanent conquest, but only with the
hope of deriving temporary advantage, or deciding some immediate quarrel. It also explains
the reason why Montrose, with all his splendid successes, never obtained any secure or permanent
footing in the Lowlands, and why even those Lowland noblemen and gentlemen, who were inclined
to the royal cause, showed diffidence and reluctance to join an army of a character so desultory
and irregular, as might lead them at all times to apprehend that the Highlanders securing themselves
by a retreat to their mountains, would leave whatever Lowlanders might have joined them to
the mercy of an offended and predominant enemy. The same consideration will also serve to account
for the sudden marches which Montrose was obliged to undertake, in order to recruit his army
in the mountains, and for the rapid changes of fortune, by which we often find him obliged
to retreat from before those enemies over whom he had recently been victorious. If there should
be any who read these tales for any further purpose than that of immediate amusement, they
will find these remarks not unworthy of their recollection.

It was owing to such causes, the slackness of the Lowland loyalists and the temporary desertion
of his Highland followers, that Montrose found himself, even after the decisive victory of
Tippermuir, in no condition to face the second army with which Argyle advanced upon him from
the westward. In this emergency, supplying by velocity the want of strength, he moved suddenly
from Perth to Dundee, and being refused admission into that town, fell northward upon Aberdeen,
where he expected to be joined by the Gordons and other loyalists. But the zeal of these gentlemen
was, for the time, effectually bridled by a large body of Covenanters, commanded by the Lord
Burleigh, and supposed to amount to three thousand men. These Montrose boldly attacked with
half their number. The battle was fought under the walls Of the city, and the resolute valour
of Montrose's followers was again successful against every disadvantage.

But it was the fate of this great commander, always to gain the glory, but seldom to reap the
fruits of victory. He had scarcely time to repose his small army in Aberdeen, ere he found,
on the one hand, that the Gordons were likely to be deterred from joining him, by the reasons
we have mentioned, with some others peculiar to their chief, the Marquis of Huntly; on the
other hand, Argyle, whose forces had been augmented by those of several Lowland noblemen, advanced
towards Montrose at the head of an army much larger than he had yet had to cope with. These
troops moved, indeed, with slowness, corresponding to the cautious character of their commander;
but even that caution rendered Argyle's approach formidable, since his very advance implied,
that he was at the head of an army irresistibly superior.

There remained one mode of retreat open to Montrose, and he adopted it. He threw himself into
the Highlands, where he could set pursuit at defiance, and where he was sure, in every glen,
to recover those recruits who had left his standard to deposit their booty in their native
fastnesses. It was thus that the singular character of the army which Montrose commanded, while,
on the one hand, it rendered his victory in some degree nugatory, enabled him, on the other,
under the most disadvantageous circumstances, to secure his retreat, recruit his forces, and
render himself more formidable than ever to the enemy, before whom he had lately been unable
to make a stand.

On the present occasion he threw himself into Badenoch, and rapidly traversing that district,
as well as the neighbouring country of Athole, he alarmed the Covenanters by successive attacks
upon various unexpected points, and spread such general dismay, that repeated orders were dispatched
by the Parliament to Argyle, their commander, to engage, and disperse Montrose at all rates.

These commands from his superiors neither suited the haughty spirit, nor the temporizing and
cautious policy, of the nobleman to whom they were addressed. He paid, accordingly, no regard
to them, but limited his efforts to intrigues among Montrose's few Lowland followers, many
of whom had become disgusted with the prospect of a Highland campaign, which exposed their
persons to intolerable fatigue, and left their estates at the Covenanters' mercy. Accordingly,
several of them left Montrose's camp at this period. He was joined, however, by a body of forces
of more congenial spirit, and far better adapted to the situation in which he found himself.
This reinforcement consisted of a large body of Highlanders, whom Colkitto, dispatched for
that purpose, had levied in Argyleshire. Among the most distinguished was John of Moidart,
called the Captain of Clan Ranald, with the Stewarts of Appin, the Clan Gregor, the Clan M'Nab,
and other tribes of inferior distinction. By these means, Montrose's army was so formidably
increased, that Argyle cared no longer to remain in the command of that opposed to him, but
returned to Edinburgh, and there threw up his commission, under pretence that his army was
not supplied with reinforcements and provisions in the manner in which they ought to have been.
From thence the Marquis returned to Inverary, there, in full security, to govern his feudal
vassals, and patriarchal followers, and to repose himself in safety on the faith of the Clan
proverb already quoted--"It is a far cry to Lochow."

CHAPTER XVI.

     Such mountains steep, such craggy hills,
     His army on one side enclose:
     The other side, great griesly gills
     Did fence with fenny mire and moss.

     Which when the Earl understood,
     He council craved of captains all,
     Who bade set forth with mournful mood,
     And take such fortune as would fall.
     --FLODDEN FIELD, AN ANCIENT POEM.

Montrose had now a splendid career in his view, provided he could obtain the consent of his
gallant, but desultory troops, and their independent chieftains. The Lowlands lay open before
him without an army adequate to check his career; for Argyle's followers had left the Covenanters'
host when their master threw up his commission, and many other troops, tired of the war, had
taken the same opportunity to disband themselves. By descending Strath-Tay, therefore, one
of the most convenient passes from the Highlands, Montrose had only to present himself in the
Lowlands, in order to rouse the slumbering spirit of chivalry and of loyalty which animated
the gentlemen to the north of the Forth. The possession of these districts, with or without
a victory, would give him the command of a wealthy and fertile part of the kingdom, and would
enable him, by regular pay, to place his army on a permanent footing, to penetrate as far as
the capital, perhaps from thence to the Border, where he deemed it possible to communicate
with the yet unsubdued forces of King Charles.

Such was the plan of operations by which the truest glory was to be acquired, and the most
important success insured for the royal cause. Accordingly it did not escape the ambitious
and daring spirit of him whose services had already acquired him the title of the Great Marquis.
But other motives actuated many of his followers, and perhaps were not without their secret
and unacknowledged influence upon his own feelings.

The Western Chiefs in Montrose's army, almost to a man, regarded the Marquis of Argyle as the
most direct and proper object of hostilities. Almost all of them had felt his power; almost
all, in withdrawing their fencible men from their own glens, left their families and property
exposed to his vengeance; all, without exception, were desirous of diminishing his sovereignty;
and most of them lay so near his territories, that they might reasonably hope to be gratified
by a share of his spoil. To these Chiefs the possession of Inverary and its castle was an event
infinitely more important and desirable than the capture of Edinburgh. The latter event could
only afford their clansmen a little transitory pay or plunder; the former insured to the Chiefs
themselves indemnity for the past, and security for the future. Besides these personal reasons,
the leaders, who favoured this opinion, plausibly urged, that though, at his first descent
into the Lowlands, Montrose might be superior to the enemy, yet every day's march he made from
the hills must diminish his own forces, and expose him to the accumulated superiority of any
army which the Covenanters could collect from the Lowland levies and garrisons. On the other
hand, by crushing Argyle effectually, he would not only permit his present western friends
to bring out that proportion of their forces which they must otherwise leave at home for protection
of their families; but farther, he would draw to his standard several tribes already friendly
to his cause, but who were prevented from joining him by fear of M'Callum More.

