To change the figure, the vacant space, unbuilt upon as yet, was becoming an immense human
reservoir, into which turgid streams with threatening sounds were surging from the south. His
eyes could separate the tumultuous atoms into ragged forms, unkempt heads, inflamed faces,
animated by some powerful destructive impulse. Arms of every description proved that the purpose
of the gathering was not a peaceful one. But what was the purpose?

Riding closer he sought to question some on the outskirts of the throng, and so drew attention
to himself. Volleys of oaths, stones, and sticks, were the only answers he received.

"Thank you," Merwyn muttered, as he galloped away. "I begin to comprehend your meaning, but
shall study you awhile before I take part in the controversy. Then there shall be some knock-down
arguments."

As he drew rein at a short distance the cry went up that he was a "spy," and another rush was
made for him; but he speedily distanced his pursuers. To his surprise the great multitude turned
southward, pouring down Fifth and Sixth avenues. After keeping ahead for a few blocks, he saw
that the mob, now numbering many thousands, was coming down town with some unknown purpose
and destination.

Two things were at least clear,--the outbreak was unexpected, and no preparation had been made
for it. As he approached his home on a sharp trot, a vague air of apprehension and expectation
was beginning to manifest itself, and but little more. Policemen were on their beats, and the
city on the fashionable avenues and cross-streets wore its midsummer aspect. Before entering
his own home he obeyed an impulse to gallop by the Vosburgh residence. All was still quiet,
and Marian, with surprise, saw him clattering past in a way that seemed reckless and undignified.

On reaching his home he followed his groom to the stable, and said, quietly: "You are an old
family servant, but you must now give me positive assurance that I can trust you. There is
a riot in the city, and there is no telling what house will be safe. Will you mount guard night
and day in my absence?"

"Faix, sur, I will. Oi'll sarve ye as I did yer fayther afore ye."

"I believe you, but would shoot you if treacherous. You know I've been expecting this trouble.
Keep the horse saddled. Bar and bolt everything. I shall be in and out at all hours, but will
enter by the little side-door in the stable. Watch for my signal, and be ready to open to me
only any door, and bolt it instantly after me. Leave all the weapons about the house just where
I have put them. If any one asks for me, say I'm out and you don't know when I'll be back.
Learn to recognize my voice and signal, no matter how disguised I am."

The faithful old servant promised everything, and was soon executing orders. Before their neighbors
had taken the alarm, the heavy shutters were closed, and the unusual precautions that in the
family's absence had been adopted rendered access possible only to great violence. On reaching
his room Merwyn thought for a few moments. He was intensely excited, and there was a gleam
of wild hope in his eyes, but he felt with proud exultation that in his manner he was imitating
his father. Not a motion was hasty or useless. Right or wrong, in the solitude of his room
or in the midst of the mob, his brain should direct his hand.

"And now my hand is free!" he exclaimed, aloud; "my oath cannot shackle it now."

His first conclusion was to mingle with the mob and learn the nature and objects of the enemy.
He believed the information would be valuable to Mr. Vosburgh and the police authorities. Having
accomplished this purpose he would join any organized resistance he could find, at the same
time always seeking to shield Marian from the possibility of danger.

He had already been shown that in order to understand the character and aims of the mob he
must appear to be one of them, and he decided that he could carry off the disguise of a young
city mechanic better than any other.

This plan he carried out by donning from his own wardrobe a plain dark flannel suit, which,
when it had been rolled in dust and oil, and received a judicious rip here and there, presented
the appearance of a costume of a workman just from his shop. With further injunctions to Thomas
and the old serving-woman, he made his way rapidly to the north-east, where the smoke of a
conflagration proved that the spirit of mischief was increasing.

One would not have guessed, as he hurried up Third Avenue, that he was well armed, but there
were two small, yet effective revolvers and a dirk upon his person. As has been related before,
he had practised for this emergency, and could be as quick as a flash with his weapon.

He had acted with the celerity of youth, guided by definite plans, and soon began to make his
way quietly through the throng that blocked the avenue, gradually approaching the fire at the
corner of 45th Street. At first the crowd was a mystery to him, so orderly, quiet, and inoffensive
did it appear, although composed largely of the very dregs of the slums. The crackling, roaring
flames, devouring tenement-houses, were equally mysterious. No one was seeking to extinguish
them, although the occupants of the houses were escaping for their lives, dragging out their
humble effects. The crowd merely looked on with a pleased, satisfied expression. After a moment's
thought Merwyn remembered that the draft had been begun in one of the burning houses, and was
told by a bystander, "We smashed the ranch and broke some jaws before the bonfire."

That the crowd was only a purring tiger was soon proved, for some one near said, "There's Kennedy,
chief of the cops;" and it seemed scarcely a moment before the officer was surrounded by an
infuriated throng who were raining curses and blows upon him.

Merwyn made an impulsive spring forward in his defence, but a dozen forms intervened, and his
effort was supposed to be as hostile as that of the rioters. The very numbers that sought to
destroy Kennedy gave him a chance, for they impeded one another, and, regaining his feet, he
led a wild chase across a vacant lot, pursued by a hooting mob as if he were a mad dog. The
crowd that filled the street almost as far as eye could reach now began to sway back and forth
as if coming under the influence of some new impulse, and Merwyn was so wedged in that he had
to move with the others. Being tall he saw that Kennedy, after the most brutal treatment, was
rescued almost by a miracle, apparently more dead than alive. It also became clear to him that
the least suspicion of his character and purpose would cost him his life instantly. He therefore
resolved on the utmost self-control. He was ready to risk his life, but not to throw it away
uselessly,--not at least till he knew that Marian was safe. It was his duty now to investigate
the mob, not fight it.

The next excitement was caused by the cry, "The soldiers are coming!"

These proved to be a small detachment of the invalid corps, who showed their comprehension
of affairs by firing over the rioters' heads, thinking to disperse them by a little noise.
The mob settled the question of noise by howling as if a menagerie had broken loose, and, rushing
upon the handful of men, snatched their muskets, first pounding the almost paralyzed veterans,
and then chasing them as a wilderness of wolves would pursue a small array of sheep.

As Merwyn stepped down from a dray, whereon he had witnessed the scene, he muttered, indiscreetly,
"What does such nonsense amount to!"

A big hulking fellow, carrying a bar of iron, who had stood beside him, and who apparently
had had his suspicions, asked, fiercely, "An' what did ye expect it wud amount to? An' what's
the nonsense ye're growlin' at? By the holy poker oi belave you're a spy."

"Yis, prove that, and I'll cut his heart out," cried an inebriated woman, brandishing a knife
a foot long.

"Yes, prove it, you thunderin' fool!" cried Merwyn.

"The cops are comin' now, and you want to begin a fight among ourselves."

True enough, the cry came ringing up the avenue, "The cops comin.'"

"Oh, an' ye's wan uv us, oi'll stan' by ye; but oi've got me eye on ye, and 'ud think no more
o' brainin' ye than a puppy."

"Try brainin' the cops first, if yer know when yer well off," replied Merwyn, drawing a pistol.
"I didn't come out to fight bullies in our crowd."

The momentary excitement caused by this altercation was swallowed up by the advent of a squad
of police, which wheeled into the avenue from 43d Street, and checked the pursuit of the bleeding
remnants of the invalid corps. Those immediately around the young man pressed forward to see
what took place, he following, but edging towards the sidewalk, with the eager purpose to see
the first fight between the mob and the police.

CHAPTER XLII.

THAT WORST OF MONSTERS, A MOB.

AFTER reaching the sidewalk Merwyn soon found a chance to mount a dry-goods box, that he might
better observe the action of the police and form an idea of their numbers. The moment he saw
the insignificant band he felt that they were doomed men, or else the spirit abroad was not
what he thought it to be, and he had been witnessing some strong indications of its ruthless
nature.

It was characteristic of the young fellow that he did not rush to the aid of the police. He
was able, even in that seething flood of excitement, to reason coolly, and his thoughts were
something to this effect: "I'm not going to throw away my life and all its chances and duties
because the authorities are so ignorant as to sacrifice a score or two of their men. I shall
not fight at all until I have seen Marian and Mr. Vosburgh. When I have done something to insure
their safety, or at least to prove that I am not a coward, I shall know better what to do and
how to do it. This outbreak is not an affair of a few hours. She herself may be exposed to
the fury of these fiends, for I believe her father is, or will be, a marked man."

Seeing, farther up the avenue, a small balcony as yet unoccupied, he pushed his way towards
it, that he might obtain one more view of the drift of affairs before taking his course. The
hall-door leading to the second story was open and filled with a crowd of frightened, unkempt
women and children, who gave way before him. The door of the room opening on the balcony was
locked, and, in response to his repeated knockings, a quavering voice asked what was wanted.

"You must open instantly," was his reply.

A trembling, gray-haired woman put the door ajar, and he pushed in at once, saying: "Bolt the
door again, madam. I will do you no harm, and may be able to save you from injury;" and he
was out in the balcony before his assurances were concluded.

"Indeed, sir, I've done no one any wrong, and therefore need no protection. I only wish to
be let alone with my children."

"That you cannot expect with certainty, in view of what is going on to-day. Do you not know
that they are burning houses? As long as I'm here I'll be a protection. I merely wish the use
of this little outlook for a brief time. So say nothing more, for I must give my whole attention
to the fight."

"Well then, since you are so civil, you can stay; but the street is full of devils."

He paid no heed to her further lamentations, and looking southward saw that the police had
formed a line across the avenue, and that such battered remnants of the invalid corps as had
escaped were limping off behind their cover as fast as possible. The presence of the city's
guardians had caused a brief hesitation in the approaching and broken edge of the rabble. Seeing
this the brave sergeant ordered a charge, which was promptly and swiftly made, the mob recoiling
before it more and more slowly as under pressure it became denser. There was no more effort
to carry out the insane, rather than humane, tactics of the invalid corps, who had either fired
high or used blank cartridges, for now the police struck for life with their locust clubs,
and the thud of the blows could often be heard even above the uproar. Every one within reach
of their arms went down, and the majority lay quietly where they fell, as the devoted little
band pressed slowly forward. With regret Merwyn saw Barney Ghegan among the foremost, his broad
red face streaming with perspiration, and he wielding his club as if it were the deadliest
of shillalahs.

They did indeed strike manfully, and proved what an adequate force could do. Rioters fell before
them on every side. But hopeless reaping was theirs, with miles of solid, bloodthirsty humanity
before them. Slowly and more falteringly they made their way three blocks, as far as 46th Street,
sustained by the hope of finding reinforcements there. Instead of these, heavier bodies of
the enemy poured in from the side-streets upon the exhausted men, and the mob closed behind
them from 45th Street, like dark, surging waves. Then came a mad rush upon the hemmed-in officers,
who were attacked in front and in the rear, with clubs, iron-bars, guns, and pistols.  Tom,
bruised, bleeding, the force that had fought so gallantly broke, each man striking out for
his own life. The vast heterogeneous crowd now afforded their chief chance for escape. Dodging
behind numbers, taking advantage of the wild confusion of the swaying, trampling masses, and
striking down some direct opponent, a few got off with slight bruises. There were wonderful
instances of escape. The brave sergeant who had led the squad had his left wrist broken by
an iron bar, but, knocking down two other assailants, he sprung into a house and bolted the
door after him. An heroic German girl, with none of the stolid phlegm attributed to her race,
lifted the upper mattress of her bed. The sergeant sprung in and was covered up without a word.
There was no time then for plans and explanations. A moment later the door was broken, and
a score of fierce-visaged men streamed in. Now the girl was stolidity itself.

"Der cop run out der back door," was all that she could be made to say in answer to fierce
inquiries. Every apartment was examined in vain, and then the roughs departed in search of
other prey. Brave, simple-hearted girl! She would have been torn to pieces had her humane strategy
been discovered.

But a more memorable act of heroism was reserved for another woman, Mrs. Eagan, the wife of
the man who had rescued Superintendent Kennedy a short time before. A policeman was knocked
down with a hay-bale rung, and fell at her very feet. In a moment more he would have been killed,
but this woman instantly covered his form with her own, so that no blow could reach him unless
she was first struck. Then she begged for his life. Even the wild-beast spirit of the mob was
touched, and the pursuers passed on. A monument should have been built to the woman who, in
that pandemonium of passion, could so risk all for a stranger.

I am not defending Merwyn's course, but sketching a character. His spirit of strategical observation
would have forsaken him had he witnessed that scene, and indeed it did forsake him as he saw
Barney Ghegan running and making a path for himself by the terrific blows of his club. Three
times he fell but rose again, with the same indomitable pluck which had won his suit to pretty
Sally Maguire. At last the brave fellow was struck down almost opposite the balcony. Merwyn
knew the man was a favorite of the Vosburghs, and he could not bear that the brave fellow should
be murdered before his very eyes; yet murdered he apparently was ere Merwyn could reach the
street. Like baffled fiends his pursuers closed upon the unfortunate man, pounding him and
jumping upon him. And almost instantly the vile hags that followed the marauders like harpies,
for the sake of plunder began stripping his body.

"Stop!" thundered Merwyn, the second he reached the scene, and, standing over the prostrate
form, he levelled a pistol at the throng. "Now, listen to me," he added. "I don't wish to hurt
anybody. You've killed this man, so let his body alone. I know his wife, an Irishwoman, and
she ought at least to have his body for decent burial."

"Faix, an he's roight," cried one, who seemed a leader. "We've killed the man. Let his woife
have what's left uv 'im;" and the crowd broke away, following the speaker.

This was one of the early indications of what was proved afterwards,--that the mob was hydra-headed,
following either its own impulses or leaders that sprung up everywhere.

An abandoned express-wagon stood near, and into this Merwyn, with the help of a bystander,
lifted the insensible man. The young fellow then drove, as rapidly as the condition of the
streets permitted, to the nearest hospital. A few yards carried him beyond those who had knowledge
of the affair, and after that he was unmolested. It was the policy of the rioters to have the
bodies of their friends disappear as soon as possible. Poor Ghegan had been stripped to his
shirt and drawers, and so was not recognized as a "cop."

Leaving him at the hospital, with brief explanations, Merwyn was about to hasten away, when
the surgeon remarked, "The man is dead, apparently."

"I can't help it," cried Merwyn. "I'll bring his wife as soon as possible. Of course you will
do all in your power;" and he started away on a run.

A few moments later Barney Ghegan was taken to the dead-house.

CHAPTER XLIII.

THE "COWARD."

MERWYN now felt that he had carried out the first part of his plan. He had looked into the
murderous eyes of the mob, and learned its spirit and purpose. Already he reproached himself
for leaving Marian alone so long, especially as columns of smoke were rising throughout the
northern part of the city. It seemed an age since he had seen that first cloud of the storm,
as he emerged from the park after his quiet ride, but it was not yet noon.

As he sped through the streets, running where he dared, and fortunately having enough of the
general aspect of a rioter to be unmolested, he noticed a new feature in the outbreak, one
that soon became a chief characteristic,--the hatred of negroes and the sanguinary pursuit
of them everywhere.

"Another danger for the Vosburghs," he groaned. "They have a colored servant, who must be spirited
off somewhere instantly."

Avoiding crowds, he soon reached the quiet side-street on which Marian lived, and was overjoyed
to find it almost deserted. Mammy Borden herself answered his impatient ring, and was about
to shut the door on so disreputable a person as he now appeared to be, when he shouldered it
open, turned, locked and chained it with haste.

"What do you mean, sir? and who are you?" Marian demanded, running from the parlor on hearing
the expostulations of her servant.

"Have patience, Miss Vosburgh."

"Oh, it is you, Mr. Merwyn. Indeed I have need of patience. An hour ago papa sent a message
from down town, saying: 'Don't leave the house to-day. Serious trouble on foot.' Since then
not a word, only wild-looking people running through the street, the ringing of fire-bells,
and the sounds of some kind of disturbance. What does it all mean? and why do you bar and bolt
everything so timidly?" and the excited girl poured out her words in a torrent.

Merwyn's first words were exasperating, and the girl had already passed almost beyond self-control.
"Has any one seen your colored servant to-day?"

"What if they have? What does your unseemly guise mean? Oh that my brave friends were here
to go out and meet the rabble like soldiers! There's an outbreak, of course; we've been expecting
it; but certainly MEN should not fear the canaille of the slums. It gives me a sickening impression,
Mr. Merwyn, to see you rush in, almost force your way in, and disguised too, as if you sought
safety by identifying yourself with those who would quail before a brave, armed man. Pardon
me if I'm severe, but I feel that my father is in danger, and if I don't hear from him soon
I shall take Mammy Borden as escort and go to his office. Whoever is abroad, they won't molest
women, and I'M NOT AFRAID."

"By so doing you would disobey your father, who has told you not to leave the house to-day."

"But I can't bear inaction and suspense at such a time."

"You must bear it, Miss Vosburgh. Seeing the mood you are in, I shall not permit that door
to be opened to any one except your father or some one that you recognize."

"You cannot help yourself," she replied, scornfully, approaching the door.

He was there before her, and, taking out the key, put it in his pocket.

"Oh, this is shameful!" she cried, blushing scarlet "Can your fears carry you so far?"

"Yes, and much farther, if needful," he replied, with a grim laugh. "When you are calm enough
to listen to me, to be sane and just, I'll explain. Until you are I shall remain master here
and protect you and your home." Then, in a tone of stern authority, he added: "Mrs.  Borden,
sit yonder in that darkened parlor, and don't move unless I tell you to hide. Then hide in
earnest, as you value your life."

"Would you not also like a hiding-place provided, Mr. Merwyn?" Marian asked, almost beside
herself with anger and anxiety.

His reply was to go to the window and look up and down the still quiet street.

"A respite," he remarked, then turned to the colored woman, and in a tone which she instantly
obeyed, said, "Go to that parlor, where you cannot be seen from the street." Then to Marian,
"I have no authority over you."

"No, I should hope not. Is there no escape from this intrusion?"

"None for the present," he replied, coldly. "You settled it long since that I was a coward,
and now that I am not a gentleman. I shall make no self-defence except to your father, whom
I expect momentarily. He cannot leave you alone to-day an instant longer than is unavoidable.
I wish to remind you of one thing, however: your soldier friends have long been your pride."

"Oh that these friends were here to day!"

"They would be surprised at your lack of quiet fortitude."

"Must I be humiliated in my own home?"

"You are humiliating yourself. Had you treated me with even your old cool toleration and civility,
I would have told you all that has happened since morning; but you have left me no chance for
anything except to take the precautions heedful to save your home and yourself. You think I
fled here as a disguised fugitive. When shall I forget this crowning proof of your estimate
and esteem? You see I did not come unarmed," partially drawing a revolver. "I repeat, you are
proud of your soldier friends. You have not learned that the first duty of a soldier is to
obey orders; and you have your father's orders. Obey them quietly, and you are under no necessity
to speak to me again. When your father comes I will relieve you of my hated presence. If he
wishes it, I will still serve you both for his sake, for he always kept a little faith and
fairness for me. Now, regard me as a sentinel, a common soldier, to whom you need not speak
until your father comes;" and he turned to the windows and began fastening them.

He, too, was terribly incensed. He had come to interpose his life between her and danger, and
her words and manner had probed a deep wound that had long been bleeding. The scenes he had
witnessed had wrought him up to a mood as stern and uncompromising as the death he soon expected
to meet. When utterly off her guard she had shown him, as he believed, her utter contempt and
detestation, and at that moment there was not a more reckless man in the city.

But his bitter words and indomitable will had quieted her As he stood motionless upon guard
by the window, his was not the attitude of a cowering fugitive. She now admitted that her wild
excitement and her disposition to rush to her father, contrary to his injunction, were unworthy
of her friends and of herself.

There had been panic that morning in the city, and she had caught the contagion in a characteristic
way. She had had no thought of hiding and cowering, but she had been on the eve of carrying
out rash impulses. She had given way to uncontrollable excitement; and if her father should
learn all she feared he would send her from the city as one not to be trusted. What should
she think of that silent, motionless sentinel at the window? Suppose, after all, she had misunderstood
and misjudged him,--suppose he HAD come for her protection. In view of this possibility which
she had now to entertain, how grossly she had insulted him! If her father came and approved
of his course, how could she ever look one so wronged in the face again? She must try to soften
her words a little.  Woman-like, she believed that she could certainly soothe a man as far
as she deemed it judicious, and then leave the future for further diplomacy. Coward, or not,
he had now made her afraid of him.

"Mr. Merwyn," she began.

He made no response whatever.

Again, in a lower and more timid voice, she repeated his name.

Without turning, he said: "Miss Vosburgh, I'm on guard. You interfere with my duty. There is
no reason for further courtesies between us. If you are sufficiently calm, aid Mrs. Borden
in packing such belongings as she actually needs. She must leave this house as soon as possible."

"What!" cried the girl, hotly, "send this faithful old woman out into the streets? Never."

"I did not say, 'out into the streets.' When your father comes one of his first efforts will
be to send her to a place of safety. No doubt he has already warned her son to find a hiding-place."

"Great heavens! why don't you explain?"

"What chance have I had to explain? Ah! come here, and all will be plain enough."

She stood at his side and saw a gang of men and boys' chasing a colored man, with the spirit
of bloodhounds in their tones and faces.

"Now I'se understan', too, Mass'r Merwyn," said the trembling colored woman, looking over their
shoulders.

"Go back," he said, sternly. "If you were seen, that yelling pack of fiends would break into
this house as if it were paste-board. Obey orders, both of you, and keep out of sight."

Awed, overwhelmed, they stole to the back parlor; but Marian soon faltered, "O Mr. Merwyn,
won't you forgive me?"

He made no reply, and a moment later he stepped to the door. Mr. Vosburgh hastily entered,
and Marian rushed into his arms.

"What, Merwyn! you here? Thank God my darling was not alone! Well, Merwyn, you've got to play
the soldier now, and so have we all."

"I shall not 'play the soldier';" was the reply, in quick, firm utterance. "But no matter about
me, except that my time is limited. I wish to report to you certain things which I have seen,
and leave it to your decision whether I can serve you somewhat, and whether Miss Vosburgh should
remain in the city. I would also respectfully suggest that your colored servant be sent out
of town at once. I offer my services to convey her to New Jersey, if you know of a near refuge
there, or else to my place in the country."

"Good God, Merwyn! don't you know that by such an act you take your life in your hand?"

"I have already taken it in my hand, an open hand at that. It has become of little value to
me. But we have not a second to lose. I have a very sad duty to perform at once, and only stayed
till you came. If you have learned the spirit abroad to-day, you know that your household was
and is in danger."

"Alas! I know it only too well. The trouble had scarcely begun before I was using agents and
telegraph wires. I have also been to police headquarters. Only the sternest sense of duty to
the government kept me so long from my child; but a man at Washington is depending on me for
information."

"So I supposed. I may be able to serve you, if you can bring yourself to employ a coward. I
shall be at police headquarters, and can bring you intelligence. When not on duty you should
be in the streets as little as possible. But, first, I would respectfully suggest that Miss
Vosburgh retire, for I have things to say to you which she should not hear."

"This to me, who listened to the story of Gettysburg?"

"All was totally different then."

"And I, apparently, was totally different. I deserve your reproach; I should be sent to the
nursery."

"I think you should go and help Mrs. Borden," said Merwyn, quietly.

"It's impossible to send Mammy Borden away just yet,--not till darkness comes to aid our effort,"
said Mr. Vosburgh, decisively. "You can serve me greatly, Merwyn, and your country also, if
you have the nerve. It will require great risks. I tell you so frankly. This is going to prove
worse than open battle. O Marian, would to God you were with your mother!"

"In that case I would come to you if I had to walk. I have wronged and insulted you, Mr. Merwyn;
I beg your pardon. Now don't waste another moment on me, for I declare before God I shall remain
with my father unless taken away by force; and you would soon find that the most fatal course
possible."

"Well, these are lurid times. I dreaded the thing enough, but now that it has come so unexpectedly,
it is far worse--But enough of this. Mr. Merwyn, are you willing to take the risks that I shall?"

"Yes, on condition that I save you unnecessary risks."

"Oh what a fool I've been!" Marian exclaimed, with one of her expressive gestures.

"Mr. Vosburgh," said Merwyn, "there is one duty which I feel I ought to perform first of all.
Mrs. Ghegan, your old waitress, should be taken to her husband."

"What! Barney? What has happened to him?"

"I fear he is dead. I disguised myself as you see--"

"Yes, sensibly. No well-dressed man is safe on some streets."

"Certainly not where I've been. I determined to learn the character of the mob, and I have
mingled among them all the morning. I saw the invalid corps put to flight instantly, and the
fight with a handful of police that followed. I looked on, for to take part was to risk life
and means of knowledge uselessly. The savage, murderous spirit shown on every side also proved
that your household might be in danger while you were absent. The police fought bravely and
vainly.  They were overpowered as a matter of course, and yet the police will prove the city's
chief defence. When I saw Barney running and fighting heroically for his life, I couldn't remain
spectator any longer, but before I could reach him he was prostrate, senseless, and nearly
stripped. With my revolver and a little persuasion I secured his body, and took it to a hospital.
A surgeon thought he was dead. I don't know, but that his wife should be informed and go to
him seems only common humanity."

"Well, Merwyn, I don't know," said Mr. Vosburgh, dubiously; "we are in the midst of a great
battle, and when one is down--Well, the cause must be first, you know. Whether this is a part
of the rebellion or not, it will soon be utilized by the Confederate leaders. What I say of
Barney I would say of myself and mine,--all private considerations must give--"

"I understand," interrupted Merwyn, impatiently. "But in taking Mrs. Ghegan across town I could
see and learn as much as if alone, and she would even be a protection to me. In getting information
one will have to use every subterfuge. I think nothing will be lost by this act. From the hospital
I will go direct to police headquarters, and stipulate as to my service,--for I shall serve
in my own way,--and then, if there is no pressing duty, I will report to you again."

Mr. Vosburgh sprung up and wrung the young fellow's hand as he said: "We have done you great
wrong. I, too, beg your pardon. But more than all the city to me is my duty to the general
government. To a certain extent I must keep aloof from the actual scenes of violence, or I
fail my employers and risk vast interests. If consistently with your ideas of duty you can
aid me now, I shall be more grateful than if you saved my life. Information now may be vital
to the nation's safety. You may find me at police headquarters an hour or two hence."

"It is settled then, and events will shape future action;" and he was turning hastily away.

A hand fell upon his arm, and never had he looked upon a face in which shame and contrition
were so blended.

"What will be your future action towards me?" Marian asked, as she detained him. "Will you
have no mercy on the girl who was so weak as to be almost hysterical?"

"You have redeemed your weakness," he replied, coldly. "You are your old high-bred, courageous
self, and you will probably cease to think of me as a coward before the day is over. Good-afternoon;"
and in a moment he was gone.

"I have offended him beyond hope," she said, as she turned, drooping, to her father.

"Never imagine it, darling," her father replied, with a smile. "His lip quivered as you spoke,
and I have learned to read the faintest signs in a man. You have both been overwrought and
in no condition for calm, natural action. Mervvyn will relent. You lost your poise through
excitement, not cowardice, and he, young and all undisciplined, has witnessed scenes that might
appall a veteran. But now all must be courage and action. Since you will remain with me you
must be a soldier, and be armed like one. Come with me to my room, and I will give you a small
revolver. I am glad that you have amused yourself with the dangerous toy, and know how to use
it. Then you must help me plan a disguise which will almost deceive your eyes. Keeping busy,
my dear, will prove the best tonic for your nerves. Mammy Borden, you must go to your room
and stay there till we find a way of sending you to a place of safety. After you have disappeared
for a time I'll tell the other servant that you have gone away. I sent your son home before
I left the office, and he, no doubt, is keeping out of harm's way."

The old woman courtesied, but there was a dogged, hunted look in her eyes as she crept away,
muttering, "Dis is what Zeb call de 'lan' ob de free!'"

CHAPTER XLIV.

A WIFE'S EMBRACE.

"O PAPA," cried Marian, after reaching the library, "we let Mr. Merwyn go without a lunch,
and it's nearly two o'clock. Nor do I believe you have had a mouthful since breakfast, and
I've forgotten all about providing anything. Oh, how signally I have failed on the first day
of battle!"

"You are not the first soldier, by untold millions, who has done so; but you have not shown
the white feather yet."

"When I do that I shall expire from shame. You rummage for a disguise, and I'll be back soon."

She hastened to the kitchen, and at a glance saw that the Irish cook had fled, taking not a
little with her. The range fire was out, and the refrigerator and the store-closet had been
ravaged. She first barred and bolted all the doors, and then the best she could bring her father
was crackers and milk and some old Sherry wine; but she nearly dropped these when she saw a
strange man, as she supposed, emerge from his bedroom.

Mr. Vosburgh's laugh reassured her, and he said: "I fancy I shall pass among strangers, since
you don't know me. Nothing could be better than the milk and crackers. No wine. My head must
be clearer to-day than it ever was before. So the Irish Biddy has gone with her plunder? Good
riddance to her. She would have been a spy in the camp. I'll bring home food that won't require
cooking, and you'll have to learn to make coffee, for Merwyn and others will, no doubt, often
come half dead from fatigue. All we can do is to forage in such shops as are open, and you'll
have to take the office of commissary at once. You must also be my private secretary. As fast
as I write these despatches and letters copy them. I can eat and write at the same time. In
an hour I must go out."

"I won't play the fool again," said the girl, doggedly.

"Drink this glass of milk first, while I run down for more, and satisfy my mind as to the fastenings,
etc."

"But, papa--"

"Marian," he said, gravely, "you can stay with me only on one condition: you must obey orders."

"That is what Mr. Merwyn said. Oh what a credit I've been to my military friends!" and with
difficulty she drank the milk.

"You are a promising young recruit," was the smiling reply. "We'll promote you before the week's
out."

In five minutes he was back, cool, yet almost as quick as light in every movement.

The despatches she copied were unintelligible to Marian, but the one to whom they were addressed
had the key. The copies of the letters were placed in a secret drawer.

When their tasks were finished, Mr. Vosburgh looked up and down the street and was glad to
find it comparatively empty. The storm of passion was raging elsewhere.

He closed all the shutters of the house, giving it a deserted aspect, then said to his daughter.
"You must admit no one in my absence, and parley with no one who does not give the password,
'Gettysburg and Little Round Top.' If men should come who say these words, tell them to linger
near without attracting attention, and come again after I return. Admit Merwyn, of course,
for you know his voice. It is a terrible trial to leave you alone, but there seems to be no
prospect of trouble in this locality. At all events, I must do my duty, cost what it may. Be
vigilant, and do not worry unnecessarily if I am detained."

"I am bent on retrieving myself, papa; and I'd rather die than be so weak again."

"That's my brave girl. You won't die. After this venture, which I must make at once, I shall
be able to take greater precautions;" and with a fond look and kiss, he hastened away through
the basement entrance, Marian fastening it securely after him.

We must now follow Merwyn's fortunes for a time. Rapidly, yet vigilantly he made his way up
town and crossed Third Avenue. He soon observed that the spirit of lawlessness was increasing.
Columns of smoke were rising from various points, indicating burning buildings, and in Lexington
Avenue he witnessed the unblushing sack of beautiful homes, from which the inmates had been
driven in terror for their lives.

"It will be strange if Mr. Vosburgh's home escapes," he thought. "Some one must know enough
of his calling to bring upon him and his the vengeance of the mob. I shall do the best I can
for him and his daughter, but to-day has slain the last vestige of hope beyond that of compelling
her respect. Wholly off her guard, she showed her deep-rooted detestation, and she can never
disguise it again. Regret and mortification at her conduct, a wish to make amends and to show
gratitude for such aid as I may give her father, will probably lead her to be very gracious;
at the same time I shall ever know that in her heart is a repugnance which she cannot overcome.
A woman can never love a man towards whom she has entertained thoughts like hers;" and with
much bitter musings, added to his reckless impulses, he made his way to the region in which
Mrs. Ghegan had her rooms.

