" But he turned and clasped me in his arms, and
answered, "No, love, no! Seventy years ago, my darling, seventy years ago!"

So Willie and I were wedded, though clearly against the law, And the ringers rang with a will,
and Willie's gloves were straw; But the first that ever I bear was dead before it was born--
For Willie I cannot weep, life is flower and thorn.

Pattering over the boards, my Annie, an Annie like you, Pattering over the boards, and Charlie
and Harry too; Pattering over the boards of our beautiful little cot, And I'm not exactly certain
whether they died or not.

And yet I know of a truth, there is none of them left alive, For Willie went at eighty, and
Harry at ninety-five; And Charlie at threescore years, aye! or more than that I'll be sworn,
And that very remarkable infant that died before it was born.

So Willie has gone, my beauty, the eldest that bears the name, It's a soothing thought--"In
a hundred years it'll be all the same." "Here's a leg for a babe of a week," says doctor, in
some surprise, But fetch me my glasses, Annie, I'm thankful I keep my eyes.

AIR--"Three Fishers went Sailing."

Three attorneys came sailing down Chancery Lane,
   Down Chancery Lane e'er the courts had sat;
They thought of the leaders they ought to retain,
   But the Junior Bar, oh, they thought not of that;
      For serjeants get work and Q.C.'s too,
      And solicitors' sons-in-law frequently do,
         While the Junior Bar is moaning.

Three juniors sat up in Crown Office Row,
   In Crown Office Row e'er the courts had sat,
They saw the solicitors passing below,
   And the briefs that were rolled up so tidy and fat,
      For serjeants get work, etc.

Three briefs were delivered to Jones, Q.C,
   To Jones, Q.C., e'er the courts had sat;
And the juniors weeping, and wringing their paws,
   Remarked that their business seemed uncommon flat;
      For Serjeants get work and Q.C.'s too,
      But as for the rest it's a regular "do,"
         And the Junior Bar is moaning.

AIR--"Give that Wreath to Me"

("Farewell, Manchester").

I.

   Give that brief to me,
      Without so much bother;
   Never let it be
      Given to another.
   Why this coy resistance?
   Wherefore keep such distance?
Why hesitate so long to give that brief to me?

II.

   Should'st thou ever find
      Any counsel willing
   To conduct thy case
      For one pound one shilling;
   Scorn such vulgar tricks, love;
   One pound three and six, love,
Is the proper thing,--then give that brief to me.

III.

   Should thy case turn out
      Hopeless and delusive,
   Still I'd rave and shout,
      Using terms abusive.
   Truth and sense might perish,
   Still thy cause I'd cherish,
Hallow'd by thy gold,--then give that brief to me.

IV.

   Should the learned judge
      Sit on me like fury,
   Still I'd never budge--
      There's the British Jury!
   Should that stay prove rotten,
   Bowen, Brett, and Cotton {143}
Would upset them all,--then give that brief to me.

ON CIRCUIT.

Two neighbours, fighting for a yard of land; Two witnesses, who lie on either hand; Two lawyers,
issuing many writs and pleas; Two clerks, in a dark passage counting fees; Two counsel, calling
one another names; Two courts, where lawyers play their little games; Two weeks at Leeds, which
wear the soul away; Two judges getting limper every day; Two bailiffs of the court with aspect
sour-- So runs the round of life from hour to hour.

AT THE "COCK" TAVERN.

Champagne doth not a luncheon make,
   Nor caviare a meal;
Men gluttonous and rich may take
   These till they make them ill.
If I've potatoes to my chop,
   And after that have cheese,
Angels in Pond & Spiers's shop
   Serve no such luxuries.

IMPROMPTU IN THE ASSIZE COURT, NOTTINGHAM,

On seeing BRET HARTE come upon the Bench.

Thanks for an hour of laughing
   In a world that is growing old;
Thanks for an hour of weeping
   In a world that is growing cold;
For we who have wept with Dickens,
   And we who have laughed with Boz,
Have renewed the days of our childhood
   With his American Coz.

IMPROMPTU IN THE ASSIZE COURT AT LINCOLN.

Sir W. Bovill was specially retained in an action for damages caused by the overflowing of
the banks of the Witham.  With great spirit he contended that the river had for three days
flowed from the sea.

The moon in the valley of Ajalon
   Stood still at the word of the prophet;
But since certain "Essays" were written
   We don't think so very much of it.
Now, a prophet is raised up among us,
   Whose miracles none can gainsay;
For he spoke, and the great river Witham
   Flowed three days, uphill, the wrong way.

PROLOGUE TO A CHARADE.--"DAMN-AGES."

In olden time--in great Eliza's age, When rare Ben Jonson ruled the humorous stage, No play
without its Prologue might appear To earn applause or ward the critic's sneer; And surely now
old customs should not sleep When merry Christmas revelries we keep. He loves old ways, old
faces, and old friends, Nor to new-fangled fancies condescends; Besides, we need your kindly
hearts to move Our faults to pardon and our freaks approve, For this our sport has been in
haste begun, Unpractised actors and impromptu fun; So on our own deserts we dare not stand,
But beg the favour that we can't command. Most flat would fall our "cranks and wanton wiles,"
Reft of your favouring "nods and wreathed smiles," As some tame landscape desolately bare Is
charmed by sunshine into seeming fair; So, gentle friends, if you your smiles bestow, That
which is tame in us will not seem so. Our play is a charade.  We split the word, Each syllable
an act, the whole a third; My first we show you by a comic play, Old, but not less the welcome,
I dare say. My second will be brought upon the stage From lisping childhood down to palsied
age. Last, but not least, our country's joy and pride, A British Jury will my whole decide;
But what's the word you'll ask me, what's the word? That you must guess, or ask some little
bird; Guess as you will you'll fail; for 'tis no doubt One of those things "no fellow can find
out."

TO A SCIENTIFIC FRIEND.

You say 'tis plain that poets feign,
   And from the truth depart;
They write with ease what fibs they please,
   With artifice, not art;
Dearer to you the simply true--
   The fact without the fancy--
Than this false play of colours gay,
   So very vague and chancy.
No doubt 'tis well the truth to tell
   In scientific coteries;
But I'll be bold to say she's cold,
   Excepting to her votaries.
The false disguise of tawdry lies
   May hide sweet Nature's face;
But in her form the blood runs warm,
   As in the human race;
And in the rose the dew-drop glows,
   And, o'er the seas serene,
The sunshine white still breaks in light
   Of yellow, blue, and green.
In thousand rays the fancy plays;
   The feelings rise and bubble;
The mind receives, the heart believes,
   And makes each pleasure double.
Then spare to draw without a flaw,
   Nor all too perfect make her,
Lest Nature wear the dull, cold air
   Of some demurest Quaker--
Whose mien austere is void of cheer,
   Or sense of sins forgiven,
And her sweet face has lost all grace
   Of either earth or heaven.

GLASGOW: PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE.

Footnotes

{5}  Milton only received 10 pounds for Paradise Lost, and there is a good story told that
some one copied it out in manuscript and sent it successively to three great London publishers,
who all declined it as unsuitable to the public taste.

{143}  Three of the Justices of Appeal.