"Well," said Alan, with one of his droll looks, "I was rather in hopes it would maybe get us
that boat."

"If it were the other way about, it would be liker it," said I.

"That's all that you ken, ye see," said Alan. "I don't want the lass to fall in love with ye,
I want her to be sorry for ye, David; to which end there is no manner of need that she should
take you for a beauty. Let me see" (looking me curiously over). "I wish ye were a wee thing
paler; but apart from that ye'll do fine for my purpose--ye have a fine, hang-dog, rag-and-tatter,
clappermaclaw kind of a look to ye, as if ye had stolen the coat from a potato-bogle. Come;
right about, and back to the change-house for that boat of ours."

I followed him, laughing.

"David Balfour," said he, "ye're a very funny gentleman by your way of it, and this is a very
funny employ for ye, no doubt. For all that, if ye have any affection for my neck (to say nothing
of your own) ye will perhaps be kind enough to take this matter responsibly. I am going to
do a bit of play-acting, the bottom ground of which is just exactly as serious as the gallows
for the pair of us. So bear it, if ye please, in mind, and conduct yourself according."

"Well, well," said I, "have it as you will."

As we got near the clachan, he made me take his arm and hang upon it like one almost helpless
with weariness; and by the time he pushed open the change-house door, he seemed to be half
carrying me. The maid appeared surprised (as well she might be) at our speedy return; but Alan
had no words to spare for her in explanation, helped me to a chair, called for a tass of brandy
with which he fed me in little sips, and then breaking up the bread and cheese helped me to
eat it like a nursery-lass; the whole with that grave, concerned, affectionate countenance,
that might have imposed upon a judge. It was small wonder if the maid were taken with the picture
we presented, of a poor, sick, overwrought lad and his most tender comrade. She drew quite
near, and stood leaning with her back on the next table.

"What's like wrong with him?" said she at last.

Alan turned upon her, to my great wonder, with a kind of fury. "Wrong?" cries he. "He's walked
more hundreds of miles than he has hairs upon his chin, and slept oftener in wet heather than
dry sheets. Wrong, quo' she! Wrong enough, I would think! Wrong, indeed!" and he kept grumbling
to himself as he fed me, like a man ill-pleased.

"He's young for the like of that," said the maid.

"Ower young," said Alan, with his back to her.

"He would be better riding," says she.

"And where could I get a horse to him?" cried Alan, turning on her with the same appearance
of fury. "Would ye have me steal?"

I thought this roughness would have sent her off in dudgeon, as indeed it closed her mouth
for the time. But my companion knew very well what he was doing; and for as simple as he was
in some things of life, had a great fund of roguishness in such affairs as these.

"Ye neednae tell me," she said at last--"ye're gentry."

"Well," said Alan, softened a little (I believe against his will) by this artless comment,
"and suppose we were? Did ever you hear that gentrice put money in folk's pockets?"

She sighed at this, as if she were herself some disinherited great lady. "No," says she, "that's
true indeed."

I was all this while chafing at the part I played, and sitting tongue-tied between shame and
merriment; but somehow at this I could hold in no longer, and bade Alan let me be, for I was
better already. My voice stuck in my throat, for I ever hated to take part in lies; but my
very embarrassment helped on the plot, for the lass no doubt set down my husky voice to sickness
and fatigue.

"Has he nae friends?" said she, in a tearful voice.

"That has he so!" cried Alan, "if we could but win to them!--friends and rich friends, beds
to lie in, food to eat, doctors to see to him--and here he must tramp in the dubs and sleep
in the heather like a beggarman."

"And why that?" says the lass.

"My dear," said Alan, "I cannae very safely say; but I'll tell ye what I'll do instead," says
he, "I'll whistle ye a bit tune." And with that he leaned pretty far over the table, and in
a mere breath of a whistle, but with a wonderful pretty sentiment, gave her a few bars of "Charlie
is my darling."

"Wheesht," says she, and looked over her shoulder to the door.

"That's it," said Alan.

"And him so young!" cries the lass.

"He's old enough to----" and Alan struck his forefinger on the back part of his neck, meaning
that I was old enough to lose my head.

"It would be a black shame," she cried, flushing high.

"It's what will be, though," said Alan, "unless we manage the better."

At this the lass turned and ran out of that part of the house, leaving us alone together. Alan
in high good humour at the furthering of his schemes, and I in bitter dudgeon at being called
a Jacobite and treated like a child.

"Alan," I cried, "I can stand no more of this."

"Ye'll have to sit it then, Davie," said he. "For if ye upset the pot now, ye may scrape your
own life out of the fire, but Alan Breck is a dead man."

This was so true that I could only groan; and even my groan served Alan's purpose, for it was
overheard by the lass as she came flying in again with a dish of white puddings and a bottle
of strong ale.

"Poor lamb!" says she, and had no sooner set the meat before us, than she touched me on the
shoulder with a little friendly touch, as much as to bid me cheer up. Then she told us to fall
to, and there would be no more to pay; for the inn was her own, or at least her father's, and
he was gone for the day to Pittencrieff. We waited for no second bidding, for bread and cheese
is but cold comfort and the puddings smelt excellently well; and while we sat and ate, she
took up that same place by the next table, looking on, and thinking, and frowning to herself,
and drawing the string of her apron through her hand.

"I'm thinking ye have rather a long tongue," she said at last to Alan.

"Ay" said Alan; "but ye see I ken the folk I speak to."

"I would never betray ye," said she, "if ye mean that."

"No," said he, "ye're not that kind. But I'll tell ye what ye would do, ye would help."

"I couldnae," said she, shaking her head. "Na, I couldnae."

"No," said he, "but if ye could?"

She answered him nothing.

"Look here, my lass," said Alan, "there are boats in the Kingdom of Fife, for I saw two (no
less) upon the beach, as I came in by your town's end. Now if we could have the use of a boat
to pass under cloud of night into Lothian, and some secret, decent kind of a man to bring that
boat back again and keep his counsel, there would be two souls saved--mine to all likelihood--his
to a dead surety. If we lack that boat, we have but three shillings left in this wide world;
and where to go, and how to do, and what other place there is for us except the chains of a
gibbet--I give you my naked word, I kenna! Shall we go wanting, lassie? Are ye to lie in your
warm bed and think upon us, when the wind gowls in the chimney and the rain tirls on the roof?
Are ye to eat your meat by the cheeks of a red fire, and think upon this poor sick lad of mine,
biting his finger ends on a blae muir for cauld and hunger? Sick or sound, he must aye be moving;
with the death grapple at his throat he must aye be trailing in the rain on the lang roads;
and when he gants his last on a rickle of cauld stanes, there will be nae friends near him
but only me and God."

At this appeal, I could see the lass was in great trouble of mind, being tempted to help us,
and yet in some fear she might be helping malefactors; and so now I determined to step in myself
and to allay her scruples with a portion of the truth.

"Did ever you, hear" said I, "of Mr. Rankeillor of the Ferry?"

"Rankeillor the writer?" said she. "I daur say that!"

"Well," said I, "it's to his door that I am bound, so you may judge by that if I am an ill-doer;
and I will tell you more, that though I am indeed, by a dreadful error, in some peril of my
life, King George has no truer friend in all Scotland than myself."

Her face cleared up mightily at this, although Alan's darkened.

"That's more than I would ask," said she. "Mr. Rankeillor is a kennt man." And she bade us
finish our meat, get clear of the clachan as soon as might be, and lie close in the bit wood
on the sea-beach. "And ye can trust me," says she, "I'll find some means to put you over."

At this we waited for no more, but shook hands with her upon the bargain, made short work of
the puddings, and set forth again from Limekilns as far as to the wood. It was a small piece
of perhaps a score of elders and hawthorns and a few young ashes, not thick enough to veil
us from passersby upon the road or beach. Here we must lie, however, making the best of the
brave warm weather and the good hopes we now had of a deliverance, and planing more particularly
what remained for us to do.

We had but one trouble all day; when a strolling piper came and sat in the same wood with us;
a red-nosed, bleareyed, drunken dog, with a great bottle of whisky in his pocket, and a long
story of wrongs that had been done him by all sorts of persons, from the Lord President of
the Court of Session, who had denied him justice, down to the Bailies of Inverkeithing who
had given him more of it than he desired. It was impossible but he should conceive some suspicion
of two men lying all day concealed in a thicket and having no business to allege. As long as
he stayed there he kept us in hot water with prying questions; and after he was gone, as he
was a man not very likely to hold his tongue, we were in the greater impatience to be gone
ourselves.

The day came to an end with the same brightness; the night fell quiet and clear; lights came
out in houses and hamlets and then, one after another, began to be put out; but it was past
eleven, and we were long since strangely tortured with anxieties, before we heard the grinding
of oars upon the rowing-pins. At that, we looked out and saw the lass herself coming rowing
to us in a boat. She had trusted no one with our affairs, not even her sweetheart, if she had
one; but as soon as her father was asleep, had left the house by a window, stolen a neighbour's
boat, and come to our assistance single-handed.

I was abashed how to find expression for my thanks; but she was no less abashed at the thought
of hearing them; begged us to lose no time and to hold our peace, saying (very properly) that
the heart of our matter was in haste and silence; and so, what with one thing and another,
she had set us on the Lothian shore not far from Carriden, had shaken hands with us, and was
out again at sea and rowing for Limekilns, before there was one word said either of her service
or our gratitude.

Even after she was gone, we had nothing to say, as indeed nothing was enough for such a kindness.
Only Alan stood a great while upon the shore shaking his head.

"It is a very fine lass," he said at last. "David, it is a very fine lass." And a matter of
an hour later, as we were lying in a den on the sea-shore and I had been already dozing, he
broke out again in commendations of her character. For my part, I could say nothing, she was
so simple a creature that my heart smote me both with remorse and fear: remorse because we
had traded upon her ignorance; and fear lest we should have anyway involved her in the dangers
of our situation.

CHAPTER XXVII

I COME TO MR. RANKEILLOR

The next day it was agreed that Alan should fend for himself till sunset; but as soon as it
began to grow dark, he should lie in the fields by the roadside near to Newhalls, and stir
for naught until he heard me whistling. At first I proposed I should give him for a signal
the "Bonnie House of Airlie," which was a favourite of mine; but he objected that as the piece
was very commonly known, any ploughman might whistle it by accident; and taught me instead
a little fragment of a Highland air, which has run in my head from that day to this, and will
likely run in my head when I lie dying. Every time it comes to me, it takes me off to that
last day of my uncertainty, with Alan sitting up in the bottom of the den, whistling and beating
the measure with a finger, and the grey of the dawn coming on his face.

I was in the long street of Queensferry before the sun was up. It was a fairly built burgh,
the houses of good stone, many slated; the town-hall not so fine, I thought, as that of Peebles,
nor yet the street so noble; but take it altogether, it put me to shame for my foul tatters.

As the morning went on, and the fires began to be kindled, and the windows to open, and the
people to appear out of the houses, my concern and despondency grew ever the blacker. I saw
now that I had no grounds to stand upon; and no clear proof of my rights, nor so much as of
my own identity. If it was all a bubble, I was indeed sorely cheated and left in a sore pass.
Even if things were as I conceived, it would in all likelihood take time to establish my contentions;
and what time had I to spare with less than three shillings in my pocket, and a condemned,
hunted man upon my hands to ship out of the country? Truly, if my hope broke with me, it might
come to the gallows yet for both of us. And as I continued to walk up and down, and saw people
looking askance at me upon the street or out of windows, and nudging or speaking one to another
with smiles, I began to take a fresh apprehension: that it might be no easy matter even to
come to speech of the lawyer, far less to convince him of my story.

For the life of me I could not muster up the courage to address any of these reputable burghers;
I thought shame even to speak with them in such a pickle of rags and dirt; and if I had asked
for the house of such a man as Mr. Rankeillor, I suppose they would have burst out laughing
in my face. So I went up and down, and through the street, and down to the harbour-side, like
a dog that has lost its master, with a strange gnawing in my inwards, and every now and then
a movement of despair. It grew to be high day at last, perhaps nine in the forenoon; and I
was worn with these wanderings, and chanced to have stopped in front of a very good house on
the landward side, a house with beautiful, clear glass windows, flowering knots upon the sills,
the walls new-harled* and a chase-dog sitting yawning on the step like one that was at home.
Well, I was even envying this dumb brute, when the door fell open and there issued forth a
shrewd, ruddy, kindly, consequential man in a well-powdered wig and spectacles. I was in such
a plight that no one set eyes on me once, but he looked at me again; and this gentleman, as
it proved, was so much struck with my poor appearance that he came straight up to me and asked
me what I did.

     * Newly rough-cast.

I told him I was come to the Queensferry on business, and taking heart of grace, asked him
to direct me to the house of Mr. Rankeillor.

"Why," said he, "that is his house that I have just come out of; and for a rather singular
chance, I am that very man."

"Then, sir," said I, "I have to beg the favour of an interview."

"I do not know your name," said he, "nor yet your face."

"My name is David Balfour," said I.

"David Balfour?" he repeated, in rather a high tone, like one surprised. "And where have you
come from, Mr. David Balfour?" he asked, looking me pretty drily in the face.

"I have come from a great many strange places, sir," said I; "but I think it would be as well
to tell you where and how in a more private manner."

He seemed to muse awhile, holding his lip in his hand, and looking now at me and now upon the
causeway of the street.

"Yes," says he, "that will be the best, no doubt." And he led me back with him into his house,
cried out to some one whom I could not see that he would be engaged all morning, and brought
me into a little dusty chamber full of books and documents. Here he sate down, and bade me
be seated; though I thought he looked a little ruefully from his clean chair to my muddy rags.
"And now," says he, "if you have any business, pray be brief and come swiftly to the point.
Nec gemino bellum Trojanum orditur ab ovo--do you understand that?" says he, with a keen look.

"I will even do as Horace says, sir," I answered, smiling, "and carry you in medias res." He
nodded as if he was well pleased, and indeed his scrap of Latin had been set to test me. For
all that, and though I was somewhat encouraged, the blood came in my face when I added: "I
have reason to believe myself some rights on the estate of Shaws."

He got a paper book out of a drawer and set it before him open. "Well?" said he.

But I had shot my bolt and sat speechless.

"Come, come, Mr. Balfour," said he, "you must continue. Where were you born?"

"In Essendean, sir," said I, "the year 1733, the 12th of March."

He seemed to follow this statement in his paper book; but what that meant I knew not. "Your
father and mother?" said he.

"My father was Alexander Balfour, schoolmaster of that place," said I, "and my mother Grace
Pitarrow; I think her people were from Angus."

"Have you any papers proving your identity?" asked Mr. Rankeillor.

"No, sir," said I, "but they are in the hands of Mr. Campbell, the minister, and could be readily
produced. Mr. Campbell, too, would give me his word; and for that matter, I do not think my
uncle would deny me."

"Meaning Mr. Ebenezer Balfour?" says he.

"The same," said I.

"Whom you have seen?" he asked.

"By whom I was received into his own house," I answered.

"Did you ever meet a man of the name of Hoseason?" asked Mr. Rankeillor.

"I did so, sir, for my sins," said I; "for it was by his means and the procurement of my uncle,
that I was kidnapped within sight of this town, carried to sea, suffered shipwreck and a hundred
other hardships, and stand before you to-day in this poor accoutrement."

"You say you were shipwrecked," said Rankeillor; "where was that?"

"Off the south end of the Isle of Mull," said I. "The name of the isle on which I was cast
up is the Island Earraid."

"Ah!" says he, smiling, "you are deeper than me in the geography. But so far, I may tell you,
this agrees pretty exactly with other informations that I hold. But you say you were kidnapped;
in what sense?"

"In the plain meaning of the word, sir," said I. "I was on my way to your house, when I was
trepanned on board the brig, cruelly struck down, thrown below, and knew no more of anything
till we were far at sea. I was destined for the plantations; a fate that, in God's providence,
I have escaped."

"The brig was lost on June the 27th," says he, looking in his book, "and we are now at August
the 24th. Here is a considerable hiatus, Mr. Balfour, of near upon two months. It has already
caused a vast amount of trouble to your friends; and I own I shall not be very well contented
until it is set right."

"Indeed, sir," said I, "these months are very easily filled up; but yet before I told my story,
I would be glad to know that I was talking to a friend."

"This is to argue in a circle," said the lawyer. "I cannot be convinced till I have heard you.
I cannot be your friend till I am properly informed. If you were more trustful, it would better
befit your time of life. And you know, Mr. Balfour, we have a proverb in the country that evil-doers
are aye evil-dreaders."

"You are not to forget, sir," said I, "that I have already suffered by my trustfulness; and
was shipped off to be a slave by the very man that (if I rightly understand) is your employer?"

All this while I had been gaining ground with Mr. Rankeillor, and in proportion as I gained
ground, gaining confidence. But at this sally, which I made with something of a smile myself,
he fairly laughed aloud.

"No, no," said he, "it is not so bad as that. Fui, non sum. I was indeed your uncle's man of
business; but while you (imberbis juvenis custode remoto) were gallivanting in the west, a
good deal of water has run under the bridges; and if your ears did not sing, it was not for
lack of being talked about. On the very day of your sea disaster, Mr. Campbell stalked into
my office, demanding you from all the winds. I had never heard of your existence; but I had
known your father; and from matters in my competence (to be touched upon hereafter) I was disposed
to fear the worst. Mr. Ebenezer admitted having seen you; declared (what seemed improbable)
that he had given you considerable sums; and that you had started for the continent of Europe,
intending to fulfil your education, which was probable and praiseworthy. Interrogated how you
had come to send no word to Mr. Campbell, he deponed that you had expressed a great desire
to break with your past life. Further interrogated where you now were, protested ignorance,
but believed you were in Leyden. That is a close sum of his replies. I am not exactly sure
that any one believed him," continued Mr. Rankeillor with a smile; "and in particular he so
much disrelished me expressions of mine that (in a word) he showed me to the door. We were
then at a full stand; for whatever shrewd suspicions we might entertain, we had no shadow of
probation. In the very article, comes Captain Hoseason with the story of your drowning; whereupon
all fell through; with no consequences but concern to Mr. Campbell, injury to my pocket, and
another blot upon your uncle's character, which could very ill afford it. And now, Mr. Balfour,"
said he, "you understand the whole process of these matters, and can judge for yourself to
what extent I may be trusted."

Indeed he was more pedantic than I can represent him, and placed more scraps of Latin in his
speech; but it was all uttered with a fine geniality of eye and manner which went far to conquer
my distrust. Moreover, I could see he now treated me as if I was myself beyond a doubt; so
that first point of my identity seemed fully granted.

"Sir," said I, "if I tell you my story, I must commit a friend's life to your discretion. Pass
me your word it shall be sacred; and for what touches myself, I will ask no better guarantee
than just your face."

He passed me his word very seriously. "But," said he, "these are rather alarming prolocutions;
and if there are in your story any little jostles to the law, I would beg you to bear in mind
that I am a lawyer, and pass lightly."

Thereupon I told him my story from the first, he listening with his spectacles thrust up and
his eyes closed, so that I sometimes feared he was asleep. But no such matter! he heard every
word (as I found afterward) with such quickness of hearing and precision of memory as often
surprised me. Even strange outlandish Gaelic names, heard for that time only, he remembered
and would remind me of, years after. Yet when I called Alan Breck in full, we had an odd scene.
The name of Alan had of course rung through Scotland, with the news of the Appin murder and
the offer of the reward; and it had no sooner escaped me than the lawyer moved in his seat
and opened his eyes.

"I would name no unnecessary names, Mr. Balfour," said he; "above all of Highlanders, many
of whom are obnoxious to the law."

"Well, it might have been better not," said I, "but since I have let it slip, I may as well
continue."

"Not at all," said Mr. Rankeillor. "I am somewhat dull of hearing, as you may have remarked;
and I am far from sure I caught the name exactly. We will call your friend, if you please,
Mr. Thomson--that there may be no reflections. And in future, I would take some such way with
any Highlander that you may have to mention--dead or alive."

By this, I saw he must have heard the name all too clearly, and had already guessed I might
be coming to the murder. If he chose to play this part of ignorance, it was no matter of mine;
so I smiled, said it was no very Highland-sounding name, and consented. Through all the rest
of my story Alan was Mr. Thomson; which amused me the more, as it was a piece of policy after
his own heart. James Stewart, in like manner, was mentioned under the style of Mr. Thomson's
kinsman; Colin Campbell passed as a Mr. Glen; and to Cluny, when I came to that part of my
tale, I gave the name of "Mr. Jameson, a Highland chief." It was truly the most open farce,
and I wondered that the lawyer should care to keep it up; but, after all, it was quite in the
taste of that age, when there were two parties in the state, and quiet persons, with no very
high opinions of their own, sought out every cranny to avoid offence to either.

"Well, well," said the lawyer, when I had quite done, "this is a great epic, a great Odyssey
of yours. You must tell it, sir, in a sound Latinity when your scholarship is riper; or in
English if you please, though for my part I prefer the stronger tongue. You have rolled much;
quae regio in terris--what parish in Scotland (to make a homely translation) has not been filled
with your wanderings? You have shown, besides, a singular aptitude for getting into false positions;
and, yes, upon the whole, for behaving well in them. This Mr. Thomson seems to me a gentleman
of some choice qualities, though perhaps a trifle bloody-minded. It would please me none the
worse, if (with all his merits) he were soused in the North Sea, for the man, Mr. David, is
a sore embarrassment. But you are doubtless quite right to adhere to him; indubitably, he adhered
to you. It comes--we may say--he was your true companion; nor less paribus curis vestigia figit,
for I dare say you would both take an orra thought upon the gallows. Well, well, these days
are fortunately, by; and I think (speaking humanly) that you are near the end of your troubles."

As he thus moralised on my adventures, he looked upon me with so much humour and benignity
that I could scarce contain my satisfaction. I had been so long wandering with lawless people,
and making my bed upon the hills and under the bare sky, that to sit once more in a clean,
covered house, and to talk amicably with a gentleman in broadcloth, seemed mighty elevations.
Even as I thought so, my eye fell on my unseemly tatters, and I was once more plunged in confusion.
But the lawyer saw and understood me. He rose, called over the stair to lay another plate,
for Mr. Balfour would stay to dinner, and led me into a bedroom in the upper part of the house.
Here he set before me water and soap, and a comb; and laid out some clothes that belonged to
his son; and here, with another apposite tag, he left me to my toilet.

CHAPTER XXVIII

I GO IN QUEST OF MY INHERITANCE

I made what change I could in my appearance; and blithe was I to look in the glass and find
the beggarman a thing of the past, and David Balfour come to life again. And yet I was ashamed
of the change too, and, above all, of the borrowed clothes. When I had done, Mr. Rankeillor
caught me on the stair, made me his compliments, and had me again into the cabinet.

"Sit ye down, Mr. David," said he, "and now that you are looking a little more like yourself,
let me see if I can find you any news. You will be wondering, no doubt, about your father and
your uncle? To be sure it is a singular tale; and the explanation is one that I blush to have
to offer you. For," says he, really with embarrassment, "the matter hinges on a love affair."

"Truly," said I, "I cannot very well join that notion with my uncle."

"But your uncle, Mr. David, was not always old," replied the lawyer, "and what may perhaps
surprise you more, not always ugly. He had a fine, gallant air; people stood in their doors
to look after him, as he went by upon a mettle horse. I have seen it with these eyes, and I
ingenuously confess, not altogether without envy; for I was a plain lad myself and a plain
man's son; and in those days it was a case of Odi te, qui bellus es, Sabelle."

"It sounds like a dream," said I.

"Ay, ay," said the lawyer, "that is how it is with youth and age. Nor was that all, but he
had a spirit of his own that seemed to promise great things in the future. In 1715, what must
he do but run away to join the rebels? It was your father that pursued him, found him in a
ditch, and brought him back multum gementem; to the mirth of the whole country. However, majora
canamus--the two lads fell in love, and that with the same lady. Mr. Ebenezer, who was the
admired and the beloved, and the spoiled one, made, no doubt, mighty certain of the victory;
and when he found he had deceived himself, screamed like a peacock. The whole country heard
of it; now he lay sick at home, with his silly family standing round the bed in tears; now
he rode from public-house to public-house, and shouted his sorrows into the lug of Tom, Dick,
and Harry. Your father, Mr. David, was a kind gentleman; but he was weak, dolefully weak; took
all this folly with a long countenance; and one day--by your leave!--resigned the lady. She
was no such fool, however; it's from her you must inherit your excellent good sense; and she
refused to be bandied from one to another. Both got upon their knees to her; and the upshot
of the matter for that while was that she showed both of them the door. That was in August;
dear me! the same year I came from college. The scene must have been highly farcical."

I thought myself it was a silly business, but I could not forget my father had a hand in it.
"Surely, sir, it had some note of tragedy," said I.

"Why, no, sir, not at all," returned the lawyer. "For tragedy implies some ponderable matter
in dispute, some dignus vindice nodus; and this piece of work was all about the petulance of
a young ass that had been spoiled, and wanted nothing so much as to be tied up and soundly
belted. However, that was not your father's view; and the end of it was, that from concession
to concession on your father's part, and from one height to another of squalling, sentimental
selfishness upon your uncle's, they came at last to drive a sort of bargain, from whose ill
results you have recently been smarting. The one man took the lady, the other the estate. Now,
Mr. David, they talk a great deal of charity and generosity; but in this disputable state of
life, I often think the happiest consequences seem to flow when a gentleman consults his lawyer,
and takes all the law allows him. Anyhow, this piece of Quixotry on your father's part, as
it was unjust in itself, has brought forth a monstrous family of injustices. Your father and
mother lived and died poor folk; you were poorly reared; and in the meanwhile, what a time
it has been for the tenants on the estate of Shaws! And I might add (if it was a matter I cared
much about) what a time for Mr. Ebenezer!"

"And yet that is certainly the strangest part of all," said I, "that a man's nature should
thus change."

"True," said Mr. Rankeillor. "And yet I imagine it was natural enough. He could not think that
he had played a handsome part. Those who knew the story gave him the cold shoulder; those who
knew it not, seeing one brother disappear, and the other succeed in the estate, raised a cry
of murder; so that upon all sides he found himself evited. Money was all he got by his bargain;
well, he came to think the more of money. He was selfish when he was young, he is selfish now
that he is old; and the latter end of all these pretty manners and fine feelings you have seen
for yourself."

"Well, sir," said I, "and in all this, what is my position?"

"The estate is yours beyond a doubt," replied the lawyer. "It matters nothing what your father
signed, you are the heir of entail. But your uncle is a man to fight the indefensible; and
it would be likely your identity that he would call in question. A lawsuit is always expensive,
and a family lawsuit always scandalous; besides which, if any of your doings with your friend
Mr. Thomson were to come out, we might find that we had burned our fingers. The kidnapping,
to be sure, would be a court card upon our side, if we could only prove it. But it may be difficult
to prove; and my advice (upon the whole) is to make a very easy bargain with your uncle, perhaps
even leaving him at Shaws where he has taken root for a quarter of a century, and contenting
yourself in the meanwhile with a fair provision."

I told him I was very willing to be easy, and that to carry family concerns before the public
was a step from which I was naturally much averse. In the meantime (thinking to myself) I began
to see the outlines of that scheme on which we afterwards acted.

"The great affair," I asked, "is to bring home to him the kidnapping?"

"Surely," said Mr. Rankeillor, "and if possible, out of court. For mark you here, Mr. David:
we could no doubt find some men of the Covenant who would swear to your reclusion; but once
they were in the box, we could no longer check their testimony, and some word of your friend
Mr. Thomson must certainly crop out. Which (from what you have let fall) I cannot think to
be desirable."

"Well, sir," said I, "here is my way of it." And I opened my plot to him.

"But this would seem to involve my meeting the man Thomson?" says he, when I had done.

"I think so, indeed, sir," said I.

"Dear doctor!" cries he, rubbing his brow. "Dear doctor! No, Mr. David, I am afraid your scheme
is inadmissible. I say nothing against your friend, Mr. Thomson: I know nothing against him;
and if I did--mark this, Mr. David!--it would be my duty to lay hands on him. Now I put it
to you: is it wise to meet? He may have matters to his charge. He may not have told you all.
His name may not be even Thomson!" cries the lawyer, twinkling; "for some of these fellows
will pick up names by the roadside as another would gather haws."

"You must be the judge, sir," said I.

But it was clear my plan had taken hold upon his fancy, for he kept musing to himself till
we were called to dinner and the company of Mrs. Rankeillor; and that lady had scarce left
us again to ourselves and a bottle of wine, ere he was back harping on my proposal. When and
where was I to meet my friend Mr. Thomson; was I sure of Mr. T.'s discretion; supposing we
could catch the old fox tripping, would I consent to such and such a term of an agreement--these
and the like questions he kept asking at long intervals, while he thoughtfully rolled his wine
upon his tongue. When I had answered all of them, seemingly to his contentment, he fell into
a still deeper muse, even the claret being now forgotten. Then he got a sheet of paper and
a pencil, and set to work writing and weighing every word; and at last touched a bell and had
his clerk into the chamber.

"Torrance," said he, "I must have this written out fair against to-night; and when it is done,
you will be so kind as put on your hat and be ready to come along with this gentleman and me,
for you will probably be wanted as a witness."

"What, sir," cried I, as soon as the clerk was gone, "are you to venture it?"

"Why, so it would appear," says he, filling his glass. "But let us speak no more of business.
The very sight of Torrance brings in my head a little droll matter of some years ago, when
I had made a tryst with the poor oaf at the cross of Edinburgh. Each had gone his proper errand;
and when it came four o'clock, Torrance had been taking a glass and did not know his master,
and I, who had forgot my spectacles, was so blind without them, that I give you my word I did
not know my own clerk." And thereupon he laughed heartily.

I said it was an odd chance, and smiled out of politeness; but what held me all the afternoon
in wonder, he kept returning and dwelling on this story, and telling it again with fresh details
and laughter; so that I began at last to be quite put out of countenance and feel ashamed for
my friend's folly.

Towards the time I had appointed with Alan, we set out from the house, Mr. Rankeillor and I
arm in arm, and Torrance following behind with the deed in his pocket and a covered basket
in his hand. All through the town, the lawyer was bowing right and left, and continually being
button-holed by gentlemen on matters of burgh or private business; and I could see he was one
greatly looked up to in the county. At last we were clear of the houses, and began to go along
the side of the haven and towards the Hawes Inn and the Ferry pier, the scene of my misfortune.
I could not look upon the place without emotion, recalling how many that had been there with
me that day were now no more: Ransome taken, I could hope, from the evil to come; Shuan passed
where I dared not follow him; and the poor souls that had gone down with the brig in her last
plunge. All these, and the brig herself, I had outlived; and come through these hardships and
fearful perils without scath. My only thought should have been of gratitude; and yet I could
not behold the place without sorrow for others and a chill of recollected fear.

I was so thinking when, upon a sudden, Mr. Rankeillor cried out, clapped his hand to his pockets,
and began to laugh.

"Why," he cries, "if this be not a farcical adventure! After all that I said, I have forgot
my glasses!"

At that, of course, I understood the purpose of his anecdote, and knew that if he had left
his spectacles at home, it had been done on purpose, so that he might have the benefit of Alan's
help without the awkwardness of recognising him. And indeed it was well thought upon; for now
(suppose things to go the very worst) how could Rankeillor swear to my friend's identity, or
how be made to bear damaging evidence against myself? For all that, he had been a long while
of finding out his want, and had spoken to and recognised a good few persons as we came through
the town; and I had little doubt myself that he saw reasonably well.

As soon as we were past the Hawes (where I recognised the landlord smoking his pipe in the
door, and was amazed to see him look no older) Mr. Rankeillor changed the order of march, walking
behind with Torrance and sending me forward in the manner of a scout. I went up the hill, whistling
from time to time my Gaelic air; and at length I had the pleasure to hear it answered and to
see Alan rise from behind a bush. He was somewhat dashed in spirits, having passed a long day
alone skulking in the county, and made but a poor meal in an alehouse near Dundas. But at the
mere sight of my clothes, he began to brighten up; and as soon as I had told him in what a
forward state our matters were and the part I looked to him to play in what remained, he sprang
into a new man.

"And that is a very good notion of yours," says he; "and I dare to say that you could lay your
hands upon no better man to put it through than Alan Breck. It is not a thing (mark ye) that
any one could do, but takes a gentleman of penetration. But it sticks in my head your lawyer-man
will be somewhat wearying to see me," says Alan.

Accordingly I cried and waved on Mr. Rankeillor, who came up alone and was presented to my
friend, Mr. Thomson.

"Mr. Thomson, I am pleased to meet you," said he. "But I have forgotten my glasses; and our
friend, Mr. David here" (clapping me on the shoulder), "will tell you that I am little better
than blind, and that you must not be surprised if I pass you by to-morrow."

This he said, thinking that Alan would be pleased; but the Highlandman's vanity was ready to
startle at a less matter than that.

"Why, sir," says he, stiffly, "I would say it mattered the less as we are met here for a particular
end, to see justice done to Mr. Balfour; and by what I can see, not very likely to have much
else in common. But I accept your apology, which was a very proper one to make."

"And that is more than I could look for, Mr. Thomson," said Rankeillor, heartily. "And now
as you and I are the chief actors in this enterprise, I think we should come into a nice agreement;
to which end, I propose that you should lend me your arm, for (what with the dusk and the want
of my glasses) I am not very clear as to the path; and as for you, Mr. David, you will find
Torrance a pleasant kind of body to speak with. Only let me remind you, it's quite needless
he should hear more of your adventures or those of--ahem--Mr. Thomson."

Accordingly these two went on ahead in very close talk, and Torrance and I brought up the rear.

Night was quite come when we came in view of the house of Shaws. Ten had been gone some time;
it was dark and mild, with a pleasant, rustling wind in the south-west that covered the sound
of our approach; and as we drew near we saw no glimmer of light in any portion of the building.
It seemed my uncle was already in bed, which was indeed the best thing for our arrangements.
We made our last whispered consultations some fifty yards away; and then the lawyer and Torrance
and I crept quietly up and crouched down beside the corner of the house; and as soon as we
were in our places, Alan strode to the door without concealment and began to knock.

CHAPTER XXIX

I COME INTO MY KINGDOM

For some time Alan volleyed upon the door, and his knocking only roused the echoes of the house
and neighbourhood. At last, however, I could hear the noise of a window gently thrust up, and
knew that my uncle had come to his observatory. By what light there was, he would see Alan
standing, like a dark shadow, on the steps; the three witnesses were hidden quite out of his
view; so that there was nothing to alarm an honest man in his own house. For all that, he studied
his visitor awhile in silence, and when he spoke his voice had a quaver of misgiving.

"What's this?" says he. "This is nae kind of time of night for decent folk; and I hae nae trokings*
wi' night-hawks. What brings ye here? I have a blunderbush."

     * Dealings.

"Is that yoursel', Mr. Balfour?" returned Alan, stepping back and looking up into the darkness.
"Have a care of that blunderbuss; they're nasty things to burst."

"What brings ye here? and whae are ye?" says my uncle, angrily.

"I have no manner of inclination to rowt out my name to the country-side," said Alan; "but
what brings me here is another story, being more of your affair than mine; and if ye're sure
it's what ye would like, I'll set it to a tune and sing it to you."

"And what is't?" asked my uncle.

"David," says Alan.

"What was that?" cried my uncle, in a mighty changed voice.

"Shall I give ye the rest of the name, then?" said Alan.

There was a pause; and then, "I'm thinking I'll better let ye in," says my uncle, doubtfully.

